ANNUAL REPORT 2015 N E D E R L A N D S E WAT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Contents Headline figures 4 Organisation 5 n The Managing Board 5 n Management team 6 n The Supervisory Board 7 Report of the Supervisory Board to the shareholders 11 Report of the Managing Board 21 n Strategy 21 n Developments 22 NWB Bank in 2015 23 Addition to the reserves; dividend 26 Outlook for 2016 26 Funding 26 Lending in 2015 27 n Risk Management 30 n Capital Management 31 Corporate Governance 33 Corporate Social Responsibility 39 n General 39 n Developments in 2015 39 n Management approach 41 n NWB Bank’s themes and objectives 43 n Dilemmas 56 n Supply chain responsibility 57 n Stakeholder dialogue 58 n CSR reporting standards 62 n Independent auditor’s assurance report 63 n The Water Innovation Prize 65 n NWB Fonds 67 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Remuneration report 2015 69 Financial statements 75 n Statement of income 76 n Balance sheet 77 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. n Statement of comprehensive income 78 n Statement of changes in equity 79 n Statement of cash flows 80 n Notes to the financial statements 82 Other information 123 n Independent auditor’s report 124 n Articles of Association provisions governing profit appropriation 130 n Proposed profit appropriation 131 n List of shareholders at 1 January 2016 132 3 Summary of compliance with the principles of the Dutch Banking Code 133 Publication details 137 Headline figures ANNUAL REPORT 2015 (amounts in millions of euros) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Balance sheet Long-term loans and advances (nominal value) 49,069 49,421 49,595 48,142 45,474 | Equity 1) 1,399 1,303 1,256 1,226 1,188 N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Tier 1 equity 1) 1,594 1,300 1,256 1,226 1,188 Total assets 91,314 88,249 73,006 76,084 67,696 Risk-weighted assets 1,421 1,152 1,039 933 1,112 Results Net interest income 180 117 95 107 75 Results from financial transactions -9 -16 -14 -24 38 Operating income 171 101 81 83 113 Operating expenses 2) 18 16 16 14 15 Income tax expense 37 21 16 17 23 Bank tax and resolution levy 21 15 15 12 4 Net profit 95 49 34 40 75 Dividend Dividend distribution 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Dividend per share in euros 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Ratio’s (%) Tier 1 ratio1) 79.84) 73.03) 100.9 111.2 90.3 CET 1 ratio 1) 69.8 5) 73.0 3) 100.9 111.2 90.3 Operating expenses/interest ratio 9.8 13.8 16.9 13.1 20.0 Dividend pay-out ratio 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Leverage ratio 1) 2.1 1.8 1.9 Liquidity Coverage Ratio 134 144 110 Net Stable Funding Ratio 117 107 107 1) including profit for the year. 2) excluding Bank tax. 3) With the Capital Requirements Regulation and Directive (CRR/CRD) having taken effect on 1 January 2014, the Tier 1 ration and CET 1 ration dropped by approximately a quarter, due to the introduction of the Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA) capital charge. 4) 75.0 excluding profit for the year (2014: 70.3). 5) 65.1 excluding profit for the year (2014: 70.3). Organisation The Managing ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Board | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Name Ron Walkier (63) Year of first appointment 1993, Chairman since 2008 Term of office ends in 2016 Principal position Chairman of the Managing Board Portfolio Strategy, communications, HRM, legal & compliance and the Internal 5 Audit Department Relevant other positions President of the European Association of Public Banks Name Lidwin van Velden (52) Year of first appointment 2010 Term of office ends in 2018 Principal position Member of the Managing Board Portfolio Finance & control, risk management, back office, ICT, security management and tax Relevant other positions Supervisory Board member of the University of Amsterdam and adviser to the Supervisory Board of the Amsterdam University of Applied Sciences Member of the Audit Committee of the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Name Frenk van der Vliet (48) Year of first appointment 2012 Term of office ends in 2020 Principal position Member of the Managing Board Portfolio Lending, funding, asset & liability management and facility management 6 Relevant other positions None Management team Ron Walkier, Chairman Lidwin van Velden Frenk van der Vliet Marian Bauman, Human Resources Management Peter Bax, Back Office Ard van Eijl, Risk Management Reinout Hoogendoorn, Internal Audit Department Leon Knoester, Public Finance Marc-Jan Kroes, Finance & Control Tom Meuwissen, Treasury Heleen van Rooijen, Legal & Compliance Michel Vaessen, ICT The Supervisory Board ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Name Age Bakker (65) 3)4) Position Chairman Year of first appointment 2012 7 Term of office ends in 2016 Last position held Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) Relevant other positions Chairman of the Board of Financial Supervision (Cft) Curaçao and Sint Maarten Chairman of the Board of Financial Supervision Aruba Chairman of the Board of Financial Supervision Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Member of the Board of Pensioenfonds Zorg en Welzijn (the Dutch Pension Fund for the care and welfare sector) Chairman of the Investments Committee of Pensioenfonds Horeca & Catering Member of the Audit Committee of the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs Member of the SME Financing Committee of the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Name Else Bos (56) 3) Year of first appointment 2008 Term of office ends in 2016 Principal position Chief Executive Officer of PGGM N.V. Relevant other positions Member of the Supervisory Committee of Isala Klinieken (until Sept. 2015) Member of the Board of Sustainalytics B.V. Member of the board of UN-PRI (United Nations Principles on Responsible Investments) (until March 2015) Member of the Supervisory Committee of Dutch National Opera & Ballet 8 Deputy Chair of the Supervisory Board of NHG/WEW (until Dec. 2015) Member of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code Monitoring Committee Name Peter Glas (60) 2) Year of first appointment 2011 Term of office ends in 2019 Principal position Water Reeve of De Dommel Water Authority Relevant other positions Board member of the Noord-Brabant Association of Water Authorities Chair of the OECD Water Governance Initiative Chair of the Dutch Association of Regional Water Authorities (until year-end 2015) ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Name Maurice Oostendorp (59) 1) Year of first appointment 2012 (EGM) Term of office ends in 2017 Principal position Chief Executive Officer of SNS Bank N.V. Relevant other positions Supervisory Director of Propertize B.V. and Chair of AC Propertize N.V. Member of the Advisory Council of Women in Financial Services (WIFS) Supervisory Director of SRH N.V. 9 Name Petra van Hoeken (54) 3) Year of first appointment 2015 Term of office ends in 2019 Principal position Managing Board member / Chief Risk Officer of NIBC Bank N.V., NIBC Holding N.V., NIBC Investment Management N.V. (until 15 March 2016) Member Executive Board / Chief Risk Officer Rabobank (as of 1 April 2016) Relevant other positions None ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Name Albertine van Vliet-Kuiper (64) 4) Year of first appointment 2012 (EGM) Term of office ends in 2017 Principal position Mayor of Gooise Meren Relevant other positions Chair of the Supervisory Board of Omnia Wonen Deputy Chair of and Secretary to the Board of Nationaal Restauratiefonds Member of the Aedes Code Committee (until end of February 2015) Member of the Dutch Council for Public Administration Chair of the Supervisory Committee of Victas Centre for the 10 care and treatment of drug addicts Name Berend-Jan baron van Voorst tot Voorst (72) Year of first appointment 2009 Term of office ends in 2017 Principal position Queen’s Commissioner of the Province of Limburg Relevant other positions Supervisory Director of NIBA Beheer N.V. Supervisory Director of Huco Handelen Scheepvaartmaatschappij N.V. 1) Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee 2) Chair of the Remuneration and Appointment Committee 3) Member of the Audit and Risk Committee 4) Member of the Remuneration and Appointment Committee Report of the Supervisory Board to the shareholders The Supervisory and Managing Boards are pleased The regulatory burden has increased substantially ANNUAL REPORT 2015 to present the 2015 Annual Report of NWB Bank, as a result of the financial crisis. The transition which includes the bank’s financial statements, to direct supervision by the European Central | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. signed by the Managing and Supervisory Boards, Bank (ECB) proceeded smoothly, and the bank and audited and approved by KPMG Accountants N.V. and the ECB maintain close contact in this regard. Contrary to the ECB’s in itself understandable The Supervisory and Managing Boards propose desire to create a unified regulatory framework that you adopt the 2015 financial statements as for the European banking industry, the bank would submitted. The Supervisory and Managing Boards advocate that the ECB should take the divergent furthermore propose that you discharge the business model of the promotional banks into members of the Managing Board for their conduct account. After all, NWB Bank’s business model of affairs and the members of the Supervisory is designed to minimise the risks with a view to Board for their oversight exercised in the year keeping financing costs as low as possible for its under review. clients in the public sector. The increased regulatory burden has also had 11 From the Chairman of the repercussions for the Supervisory Board’s duties. Supervisory Board The Supervisory Directors spent a great deal of time on the bank’s risk framework and on the In terms of lending volume and profit, 2015 was an liquidity and capital requirements. Furthermore, excellent year for NWB Bank. The bank continued the discussions with the shareholders relating to focus on client services in a challenging to the remuneration of Managing Directors financial market environment, characterised by an required considerable attention. The Supervisory extremely low interest rate structure. Moreover, Board firmly believes that the new remuneration the bank innovates continuously while maintaining policy, as adopted by the shareholders last year, the strengths of its business model. During this fairly reflects the need to exercise moderation in process, the bank also implemented the higher remuneration and at the same time be sufficiently liquidity and capital requirements imposed on attractive to qualified executive officers. banks in recent years. Against this background, with its robust financial position the bank is The Supervisory Board values good consultations mindful of maintaining an appropriate balance with the shareholders aimed at ensuring the between a low risk profile and shareholder return. alignment of objectives. The Supervisory Board aims to hold a meeting at the office of one of the NWB Bank is highly aware of its role in society. shareholder water authorities each year. Last year In Europe the bank ranks among the leading the Scheldestromen Water Authority hosted the promotional banks, which take their name from Supervisory Board and provided an update on the the special role these banks fulfil in promoting key projects in progress. The Supervisory Directors objectives in the interest of the general public. also took part in the Shareholders’ Committee on The bank’s role in society has proven its worth at a remuneration policy for the Managing Board. The time still marked by low confidence in the banking Supervisory Board wishes to express its gratitude industry. to Stefan Kuks, Water Reeve of the Vechtstromen Water Authority, for the balanced manner in which compliance with the Insider Regulation, lifelong he led and provided direction to the Committee. learning, the Supervisory Board’s self-assessment, ANNUAL REPORT 2015 the rotation schedule, the social policy, the reports The Supervisory Board looks forward to a of the Internal Audit Department (IAD), and the constructive collaboration with the bank’s recently reports of the Audit and Risk Committee and established Works Council. The bank values its the Remuneration and Appointment Committee. highly committed and professional staff. Special attention was devoted to the topics below. In 2016 we will say farewell to Ron Walkier, In its capacity as the bank’s supervisory body, | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. who has provided outstanding and inspirational the Supervisory Board was able to fulfil its duties leadership to NWB Bank, serving as a Managing properly during the year under review, expressing Board member from 1993 and in the role of its confidence in the policy pursued. The Managing Chairman of the Managing Board from 2008. Board provided the Supervisory Board with ample Ron has worked for NWB Bank for more than a and up-to-date information, consulting the quarter of century, and in recent years became Supervisory Board, where needed, about the policy the bank’s standard-bearer. Deeply committed to be pursued. to the public interest, maintaining close ties with the shareholders and with a keen eye for client’s ECB supervision interests, he has irrefutably demonstrated the With effect from November 2014, just as some added value of the water authorities’ ‘own’ bank. 120 other significant European banks, NWB At a time in which trust in banks has ebbed, he Bank has been directly supervised by the ECB. has steered NWB Bank on course with unwavering Supervision has intensified as a result. In the past 12 dedication. As primus inter pares among the year the ECB addressed various topics, which the collegial members of the Managing Board, Managing Board discussed with the Supervisory his working relationship with the Supervisory Board. These topics included the Internal Directors has always been characterised by open Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP), communication. We are most grateful to him for the Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process his dedicated efforts throughout the years. (SREP) decision, the Recovery Plan and Pillar 3 disclosure requirements. Furthermore, the ECB Age Bakker conducted an on-site inspection of derivatives as well as an audit themed around Risk Governance Oversight and Risk Appetite. The Supervisory Board was particularly involved in the Risk Governance and Report on the Supervisory Board’s Risk Appetite audit. As part of the audit, the ECB oversight duties attended a meeting of both the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board met on eight occasions and the Audit and Risk Committee. The ECB in the year under review, seven of which were formulated a number of recommendations on the regular meetings, while one was a strategy basis of the audit, which will be followed up. One session. The topics regularly discussed during recommendation concerns a clearer separation the meetings were developments in the financial of audit and risk topics when these are examined markets, developments in the balance sheet and by the Supervisory Directors. The Supervisory the financial results, lending, the bank’s funding, Board therefore plans to divide the agenda of the risk management, the external auditor’s report, Audit and Risk Committee into an audit and a risk strategic policy, the dividend and reserve policy, section, and to appoint a Supervisory Director the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Annual to chair the risk session. More time will also be Report and the Half-Year Report, the Policy scheduled in between meetings of the Audit and Memorandum, the budget, corporate governance, Risk Committee and the plenary Supervisory Board meetings to allow more time to make any Remuneration and policy governing adjustments and preparations, as necessary. remuneration of the Managing Directors ANNUAL REPORT 2015 In 2015, the Supervisory Board adopted the longRisk management term variable remuneration of the Managing In May 2015, for the purpose of the capital Directors for 2011, the variable remuneration adequacy and solvency management assessment, of the Managing Directors for 2014 and their the Supervisory Board assessed the 2015 performance contracts for 2015. In the spring of Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process 2015, meetings were held with representatives (ICAAP). The Supervisory Board discussed and of NWB Bank’s shareholders, during which the | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. approved the bank’s Risk Appetite Framework, remuneration policy for the Managing Directors which includes a Risk Appetite Statement. The was discussed. The Shareholders’ Committee on Risk Appetite Framework serves as the basis for remuneration policy consisted of representatives decision-making within the bank. The adjustment from the Ministry of Finance and four shareholder of the framework for the purpose of strategically water authorities. In addition, the Chairman of managing interest rate risk was also discussed NWB Bank’s Supervisory Board and the Chairman and approved. of the Remuneration and Appointments Committee joined the Committee as observers. The objective With effect from 1 January 2015 all banks are of the Shareholders’ Committee was to keep the required to have a recovery plan in place, which remuneration policy balanced in terms of adopting sets out a bank’s recovery procedure following moderate remuneration commensurate with situations of severe stress. Triggers have been the public interest the bank serves, and taking agreed in the Recovery Plan, based on which account of the need, as appropriate for a private 13 action must be taken and issues escalated to institution, to maintain a level of consistency with the crisis management team. The Chairman of the remuneration paid at comparable institutions. the Supervisory Board is a member of the crisis The remuneration policy partially takes account management team. The Dutch Central Bank (DNB) of the standard of pay under the Executives’ Pay approved the bank’s Recovery Plan in 2014. The (Standards) Act (Wet Normering Topinkomens, plan was updated in November 2015 following a WNT) (60%), and for the remaining part takes dry run simulating a stress scenario. The results account of the level of remuneration in the relevant of the dry run and the suggestions made by the employment market (40%). The application of the ECB/DNB have been incorporated in the Recovery above system by the Shareholders’ Committee Plan. The Supervisory Board approved the revised resulted in a 5% reduction of the maximum total Recovery Plan. (fixed and variable) remuneration of new members of the Managing Board compared with the total The Supervisory Board ensures that the maximum remuneration applicable at that time. reinforcement of the organisation is in line with the The new remuneration policy for Managing expansion of the bank’s activities in areas such as Directors was adopted during an Extraordinary Public-Private Partnerships (PPP). General Meeting held on 14 September 2015. Capital Recruitment and selection In order to meet a leverage ratio of 3% with effect Due to Ron Walkier’s forthcoming retirement as from 1 January 2018, NWB Bank raised a first Chairman of the Managing Board with effect from tranche of hybrid capital (subordinated loans) the 26 April 2016 Annual General Meeting, in 2015 amounting to €200 million from four Dutch the Supervisory Board conducted a recruitment provinces in September 2015. and selection procedure for his successor. The Board also initiated recruitment procedures for two new candidates to succeed Supervisory Directors Else Bos and Berend-Jan baron van Based on the new Dutch Banking Code, in Voorst tot Voorst. At the Annual General Meeting early 2015 the profile and the regulations of the ANNUAL REPORT 2015 scheduled for 26 April 2016, the Supervisory Board Managing Board, the Supervisory Board, the will submit a nomination for a candidate to fill Audit and Risk Committee and the Remuneration the vacancy arising from the retirement of Else Committee were amended and subsequently Bos. The vacancy arising from the retirement of adopted by the Supervisory Board. Berend-Jan baron van Voorst tot Voorst is expected to be filled in the course of 2016. Achievement of business targets The Managing Board’s Policy Memorandum is | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Human Resources discussed each year. The policy targets for 2015 Effective 2015, a new harmonised pension plan were assessed and those for 2016 adopted. The that is in line with the market and that complies achievement of the Bank’s business targets is a with amended laws and regulations applies to factor included in the annual assessment of the the Bank’s Managing Directors and employees. Managing Directors’ performance. These targets Furthermore, the Supervisory Board was involved include an evaluation of NWB Bank’s strategy, in and notified of the preparations for establishing a smooth transition to direct ECB supervision, a Works Council on account of the bank reaching revision of the risk framework, consolidation of the the statutory limit of 50 employees. The current margin and retention of the bank’s market share. Employee Representative Body (ERB) was The Managing Board largely achieved their 2015 abolished and the Works Council was instituted targets. with effect from January 2016. Both the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the Chairman of the Strategy and risks 14 Remuneration and Appointment Committee will In September 2015, the Managing Board and the attend a Works Council Meeting once a year – as Supervisory Board discussed NWB Bank’s strategy was the case with the ERB – accompanied by during a separate session. The topics discussed other Supervisory Directors, who will attend on a during the strategy session included the bank’s rotational basis. market position and the relevant developments pertaining to the bank’s business model and Future-Oriented Banking strategy. Key themes were disintermediation, The Supervisory Board sets great store by the diversification of lending activities and a peer proactively anticipating the reinforcement of NWB group benchmarking exercise. Bank’s role in society. To this end, the Supervisory Board discussed the Future-Oriented Banking The Audit and Risk Committee focuses primarily package consisting of the Social Charter, the on monitoring the financial developments at the Dutch Banking Code and the banker’s oath and the bank and the effectiveness of the bank’s risk associated Code of Conduct, which entered into management system. The Chairman of the Audit force on 1 January 2015, during its meetings. The and Risk Committee reports directly to the plenary statutory obligation for executive and supervisory Board on the basis of the Committee’s reports. directors of financial institutions to take the The activities of the Audit and Risk Committee are banker’s oath has applied since early 2013. described further on in this report. NWB Bank’s Managing and Supervisory Directors all took the oath or affirmation in 2013. In the Design and effectiveness of the Bank’s internal light of the new Code of Conduct, all Supervisory risk controls and Managing Directors have now also signed a The design and effectiveness of the Bank’s declaration regarding disciplinary rules. This took internal risk management and control systems place during the Supervisory Board meeting held were addressed during a meeting of the Audit and in May 2015. Risk Committee. In common with the Managing Board, the Supervisory Board is of the view that CSR means enriching its objectives as a publicthe internal risk management and control systems sector bank with a proactive approach, in order to ANNUAL REPORT 2015 were effective. This provides reasonable assurance make a positive impact in social, environmental that NWB Bank’s financial reports contain no and economic terms. Just as in 2014, NWB Bank material misstatements. again issued a successful water bond in 2015. For a report on NWB Bank’s CSR policy, please see Financial reporting page 39. Each quarterly financial report is discussed at length, first by the Audit and Risk Committee and Committee reports | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. subsequently by the full Board. The Managing Board includes a description of highlights in these Audit and Risk Committee reports, setting out its views of the Bank’s financial In the year under review, the Audit and Risk developments. Committee met four times with the Managing Board, with the internal auditor and the external Compliance with laws and regulations auditor being present. The Committee also held The Supervisory Board oversees NWB Bank’s separate meetings, both with the internal auditor compliance with laws and regulations. The and with the external auditor. growing number of laws and regulations require considerable attention from the Supervisory Board. During its meetings the Committee substantively In addition to drawing on the knowledge and discussed a number of topics at length, including experience of its individual members, the Board the adjustment of the risk appetite framework. also receives compliance information from the The adjustment was implemented by the bank 15 relevant departments at NWB Bank. The bank has with a view to achieving consistency as far as established a regulatory function for this purpose possible with the underlying principles of the within the Legal & Compliance Department, which Financial Stability Board in this area. Due to monitors external laws and regulations. the sharply lower interest rate, it has become attractive for a number of the bank’s clients to Relationship with shareholders renew and extend the maturities of their current Four meetings between shareholders’ loans. The accounting policy for these transactions representatives united in a Shareholders’ was discussed at length and tightened in one or Committee, and the Chairman of the Supervisory two areas. Lastly, the method for calculating the Board and the Chairman of the Remuneration capital requirement for counterparty risk arising and Appointment Committee were held in early from long-term derivatives was discussed. It was 2015 regarding the remuneration policy for the decided to adopt a conservative approach. Managing Directors. In addition, an informal autumn shareholders’ consultation took place in Topics that are discussed each year are the November 2015. The topics discussed included trends seen in the money and capital markets, the current developments at NWB Bank relating to financial results, the half-year and annual figures, regulations, dividend policy and the leverage the dividend and reserve policy, funding, transfer ratio, the bank tax and the resolution levy, and pricing, the budget, ICAAP/ILAAP, various stress the appointment/reappointment procedure for scenarios, risk management and the reports of the Supervisory Directors. external and internal auditors. Corporate Social Responsibility In 2015, the specific topics also addressed were The Supervisory Board sets great store by NWB ECB supervision, hybrid capital, the Audit and Bank proper implementation of its corporate Risk Committee Regulations, the 2015 ICAAP social responsibility (CSR) policy. To NWB Bank, update, the common (COREP) and financial (FINREP) reporting requirements under the CRD INTERNAL ORGANISATION IV Directive, the adjustment of the strategic risk Composition of the Managing Board and ANNUAL REPORT 2015 management framework, the transition to the new external auditor, the report on soft controls, Supervisory Board the adjustment of the Product Approval Process (PAP) to the Product Approval and Review Process Composition of the Managing Board (PARP), the Recovery Plan update and the Internal Details of the members of the Managing Board can Audit Charter. be found on pages 5 and 6 of this report. The ratio of men to women on the Managing Board is 67% to | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board considered 33%, thereby meeting the target figure for diversity the external auditor’s report, including the under the Management and Supervision (Public and management letter for the 2014 reporting year, Private Companies) Act (Wet bestuur en toezicht). and discussed the external auditor’s findings on financial developments, financial reporting and the The Chairman of the Managing Board, Ron Walkier, audit of the financial statements. is due to retire with effect from the Annual General Meeting scheduled for 26 April 2016. In 2015 Remuneration and Appointment the Supervisory Board worked on recruiting his Committee successor. Following the recruitment and selection The Remuneration and Appointment Committee procedure, the Supervisory Board will submit the met four times in the year under review. The topics candidacy of Menno Snel to the Annual General discussed were the update of the new pension Meeting for appointment to the role. plan effective 1 January 2015, the remuneration 16 policy for the Managing Directors, their longComposition of the Supervisory Board – details term variable remuneration for 2011, their Details of the members of the Supervisory Board variable remuneration for 2014, their revised can be found on pages 7 through 10 of this report. 2015 performance contracts pursuant to the Financial Undertakings (Remuneration Policy) Act Composition of the Supervisory Board – profiles, (Wet beloningsbeleid financiële ondernemingen) competencies and diversity and their 2016 performance contracts, the 2014 To ensure the proper composition of the Supervisory remuneration report, Future-Oriented Banking, Board of NWB Bank at all times, its members preparations for the establishment of a Work are appointed taking account of the nature of the Council with effect from 2016 and lifelong learning Bank’s operations and activities, and the desirable for 2016. expertise and background of the Supervisory Directors. They must be aware and capable of The members of the Remuneration and assessing national and international social, Appointment Committee were also closely involved economic, political and other developments that are in the recruitment and selection procedures for the relevant to NWB Bank. proposed successor to Ron Walkier as Chairman of the Managing Board, and the successors to The Supervisory Board currently has seven Supervisory Directors Else Bos and Berend-Jan members. In compliance with the Management and baron van Voorst tot Voorst. Supervision (Public and Private Companies) Act, NWB Bank seeks to have at least 30% male and at Remuneration policy least 30% female Supervisory Board members. The Details of the bank’s remuneration policy are current ratio is 57% male to 43% female members. provided in the Remuneration Report on page 69 An overall profile has been drawn up to provide of this report. guidance on the composition of the Supervisory Board and the appointment of its members. In Due to the diversity in the composition of the addition, an individual profile is drawn up for Supervisory Board, the individual members ANNUAL REPORT 2015 each vacancy that arises on the Supervisory complement each other in terms of their specific Board, which is in line with the overall profile and knowledge and experience, and collectively which candidates must meet. The Supervisory constitute a balanced representation of the Board aims to achieve a diverse and balanced knowledge and experience required of NWB Bank’s composition. The current composition of the Supervisory Board. Supervisory Board is considered balanced, diverse and representing expertise. Composition of the committees | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Berend-Jan baron van Voorst tot Voorst intends Audit and Risk Committee to retire as a Supervisory Director during the 26 The members of the Audit and Risk Committee April 2016 Annual General Meeting. Furthermore, are Maurice Oostendorp (Chairman), Age Bakker, Else Bos will retire on account of reaching the Else Bos and Petra van Hoeken. maximum term of office. During the above General Meeting, the Supervisory Board will propose Remuneration and Appointment Committee Manfred Schepers as successor to Else Bos. The The members of the Remuneration and vacancy arising from the retirement of Berend-Jan Appointment Committee are Peter Glas baron van Voorst tot Voorst is expected to be filled (Chairman), Age Bakker and Albertine van Vlietin the course of 2016. During the same meeting, Kuiper. All members have adequate knowledge Age Bakker will retire in accordance with the term and experience of remuneration policies and of office in the current rotation schedule and will appointments, gained from their different 17 be nominated for reappointment. backgrounds. On 23 April 2015, Peter Glas succeeded Berend-Jan van Voorst tot Voorst The Supervisory Board currently has seven as Chairman of the Committee. Since that date members. With the proposed new appointments, Berend-Jan baron van Voorst tot Voorst has a the Supervisory Board will have four male and standing invitation to attend Committee meetings. three female members. Age Bakker serves as Chairman and Maurice Oostendorp serves as Quality assurance of oversight Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board. Self-assessment Supervisory Directors Age Bakker, Else Bos, Petra The Supervisory Board assessed its own van Hoeken and Maurice Oostendorp possess performance in the second half of 2015 with the in-depth financial expertise, have a background assistance of an external agency. Under the Dutch in banking, and have knowledge of international Banking Code, in addition to the annual selfmoney and capital markets and risk management. assessment, the Supervisory Board is required to The other Supervisory Directors, Peter Glas, perform a self-assessment under the supervision Albertine van Vliet-Kuiper and Berend-Jan baron of an independent expert once every three years. van Voorst tot Voorst, have ample experience in The most recent independent assessment took public administration and government policy and place in 2012. The self-assessment report have networks in government circles. The proposed brought a number of aspects to light, including appointment of Manfred Schepers as successor that the Supervisory Board members have ample to Else Bos with effect from the 26 April 2016 and current knowledge and that they interact General Meeting and the vacancy to be filled for the effectively with the Managing Board members. It successor to Berend-Jan baron van Voorst tot Voorst was ascertained that due to the pressure arising means that the Supervisory Board will continue to from the abundance of supervisory topics and the have a balanced and diversified composition. reporting requirements, a lot of attention to detail is spent on technical banking topics at the risk independently of one another and of the Managing of compromising matters related to the bank’s Board. The overall profile for the composition ANNUAL REPORT 2015 core business. This prompted the Supervisory and appointment of Supervisor Board members Board to restructure the agenda with a fixed sets requirements in this respect. In addition to agenda item devoted to market developments meeting those requirements, new members must and client relationships. Prior to its meetings, satisfy the specific criteria included in the relevant the Supervisory Board also agreed to hold a brief individual profiles. The Supervisory Board seeks consultation session without the presence of the to operate independently by ensuring the diversity Managing Board. A further conclusion drawn of its composition in terms of factors such as | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. was that the Chairman runs through the agenda age, gender, expertise and social background. All efficiently, offers sufficient room and ensures that Supervisory Directors are independent within the all Supervisory Directors have an opportunity to meaning of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. speak but that the conclusions and action points should be summarised in a clearer manner. Conflicts of interest This area will be addressed. As a more general The Supervisory Directors have informed point, the Supervisory Board has adopted the NWB Bank of all other relevant positions they recommendation to focus more strategically on its hold. One potential conflict of interest occurred supervisory duties and to leave the more detailed in the reporting year. However, it was ascertained examination of topics to committees. that the Supervisory Director concerned was not involved in the transaction in question, which was Education effected on market terms. Within the context of the lifelong learning 18 programmes for the Managing and Supervisory Information from external experts Directors, various presentations were again The Supervisory Board has the option of making held by external experts in 2015. The themes inquiries from external experts if warranted by included the risk management framework of the fulfilment of its duties. For instance, if and the Guarantee Fund for Social Housing (WSW), when needed, the Board requests information integrity, works councils, the capital market union from NWB Bank’s external auditor. In 2015, the and an update on Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity Supervisory Board engaged external agencies to (TLAC)/the Minimum Requirement for own recruit a new Chairman of the Managing Board funds and Eligible Liabilities (MREL). In addition, and new Supervisory Directors, and to supervise individual Supervisory Directors attend external the Supervisory Board’s self-assessment process. courses at their own initiative, depending on their External experts are consulted on lifelong learning expertise and experience. The effectiveness of courses. Information is also gathered by attending lifelong learning initiatives is assessed annually. meetings of the Employee Representative Body, Following their appointment, new members which was established in 2013. Following the of the Supervisory Board must follow an inestablishment of the Works Council in January house induction programme addressing general 2016, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board financial, social and legal matters, financial and the Chairman of the Remuneration and reporting, the specific features of NWB Bank and Appointment Committee will periodically attend its business operations, and the responsibilities of a Works Council meeting accompanied by other a Supervisory Director. Supervisory Directors, who will attend on a rotational basis. Independence The Supervisory Board believes that the Internal auditor composition of the Supervisory Board is such that The bank’s internal auditor attended all Audit its members are able to operate critically and and Risk Committee meetings. The Committee also held a separate meeting with the internal During the General Meeting of Shareholders auditor and the external auditor to discuss topics scheduled for 26 April 2016, the succession of the ANNUAL REPORT 2015 such as mutual relationships, as well as findings Chairman of the Managing Board will be on the and any bottlenecks identified in the past year. agenda in addition to the reappointment of Age The IAD presents its findings for the year under Bakker as Supervisory Director and the succession review in quarterly reports, which are discussed of Supervisory Directors Else Bos and Berend-Jan during Committee meetings. The IAD also baron van Voorst tot Vorst. presents its annual audit plan. The Supervisory Board is informed of the plan by the Audit and Else Bos has served as a Supervisory Director for | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Risk Committee, and ensures that the IAD’s eight years and will retire on account of reaching recommendations are followed up. the maximum term of office. The Supervisory Board wishes to express its gratitude to Else External auditor Bos for her analytical observations based on her Like the internal auditor, the bank’s external financial expertise, her focus on corporate social auditor also attends all meetings of the Audit and responsibility and her significant role in strategic Risk Committee. Furthermore, the Committee discussions about the bank. held separate meetings, both with the Head of IAD and with the external auditor to explicitly discuss Berend-Jan baron van Voorst tot Voorst has served points requiring attention as well as mutual as a Supervisory Director for seven years. The relationships. Supervisory Board wishes to express its gratitude to Berend-Jan baron van Voorst tot Voorst for On 23 April 2015 the Annual General Meeting of his valuable contribution based on his extensive 19 Shareholders approved the appointment of the new knowledge and experience of government policy external auditor. A new Act recently entered into and public administration, his astute yet balanced force, which requires public-interest entities in views, and for providing significant added value to the Netherlands to change external auditors every the Supervisory Board as a whole. eight years. With effect from the 2016 financial year, KPMG Accountants N.V. will transfer its Personal notices activities as external auditor to Ernst & Young (EY). In November 2015 we learned that Mr J. de Valk KPMG audited NWB Bank’s financial statements had passed away. Mr De Valk served on the from the 2007 to the 2015 financial years. Supervisory Board of NWB Bank from 1979 to 1997. In his 18-year tenure as a Supervisory Organisational matters Director, he was firmly committed to the bank, and with his knowledge of public administration Reappointment/appointment of Managing and and finance made a substantial contribution to the Supervisory Directors bank’s development. The reappointments and appointments approved during the 23 April 2015 General Meeting of In December 2015 we learned that Mr P. Adriaanse Shareholders were the reappointment of Frenk had passed away. Mr Adriaanse served as member van der Vliet as a Managing Board member, the of the Supervisory Board of NWB Bank from reappointment of Peter Glas as a Supervisory 1978 to 1986, consecutively fulfilling the role of Director and the appointment of Petra van Hoeken Chairman until 1992. His in-depth knowledge of as a Supervisory Director succeeding Victor the financial sector and his commitment towards Goedvolk. Furthermore, Maurice Oostendorp was the bank’s development were of immense value in appointed Vice-Chairman, succeeding Peter Glas his 14-year tenure as a Supervisory Director. who completed his four-year term of office. We shall always be indebted to both Supervisory Directors for their outstanding contributions to ANNUAL REPORT 2015 the bank. Attendance The Supervisory Board as a whole recorded an attendance rate of 95%. COMPLIANCE WITH | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. PRINCIPLES The Supervisory Board and the Managing Board bear responsibility for an appropriate corporate governance structure, including compliance with the Dutch Banking Code. The table presented on page 133 illustrates how the Code’s principles have been embedded in the Bank’s operations. The other corporate governance subjects are discussed in the Corporate Governance chapter on page 33. 20 A word of thanks In 2015, the bank’s Managing Directors and employees once again displayed great dedication in all respects. The Supervisory Board wishes to express its gratitude to all employees and Managing Directors for their dedicated efforts, as well as its appreciation for all the results achieved. The Hague, 16 March 2016 The Supervisory Board Age Bakker Maurice Oostendorp Else Bos Peter Glas Petra van Hoeken Albertine van Vliet-Kuiper Berend-Jan van Voorst tot Voorst Report of the Managing Board ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategy are of the essence in that regard, not only to Banks perform a vital role in Dutch society and investors but also to our other stakeholders. economic life. NWB Bank is no exception and recognises that its public utility function comes Ever since it was incorporated in 1954, NWB Bank with special social responsibilities. Based on has focused its strategy on catering efficiently | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. that vision, NWB Bank seeks to contribute to to the combined finance needs of customers a stable and robust financial sector that sets in the public arena, aiming to lower the public parameters for an economy that serves mankind sector’s finance charges. Rather than seeking to whilst causing the least possible harm to the maximise its profits, the Bank’s strategy is geared environment. to achieving reasonable profits that are adequate to safeguard the Bank’s continuity and that enable NWB Bank’s mission is to enter into lasting the Bank’s future growth. The Bank’s shares are relationships with its customers and shareholders held exclusively by Dutch public authorities. Its as a customer-focused, robust and sustainable position as a Bank whose shares are owned by finance partner and enable them to fulfil their Dutch public authorities and the restriction of duties in Dutch society in the best possible its lending operations to the public sector, both manner. The mission is based on responsibility enshrined in its Articles of Association, safeguard towards society, a strong financial position and NWB Bank’s robust profile. Sustainability and 21 efficient business operations. By providing finance relevance to society are key spearheads in that to its customers on the most favourable terms strategy. possible, NWB Bank enables the public sector to keep the cost of fulfilling its duties in Dutch society Corporate social responsibility, a strong and the cost of public facilities in the Netherlands financial position, and efficient, professional as low as possible. and transparent business operations are the cornerstones of the Bank’s efforts to keep In the Netherlands, NWB Bank, as a ‘promotional enhancing its contribution to society. Within Bank , is a major player in lending to local public 1) that context, a decision was made in 2013, in authorities and institutions in the areas of social consultation with the shareholders, to expand the housing, healthcare, education and utilities. It Bank’s range of services by financing projects can only fulfil its duties optimally if society, and that use the Public-Private Partnership model its customers in particular, have confidence (PPP). In 2014, the relevant organisation was set in its organisation and integrity. Accordingly, up and ready to enter this new market, and in 2015 NWB Bank’s core values are consciousness, the Bank conducted its first PPP transactions. engagement and reliability. The Bank expects In the future, the Bank will also stay alert to its employees to promote those core values in opportunities to anticipate the changing needs of carrying out their duties. To fund its operations, its customers in the public domain and to enlarge NWB Bank almost exclusively relies on its contribution to Dutch society. A key condition international money and capital markets. Besides will be a stringent risk management policy aimed high credit ratings, reflected in the AAA ratings at maintaining its highly robust risk profile, equal to those of the Dutch state, matters such as including high solvency and commensurate credit integrity and a transparent provision of information ratings. 1) A  s defined in Article 3 (27) of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/63 of 21 October 2014 supplementing Directive 2014/59/EU. A benchmark for the return on equity based on the quantitative easing (QE) and enlarge the money income from a 10-year continuous investment in a supply by buying government bonds. With effect ANNUAL REPORT 2015 10-year Dutch government bond plus a surcharge from March 2015, the national central banks and appropriate to the Bank’s profile was agreed with the ECB jointly have been buying up bonds in the the shareholders in 2015. Interest on equity moves secondary market at a rate of €60 billion a month. along the lines of interest rate trends of long-term The financial markets were pleasantly surprised loans to the Dutch public sector, on which the by the scale of the bond purchase programme Bank focuses with its long-term lending. In 2015, in particular. Money market and capital market the Bank succeeded in meeting the benchmark interest rates, already at historically low levels, | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. return. fell further. As a result, interest rates sank below zero for loans with increasingly long maturities. Developments For instance, the 5-year Dutch government bond The cautious economic recovery in 2014 in the yield fell to under 0%, whilst that for 10-year loans Netherlands and most of the euro zone has fell to 0.23%. Following on from that, the euro continued in 2015, despite a few setbacks. weakened against the US dollar and most other Whilst the economic growth trend followed an currencies. Various share price indexes reached upward trajectory throughout the year, growth the highest level since the crisis broke out in itself remained limited and threats continued to 2008. In March, the AEX index closed at above lurk. The same applies to inflation. It was partly 500 points for the first time in seven years. In the for this reason that the European Central Bank United States, the Dow Jones index reached a (ECB) felt compelled, following the example of the new all-time high before the summer. However, a United States and the United Kingdom in previous reversal of this trend began in May. The slowdown 22 years, to deploy the unconventional weapon of of growth in China and the geopolitical tensions Vision Enriching our objectives as a public-sector bank with a proactive approach, in order to make a positive impact in social, environmental and economic terms. Mission Entering into lasting relationships with stakeholders as a customerfocused, robust and sustainable finance partner and enabling them to fulfil their duties in Dutch society in the best possible manner. Strategy NWB Bank’s strategy is focused on catering efficiently to the combined finance needs of customers in the public arena, aiming to lower the public sector’s finance charges. Core values Consciousness, engagement and reliability. resulted in increasing nervousness in the financial for licence holders as a result of the inflow of markets, leading to a sharp adjustment of prices refugees. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 on stock exchanges throughout the world, with oil prices and stock exchanges in emerging countries NWB Bank in 2015 being the main victims. It was not long before NWB Bank’s new long-term lending (including capital market interest rates in the euro zone interest rate resets) to the Dutch public sector rose sharply. For instance, in a period of less than totalled €7.4 billion in 2015, a level never two months, the 10-year Dutch government bond previously reached by the Bank. A key development yield rose by nearly a whole percentage point from underlying this was the wish of of customers, | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. 0.23% in April to 1.18% in June. Concerns about primarily from the water authority sector, to Greece and declining Chinese growth gripped the optimise their loan portfolios against the backdrop euro zone in the second half of the year. Stubbornly of the exceptionally low interest rate. Existing low inflation, partly brought about by the low oil loans were repaid early and replaced by longerprice, prompted the ECB to reduce the already term loans at a lower interest rate. As in 2014, negative deposit rate further still to − 0.3%. The the Bank also purchased loans offered in the purchase programme was also extended by six secondary market. In addition, the first PPP months, until March 2017. These efforts were not transactions were concluded and, for the first sufficient to prevent the long-term interest rate time, Export Credit Guarantee loans, backed by the in the euro zone from ultimately ending slightly Dutch State, were granted. higher at the end of the year. The divergence between the US economy and that of the euro The Bank has managed to retain its market zone was further reinforced when the US Federal share at a reasonable level despite increasing 23 Reserve (FED) increased the interest rate in midcompetition from Dutch and foreign institutional December for the first time in seven years. investors in recent years and from the mutual lending of excess funds by local authorities, which The Dutch public sector continued to benefit came about as a result of the obligation introduced from the low interest rate this year. In the money in 2014 to engage in treasury banking with the market, our customers were able to take out central government. loans at negative interest rates for terms of up to six months. Historically low interest rates In recent years, demand from housing applied for longer terms, which means they were corporations related mainly to the refinancing of able to limit the burden on citizens. In 2015, existing loans. This sector takes up the largest investments within the public sector lagged behind share of the lending portfolio in the Dutch the private sector, where clear signs of growth public sector. This year the Bank’s lending to could be seen. For the water authorities in the corporations amounted to €3.8 billion, slightly years to come, the Flood Protection Programme more than in the previous year. The water (Hoogwaterbeschermingsprogramma, HWBP) authorities’ share rose to 27%, since it was will mean additional investments in, among other primarily that sector that took the opportunity to things, dyke reinforcement projects. As a result of extend the term of its loan portfolio. Against that decentralisation (of care, employment and youth background, the corporations’ share fell from 63% policy), municipal authorities have taken on more to 50%. The shares of the other sectors remained tasks and have to deal with budget reductions virtually the same. which will largely be offset by cuts and higher municipal taxes and to a lesser extent by additional The Bank has a portfolio of NHG RMBS notes funding. In the near future, housing corporations (Residential Mortgage Backed Securities, based may have to make additional investments to meet on home mortgages that are government-backed the demand for public-sector rented housing under the National Mortgage Guarantee (NHG) scheme) with which the Bank contributes to the its name ‘water bond’. The issuing of these financing of government-backed private home Water Bonds underlines NWB Bank’s role as ANNUAL REPORT 2015 mortgages. With a limited risk profile this portfolio a robust and sustainable finance partner for produces a relatively attractive return and is also the Dutch public sector, as does the awarding part of the Bank’s liquidity portfolio. That portfolio of a sustainability prize. The NWB Bank CSR was not extended further in 2015, since there were Award was merged with the Water Innovation no fully NHG-backed transactions available. The Prize. The Water Innovation Prize is awarded expiry of a number of transactions meant that this every year by the Dutch Association of Regional portfolio fell slightly from €2.4 billion at the end of Water Authorities (Unie van Waterschappen) to | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. 2014 to €2.2 billion at the end of 2015. innovative projects with applications relevant to the tasks of the water authorities: safety, clean NWB Bank raised over €9 billion in funding in water and sufficient water. In 2015, NWB Bank’s the international capital market. In the first four contribution within the Water Innovation Prize was months of the year the spreads paid by the Bank aimed primarily at the greenest entry which was above Euribor fell further, partly owing to the rewarded with the Sustainability Prize. fact that since November 2014 the Bank’s bonds had been classified as High Quality Liquid Asset At the end of 2014, NWB Bank and the European Level 1 in connection with the banking supervision Investment Bank (EIB) decided to join forces in liquidity requirements. In addition, on 15 April the relation to long-term funding in the public domain. ECB added NWB Bank to the list of institutions The EIB undertook to lend sums in all countries whose bonds are eligible for the Public Sector of the EU in proportion to their contribution to Purchase Programme (PSPP). This means that the EU. In 2015, the EIB and the Bank concluded 24 in addition to Dutch government bonds the ECB a Global Loan (GL) contract worth €400 million. can also buy NWB Bank bonds as part of QE. This Under this GL the Bank can grant loans at resulted in an increase in demand for those bonds, attractive interest rate levels to smaller customers which contributed towards the favourable funding and projects which, owing to their size, would not rates which the Bank was able to achieve last year. otherwise be eligible for direct EIB funding. The There was also great demand for the Bank’s shortfocus areas for such loans include healthcare, term financing in 2015. The Bank borrowed a total education, social housing, renewable energy and of €19.6 billion under the Euro Commercial Paper energy savings, and water and climate adaptation (ECP) and €13.4 billion under the US Commercial and mitigation (for instance dams, dykes and Paper (USCP). This is a higher amount than in locks). 2014, which has to do with the increase of the liquidity buffer resulting from the introduction of After Standard and Poor’s (S&P) increased the the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) as of 1 October rating of the State of the Netherlands from AA+ to 2015 for the banking sector in the Netherlands. AAA (with a stable outlook) on 20 November 2015, With the aid of Commercial Paper (CP) the Bank NWB Bank’s rating was also increased from AA+ to was able to finance its liquidity and collateral AAA (with a stable outlook). The Bank now has an obligations at attractive rates. AAA rating from S&P and also from Moody’s, equal to that of the State of the Netherlands. In 2015, NWB Bank issued a second Green Bond, with a value of €1 billion and term to maturity of Net profit for 2015 rose sharply to €94.7 million; ten years (in 2014 it issued a 5-year €500 million an increase of over €45 million compared with benchmark ‘water bond’ (waterobligatie)). ‘Green’ 2014. This was mainly due to an improvement of investors were very interested in it. This type of net interest income by over €62 million to €179.9 loan is used exclusively for water authorities’ million. Results from financial transactions also sustainable investment projects, which explains improved by approximately €7 million to €9.3 million. The improvement of the net interest On balance, at €49.1 billion as at the end of income is the result of, among other things, 2015, the total loan portfolio decreased slightly ANNUAL REPORT 2015 very attractive rates for the Bank’s short-term compared with the end of 2014 (€49.4 billion). In financing in particular. The restructuring of the the same period, total assets rose by €3.1 billion swap portfolio carried out over the last two years to over €91.3 billion. That rise was brought about has also played a part. However, that contribution in particular by an increase of the liquidity buffer has been neutralised by the results from financial in response to the introduction of a 100% standard transactions. The restructuring has brought the for the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) for the Bank’s interest rate risk position more into line Dutch banking sector. | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. with the standard for the equity return as agreed with the shareholders. The improvement of the Despite the increase of the total assets, the results from financial transactions arose largely leverage ratio rose by 0.3 percentage point to 2.1%. from customers’ wish to optimise their loan This is largely the result of the raising of hybrid portfolios, which involved loans being repaid early capital (additional Tier 1). In September 2015, the and replaced by longer-term, fixed-interest loans payment of an initial tranche of €200 million took with a lower interest rate (term extensions). Those place. The investors are provincial authorities transactions were prompted in part by the very low which found this an attractive investment of a interest rate levels and are of an incidental nature. public nature. The Bank plans to raise more hybrid As a result, the Bank obtained a result of €33 capital in 2016 and 2017. With these loans and the million, €31 million of which is accounted for in addition of its annual net profits to the reserves the results from financial transactions. to the maximum extent possible, the Bank is fully confident that it will satisfy the Basel capital 25 In 2015, operating expenses increased by about requirements. The standard set to enter into effect €1.5 million to €17.7 million (€16.2 million in on 1 January 2018 has not yet been laid down. For 2014). The underlying reason for this was greater the time being, the Bank is continuing to work on HR and supervision costs. With the increase in the the basis of a leverage ratio standard of 3%. number of employees, 2015 also saw preparations begin within NWB Bank for a transition to a new The disclosed equity stood at €1,399 million form of employee participation. A Works Council at year-end 2015 (including profit for 2015) as (Ondernemingsraad, OR) was set up as of 1 compared with €1,303 million at year-end 2014 January 2016. Supervision costs have more than (including profit for 2014). Tier 1 equity including doubled partly in the light of the transition to direct hybrid capital stands at €1,594 million at yearECB supervision as of November 2014. Bank tax end 2015 (including profit for 2015). The Bank’s rose from €14.6 million to €18.5 million as a result risk-weighted assets rose from €1,780 million at of the Bank’s increased total assets. In 2015, the year-end 2014 to €1,998 million at year-end 2015. Bank made its first contribution to the resolution This increase is largely the result of an adjustment fund further to the entry into force of the Bank of the method for calculating the capital charge Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD). For the for counterparty risk (counterparty credit risk, Bank, that contribution amounted to €2.7 million CCR) on account of the derivatives transactions before tax based on the public-sector nature of the concluded by the Bank to cover interest rate and Bank and its assets (in the Capital Requirements currency risks. In the first quarter of 2016, the Regulation (CRR): ‘promotional’). Despite the Bank will also adjust the method for calculating necessary investments in the organisation the related CVA capital charge, which will result and rising supervision costs, the Bank has in a further increase of the weighted assets risk. succeeded in maintaining its compact and efficient The adjustment involves a more conservative organisational model. calculation of potential future exposure under what is known as the standard method, where the on the assessment carried out by the European remaining contractual term is used for the term of Banking Authority (EBA) in 2016. NWB Bank is fully ANNUAL REPORT 2015 the derivatives transactions and thus no account confident that it will be able to continue satisfying is taken of the daily exchange of collateral in the all future capital requirements. standard agreements NWB Bank uses with all its counterparties. Notwithstanding this adjustment Against this backdrop, the Managing Board of the method for calculating the CCR, the Tier 1 has decided, following the Supervisory Board’s ratio rose from 73.0% at year-end 2014 to 79.8% approval, to add the €94.7 million net profit for at year-end 2015 (both including the result for 2015 to the general reserves in full. Accordingly, | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. the current financial year; excluding the result no profits will be at the disposal of the Annual of the current financial year: 70.3% and 75.1% General Meeting of Shareholders to distribute as respectively) as a result of the issuing of hybrid dividends for the 2015 financial year. capital and the addition of the annual net profits to the reserves to the maximum extent possible Outlook for 2016 for the purposes of the leverage ratio standard. In The outlook for the Dutch economy is moderately terms of Common Equity Tier 1 (CET 1, excluding favourable for 2016. Investments in the public hybrid capital) the ratio of 73.0% at year-end 2014 sector will remain under pressure. According to fell to 69.9% at year-end 2015 (both including the current forecast, the bank’s interest income in the result of the current financial year; excluding 2016 is expected to be similar to the level recorded the result of the financial year 70.3% and 65.1% in 2015. respectively). As a result of the adjustment of the method for calculating the CVA capital charge to Funding 26 be introduced (in the first quarter of 2016), the CET To raise long-term funding, NWB Bank uses 1 and Tier 1 ratio will decrease by approximately 15 its €60 billion Debt Issuance Programme (DIP) percentage points. As such, those ratios will still under which standardised documents are used remain amply above the minimum requirements for the lion’s share of the loans raised. Funding is of 4.5% and 6% respectively (and of 8% for the obtained in various currencies and immediately total capital ratio), underlining NWB Bank’s high converted into euros. The Bank’s funding strategy creditworthiness and low risk profile. is to respond to investors’ requirements in the most flexible manner possible, which, together Addition to the reserves; dividend with its excellent creditworthiness, enables it to In early 2011, NWB Bank decided to start raise funds on the most favourable terms. adding its annual net profits to the reserves to the maximum possible extent with a view to NWB Bank has Aaa and AAA ratings from Moody’s the Basel III requirements. As the announced and S&P, respectively, equal to those of the State minimum required leverage ratio that will take of the Netherlands. The bonds issued by NWB effect on 1 January 2018 has as yet been set at Bank qualify as High Quality Liquid Asset Level 1 3%, no dividend will be distributed until the Bank for bank investors under the Liquidity Coverage satisfies that minimum requirement. As stated Ratio (LCR). above, the leverage ratio stood at 2.1% at year-end 2015. Besides retaining profit, the Bank can also In the first four months of the year the charges strengthen its capital base by issuing subordinated above Euribor that NWB Bank had to pay for hybrid loans. In 2015, the Bank raised €200 million funding initially increased further. In addition to in additional Tier 1 capital from four provincial the bonds qualifying as High Quality Liquid Asset authorities. This is an important step towards Level 1, this is also due to the ECB’s QE. On 15 satisfying the leverage ratio requirement by 1 April 2015 the ECB added NWB Bank to the list of January 2018, which will be established based institutions whose bonds are eligible for the Public Sector Purchase Programme (PSPP). This means The abovementioned ‘green bond’ was the second that in addition to Dutch government bonds the ‘water bond’ to be issued by the Bank. With this ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ECB (through DNB) can also buy NWB Bank bonds water bond, NWB Bank attracted new investors as part of QE. and enlarged the market for green bonds. Besides traditional investment considerations such as After QE initially led to a fall in the long-term investment safety and risk/return balance, many of interest rate and charges to historically low levels, the bonds were purchased by investors on account there was a correction in late April. Thereafter, of their interest in supporting climate-friendly primarily the long-term interest rate rose sharply, projects as part of their investment mandate. The | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. only to stabilise somewhat after the summer. yields from water bonds are earmarked for the The increase of the funding charge did continue financing of water authorities’ activities in the field to a limited extent, but remains at a low level in of flood prevention, water management and water comparison with previous years. quality. In 2015, five benchmark loans were issued: a To raise money market funding, NWB Bank 3-year, 5-year and 7-year loan in USD and a 7-year uses commercial paper: debt instruments with and 10-year loan in EUR. Those loans were all maturities of up to a year. The Bank operates not successful, with oversubscribed order books. The only a Euro Commercial Paper programme (ECP), 7-year loan is the first USD benchmark for NWB but also a US Commercial Paper programme Bank with a term to maturity of longer than five (USCP) aimed solely at the US market. A total of years. The attractiveness of loans in USD, reflected €19.6 billion with maturities averaging 4.5 months in lower charges, was the outcome of a favourable was raised under the ECP programme and €13.4 27 basis swap from USD to EUR. billion with maturities averaging 4.2 months under the USCP programme. In August, NWB Bank issued a successful €1 billion 10-year benchmark loan as a ‘green bond’. Lending in 2015 This was followed in October by a €2 billion In 2015, a record €7.4 billion was realised for 7-year benchmark loan, NWB Bank’s biggest ever long-term lending, up €1.3 billion from 2014. That benchmark loan. amount enabled the bank to maintain its market share in the financing of the Dutch public sector at Of the loans in 2015, 46.9% was issued in EUR, a satisfactory level, notwithstanding other lenders’ 46.3% in USD, 3.7% in GBP, 2.5% in AUD and 0.6% increased interest in the sector and a declining in other currencies. demand for finance because local authorities, housing corporations and healthcare institutions are continuing to put new investments on hold as a result of new government policy. ■ USD 46.3% ■ EUR 46.9% ■ Other (GBP, AUD and JPY) 6.8% The average term to maturity of lending was ten former air force and army museum are housed years. The following table shows lending broken together in this brand-new museum at the former ANNUAL REPORT 2015 down by maturity in 2015: air force base at Soesterberg. The project was completed in 2014 and enjoyed a very successful Amounts (in € billions) 3.5 year, with over 500,000 visitors. The concession <5 years for the project runs for another 24 years, ending 3.0 5-10 years in 2039. That transaction is the first refinancing 2.5 10-20 years operation in the Dutch PPP market. NWB Bank >20 years is pre-eminently well-positioned here with its | 2.0 N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. low funding costs for long maturities. The Bank 1.5 also issued Export Credit Guarantee (ECG) loans, backed by the State of the Netherlands, for the 1.0 first time. 0.5 Last year, 50% of the Bank’s total lending was 0.0 to housing corporations. The water authorities’ share rose to 27%, partly because of an increased The above table shows that customers still require financing requirement and the desire to extend the fixed-interest loans with long maturities. The low maturities of their loan portfolios. The following interest rate level, of course, plays an elementary table shows the total lending broken down by role here. This attractive level of financing sector, in percentage terms: has caused NWB Bank customers to consider 28 optimising their present loan portfolio when taking out new long-term loans. In the process, Lending broken down by sector, 2015 existing high-interest loans are paid back early and replaced by longer-term, fixed-interest loans with a lower interest rate. The resultant extending of Housing corporations 50% the maturity of the existing loan portfolio enables them to cover interest rate risks for a long maturity and, at the same time, reduce interest expenditure straightaway. It also creates the opportunity, if required, to incorporate a cash flow schedule Water authorities 27% into the new loan portfolio so as to optimise cash management by planning coupon payments and debt service payments during a period where there Municipal authorities 14% is sufficient liquidity. For the customer, this also reduces the need to make adjustments in future by Healthcare institutions 4% drawing down short-lived cash loans and shortterm loans. Other 5% The bank also invested in the market for PPPs (Public-Private Partnerships) for the first time in 2015. This concerns a pre-existing loan to the Delfluent project (waster water purification plant) taken over by the Bank and the refinancing of the National Military Museum. The collections of the Water authorities basic interest rate loans. The primary demand for In 2015, NWB Bank granted over 90% of longloans and advances concerns the refinancing of ANNUAL REPORT 2015 term loan requests by water authorities, existing loans in particular. The trend towards a bolstering its market share in this sector as a falling demand for loans and advances continued result. This is in line with the Bank’s objective last year. The revised Housing Act, which forms a of fulfilling a dominant financing role for its legal context in which corporations must operate, shareholders. Obviously, this is possible only has led to a curtailment of the area of work of if a very strict pricing policy is applied. The the Bank’s largest customer group. It is partly Bank aspires to strengthen its dominant role for this reason that corporations are postponing | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. over the next few years, so as to continue new investments or selling parts of their housing fulfilling its core duty towards shareholders. portfolio. Financing or refinancing is usually no The water authorities’ financing requirements longer required when sales are realised. In this are set to rise over the years ahead, in view context, NWB Bank granted customers’ requests of the national Flood Protection Programme to repay loans early at the market value. It is (Hoogwaterbeschermingsprogramma, HWBP). possible that housing corporations’ investments This programme, which will be in place through will pick up again slightly in the years to come 2028, forms part of the national Delta Programme owing to the inflow of refugees and the cautious and is one of the most sizeable water projects recovery of the housing market. ever implemented in the Netherlands. Research has shown that almost 800 kilometres of the Provincial and municipal authorities Netherlands’ dams and dykes no longer satisfy Due to their solid liquidity positions, provincial the requirements set. The Dutch government set authorities were not in the market this past year 29 up the Delta Programme so as to ensure that the for long-term financing. Municipal authorities Dutch flood prevention and water management again frequently used cash loans in 2015. programmes are in sync with the climate change Approximately €8 billion with an average maturity anticipated these coming decades, taking account of one month was granted, keeping the interest of both patterns of heavier rainfall and prolonged costs low and benefiting from the present negative periods of drought. The water authorities and money market rates. NWB Bank realised a volume Rijkswaterstaat (the executive agency of the Dutch increase from €0.3 billion to €1.1 billion in the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment) are long-term financing of municipal authorities. taking an array of measures to ensure once again Nevertheless, we have observed caution in the that the primary dams meet the safety standards area of investments in this sector, too. This is set, mutually agreeing that they will share equally partly caused by the decentralisation of the central in the required financing. government to municipal authorities of duties such as youth welfare and care for the long-term ill. The 2015 saw the launch of NWB Bank’s second ‘green municipal authorities run the financial risk of the bond’ issue. This bond, known as the ‘water bond’ integration benefit proving insufficient to be able to (waterobligatie), is worth €1 billion (see also meet the demand for care. the CSR report). The water bond was used in its entirety for the financing of the water authorities. Healthcare sector Long-term financing granted to healthcare Housing corporations institutions amounts to €0.3 billion in 2015, The lending volume of €3.7 billion is comparable representing a slight decrease compared with with the 2014 level (€3.8 billion). That volume 2014. Last year also saw a downward trend in is related to the primary demand for loans and demand for loans and advances from healthcare advances and to the review of loan charges for institutions with guarantees from the Guarantee Fund for the Healthcare Sector (WFZ). Risks in The Bank enters into swap transactions with the healthcare sector have increased as a result financial counterparties to hedge against interest ANNUAL REPORT 2015 of system changes. In the first quarter of 2015, rate and currency risks. Management of the the WFZ increased the discount to reinforce its ensuing counterparty risk has been stepped up financial resilience. This was in part due to the these past years, as regards, among other things, fact that the WFZ’s other key source of income the frequency of the exchange of collateral. The (investment returns) is under pressure because of contractual arrangements laid down in Credit the constantly falling interest rate. Added to that Support Annexes (CSA) were also further tightened. is the fact that in the years to come the WFZ will Furthermore, the Bank is making good progress | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. have to deal with additional payment obligations in terms of preparing for the transition to central on account of corporation tax and the gradual clearing for interest rate derivatives, in conformity repayment of the WFZ launch capital to the with the European Market Infrastructure Ministry of Public Health, Welfare and Sport (VWS). Regulation (EMIR). Notice has been given that the transition to central clearing for interest derivatives Risk management is compulsory as from 21 December 2016 (with Risk management occupies a central position in backloading as from 21 May 2016). the organisation. Risk awareness is an important element of the business culture and is embedded With effect from 1 October 2015 the liquidity in the Bank’s long-term strategy aimed at solidity. standard LCR (Liquidity Coverage Ratio) has been The organisation is designed to identify risks at in force, setting the minimum mandatory standard an early stage, analyse them, set sensible limits for the Dutch banking sector at 100%. At year-end and monitor those limits. Risk management is NWB Bank satisfied the minimum requirements 30 characterised by its effective response to changing as regards both the LCR and also the Net Stable circumstances and by providing proper parameters Funding Ratio (NSFR), which is not yet in force. for Bank’s operations. It helps the Bank keep The LCR and NSFR worked out at 134% and 117%, its strong financial position and very low cost respectively. structure. In 2015, the Bank adjusted its framework for the NWB Bank’s borrowers are mainly public management of the strategic interest rate position, authorities and government-backed institutions. bringing it into line with the standard for the return In addition, for liquidity purposes, the Bank on equity that has been agreed with shareholders holds an interest-bearing securities portfolio in 2015 (proceeds from a 10-year continuous comprising mainly Residential Mortgage-Backed investment in a 10-year Dutch government bond Securities that are government-backed under plus a surcharge appropriate to the Bank’s profile). the National Mortgage Guarantee (NHG) scheme and bonds issued or guaranteed by the Dutch As well as paying continuous attention to public authorities. A decision was made in 2013, tightening the risk management of the financial in consultation with the shareholders, to expand risks, the Bank also took further steps in 2015 the Bank’s range of services by financing projects in the area of the management of non-financial that use the PPP model. The Bank hired expert risks. For instance, the policy in respect of the staff in this area and developed a risk assessment management of risks in the area of information framework. The first PPP transactions were security was tightened further as far as cyber carried out in 2015. Throughout 2015 and indeed crime is concerned. An overarching risk analysis throughout its history, NWB Bank has never in the area of integrity was also prepared and the suffered a loan loss. Bank carried out an assessment to identify other areas of operational risk management that could be tightened based on current best practices. Risk governance NWB Bank amply satisfies the risk-weighted The Bank’s strategy places strict requirements capital requirements. While the Basel Committee ANNUAL REPORT 2015 on risk management and on the set-up and referred to a minimum requirement of 3% for the maintenance of adequate internal controls. leverage ratio, the actual requirement for the new NWB Bank adopts an organisation-wide approach unweighted leverage ratio due to take effect in to risk management and its control. As an 2018 is as yet unknown. The EBA is studying the important element of its supervisory role, the impact the requirement has on various business Supervisory Board, and in particular the Audit models in the banking sector and will present its and Risk Committee of the Supervisory Board, findings in 2016. NWB Bank’s leverage ratio stood | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. evaluates the management of the risks associated at 2.1% at year-end 2015. with the banking operations. The Managing Board sets the risk management parameters. Within Supervision these parameters, the Asset & Liability Committee As regards prudential supervision, 2015 was (ALCO) takes decisions on the risks of the Bank. characterised by the transition to supervision The Managing Board, Treasury, Public Finance, under the direct responsibility of the ECB. The Risk Management, Finance & Control, and Back ECB performs the supervision jointly with DNB Office are represented on the ALCO. as a national supervisor of the banking sector in what is known as a ‘Joint Supervisory Team’ (JST). In conformity with the Dutch Banking Code, the It was in our mutual interest that the JST should Bank has laid down the level of its risk appetite, gain a clear understanding of the specific profile which determines the degree and areas of risk and business model of the Bank from the outset NWB Bank is prepared to accept in realising its so as to be able to structure supervision effectively 31 strategic objectives. The risk appetite is approved and to guarantee its proportionality. In addition, by the Supervisory Board. In 2015 the Bank the Bank’s priority was to set up clear and efficient adjusted its Risk Appetite Framework in line with lines of communication with the supervisory body. the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board (FSB). In 2014, at DNB’s request, NWB Bank drew up a ‘recovery plan’ for the first time, describing Capital Management the measures to be taken to keep its footing in a The primary objective of capital management is financial crisis. Every bank is required to draw up to ensure that the internal targets and external such a plan. NWB Bank considers it very important capital requirements are always met and to ensure in such extreme circumstances to think thoroughly that sufficient capital is available to support about its crisis management organisation and NWB Bank’s strategy. the recovery measures available to it. In 2015, the plan was in fact tested in a simulation session. Besides determining the minimum capital Based on that experience, some adjustments requirements per type of risk (credit risk, market have been made to, among other things, the crisis risk, operating risk and concentration risk), management organisation. The plan was updated the internal assessment of capital adequacy, on the basis of the findings of the annual SREP of the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment the Bank’s capitalisation and its liquidity position. Process (ICAAP), is a key activity within capital management. One component of the ICAAP is the Besides the Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM), conducting of stress tests to test the robustness of which governs the prudential supervision of capitalisation. Every year, the supervisor assesses European banks, the formation of a banking union the quality of the ICAAP and its realisation in the in Europe comprises a second and third pillar. The Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (SREP) second pillar is the Single Resolution Mechanism and discusses this assessment with the Bank. (SRM), comprising the Single Resolution Board (SRB) and the national resolution authorities, responsible for the recovery and resolution of ANNUAL REPORT 2015 banks. The third pillar is the Deposit Guarantee Scheme (DGS), within which rules are laid down in relation to banks’ guarantee obligation towards depositors. With the entry into force of the BRRD in 2015, the bank now also has to deal with the SRB, which is responsible for an orderly process surrounding the recovery and possible resolution | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. of a bank. This will require resolution plans and additional capital requirements (MREL, Minimum Requirement for own funds and Eligible Liabilities) to be drawn up. This will take place in 2016. There is a transitional phase of four years. 32 Corporate governance ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Introduction the shareholders are recorded as well as the date As a bank of and for the public sector, on which they acquired shares and the amounts NWB Bank has a special responsibility they paid up on them. The bank maintains towards society. In terms of corporate direct contact with its shareholders and/or their governance, this means that the bank should representatives throughout the year. The bank has | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. foster its robust financial position, while no formalised policy in this regard. Similarly, the practising transparency in its governance and principle and best practice provisions relating to considering the interests of all stakeholders. the provision of information to, and the logistics NWB Bank’s corporate governance practices of the Annual General Meeting have not been include compliance with the Dutch Corporate formalised. Governance Code, the Dutch Banking Code and the Code of Conduct set out in the ‘FutureFuture-Oriented Banking Oriented Banking’ package issued by the Dutch The Future-Oriented Banking package, consisting Banking Association (NVB). of the Social Charter, the Dutch Banking Code and the Code of Conduct, took effect on 1 January The Supervisory Board and the Managing Board 2015. The Social Charter describes the role banks bear responsibility for NWB Bank’s good corporate should fulfil in society and the shared values governance structure and for ensuring compliance of the banking sector. The Dutch Banking Code 33 with the governance principles. safeguards good governance by all Dutch banks and sets out principles for conducting business Dutch Corporate operations with restraint and integrity, proper Governance Code risk management as well as the structure of the The Dutch Corporate Governance Code contains Managing and Supervisory Boards. The Code of principles and best practice provisions that Conduct provides rules for employees on practising govern the relationships between the Managing their profession in a prudent and ethical manner. Board, the Supervisory Board, the shareholders and the General Meeting of Shareholders. The Dutch Banking Code Code applies to Dutch listed companies. NWB The Dutch Banking Code, which has applied Bank is not a listed company and therefore is since 1 January 2010, represents a form of selfnot required by law to apply the Dutch Corporate regulation. The Code was updated with effect from Governance Code. NWB Bank has elected, 1 January 2015 to include the newly launched however, to apply the Code on a voluntary basis, ‘Future-Oriented Banking’ package and applies to taking account of its specific feature, which is that Dutch banks. The Dutch Banking Code is designed its shares may only be held by the State of the to make a major contribution to public trust in Netherlands, water authorities and other legal banks. The new principles in the Code therefore entities governed by public law. The principles underline the importance of conducting business and best practice provisions relating to the oneoperations with restraint and integrity. The Dutch tier governance structure and the issuance of Banking Code contains the following elements: depositary receipts for shares do not apply, due to the nature and specific role of the bank. As all ■ conducting business operations with restraint of NWB Bank’s shares are registered, the bank and integrity knows its shareholders and keeps a shareholders’ ■ principles for executive and supervisory boards register, in which the names and addresses of ■ adequate risk policies ■ adequate audit processes In 2015, the bank organised a workshop on the ■ prudent, restrained and sustainable banker’s oath and an information session on the ANNUAL REPORT 2015 remuneration policies disciplinary rules for its employees. Following the workshop all NWB Bank employees either took the Based on the new Dutch Banking Code, in 2015 oath or the affirmation. the Regulations for the Managing Board, the Supervisory Board, the Audit and Risk Committee, The statutory obligation for executive and the Remuneration and Appointment Committee, supervisory directors of financial institutions to the Code of Conduct and further regulations were take the banker’s oath has applied since early | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. revised accordingly. For further information on 2013. NWB Bank’s Managing and Supervisory compliance with the Dutch Banking Code by Directors all took the oath or made the affirmation NWB Bank, please see the Summary of in 2013, either upon joining the bank or shortly compliance with the Dutch Banking Code. afterwards, and in 2015 signed a declaration regarding disciplinary rules within the framework Comply-or-explain-statement in the Dutch of the new Code of Conduct. Banking Code NWB Bank fully acknowledges the significance Notes of the Dutch Banking Code and complies with its The following paragraphs address a number provisions. of aspects of corporate governance. They also address whether, and if so, in what way further Code of Conduct and the steps have been taken in the 2015 reporting period banker’s oath compared with 2014. 34 With effect from 1 April 2015, all employees in the banking industry are required to take the banker’s Suitability and reliability test oath (which includes the related Code of Conduct Under the Financial Markets (Amendment) Act and a disciplinary system). The banker’s oath is 2015 (Wijzigingswet financiële markten 2015), a personal declaration by an employee, which is the number of individuals who are subject to the required to be taken in the presence of a manager. suitability and reliability test has been widened. After taking the oath or affirmation, the employee In this context, all members of NWB Bank’s must sign the oath or affirmation, which has been management team passed the test in 2015. set out in writing, in the presence of his or her manager. Upon taking and signing the banker’s Works Council oath employees must abide by the Code of Conduct In 2015 preparations were made to establish and the disciplinary rules. The Code of Conduct a Works Council. The Works Council was comprises the following aspects: established in January 2016. Both the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the Chairman of ■ working with integrity and due care the Remuneration and Appointment Committee ■ weighing interests carefully will periodically attend a Works Council Meeting. ■ putting the customer’s interests first Similarly, other Supervisory Directors will regularly ■ complying with laws and regulations attend a Works Council meeting. ■ keeping confidential information secret ■ being transparent and honest about one’s Conducting business operations with conduct and being aware of one’s responsibility restraint and integrity towards society NWB Bank attaches great value to its reputation ■ contributing to society’s confidence in the bank as a solid and respectable Bank for the public sector. Checks and balances and integrity therefore play an important role in the Bank’s control mechanism. NWB Bank wishes to ensure Putting the client’s interests first that its customers and investors can be completely NWB Bank is a major player in financial service ANNUAL REPORT 2015 confident in using its services and secure in the provision to the Dutch public sector. It can knowledge that their funds are safe. The bank’s effectively fulfil its duties only if society, and its Managing and Supervisory Directors are aware clients in particular, are confident about the of the fact that they set an example for all of the organisation and the integrity of the Bank’s bank’s employees. dealings with its business contacts. Accordingly, consciousness, engagement and reliability are Conduct and culture NWB Bank’s core values. Employees are expected | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. The Managing Board fosters responsible conduct to promote these core values in carrying out their and a healthy culture, both at the Bank’s duties. senior management level and throughout the entire organisation. In 2014 the Internal Audit The bank lends high priority to account Department (IAD) and the external auditor management aimed at borrowers and product examined NWB Bank’s culture and conduct (the development. NWB Bank’s relationship ‘soft controls’). A questionnaire was distributed to management centres on bridging the knowledge all employees to measure the quality of the soft gap between the public sector and the financial controls. The bank looked at the following soft world. To bridge the knowledge gap, the bank control elements during the survey: clarity, setting organises educational client sessions, employees an example, feasibility, engagement, transparency, participate in seminars as speakers, and client negotiability, accountability and sanctionability. visits are made at the individual client level. Moreover, the Bank is alert to market and other 35 The survey of soft controls at NWB Bank was trends and to shifting customer needs, and where completed in 2015. The overall results of the possible responds to them by providing solutions, survey showed that the bank scores above potentially including new products. average on all aspects. The advice given, in view of the relatively small size of the organisation, is In 2015 the bank launched its newsletter that the bank should be mindful that employees NWB Bank Publieke Sector Actueel (‘NWB Bank maintain a critical attitude towards each other. Public Sector Update’). The newsletter provides The bank has a flat organisational structure and NWB Bank’s clients with a daily update on current an open management culture, which essentially developments in the public sector. is conducive to collaboration, commitment, knowledge-sharing, risk awareness, inspiration Compliance and integrity and the personal development of employees. The NWB Bank has assigned the compliance function conclusion drawn was that attention should be to its Legal and Compliance Department. The paid to organising a counter voice and maintaining compliance function aims to promote and monitor a critical attitude towards each other. compliance with the existing laws and regulations, internal procedures and rules of conduct that The management team held a culture session are relevant to the organisation’s integrity and on the results of the survey. The survey results associated reputation. The field of compliance were discussed at length by the Supervisory comprises conduct-related risk categories. Board in view of the fact that employee conduct and the bank’s culture underpin our goal of being As part of its annual audit plan, the IAD carries out a conscious, engaged and reliable bank for our compliance audits to establish whether the Bank clients in the public sector. complies with the existing laws and regulations, internal procedures and rules of conduct. policy, to monitor senior management Furthermore, the IAD performs these audits to remuneration directly (including the managerial ANNUAL REPORT 2015 test the effectiveness of the internal procedures audit positions at the bank) and to draw up the and rules of conduct and their correct application remuneration report. The Committee works on the throughout the organisation. basis of the Regulations for the Remuneration and Appointment Committee. Supervisory Board Profile General An overall profile has been drawn up to provide | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. The Supervisory Board Regulations contain guidance on the composition of the Supervisory rules governing its composition, the division of Board and the appointment of its members. The duties and its working methods, among other Supervisory Board aims to achieve a diverse and topics. These Regulations also contain provisions balanced composition. The profile is in line with governing conflicts of interest and the Supervisory the requirements set out in the Dutch Corporate Board’s dealings with the Managing Board Governance Code. In addition to the overall and the shareholders. The Supervisory Board profile, an individual profile is drawn up for each Regulations implement the applicable provisions vacancy that arises on the Supervisory Board. The of the Capital Requirements Regulation (575/2013) individual profile must be in line with the overall (CRR), the Financial Supervision Act, the Dutch profile. In accordance with the Management and Restrained Remuneration Policy (Financial Supervision (Public and Private Companies) Act Supervision Act) Regulation of 2014 (Regeling (Wet bestuur en toezicht), the Supervisory Board is beheerst beloningsbeleid Wft 2014), the Financial striving for a balanced composition of at least 30% 36 Undertakings (Remuneration Policy) Act (Wet male and 30% female members. The current ratio beloningsbeleid financiële ondernemingen), is 57% male to 43% female members. the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, and the Future-Oriented Banking package. Managing Board Committees Appointment and composition NWB Bank is managed by a Managing Board Audit and Risk Committee comprising three members. The Annual General The Supervisory Board has established an Audit Meeting of Shareholders appoints the Managing and Risk Committee with the remit to prepare Board members for a term of four years on the Supervisory Board’s decision-making. The nominations by the Supervisory Board. The Committee works on the basis of the Regulations portfolios of operations for which the members of the Audit and Risk Committee. Following a of the Managing Board bear responsibility are recommendation made in an ECB audit themed stated on the bank’s website and on pages 5 and around Risk Governance and Risk Appetite, the 6 of this Annual Report. The male to female ratio meetings held by the Committee will be divided on the Managing Board is 67% to 33%, thereby into an audit session and a risk session in the meeting the target figure for diversity under the course of 2016. Management and Supervision (Public and Private Companies) Act. Remuneration and Appointment Committee Regulations The Supervisory Board has established a The Managing Board’s working methods have Remuneration and Appointment Committee been laid down in Regulations, which contain with the remit to make certain proposals to the rules relating to the division of the Managing Supervisory Board, to evaluate the remuneration Board’s duties, its working methods and its decision-making process. They also contain review. The description of risk appetite (the risk provisions governing conduct and culture, the appetite statement) concentrates on the bank’s ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Managing Board’s dealings with and its way of strategy, its objectives and the manner in which providing information to the Supervisory Board, the the organisation can achieve those objectives. The remuneration policy and conflicts of interest. In risk appetite statement is a component of the risk addition, the Regulations implement the applicable appetite framework and is submitted every year, provisions, including those set out in the Capital at minimum, by the Managing Board for approval Requirements Regulation (575/2013), the Financial to the Supervisory Board. The Managing Board Supervision Act, the Restrained Remuneration also submits any interim material changes to the | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Policy (Financial Supervision Act) Regulation of risk profile, which are assessed against the risk 2014, the Financial Undertakings (Remuneration appetite, to the Supervisory Board for approval. Policy) Act, the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and the Future-Oriented Banking package. Audit The IAD operates independently within the Bank. Lifelong learning It carefully, expertly and objectively audits and tests NWB Bank considers lifelong learning by how NWB Bank controls risks associated with its Managing and Supervisory Directors of business operations and other activities. The IAD fundamental importance. Against this background, also issues recommendations on an adequate in 2015 presentations were held by external organisational structure and risk management. experts themed around the risk management framework of the Guarantee Fund Public Sector The Head of the IAD reports to the Chairman of Housing (WSW), integrity, works councils, the the Managing Board and also has a reporting line 37 capital market union and an update on Total to the Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee. The Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC)/the Minimum Head of the IAD attends the meetings of the Audit Requirement for own funds and Eligible Liabilities and Risk Committee, as does the external auditor. (MREL). The Managing Directors also attended In 2015, in line with the Dutch Banking Code, two various national and international conferences, tripartite meetings were held with the external workshops and seminars on topics such as auditor and the supervisory authorities (the Dutch corporate governance, financial instruments, Central Bank and the European Central Bank). supervision of the supervisory authorities, the During those meetings, views are exchanged about application of the principle of proportionality in the the bank’s risk profile, its planned operations and light of institutional and regulatory reforms and the results of its activities. the European banking union. At the Managing Board’s request, the IAD may New members of the Supervisory Board and participate as a non-voting member in steering Managing Board must attend an induction committees on strategically important projects. programme addressing, at a minimum, general The IAD also supports the organisation in financial, social and legal matters, financial implementing and reporting on corporate social reporting, the specific features of NWB Bank and responsibility (CSR). Furthermore, the IAD verifies its business operations, and the responsibilities of whether all Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) a supervisory or managing director. aspects are included in the Bank’s CSR reporting and ensures that such reporting is based on the Risk policy internal materiality analysis. Risk appetite Remuneration policy NWB Bank’s risk appetite is reviewed annually The remuneration policy for both Managing and whenever significant events warrant such a Directors and employees is in conformity with the principles laid down in the Capital Requirements Regulation, the Financial Undertakings ANNUAL REPORT 2015 (Remuneration Policy) Act, DNB’s Restrained Remuneration Policy (Financial Supervision Act) Regulation of 2014 and the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. The remuneration policy was approved by the Supervisory Board and is reviewed every two years by the Remuneration and Appointment Committee. The General Meeting | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. of Shareholders adopts the remuneration policy pertaining to the Managing Directors, details of which are provided in the Remuneration Report included in this Annual Report. Other corporate governance aspects In 2016 NWB Bank will further assess and, where necessary, implement the Guidelines on Corporate Governance Principles for Banks issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. 38 In-control statement The Managing Board is of the opinion that, in the year under review, the internal risk controls and systems were effective. This provides reasonable assurance that NWB Bank’s financial reports contain no material misstatements. Responsibility statement The Managing Board hereby states that, to the best of its knowledge, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Bank’s assets, liabilities, financial position and profit. It also states that, to the best of its knowledge, the management report includes a fair view of the Bank’s position at the balance sheet date and of its development and performance during the financial year for which the financial information is set out in the financial statements, together with a description of the principal risks the bank faces. Corporate Social Responsibility ANNUAL REPORT 2015 General As a promotional bank, NWB Bank’s mission is to provide its customers with financing at the least possible expense and to use its innovative capacity to enable the public sector to keep the cost of | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. fulfilling its duties in Dutch society and the cost of public facilities in the Netherlands as low as possible. The recent research of the Local Government Economics Research Centre (COELO) is a useful indicator here.1) It shows that the guarantee system in social housing, where the government backs loans to housing corporations (through the Guarantee Fund for Social Housing (Waarborgfonds Sociale Woningbouw, WSW)), has generated a considerable interest benefit. The Bank Nederlandse Gemeenten (BNG Bank) and NWB Bank sector banks are far and away the biggest providers of guaranteed finance and therefore contribute to that interest benefit, which in turn contributes to the provision of social housing. Researchers Veenstra and Van Ommeren estimate this interest benefit at €700 million a year for the total guaranteed loan portfolio of the corporation sector of approximately €83 billion. The part of the total guaranteed debt provided by NWB Bank is approximately 38%. NWB Bank’s creditworthiness, reflected in the highest ratings AAA/Aaa (S&P/Moody’s), enable the bank to finance itself inexpensively in the international money and capital markets. Such favourable financing benefits NWB Bank’s customers. 39 Developments in 2015 In 2015, NWB Bank issued another Green Bond (‘water bond’) with a value of €1 billion and term to maturity of ten years. That second issue was again a great success and enlarged the market for green bonds. In addition to such investment considerations as investment safety and risk/return balance, a sizeable part of the bonds were purchased by investors on account of the importance they attach to supporting climate-friendly projects as part of their investment mandate. Proceeds from the water bonds are earmarked for lending to the Dutch water authorities. The water authorities are governmental bodies, employing around 11,000 people, responsible for flood prevention, water management and water quality. Climate change adaptation is an integral part of their tasks. A large part of the future investments in flood control and water management will be executed under the umbrella of the Dutch ‘Delta Plan’, a plan set up by the Dutch government to make sure the Dutch flood protection and water management schemes will be able to deal with the expected climate change in the coming decades. Both heavier rainfall patterns and also longer periods of drought are taken into consideration. 1) ‘Credit guarantee for corporations is worth its weight in gold.’ COELO, volume 100, 13 August 2015. In 2015, the proceeds from the water bond were used to fund eligible water authorities’ projects that target: ANNUAL REPORT 2015 (a) mitigation of the effect of climate change, i.e. waterway management; (b) adaptation to climate change, meaning investments in climate-resilient growth (flood protection, other flood defences and pumping stations); or (c) biodiversity projects related to water rather than directly to the climate (i.e. sanitation and dredging of waterbeds, water treatment and cleaning of waste water and disposal of sewage sludge). For more information on the water bond, please refer to the NWB Bank Green Bond Newsletter. CICERO | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. (Centre for International Climate and Environmental Research), an independent, not-for-profit research institute, has provided a second opinion on the framework of the water bonds. In 2015, a new initiative was announced to encourage investment in social and sustainable projects. The Social Bond and Sustainability Bond Appendix (‘SSBA’) presented builds on the successful Green Bond Principles (GBP) launched in 2014. The initiative is intended to provide issuers and investors involved in the community with voluntary guidelines for the development and issuing of ‘social bonds’. This might provide NWB Bank with options also to fund loans for social housing through the issuing of a ‘social bond’. This will be investigated further in 2016. At the end of 2015, the European Investment Bank (EIB) and NWB Bank signed a loan agreement for €400 million. The loan follows the signing of a partnership agreement at the end of last year which laid down that the two financial institutions would start exchanging knowledge and experience so as to be better able to support public projects in the Netherlands. The EIB has provided NWB Bank with €400 40 million. It will invest that sum in projects involving social housing, the environment, knowledge-based economy and the water sector developed by local authorities. NWB Bank is continually seeking new opportunities to maximise its availability as backer of its customers in the Dutch public sector on the most favourable terms possible. Using this EIB loan, NWB Bank is also offering smaller projects and customers who would otherwise not be eligible the opportunity to benefit from inexpensive EIB funding. This means they pay less in interest payments which should help, among other things, to make social housing and the water authorities’ projects more affordable. Since the EIB is never allowed to finance more than 50% of the total value of a project, a total of €800 million will be invested in projects jointly with NWB Bank. Vice-president Pim van Ballekom of the EIB: ’Although we bring with us much financial and technical expertise, the EIB cannot be in the market at certain levels because we simply do not have the manpower and specific knowledge of the market. The productive partnership we agreed on last year with NWB Bank will now translate into specific support for projects to the benefit of Dutch citizens.’ The respected German ratings agency in the area of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Imug Beratungsgesellschaft, gave NWB Bank a sustainability rating for 2015. The bank ended in the top three of all rated bond issuers and was second in the group of fourteen promotional banks. In 2015, the NWB Bank CSR Award was merged with the Water Innovation Prize. The Dutch Association of Regional Water Authorities (Unie van Waterschappen) and NWB Bank joined forces to encourage sustainable innovations and to offer a platform for raising the profiles of those projects. Through the NWB Bank CSR Award, first issued in 2013, the bank hopes to encourage its customers to develop socially responsible projects. NWB Bank applies high standards in the area of sustainable corporate social responsibility and pursues the goals based on its CSR policy. NWB Bank acknowledges the importance of increased transparency ANNUAL REPORT 2015 and accountability to the outside world. In 2015 the bank again participated in the Transparency Benchmark. The Transparency Benchmark is an initiative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Netherlands Institute of Chartered Accountants (NBA). The Transparency Benchmark is based on a qualitative and quantitative study on CSR reporting features in the annual reports of large companies and state-owned enterprises in the Netherlands. The criteria were again tightened further this year, but NWB Bank managed to stay in the lead group with a ranking of 31st (2014: 28th) out of a total of 461 participants. This means that the objective of a position in the top 10% of the Transparency Benchmark | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. was met again this year. Furthermore, NWB Bank reported at application level ‘Core’ of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in the year under review. The Bank’s ambition is to continue reporting with GRI support and to optimise the monitoring of and planning for the related performance indicators. In 2015, NWB Bank signed the United Nations Global Compact principles. In so doing, NWB Bank is committing itself to integrating the ten principles concerning human rights, employment, the environment and anti-corruption into its strategy, policy and daily activities. NWB Bank has prepared an analysis of the ten principles which is included in the GRI table. The accompanying Communication-onProgress, as regards the ten principles, is provided in this paragraph, in the introduction of the Report of the Managing Board and in the GRI table. NWB Bank also plans to become a member of the group of financial institutions supporting the Equator Principles in 2016. ‘The Equator Principles is a risk management framework, adopted by financial 41 institutions, for determining, assessing and managing environmental and social risk in projects.’ These principles are already included in the risk analysis of project financing and where possible in existing project financing when loans are taken over. Management approach Effective 2013, NWB Bank linked its CSR policy to four themes fitting in with the Bank’s core values (consciousness, engagement, reliability). The themes selected naturally followed from and are consistent with the Bank’s general objectives, such that they contribute to the achievement of those objectives. Being a public-sector bank, NWB Bank’s interests and values differ from those of strictly commercial parties. Those differences are reflected in the themes: 1. sharing financial expertise with the public sector; 2. providing finance in a sustainable and committed way; 3. operating in a sustainable and socially relevant way; 4. acting with integrity and transparency. These themes formulated by NWB Bank take into account the various stakeholders’ interests, which have been duly weighed. Measurable objectives have been linked to them, on which the Bank reports annually. In so doing, NWB Bank seeks to account for its social performance in addition to accounting for its financial performance. The CSR policy includes the qualitative objectives for the next three to five years. Those objectives are summarised in a table on page 43 and detailed below within the context of the various themes. Vision Visie Enriching our objectives as a public-sector bank with a proactive Het combineren van onze doelstellingen als publiekesectorbank met approach, een actieve in order houding to make om positieve a positive effecten teweeg impact in op te brengen social, environmental ANNUAL REPORT 2015 sociaal, milieuen economisch and economic terms. gebied. Mission Missie Entering into lasting relationships with stakeholders as a customerAls klantgerichte, robuuste en duurzame financiële partner langdurige focused, relaties robust aangaan met onze sustainable andstakeholders en finance partner hen in staat hun enabling them to fulfil stellenand maatschappelijke taak in Nederland zo goed mogelijk uit te voeren. their duties in Dutch society in the best possible manner. | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Strategy Strategie NWB Bank’s strategy is focused on catering efficiently to the combined Gericht op het efficiënt bundelen van de financieringsbehoeften van finance klanten in het needs customers publiekeofspeelveld. in the Het doel public daarbij arena, is de aiming van to lower the public verlaging de financieringslasten van de publieke sector. sector’s finance charges. Kernwaarden Core values Bewust, betrokken en betrouwbaar. Consciousness, engagement and reliability. Themes Thema’s Sharing financial expertise, providing finance in a sustainable and committed Delen van financiële expertise, duurzaam en betrokken financieren, way, operating in a sustainable and socially relevant way, acting with integrity 42 duurzaam en maatschappelijk opereren, en integer en transparant and transparency. handelen. Doelen Targets Per thema jaarlijks controleerbare doelstellingen. Verifiable annual objectives for each theme. NWB Bank has set up a CSR Committee in which staff of various departments, as well as one Managing Director and the CSR Coordinator, participate. The CSR Committee reports to the Managing Board, which is responsible for policy-making, the management approach and the evaluation of the material social aspects of running a business. CSR subjects are also expressly discussed in meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee, and the Supervisory Board monitors compliance with the CSR policy and performance. Each member of the CSR Committee carries operational co-responsibility for his or her specific task in the themes, objectives and associated reporting. The Managing Board bears overall responsibility for the Bank’s CSR policy. Risk management includes CSR aspects and forms an integral part of NWB Bank’s processes. The Internal Audit Department reviews all key processes at least every other year, in addition to acting in a CSR advisory role and safeguarding the reliability of the CSR information provision. NWB Bank has adopted its CSR management approach and selected its GRI performance indicators in the area of sustainability with due consideration to its relatively small office-based organisation and the duties it fulfils as a financial service provider in the public sector. This approach provides the best match with the Bank’s compact organisational structure at present and is expected to continue to do so going forward. The CSR Committee has selected themes that are material to the Bank from a stakeholder’s perspective. After having discussed those themes, the CSR Committee submits them to the Managing Board for approval. NWB Bank’s themes and objectives ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The table below provides a list of objectives for 2014 and 2015 and the achievements in 2014 and previous years, broken down – within the four themes – according to the associated GRI performance indicators. The themes formulated by NWB Bank take into account the various stakeholders’ interests, which have been duly weighed. Measurable objectives have been linked to them, on which the Bank reports annually and which the CSR Committee discusses and monitors half-yearly (at minimum). NWB Bank reports yearly in its annual report and in the GRI table on its CSR policy and the achievement of the accompanying objectives, based on the materiality of the selected subjects. The members of the CSR Committee are | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. also responsible for the objectives relevant to their departments and for the allocation of time and resources so as to be able to undertake specific actions, monitor them and, ultimately, implement them. The monitoring process led to subjects like absenteeism, training, conduct and corporate culture, and traineeships being placed on the agendas of the management team and the Management Consultative Meetings. The performance indicators are explained in more detail in the GRI table. Major CSR performance targets (PTs) and minimum requirements (MRs) have been defined for the long term (three to five years), broken down by theme. The performance targets are measurable and can be influenced, and here lies the challenge for the Bank. The minimum requirements have been adopted with reference to applicable legislation, governance codes and internal codes of conduct. In view of the impact NWB Bank can exert, the theme ‘Providing Finance in a Sustainable and Committed Way’ is the top priority, where the bank can make the greatest contribution to society through inexpensive financing. 43 In support of the choices made by NWB Bank, the opinions of a number of experts have been added in this Chapter. We refer to the article on the NWB Fonds, the interview with the winner of the sustainability award within the Water Innovation Prize and the stakeholders’ quotes. Achieved Objective Objective Objective 2015 2015 2016 Long term Description Theme 1: Sharing financial expertise with the public sector Keeping employees’ knowledge of finance and trends up to date (MR). all all all all Attending annual training sessions by Front Office Bridging the knowledge gap between the financial markets and the public sector (PT). 5 3 3 3 Number of events hosted for specific target groups 52 52 52 52 Sending out Financial Markets Overviews each week all all all all Performing Treasury scan on request all all all all Approaching customers proactively in the event of new finance opportunities Achieved Objective Objective Objective 2015 2015 2016 Long term ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Description Theme 2: Providing finance in a sustainable and committed way Selecting and dovetailing products and services to a customer’s needs and their suitability for that customer, also taking account of the specifics of the sector and the views of the competent supervisory authority (MR). yes yes yes yes Coordinating products offered (internally/externally) Putting customers’ interests first (MR). | yes yes yes yes Generally cooperating in requests for early repayment N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. none none none none Number of complaints filed all all all all Issuing rates for loans under 1m Sustainable and responsible funding and investments with due regard to CSR exclusion criteria (PT). yes yes yes yes Complying with exclusion criteria Promoting CSR projects to the Bank’s customers (PT). €1 b €500 m €500 m €500 m Finance volume linked to Green Bond yes yes yes yes Presenting annual Water Innovation Award Theme 3: Operating in a sustainable and socially relevant way Promote sustainable procurement and the achievement of environmental and social objectives (PT). in part in part in part 100% Applying PIANOo procurement criteria (fully carried out in 2017) Fostering a healthy workplace and healthy personal development (MR). 44 1 <3 <2 < 2 % Regular absenteeism rate 4,158 2,950 3,250 3,000 Training costs per employee in euros none none none none Number of incidents of discrimination reported all all all all Number of employees subject to performance and career development plans 100 100 100 100 Percentage of employees with pensions covered under NWB Bank pension plan A more conscious use of assets and vehicles, taking into account the environment (MR). 25 < 33 < 27 < 25 Estimated paper use in kilograms 33% > 25% > 30% > 30% Bicycle scheme (percentage of employees) 214 < 230 < 230 CO2 emissions caused by business operations Offering traineeships to pupils from secondary vocational and higher professional schools, as well as university students (PT). 2 >2 >1 > 2 Number of traineeships Increasing social engagement by the organisation and the employees (PT). 50% 50% 60% 60% Active staff involvement in CSR (percentage of employees) 1 >2 >2 > 2 Participating in social projects Theme 4: Acting with integrity and transparency Awareness among staff of what integrity entails (MR). all all n/a 1* every 2 Number of employees who took anti-corruption/integrity training year all all all all all Code of conduct for employees/taken bankers’ oath The Bank wants to hold its own with the best of its peers in the Transparency Benchmark (PT). yes yes yes top 10% Top 10% of Transparency Benchmark until 2020 Promoting optimal transparency on processes, risks and rates towards customers and other stakeholders (MR). yes yes yes yes Rates available via interest calculator on website yes yes yes yes Product risks described on website 2 >2 >2 4 Number of ERB/WC meetings Screening of new employees (MR). all all all all PES for new employees Theme 1: Sharing financial expertise with the public sector ANNUAL REPORT 2015 As a public-sector bank, NWB Bank shares its experience and knowledge of financial trends and products with the Dutch public sector. Bridging the knowledge gap between the financial markets and the public sector NWB Bank uses various channels to communicate with its customers and other stakeholders. For instance, it sends out weekly Financial Markets Overviews, providing insight into current and historical market movements, drivers of market interest rates, and funding rates. This enables customers to | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. monitor market developments and assess risks, and to anticipate developments immediately when market conditions change. Maarten Coenjaerts, treasurer at Servatius: ‘Servatius finds the weekly overview containing capital market information very useful because it provides an in-depth insight into the trends and current state of affairs in the capital markets.’ In addition, NWB Bank hosts annual events tailored to its customer segments, where the workings of the financial markets and related current developments are explained and specific funding-related topics are discussed. These educational events aim to enhance customers’ financial knowledge and help improve their financial processes. In hosting these events, NWB Bank bridges the knowledge gap between the public sector and the financial community, which ties in with the Bank’s duty of care and its policy aimed at putting customers’ interests first in its provision of services. 45 Philip Daelmans, Finance Coordinator of the Roer en Overmaas water authority: ‘NWB Bank’s events give us an insight into current events affecting the prices of our financing in a simple and accessible way.’ NWB Bank’s account managers attend seminars and periodically call on customers and other stakeholders to discuss developments and address specific needs. This allows current and potential customers to discuss financial issues and finance requirements with NWB Bank, have a treasury scan performed of their loans portfolios or learn about new finance instruments available in the market. CSR is regularly addressed during customer visits, as the Bank encourages its customers to devote increased attention to the subject. CSR is now high on customers’ agendas. Finally, 2015 saw NWB Bank start informing our customers in the daily newsletter ‘NWB Bank Public Sector Update’ of media reports concerning the public sector. This way, customers and other interested parties are informed of developments in the markets relating to housing corporations, local authorities and education. Keeping employees’ knowledge of finance and trends up to date At least once a year, all employees from the Public Finance and Treasury departments attend a training session or relevant conference. Employees also keep track of financial and other developments by reading newspapers and trade journals. This ensures that employees are able to anticipate and face developments that are relevant to the Bank and its customers, so that NWB Bank can respond to the need for professional financial guidance among its borrowers. Theme 2: Providing finance in a sustainable and committed way ANNUAL REPORT 2015 As a public-sector bank, NWB Bank subjects funding and investments to internal requirements in order to safeguard its reputation and its relationships with stakeholders in the long term. Customers’ interests are key in lending transactions As a bank of and for Dutch local public authorities, it is important that NWB Bank performs a portal function for its regular public-sector borrowers. NWB Bank can always provide its customers with quotes for money market and capital market loans. NWB Bank also issues quotes for loans with principal amounts | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. below €1 million, so that it can also serve customers with more modest financing needs. In addition, NWB Bank devotes the needed attention to all its customers, irrespective of their size or that of their loans. For instance, the Bank always responds to requests for face-to-face meetings and is always prepared to consider bespoke arrangements. As a rule, the Bank is willing to cooperate in arranging early repayments, either in whole or in full, without charging early repayment penalties except for a settlement price at market value. In 2015, the Bank helped customers with early repayments by optimising their loans portfolios (extending maturities). This resulted in existing loans being replaced by longer-term loans at the current low interest rate. Sustainable and responsible funding and investments 46 In 2015, NWB Bank again contributed to keeping down the costs of the Dutch public sector through the provision of inexpensive financing. NWB Bank was also able to participate in bespoke arrangements for the funding of sustainable projects including wind turbines and a water purification plant, as well as social projects such as a museum. Within the CSR policy, the CSR exclusion criteria are applied to NWB Bank’s lending and liquidity portfolio. As a bank of and for Dutch public authorities, NWB Bank lends only in the Dutch public sector market. This is defined in the objectives clause in Article 2.1 of the Articles of Association as regards lending. The exclusion criteria form an integral part of the Bank’s CSR policy, which can be found on the NWB Bank website. This means that all parties outside the framework provided for by the Articles of Association are excluded from the provision of loans by NWB Bank. In addition, in 2015, NWB Bank applied the Equator Principles guidelines in the tendering process when evaluating the social and environmental risks of financing Public–Private Partnership (PPP) projects. Product suitability NWB Bank selects and dovetails its products and services to customer’s needs and their suitability for that customer, also taking account of the specifics of the sector and the views of the competent supervisory authority. New financial instruments undergo the Bank’s internal product approval process before being offered. This process ensures that products are tested on their suitability for a specific customer group, among other criteria. The internal product approval process is one of the subjects addressed in the Dutch Banking Code (see: Corporate Governance) and is explained in more detail in the GRI Table. Since it is a key feature in the Bank’s product responsibility, the process involves all of the Bank’s relevant departments. Theme 3: Operating in a sustainable and socially relevant way ANNUAL REPORT 2015 As a public-sector bank, NWB Bank believes it is important that it is seen to lead by example in terms of its organisation and the environment. Fostering the development of socially responsible projects NWB Bank seeks to encourage its customers to invest in socially responsible projects. The Bank has the following initiatives in this area: the NWB Fonds and the Water Innovation Prize. With the Water Innovation Prize, the Association of Regional Water Authorities and NWB Bank joined forces to encourage | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. sustainable innovations and to offer a platform for raising the profile of those projects. Within the Water Innovation Prize NWB Bank sponsored the sustainability prize. NWB Fonds The NWB Fonds embodies the type of long-term corporate social responsibility NWB Bank has opted to support. Established in 2006, the fund serves as a source of financing of and for water authorities in shaping their international partnerships. It offers them the financial means to contribute to solutions to global water issues, based on their core tasks and core values. The fund’s initial capital in 2007 was €4 million. The amount was increased in 2008 and subsequent years to reach €20.5 million. Download the NWB Fund chapter from our 2015 annual report here: Director Henk Loijenga and Programme Manager Paul Langeveld have provided a topical explanation of 47 the Fund’s activities. That explanation forms part of this report. Sustainable procurement When purchasing facilities-related products and services, the Bank aims to consistently apply the public procurement criteria drawn up by PIANOo, the Dutch Public Procurement Expertise Centre. When renegotiating existing contracts and concluding new ones, care is taken to ensure that the contracts satisfy the PIANOo criteria wherever possible. When buying items for everyday use, sustainability aspects are taken into account, with the PIANOo procurement criteria being the standard. By way of comparison: as from 1 January 2015, all government authorities are committed to making 100% sustainable purchases. NWB Bank aims to achieve that goal as of 2017. In undertaking sustainable procurement, the Bank seeks to make a contribution to better social conditions in production chains (e.g. with regard to the cleaning of its office). The social aspects of the purchase criteria focus on improving labour conditions throughout the chains. By including the criteria in its tender documents, NWB Bank encourages observance of internationally accepted labour standards and respect for human rights. Suppliers who are discovered not to be meeting, or no longer meeting, the required level of corporate social responsibility are assessed on a case-by-case basis to establish whether there is cause to change supplier. In a joint effort headed by the Dutch Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment, local authorities boost the market for sustainable products by applying sustainable procurement criteria. NWB follows this lead ANNUAL REPORT 2015 of its customers and, through its purchases, endeavours to influence suppliers’ conduct in areas such as labour conditions, employee rights and the environment. NWB Bank maintains an ongoing dialogue with suppliers on the application of procurement criteria and improving sustainability. As of 1 January 2015, all Dutch government authorities are committed to making 100% sustainable purchases. Preserving the Environment The purpose of the following part of the report is to provide an insight into the organisation’s results | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. in relation to the environmental aspects of business operations as regards emissions, in particular in relation to greenhouse gases and ozone-depleting gases. Our gross carbon footprint, of which the office building and travel are major components, was again established for 2015. The Bank’s total carbon emissions in 2015 were an estimated 214 tonnes, a drop of more than 15% (2014: 254 tonnes). The gross carbon footprint was calculated on the basis of estimates. Further details are provided in the GRI Table on the website. NWB Bank offsets all carbon emissions, 155 tonnes through the Climate Neutral Group, an organisation striving towards a 100% climate neutral world, and the rest through Greenchoice (gas). Offsetting carbon emissions through the Climate Neutral Group reduces the Bank’s negative impact on the climate to zero in all relevant categories, i.e. for all CARBON FOOTPRINT (IN TONNES) 48 300 WASTE GAS 250 1% 27% CO2 200 150 PAPER CAR MILEAGE 100 1% 40% 50 0 ELECTRICITY AIR TRAVEL 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 0% 31% relevant greenhouse gases converted into carbon equivalents. Offsetting takes place by investing in the Climate Neutral Group’s sustainable energy projects, which ensure a reduction of carbon emissions elsewhere. The project selection criteria included the impact of the projects on the local population and the region in terms of factors such as employment, transfer of knowledge, improvements in healthcare, economic growth, and local environmental improvements. Carbon emissions caused by the processing of company waste, with paper and residual waste being separated, were also offset through the Climate Neutral Group. As in previous years, NWB Bank exclusively used electricity from renewable energy sources (green electricity) in 2015. Carbon emissions associated with air travel were offset for 2015. Corporate culture, development and trainee posts ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The organisation’s success depends in part on a healthy and well-balanced corporate culture, a corporate culture in which the Bank’s core values and the social objectives are firmly rooted. The conduct of its people is at least as important as a well-worded mission. There are many good aspects of the family culture which characterises the Bank, aspects which are aimed at ethical business operations. Based on an internal and external audit, in the year ahead we will work on themes including ‘checks and balances’, | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 € 2,950 € 2,188 € 4,147 € 3,672 € 4,158 the registering and monitoring of incidents and the creation of a climate which encourages adjustment to external changes and critical thought. That latter aspect will be fleshed out further with the ‘disruptive thinking’ theme. The impact of the family culture and open management style has been dealt with in depth within the management team. Training expenses The Bank attaches great importance to well-trained employees, and devotes a great deal of attention to external and internal training and the supervision of employees by external experts. 49 In 2015, an average amount of €4,158 per employee was spent on training (including in-company training). It is estimated that a total of 2034 hours was devoted to training; this amounts to an average of 37 hours per employee . NWB Bank makes trainee posts available to pupils from secondary vocational and higher professional schools, as well as university students. Upon request, it also facilitates work experience placements for pre-university pupils. Given the relatively small number of staff available and the intensive level of supervision required, the Bank aims to provide at least one trainee post each year. In 2015, the Bank supervised two trainees. Working flexibly 2013 2014 2015 31 20 31 22 34 20 51 53 54 Diversity and inclusiveness As required by law and the Collective Labour Agreement in place, NWB Bank approaches its employees ANNUAL REPORT 2015 respectfully and with due care, without in any way discriminating. There has been virtually no staff turnover in the past few years (2015: two employees), so that a further increase in diversity will be difficult to achieve, and a further hiring of people with a weak position in the labour market will also be difficult. As it is, in 2015, NWB Bank again worked with, and temporarily hired employees from organisations that assist and coach people who have impairments in terms of participation in the labour market. As provided in the Dutch Management and Supervision (Public and Private Companies) Act (Wet bestuur | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. en toezicht), the Bank strives towards a minimum gender representation on its Supervisory Board and Managing Board of 30% men and 30% women. At this point, one woman and two men serve on the Bank’s Managing Board and two women and four men serve on the Supervisory Board. 2014 2014 2015 2015 number of % number of % employees employees Employees aged 60 to 70 1 1.9 1 1.9 Employees aged 50 to 60 11 20.8 13 24.1 Employees aged 40 to 50 24 45.3 24 44.4 Employees aged 30 to 40 14 26.4 12 22.2 Employees aged 20 to 30 3 5.6 4 7.4 50 Environmentally-friendly and active transport for employees Total absenteeism BICYCLE FRUIT 2014 1.81% 2015 1.28% SCHEME Health Brief absenteeism and work up to 7 days environment 2014 1.59% 2015 1.10% HEALTH CHECK FITNESS Medium-length absenteeism up to 42 days 2014 0.22% 2015 0.18% ABSENTEEISM The fleet comprises 15 cars whose impact is limited. New company cars must have an ‘A’ energy label. Travel using public transport is offered within the travel policy. With its bicycle scheme the Bank gives employees an incentive to commute by bicycle. In 2015, 33% of employees (2014: 30%) used that scheme. Health and work environment There was no prolonged absenteeism (43 days or more) in 2015 either. As in 2014, there were no physical ANNUAL REPORT 2015 accidents in the workplace. Complaints procedure The Bank’s customers may submit complaints under the General Terms and Conditions. The Bank received no complaints in 2015. The Bank also operates a whistle-blowing procedure, which enables employees to report alleged | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. irregularities of a general, operational or financial nature at NWB Bank, on an anonymous basis if needed, without jeopardising their legal position. NWB Bank invites its stakeholders to submit suggestions they may have with respect to the Bank’s CSR policy and to share any other comments on this issue. Effective 2014, the Bank has opened a dedicated email address for that purpose: mvo@nwbbank.com. Raising awareness in society of such themes as ‘money’ The project entitled ‘Money. Just imagine you had it!’ (Geld: Je zult het maar hebben!) was cancelled in 2015. As a result, the objective of participating in two social projects was not achieved in 2015. 51 Project ‘Money Week/The Classroom Bank’ ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Money Week is an initiative of the Dutch Money Wise (Wijzer in geldzaken) platform whose purpose is to teach primary school pupils how to deal with money. By making children financially aware at a Financieel young gedrag age, thegedrag Financieel van van foundations jongeren arejongeren laid for financial self-reliance in adulthood. After all, what is learned in the cradle is taken to the grave! | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. In collaboration2 van 2with vanthede 3 jongeren 3 deDutchjongeren Banking Association (Nederlandse Vereniging van Banken, NVB), heeft heeft het het gevoel geen gevoel geen controle controle over over geldzaken geldzaken te te hebben hebben partner of Wijzer in geldzaken, a total of 4,500 guest lessons have been taught. The NWB Bank actively supports Money Week by making a financial contribution to the project and by providing guest lessons. In 2015, no fewer than 12 guest teachers out of a work force totalling 54 people 1 1 van provided 14 guest van de lessons 3 jongeren 3 dewith jongeren much enthusiasm. The Bank is proud of its participation. For more vertoont risicovol gedrag risicovol information go vertoont gedrag to www.bankvoordeklas.nl. For an overview of the process from 2010 to 2015, please see below: Bron: Wijzer in geldzaken, financieel gedrag van kinderen en jongeren, 2014 Bron: Wijzer in geldzaken, financieel gedrag van kinderen en jongeren, 2014 Guest lessons Guest lessons 52 from 180 from to 4,500 180 to 4,500 in 5 years in 5 years 8,3 8,3 assessment assessment of of teachers teachers in 2015 in 2015 2010 2010 2015 2015 than 420,000 more than more 420,000 150,000 150,000 pupils pupils reached reached in in the the last 5 years last 5 years pupils pupils reached reached in in 2015 2015 Source: Dutch Banking Association (Nederlandse Vereniging van Banken, NVB) Source: Dutch Banking Association (Nederlandse Vereniging van Banken, NVB) Impact of Impact of guest guest lessons lessons 2 2 out out of of 3 3 youngsters youngsters show show greater greater financial financial awareness awareness 11% increase 11% increase score before score lesson: 54% guest lesson: before guest 54% in answered questions correctly answered in correctly questions score score after after guest guest lesson: lesson: 65% 65% Source: National Institute for Family Finance Information (Nibud), report on the evaluation of the impact of guest lessons, 2014 Source: National Institute for Family Finance Information (Nibud), report on the evaluation of the impact of guest lessons, 2014 Aantal Aantal interactieve interactieve lessen lessen Project ‘CSR trip ’ ANNUAL REPORT 2015 In 2015, the Bank started organising trips to increase employee participation in respect of the Bank’s green character. This involved the Bank visiting sustainable projects to improve employees’ knowledge and awareness of how our customers contribute to a better society. The aim is to organise one such trip once a year. | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Project ‘Voluntary work (NL Doet)’ The participation of a group of NWB Bank employees in a joint NL Doet (The Netherlands Does) activity will be a new feature in 2016. It offers employees the opportunity to familiarise themselves quickly with volunteer work and its aim is to support people, associations or foundations on a one-off basis with a voluntary activity. 53 In addition, since 2015 the Bank has been offering employees carrying out voluntary work an incentive in the form of time off. NWB Bank gives a maximum of one day’s leave in a calendar year for voluntary work which has demonstrably been carried out. This arrangement is included in the Bank’s annual leave scheme. NWB Bank being a small organisation, participation required extra efforts from the employees involved in the project. It was gratifying to see their active participation and enthusiasm. Sponsorship Besides its sponsoring of the aforementioned NWB Fonds and the Water Innovation prize ANNUAL REPORT 2015 (2015: NWB Bank contributed €25,000), the Bank also sponsors projects in the areas of water, cultural heritage and history. Sponsorship funds totalled €56,270 (2014: €43,666) in 2015. The increase in sponsorship funds was due to a large number of sponsorship applications with a larger amount per project. In 2015, of the 23 applications made, 17 were granted (in 2014, 14 of the 16 applications made were granted). The applications that were rejected lacked the necessary connecting factors with the sponsorship | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. objectives. In 2015, the NWB Bank sponsored, among others, the following projects: ■ Water – the Bank gave a grant for the furnishing of the Boat House for the Berkelvaart in the Lochemaan Foundation “De Berkelzomp”. ■ Cultural heritage – the Bank made a financial contribution to the hiking trail app along twenty cultural and historical locations in The Hague for ‘Naar Zee! De Scheveningse Zee-straet’, a project of ‘Stichting TOEN’ in connection with the project The Hague, Cultural City by the Sea, in which various The Hague museums participated. ■ History – the NWB Bank sponsored the drafting of the book ‘Tussen Stoom en Stroom’ (Between Steam and Stream) at the request of the Dutch Pumping Stations Foundation. ■ Sponsorship on the initiative of employees. Since 2015 NWB Bank has been offering employees the opportunity to propose CSR activities with which he or she feels a connection and in which he or she is not participating per se for a contribution from NWB Bank’s sponsorship budget for gifts. 54 Theme 4: Acting with integrity and transparency Being reliable and acting transparently are imperative for a public-sector bank. The same standards must be applied in communications with employees. Transparent working methods and rates NWB Bank explains its working methods to customers and stakeholders, both individually and during group presentations, to provide them with insight into the backgrounds to the Bank’s actions and the associated costs incurred. The Bank acts transparently with respect to the costs involved in, and the calculations underlying, more complex products, e.g. when taking over derivatives or restructuring loans. Processes that must be followed are explained upfront, allowing all parties involved to know what is expected of them. If so wished, the Bank always cooperates in dry runs, during which processes are completed in advance to minimise the likelihood of uncertainties and unpleasant surprises. Indicative rates may be requested through the Bank’s website or the Public Finance department. The Bank’s weekly Financial Markets Overviews also list the indicative rates, making a distinction between the swap interest and interest surcharges. These rates enable customers to monitor market trends and base their investment decisions on correct interest cost assumptions. Internal transparency NWB Bank strives to maintain an open dialogue among its employees, which means, in practical terms, ANNUAL REPORT 2015 that employees are encouraged to exchange knowledge and information as much as possible. In its effort to optimise internal transparency, the Bank has placed an interim evaluation of the annual departmental plans on the management team’s agenda for discussion during their meeting schedule. Furthermore, an annual review of the description of AO/IC procedures (Administrative Organisation and Internal Control) will be made an integral part of the in-control statements. The Bank attaches importance to a high level of involvement on the part of its employees. This is | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. reflected by, among other things, the consultation with the Bank’s employee representative body (ERB). Effective 2016, a Works Council has been set up owing to the growth and size of the workforce. In the past year, the Managing Board had several meetings with the ERB at which at least one member of the Supervisory Board was present also. In consultation with the ERB, the Bank adjusted various terms and conditions of employment and discussed the Bank’s developments. Integrity of employees In 2015, all employees took the bankers’ oath. The oath of is part of the Future-Oriented Banking package of the Dutch Banking Association. By way of introduction, the disciplinary rules linked to the bankers’ oath and how employees should comply with the code of conduct belonging to the bankers’ oath is discussed with all employees in separate sessions. This provides a framework for the two-yearly cycle during which attention is given to specific compliance topics. 55 In addition, in 2015, the Dutch Central Bank tested managers from the second echelon for suitability and reliability; no discrepancies were revealed as a result of that test. For NWB Bank, this applies to the entire management team. Another aspect demonstrating our commitment to society is the Bank’s efforts to combat corruption and bribery. In 2015, no case of corruption or bribery was reported internally. NWB Bank has implemented various preventive measures, the most important of which are Pre-Employment Screening, the Insider Regulation and the Code of Conduct. Transparency Benchmark The Bank aims to secure a place in the top 10% on the Transparency Benchmark. In 2015, the bank ended in 31st place (2014: 28th) out of a total of 461 participating companies. Ninth place was maintained within the financial sector. At 170 points, the 2015 score within the Transparency Benchmark was 3 points higher than in 2014. The table below shows how NWB Bank compares with other state holdings: Participant in Transparency Benchmark Score in 2015 Stichting Exploitatie Nederlandse Staatsloterij 110 COVRA NV 117 Nederlandse Financierings-Maatschappij voor Ontwikkelingslanden NV 146 Nederlandse Waterschapsbank N.V. 170 Bank Nederlandse Gemeenten N.V. 179 Nederlandse Gasunie N.V. 181 Dilemmas ANNUAL REPORT 2015 This section contains a number of issues in respect of which the Bank has weighed the various available options to solve CSR issues. Generic financing In the Bank’s systematic application of CSR-related exclusion criteria and its policy of fostering responsible investments, generic financing is a dilemma. Often, the intended purpose of the funds lent is to finance cash deficits or refinance existing loans. This means there is no specific project that can be | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. tested against CSR aspects. New products When addressing specific customers’ needs, situations may arise in which the pros and cons of launching a new product must be weighed. NWB Bank’s product approval process involves weighing up the risks involved for both the customer and the Bank itself. Those risks may occasionally prompt the Bank not to serve a customer entirely in accordance with the customer’s wishes. This presents NWB Bank with a dilemma, as it seeks to assist its customers at all times, while also adhering to its internal policies. Mutual lending between local public authorities The Treasury Banking Act (Wet Schatkistbankieren) obliges all local public authorities to maintain surplus funds as treasury funds. All funds that the authorities do not need immediately for fulfilling their specific duties in society are considered ‘surplus’ funds. An exception applies when local public 56 authorities mutually lend those funds on specific conditions. This will see them enter into direct competition with NWB Bank. The dilemma that presents itself is that customers will obtain financing at the lowest possible cost – which ties in with the Bank’s principal mission – while there is no level playing field, since the parties to the transaction are not subject to any capital or solvency requirements or to any special duty of due care. This may involve risks to both the customer and the local public authority concerned. Rebound clause Some of the payment agreements concluded by the group of municipal customers with their principal bank contain a rebound clause. A rebound implies that the principal bank is given an opportunity to issue a second, better quotation. Since this is at the expense of a fair and transparent quotation procedure, NWB Bank refuses to issue quotations in such procedures. The rebound results in three dilemmas. First and foremost, the Bank seeks to provide finance to its customers at all times. This is not the case if no quotation is issued. In addition, customers should receive a minimum of two quotations. Since other finance providers will not offer quotations either, if they know a rebound is involved, those customers will often apply to NWB Bank. Finally, a customer is not always familiar with the disadvantageous effects of the rebound, which is kept in place if a quotation is always offered. Providing finance without guarantees Pursuant to its Articles of Association, NWB Bank may provide financing only to Dutch local public authorities or closely related or government-backed institutions, e.g. housing corporations and healthcare institutions that are backed by guarantee funds such as the WSW and the Guarantee Fund for the Healthcare Sector (WfZ). This means that the Bank will not grant loans to housing corporations or healthcare institutions that are not backed in this way. The dilemma that presents itself is that those customers are finding it hard in present market conditions to obtain loans for the financial needs for which no guarantees are available. As regards those loans, the lack of guarantees makes it impossible for NWB Bank to fulfil its core duty under its current Articles of Association, which is to provide financing to its customers at the ANNUAL REPORT 2015 highest possible quality and the lowest possible cost. The only solution would be for NWB Bank to amend its Articles of Association such that the Bank is permitted to provide finance without guarantees. Derivatives In principle, NWB Bank does not enter into swaps or options with its customers. Where housing corporations and healthcare institutions are concerned, the Bank refrains from doing so because such transactions are not covered by the relevant guarantee funds. Furthermore, the Bank believes such instruments are not | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. suitable for every customer, which means they cannot be generally provided. At the same time, there is the fact that most customers are bound by the ‘Ruddo rules’ (rules on lending and entering into derivatives transactions with local public authorities) or the ‘policy rules on derivatives for housing corporations’ when selecting a derivative counterparty. Both sets of rules require of counterparties that they meet a minimum rating. Since an ever smaller number of financial institutions meet the minimum rating requirements, customers ask the Bank from time to time whether it would be willing to act as a counterparty for derivatives. This presents NWB Bank with a dilemma, as it seeks to assist its customers at all times, while also adhering to its internal policies. Supply chain responsibility The following chain is relevant to NWB Bank. The options for reporting in the value chain are based on 57 the Material Issues Plot. NWB Bank obtains its funding in the international capital market and uses those resources to issue loans in the Dutch public sector. The main impact of the NWB Bank therefore lies in its lending operations, with approximately 65% of the credit portfolio being owed by housing corporations. The financing concerned is backed by the WSW, which calculates its impact in the form of an interest rate reduction (approximately 1.5% on an outstanding financing volume of over €30 billion). By using green bonds to finance the funding of water authorities, NWB Bank has made the impact it has on water authorities much more transparent for its investors in the capital market. The impact on the other sectors mentioned is also important, albeit to a lesser extent. By contrast, being a small organisation NWB Bank has a very limited impact on the environment and in terms of social issues. € Funding and Bespoke funding for Added social Human Capital semi-public institutions value (innovation) and public institutions Stakeholder dialogue ANNUAL REPORT 2015 NWB Bank communicates with its stakeholders on a regular basis. Within a CSR context, the Bank defines as its stakeholders those individuals and organisations with whom it collaborates or that have an interest in the specific role in society NWB Bank fulfils as a public-sector bank. As a minimum, the Bank considers its shareholders, customers, investors, employees, the supervisory authorities, and the government to be stakeholders. As in previous years, a materiality assessment of the CSR issues relevant to the Bank was made in 2015. The issues were charted based on discussions held with stakeholders and, where possible, the policies they pursue with respect to both general social and sector-specific issues. This has resulted in | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. the Material Issues Plot shown below, which was extensively debated with the CSR Committee members. Governance, supervision, compliance/integrity and customer relations, in particular, are highly relevant issues affecting both the stakeholders and NWB Bank. Their relevance is apparent from such aspects as supervisory policies, discussions with shareholders, the focus on credit ratings in the financial markets and the Bank’s own policies. Explanatory notes to the table below can be found in the GRI Table. Sustainability Customer impact relations High Supervision Governance 58 Remuneration policy Conduct and culture Compliance Reporting Risk Commitment management to society Middle HRM Environmental Relevance to stakeholders impact Low Low Middle High Relevance to NWB Bank The Material Issues Plot was prepared from the stakeholders’ perspective – discussions were held with them, an online survey was conducted and benchmarks were used to compare against peers ANNUAL REPORT 2015 and establish the issues that stakeholders consider important. Based on the impact issues have on stakeholders and using their feedback, an estimate was made of the relevance of each issue to those stakeholders, taking into account the fact that not all stakeholders have the same interests. The relevance of those issues to NWB Bank was subsequently established by the CSR Committee, in which the Managing Board is also represented. A number of issues considered to be of less relevance were not included in the Material Issues Plot. The most important issues considered material by the CSR Committee were customer relations and impact of sustainability. Governance, supervision and | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. compliance were issues considered material primarily by the Managing Board. The stakeholders realise that the small size of NWB Bank’s organisation prevents the Bank from having any significant impact on the environment. In the table below, the material issues identified are coupled to the Bank’s CSR policy and are categorised by most significant stakeholder. The material issues are covered in more detail in this annual report. Stakeholder Material issue Theme and CSR policy Shareholders Remuneration policy Acting with integrity and transparency Social engagement Providing finance in a sustainable and committed way Customers Customer relations Sharing financial expertise with the public sector Social engagement Providing finance in a sustainable and committed way Investors Sustainability impact Providing finance in a sustainable and committed way 59 Reporting Acting with integrity and transparency Governance Acting with integrity and transparency Employees HRM Acting with integrity and transparency Conduct and culture Acting with integrity and transparency Social engagement Providing finance in a sustainable and committed way Government Facilitating Operating in a sustainable and socially relevant way Supervisors Conduct and culture Acting with integrity and transparency Supervision Acting with integrity and transparency Compliance Acting with integrity and transparency Risk management Acting with integrity and transparency Shareholders Once a year, an Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is convened. During the Meeting, the Managing Board renders account of objectives (including CSR), corporate strategy, policies and financial results, among other matters. Furthermore, periodic shareholder consultations are held to address recent developments within the Bank and trends in society that may impact the Bank or its shareholders. Issues such as the Bank’s governance and developments in that field are also discussed with the shareholders with some frequency. Customers The Bank’s customers (the Dutch public sector) already bear their own great social responsibility for ANNUAL REPORT 2015 which they are under scrutiny by public opinion, democratic processes and laws and regulations. To increase further awareness, NWB Bank discusses sustainability issues with customers whenever possible and provides a platform for innovative products by means of the Water Innovation Prize. The sustainability of customers is discussed regularly during meetings and events hosted by the Bank. NWB Bank engages in a permanent dialogue with supervisory authorities, industry organisations and sector-specific guarantee funds. The dialogue provides the Bank with information on and backgrounds | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. to new and existing policies conducted in the various sectors, as a result of which the Bank can respond appropriately to customers’ interests. Furthermore, the dialogue allows the Bank to gain insight into the needs of supervisory authorities and guarantee funds, on the one hand, and customers, on the other, allowing it to propose solutions in consultation with those stakeholders. Depending on the subject and the customer’s wishes, such dialogue takes place by telephone and also during visits. The shared knowledge and experience of NWB Bank employees ensures customers have more information, placing them in a better position to make weighed decisions. NWB Bank hosts events for specific target groups to provide more in-depth and broader insights into financial market developments, products, and working methods of third parties that may be of relevance to customers. Customer input is used when compiling the programmes for such events, which cater to a need, as the high turnout shows. When invited to do so, NWB Bank also holds presentations on specific topics during network and regional meetings. 60 Investors Throughout the year, Managing Directors and Treasury Department staff visit investors to explain the Bank’s half-year figures and annual financial statements and other trends. To fund its operations, NWB Bank mainly issues negotiable debt instruments in the international money and capital markets, which means that many of the investors are not known by name to the Bank. NWB Bank informs investors through international road shows, the Annual Report, and information posted on the website. If investors are known to the Bank, they are subjected to a ‘Know your customer’ assessment when starting to do business with the Bank and funds are accepted from them only if they pass this due diligence assessment. NWB Bank seeks to enter into an active dialogue with investors who engage in sustainable investment, aimed at finding areas for improvement in its own CSR policy. Investors use research agencies in the area of sustainability, which, using questionnaires, assess NWB Bank’s CSR policy and its transparency. NWB Bank helps those research agencies with their assessments by including additional information in the GRI table and entering into discussions with them. Employees Employees are important stakeholders in NWB Bank. Indeed, the Bank’s success depends on the professionalism and commitment of its employees, which is why it is of fundamental importance that employees permanently develop their knowledge and skills. Accordingly, NWB Bank has a generous budget for training. Both individual and in-company training sessions are organised to educate employees on a range of different aspects, including compliance and information security. NWB Bank strives to maintain an open dialogue among its employees, which means, in practical terms, that employees are encouraged to exchange knowledge and information as much as possible. This is done, for example, by distributing the minutes of management team meetings and holding consultative work meetings, both one-on-one and for departments as a whole. Knowledge is also exchanged in multi-disciplinary consultation groups and project teams. The Bank invites its employees to express ANNUAL REPORT 2015 their wishes and ideas with respect to the organisation and working at the Bank at all times, notably during performance and assessment interviews. Combined, these elements contribute to our employees’ engagement in the Bank’s organisation as a whole. The consultations between the Employee Representative Body (ERB) and the Bank are an expression of the Bank’s endeavour to engage employees. In the past year, the Managing Board had several meetings with the ERB at which, among other things, the general affairs of the organisation and, in particular, the | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. implementation of the Financial Undertakings (Remuneration Policy) Act (Wet beloningsbeleid financiële ondernemingen) were discussed. Preparations were made in 2015 for the establishment of the Works Council, which will replace the ERB as of 1 January 2016. Supervisory authorities and sector organisations Several meetings are held each year with the statutory supervisory authorities – the Dutch Central Bank, the European Central Bank and the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets – which oversee compliance with laws and regulations. Together with the other Dutch banks, NWB Bank acknowledges the risks of climate change. The banks are jointly taking further steps. That is the background to the climate statement, comprising ten points, which the Dutch banks presented to the Dutch government authorities and non-governmental organisations working on issues relating to climate change. Climate change is one of the most important 61 issues of our time. As a contribution to the international climate summit, which started in Paris on 30 November 2015, Dutch banks published this statement on their role and on the additional contribution they wish the Dutch government to make. Government As a bank of and for the public sector, NWB Bank operates within the field of operations demarcated by the central government for local public authorities and the institutions they back. NWB Bank participates in meetings with various relevant Dutch government ministries on a regular basis, contributing its expertise on policy issues. For instance, the Bank is an active participant in the Local Public Authorities Financing Working Group. CSR reporting standards ANNUAL REPORT 2015 NWB Bank’s disclosure policy is geared towards reporting on its operations in a transparent manner. In reporting on its CSR policy, the Bank uses the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines (which can be found on www.globalreporting.org); this report has been drafted in accordance with the GRI’s G4 guidelines. We report at GRI application level ‘Core’. The chapter on Corporate Social Responsibility was verified by KPMG (see appended report on the next page). For a full | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. overview of relevant substantial criteria and performance indicators, reference is made to the GRI table, which can be found on the Bank’s website. NWB Bank’s environmental and social impact is felt primarily within its own organisation. This is why this CSR report concerns the business and performance of NWB Bank, with its office in The Hague. Our choice for GRI is motivated by the fact that we wish to achieve good international comparability with other institutions, i.e. other Dutch banks and state-held enterprises. NWB Bank also anticipates doing so in the long term. NWB Bank subscribes to the UN Global Compact principles, in so doing committing to take into account important topics such as human rights, labour laws, the environment and anti-corruption in its business operations. Its subscription also implies that NWB Bank will hold its stakeholders responsible for observing the contents of these principles, where possible and relevant. Further information on the 62 implementation of these principles can be found in the GRI-table on the Bank’s website. Independent auditor’s assurance report To: the readers of the 2015 Annual Report of Nederlandse Waterschapsbank N.V. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | Our opinion N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. We have audited the chapter ‘Corporate Social Responsibility’ (hereafter: ‘the CSR chapter’) of the Annual Report 2015 of Nederlandse Waterschapsbank N.V. (further ‘NWB Bank’). In our opinion, the information in the CSR chapter is presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and supplementary internal guidelines. Our report on consistency We report, to the extent we can assess, that the information on CSR in the other sections of the Annual Report is consistent with the information in the CSR chapter. Basis for our opinion We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Dutch Standard 3810N: “Assurance engagements 63 relating to sustainability reports”. We do not provide any assurance on the achievability of the objectives, targets and expectations of NWB Bank. Our responsibilities under Standard 3810N and procedures performed have been further specified in the paragraph titled “Our responsibility for the audit of the CSR chapter”. We are independent of Nederlandse Waterschapsbank N.V. in accordance with the Regulation regarding the independence of auditors in case of assurance engagements (‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten’ (ViO)) and other relevant independence requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore we have complied with the Regulation code of conduct and professional practice for auditors (‘Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA)). We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Responsibilities of the Managing Board for the CSR chapter The Managing Board is responsible for the preparation of the CSR chapter in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 of the Global Reporting Initiative and supplementary internal guidelines as described in paragraph ‘CSR reporting guidelines’ of the CSR chapter. It is important to view the information in the CSR chapter in the context of these criteria. As part of this, the Managing Board is responsible for such internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the CSR chapter that is free from material misstatement, ANNUAL REPORT 2015 whether due to fraud or error. Our responsibility for the audit of the CSR chapter Our objective is to plan and perform the audit assignment in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence for our opinion. We apply the Further Regulations for Audit Firms Regarding Assurance Engagements (‘Nadere | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. voorschriften accountantskantoren ter zake van assurance opdrachten’) and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Our engagement has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all errors and fraud when these exist. The procedures selected depend on our understanding of the information in the CSR chapter and other engagement circumstances, and our consideration of areas where material misstatements are likely to arise. The following procedures were performed: 64 ■ A risk analysis, including a media analysis, in order to deepen our insight in relevant CSR issues for NWB Bank in the reporting period; ■ Evaluating the suitability and application of NWB Bank’s reporting standards used in the preparation of the CSR chapter; ■ Evaluating the design and implementation of the reporting processes and testing the operating effectiveness of the controls regarding the qualitative and quantitative information in the CSR chapter; ■ Interviewing members of the Managing Board and members of the CSR committee responsible for the CSR policy; ■ Interviewing relevant staff and members of the CSR committee responsible for providing the information in the CSR chapter; ■ Evaluating internal and external documentation, based on sampling, to determine whether the information in the CSR chapter is supported by sufficient evidence. Amstelveen, 16 March 2016 KPMG Sustainability, Part of KPMG Advisory N.V. W.J. Bartels RA The Water Innovation Prize (Water Innovatie Prijs) ANNUAL REPORT 2015 As of 2015, the NWB Bank CSR Award has been merged with the Water Innovation Prize. The Dutch Association of Water Authorities and NWB Bank joined forces to encourage sustainable innovations and to offer a platform for raising the profile of those projects. | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Winner of the sustainability prize Each year, several thousand kilometres of timber shoring is replaced in the Netherlands’ wetlands. Shoring ensures that the banks and embankments of waterways do not collapse. The hardwood required annually for this shoring covers a forest the size of the entire municipality of Delft! In a market faced with sharply rising timber prices, increasing pressure on local authority budgets, ever-rising local charges for citizens and increasing attention to the environmental footprint of products, an inexpensive and environmentallyfriendly solution is more than welcome. GEOWALL® was developed in response to this. GEOWALL® is a simple, inexpensive, environmentally-friendly and robust 65 shoring system of pressed dredged material. This involves a simple technical engineering process which ensures that locally available dredged material can be converted in situ into a useful soil component. The soil from the bank or dredged material is excavated from the water bed and then mixed with a percentage of natural binders such as lime and pozzolana. Pozzolana are natural rocks which reinforce soil. After the addition of the binders, the soil goes into a press, producing a wall element of pressed natural material. The jury of the Water Innovation Prize: Chair: Annemieke Nijhof, CEO Tauw Group B.V. ■ Renée Bergkamp, director Vewin ■ Jan-Hendrik Dronkers, Director-general of Rijkswaterstaat ■ Hans Huis in ‘t Veld, Topsector Water ■ Josée van Eijndhoven, former Technology Assessment professor, former Director of the Rathenau Institute ■ Hendrik Postma, Chairman of the Association of Hydraulic Engineers and Director of Boskalis Nederland ■ Hans van der Vlist, Chairman of the Advisory Committee, Water ■ Ron Walkier, Chairman of NWB Bank (Nederlandse Waterschapsbank N.V.) ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. 66 Expectations are that GEOWALL® will be 25% to 50% cheaper than timber shoring. TNO has been brought in to help with product development. Timber shoring has to be replaced every 20 to 30 years. TNO expects GEOWALL® to last at least 50 years, making it an alternative half as expensive as timber shoring which will last twice as long. The jury’s verdict The jury has judged the submission to be an attractive product which can be used in urban areas, contributes to the success of a circular economy and fosters Public-Private Partnerships. GEOWALL® shows that shoring can be produced to last longer and more cheaply. Working with natural materials and reducing transport costs by reusing dredged material in situ are the eye-catching elements. The innovation is readily scalable and, the jury believes, has potential export value. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. ‘With NWB Fonds, NWB Bank is helping the water authorities cross borders. Globally, Dutch Water Authorities are the exclusive government experts in the area of regional integral water management.’ Henk J. Loijenga, director of NWB Fonds 67 NWB Fonds Governance to Governance (G2G) for global water challenges In 2014, the water authorities joined forces and launched the international brand name Dutch Water Authorities for their international partnership activities. Under this umbrella, the water authorities plan to join forces, also in 2015, with each other, and also with other parties in the Dutch water sector. In so doing they intend to position themselves internationally as the exclusive government experts in the area of regional integral water management. Using the slogan ‘cross-border water authorities’, Dutch Water Authorities hope to have fulfilled their ambition in 2019. NWB Fonds is going to offer targeted help and has tailored priorities and the budget accordingly. Additional funds are being invested in this operation aimed at increasing professionalism. The water authorities are also benefiting from this: knowledge and experience of working in a different social and cultural context, as well as added motivation for yet more commitment and devotion to the unique and essential work carried out by water authorities. In this way, NWB Bank is helping the water authorities, through NWB Fonds, to meet the sharply rising demand for their expertise and efforts in solving global water-related issues. The focus is on the areas of ANNUAL REPORT 2015 expertise in which the water authorities are making a difference throughout the world: local and regional water governance and sustainable management and maintenance of the water infrastructure, including individual means of financing. NWB Fonds has made €800,000 available for this purpose on an annual basis. Countries where collaboration is taking place at the moment include Bangladesh, Egypt, Ethiopia, Indonesia, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Vietnam and South Africa. New countries with which so-called G2G relationships are being | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. built up include Burkina Faso, Colombia and Swaziland. In substantive terms, Dutch Water Authorities plans to contribute to the United Nations’ new Sustainable Development Goals. An attractive partnership project that was launched in 2013 and is set to run until 2018 is the Water Governance Implementation Programme for the Awash basin in Ethiopia. This is the water catchment area of the 1280 kilometre-long Awash river in the heart of Ethiopia, with its increasingly robust economy. Under the banner of Dutch Water Authorities, more than thirty water authority officials are helping the young River Basin Authority to tackle the huge water-related challenges on its own. The programme is aimed at the four most important mandates of the Awash Basin Authority: ■ policy development and planning; ■ information management; ■ regulation (granting of licences and levies) and enforcement; 68 ■ interstate and inter-sector coordination and collaboration. Ethiopian and Dutch collegiate groups of experts have been formed and have set to work on each of the mandates and on some crucial supporting processes. Two local and one Dutch YEP Water trainees have also been deployed. With the rolling-out of the licence-granting procedure, specific attention is also being paid to integrityrelated aspects. The Water Integrity Network Association (WIN) is involved as supplier of knowledge and provider of subsidies. Dutch Water Authorities YEP trainee Kevin Oosterloo is experiencing events at close hand. He has the following to say: ‘By participating in water management in an entirely different context, you also learn to see your own situation through different eyes. Cross-border collaboration is inspiring, both because of the contributions made to development elsewhere and also the opportunity to make new contacts and experience different ways of thinking and form new impressions.’ For more information: www.nwbfonds.nl Remuneration report 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 NWB Bank seeks to express the role it fulfils During the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of in society, as a bank of and for the public NWB Bank held on 23 April 2014, it was agreed sector, in its remuneration policy: one that is that a shareholders’ committee would be moderate and sustainable, that is in keeping established to review the remuneration policy for with its strategy, risk profile and risk appetite, members of NWB Bank’s Managing Board. The | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. that is unambiguous and transparent and in Shareholders’ Committee on Remuneration Policy line with national and international rules and was established at the end of 2014, consisting regulations. In addition, the bank’s policy is of representatives from four shareholder water aimed at recruiting and retaining qualified and authorities and the Ministry of Finance. In addition knowledgeable employees. the Chairman of NWB Bank’s Supervisory Board and the Chairman of the Remuneration and Since 2011, specific rules have applied to Appointments Committee joined the Committee as remuneration policies with respect to ‘identified’ observers. During the Shareholders’ Committee staff under the Dutch Restrained Remuneration meetings in 2015, discussions were held on the Policy (Financial Supervision Act) Regulation of 2011 system for the remuneration of executives of (Regeling beheerst beloningsbeleid Wft 2011) issued publicly held participating interests applied by the by the Dutch Central Bank (DNB). These rules were Ministry of Finance since 2008. The government amended on the basis of the Capital Requirements concluded that publicly held participating interests 69 Directive IV (Directive 2013/36/EU; CRD IV). Pursuant do not fall under the scope of the Executives’ Pay to DNB’s Regulation providing for rules with (Standards) Act (Wet Normering Topinkomens, respect to the Dutch Restrained Remuneration WNT). However, the Ministry of Finance applies Policy (Financial Supervision Act) Regulation of a remuneration framework, based on which it 2014 (Regeling beheerst beloningsbeleid Wft 2014, assesses, as a shareholder, the remuneration the ‘Rbb’), the relevant provisions of CRD IV were policy of publicly held participating interests. The implemented on 1 August 2014. A Dutch-language objective of the Shareholders’ Committee was to document entitled ‘Assessment of NWB Bank’s keep the remuneration policy balanced in terms of remuneration policy’ (Toetsing beloningsbeleid adopting moderate remuneration commensurate NWB Bank) is available on the Bank’s website, with the public interest the bank serves, on the www.nwbbank.com, providing a section-by-section one hand, and taking account, as appropriate overview of the Rbb’s implementation. for a private institution, of remuneration paid at comparable institutions, on the other. This On 7 February 2015, the amendment of the Financial method partially takes account of the standard of Supervision Act providing for rules on financial pay under the WNT (60%), and for the remaining undertakings’ remuneration policies, the Financial part takes account of the level of remuneration Undertakings (Remuneration Policy) Act (Wet in the relevant employment market (40%). The beloningsbeleid financiële ondernemingen, Wbfo), Shareholders’ Committee adopted this line of entered into force. Consequently, the remuneration reasoning and system. The application of the above policy for Managing Directors and employees system resulted in a 5% reduction of the maximum was revised on the same date. The main changes total (fixed and variable) remuneration for new in the Act pertaining to NWB Bank relate to the members of the Managing Board compared with composition of the variable remuneration and a the total maximum remuneration applicable claw-back scheme for all employees. at that time. During an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 14 September 2015, the AGM adopted the new remuneration policy for Managing Directors comprises a short-term component Board members, which will be evaluated after five and a long-term component. The short-term ANNUAL REPORT 2015 years. component (equalling no more than 10% of the fixed remuneration) is paid after the relevant This remuneration report explains the remuneration performance year. The long-term component policy applicable to NWB Bank’s Managing Board (equalling no more than 5% of the fixed and employees in 2015. remuneration) is paid in the fourth year after the year to which it relates, provided the pre-agreed Remuneration policy for the additional long-term targets have also been | Managing Directors N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. achieved. Fixed remuneration The short-term component of the variable The remuneration policy for the Managing Directors remuneration is determined on the basis of the was most recently amended and adopted by the following categories: Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 14 ■  profit (in line with the targets set out in the September 2015. The policy – which applies to annual budget) and benchmark return – Managing Directors appointed on or after 14 a maximum of 3%; September 2015 – entails a maximum salary of ■  risk management (in line with internal and €272,000, including the variable component, to be external sets of standards) – a maximum of 3%; paid to the Chairman of the Managing Board and ■  implementation of strategy/CSR policy – a maximum of 85% of that amount for the other a maximum of 3%; Managing Directors. Deviations are permitted ■  personal areas for attention and targets – 70 should labour market conditions put the continuity a maximum of 6%. of the bank’s high-quality management at risk. The Supervisory Board will ensure that this The long-term categories are: step will only be taken if absolutely necessary, ■ ratings – Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s ratings and only after consent has been obtained from for the Bank must equal the sovereign rating for the representative of the shareholder water the State of the Netherlands; authorities and the Ministry of Finance. The fixed ■ strategy – the Bank’s market position must have remuneration is subject to annual indexation in line been bolstered. with the indexation set out in the Collective Labour Agreement for the Dutch Banking Industry. Following each year, performance is assessed against the targets. The variable remuneration Variable remuneration component for the Managing Board is granted at The Managing Directors’ variable remuneration the sole discretion of the Supervisory Board. The equals no more than 15% of their fixed variable remuneration, including the conditionally remuneration and therefore remains below granted component, will only be paid if NWB the 20% bonus cap laid down in the Financial Bank’s financial position allows it and if it can Undertakings (Remuneration Policy) Act. The be justified on the basis of the bank’s and the variable remuneration is based on the relevant relevant Managing Board member’s performance. Managing Director’s performance, that of the Furthermore, the Supervisory Board is authorised business units he or she is responsible for and to apply a penalty or a claw-back with respect to that of the Bank as a whole. Such performance the variable remuneration. The authority to apply has been quantified in terms of predetermined a claw-back applies to the short-term component and assessable performance criteria, set out of the variable remuneration and is valid for up to in a performance contract that is updated each three years following payment. year. The variable remuneration of the Managing Pensions Other terms and conditions of employment The pension benefits of NWB Bank’s Managing The Bank makes a car available to the Managing ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Directors – and of the employees – come under a Directors. Otherwise, their terms and conditions of group pension plan, which has been insured with employment are the same as those of the bank’s an insurance company. A new five-year contract employees. was concluded with effect from 1 January 2015, in which three old pension plans were harmonised into a single average pay plan for the Managing Managing Board remuneration Directors and the employees alike. The new in 2015 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. pension plan better suits the current times but differs from the previous plans in that it provides Fixed remuneration for members’ own contributions. Both Lidwin van Velden, who was appointed to the Managing Board on 1 January 2010, and The pension contribution has increased mainly Frenk van der Vliet, who has been employed as on account of the higher life expectancy and a Managing Director since 1 January 2012, are the sharply lower interest rate. The new subject to the remuneration policy applicable prior statutory provisions applicable from 1 January to 14 September 2015, which was adopted as at 1 2015 in relation to maximum pension accrual January 2010. Ron Walkier has been a Managing and contribution percentages and the cap on Director since 1993 and Chairman of the Managing pensionable income of €100,000 have been Board since 2008. Accordingly, he is subject to the included in the new pension plan. The employer remuneration policy in place before 1 January 2010. has offered employees earning more than €100,000 Indexation of the fixed remuneration amounted to 71 a net pension plan, which enables them to accrue 1% in 2015 in connection with the increase under pension on their gross salary exceeding €100,000. the CLA with effect from 1 January 2015. Remuneration of the Managing Board members Pension Payment of (in thousands of euros) long-term Benefit Short-term variable in connection with Fixed variable remuneration cap on pensionable remunaration remuneration 2012 Contribution salary at €100,000 2015 Ron Walkier 280 98 13 Lidwin van Velden 212 18 10 58 7 Frenk van der Vliet 212 18 10 53 10 Total 704 36 20 209 30 Payment of long-term (in thousands of euros) Short-term variable Fixed variable remuneration remunaration remuneration 2011 Pension contribution 2014 Ron Walkier 277 94 Lidwin van Velden 210 19 10 57 Frenk van der Vliet 210 18 n/a 49 Total 697 37 10 200 Variable remuneration prevailing suspension of dividend distributions. In February 2016 the Remuneration and The table on the previous page provides a ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Appointment Committee assessed NWB Bank’s breakdown of the remuneration of the Managing actual results against the targets set, concluding Board members: that those targets had almost been fully achieved. The 2015 targets placed greater emphasis on the The members of the Managing Board are granted personal areas of attention (6% as compared with a partly taxed annual expense allowance of 4% in 2014). Despite the efforts of the Managing €2,800 each. Board the odd target was not fully achieved, which | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. was mainly due to market circumstances. On With effect from 1 January 2015, the pension that basis, the Remuneration and Appointment plan based on average earnings was brought into Committee submitted a proposal to the line with the new tax requirements (under the Supervisory Board. so-called Witteveen Framework, which limits the tax-deductible pension accrual). In addition, the Performance assessment of the five-year pension administration contract with Managing Directors the pension insurer was renewed with effect from The table shows the results of the performance the same date. As a result, and due to the lower assessment adopted by the Supervisory Board. interest rates and the higher life expectancy, the Managing Directors’ pension costs rose as of 1 Of the maximum 15% variable remuneration to January 2015. Moreover, a different method is now be granted to the Managing Directors, 13% was used to calculate the pension contribution, which granted to all the members. means that the contribution during the initial years 72 is higher than under the old calculation method. Managing Board Chairman Ron Walkier waived In the longer term this will result, on balance, in his variable remuneration for 2015, given the lower cost of contributions for the Bank. Category Target Result Profit and benchmark return (3%) Profit in line with the targets set 3% – fully achieved out in the annual budget Risk management (3%) In line with internal and external 3% – fully achieved sets of standards Implementation of strategy / In line with targets in the annual 2% – almost fully achieved CSR policy (3%) Policy Memorandum Personal areas for attention (6%) Walkier 5% Van Velden 5% Van der Vliet 5% Long-term variable of the variable remuneration must be based on remuneration 2012 non-financial criteria, the bank increased the ANNUAL REPORT 2015 assessment criteria under the profit-sharing plan, In February 2016, the Remuneration and to which a maximum payment of 7.5% applies. A Appointment Committee assessed NWB Bank’s penalty and a clawback provision have also been actual results against the long-term targets included in the bonus and profit-sharing plans. defined in 2012 (a rating at least equal to that The payment under the profit-sharing plan will of the State of the Netherlands and the bank’s be made following the adoption of the financial market position must have been bolstered), statements by the Annual General Meeting of | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. concluding that those targets had been Shareholders. achieved. At the proposal of the Remuneration and Appointment Committee, the Supervisory To determine the variable remuneration under the Board decided to make the deferred long-term bonus plan, employee performance is carefully component payable (see the above breakdown). assessed on the basis of the following aspects: As stated earlier, Managing Board Chairman ■ achievement of the targets defined for the Ron Walkier waived his long-term variable relevant calendar year; remuneration for 2012, given the prevailing ■ the manager’s final assessment; suspension of dividend distributions. ■ any applicable adjustment in connection with findings relating to unwarranted risks or Employee remuneration policy compliance issues; ■ the Managing Board’s opinion. Fixed remuneration 73 The employee remuneration policy applies in full NWB Bank’s remuneration policy principally to all employees, irrespective of their positions centres on performance criteria that relate to or job scales, in terms of both fixed and variable quality and the performance of an employee’s remuneration. NWB Bank applies the Collective duties. In setting the targets, account is taken of Labour Agreement for the Dutch Banking Industry the bank’s long-term objectives as set out in its (the CLA). Fixed remuneration comprises 12 Policy Memorandum and its core values, which monthly salaries, 8% holiday allowance and a are consciousness, engagement and reliability. 13th month’s salary payment, subject to annual Also attention is being paid to acting with due care indexation in line with the structural salary and acting in the customer’s interest. Employees adjustments laid down in the CLA. Furthermore, a have a say in setting and adjusting their targets. maximum performance assessment supplement An average variable remuneration under the of 15% may be granted in excess of the job-specific bonus plan of 4.92% per employee (excluding the salary. This supplement is applied with restraint Managing Directors) was granted in 2015. The total and in stages, usually only if an employee has variable remuneration for employees (for 2015) performed well and has reached the end of his or that will be paid in 2016 amounts to €354,454.48 her salary scale. (bonus plan and profit-sharing plan). Variable remuneration Pensions Employees’ variable remuneration comprises a As stated earlier in this remuneration report, with bonus payment of up to 7% and a profit-sharing effect from 2015 a new pension plan applies to the payment of up to 7.5%. Following the entry into bank’s employees and Managing Directors, which force of the Financial Undertakings (Remuneration differs from the previous plans in that it provides for Policy) Act, the bank amended its bonus and members’ own contributions. The employer offers a profit-sharing plan. Pursuant to the provision net pension plan for salaries exceeding €100,000. under the Act which lays down that at least 50% Other terms and conditions of employment known, the Bank’s remuneration will be assessed. The bank offers its employees various other The Supervisory Directors’ remuneration has not ANNUAL REPORT 2015 secondary employment conditions, such as changed since 2003, nor has it been subject to supplementary incapacity for work insurance, a indexation. staff mortgage loan discount plan, reimbursement of study expenses and a bicycle plan. Cars are The current remuneration levels are as follows: made available to employees whose positions necessitate or justify the use of a car. Chairman €18,570 per annum Deputy Chairman €14,350 per annum | Remuneration of the Supervisory N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Members €12,380 per annum Directors in 2015 The remuneration of the Supervisory Directors is Effective 1 July 2007, the following allowances have regularly compared with that in similar companies been applied to committee members: and is set by the Annual General Meeting of ■ An attendance fee of €750 for each Shareholders. In early 2015, a consultancy firm meeting, both for members of the Audit and performed a benchmark study. Based on the Risk Committee and for members of the outcome it was established that the Supervisory Remuneration and Appointment Committee. Directors’ remuneration levels were relatively low, ■ A fixed annual fee of €4,000 for members of the compared with peers. The results were shared Audit Committee and €3,000 for members of with the Shareholders’ Committee referred to the Remuneration and Appointment Committee. earlier. As soon as the Dutch Ministry of Finance’s policy on the remuneration of Supervisory The Supervisory Directors’ remuneration includes 74 Directors at publicly held participating interests is no variable components or options plans. The remuneration of the Supervisory Directors was as follows: (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Age Bakker 1)2)4) 32 27 Maurice Oostendorp 3)4) 21 19 Else Bos 4) 19 19 Dolf van den Brink 5) 10 Peter Glas 2)6) 18 16 Victor Goedvolk 7) 11 Petra van Hoeken 4)8) 14 Sjaak Jansen 5) 4 Albertine van Vliet-Kuiper 2) 18 17 Berend-Jan van Voorst tot Voorst 2) 16 19 Total 138 142 The above amounts exclude general expense reimbursements, health insurance premiums, travel expense allowances and VAT, where applicable. 1) Chairman 2) Member of the Remuneration and Appointment Committee 3) Deputy Chairman with effect from the 23 April 2015 Annual General Meeting 4) Member of the Audit and Risk Committee 5) Dolf van den Brink en Sjaak Jansen resigned on 23 April 2014 6) Deputy Chairman until the 23 April 2015 Annual General Meeting 7) Victor Goedvolk resigned on 1 August 2014 8) Petra van Hoeken was appointed Supervisory Director on 23 April 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. 75 Financial Statements Statement of income for the year ended 31 December 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 (in millions of euros) Notes 2015 2014 Interest and similar income 1,759 1,852 Interest and similar expenses 1,579 1,735 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Net interest income 1 180 117 Results from financial transactions 2 -9 -16 Other operating income 0 0 Total operating income 171 101 Employee benefits expense 3 8 6 Other administrative expenses 4 8 7 Contribution to Stichting NWB Fonds 5 0 1 76 Employee benefits expense and other administrative expenses 16 14 Depreciation, amortisation and value adjustments of tangible and intangible assets 6 2 2 Bank tax and resolution levy 7 21 15 Total operating expenses 39 31 Profit from ordinary operations before tax 132 70 Tax on profit from ordinary operations 8 37 21 Net profit 95 49 Balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 before profit appropriation ANNUAL REPORT 2015 (in millions of euros) Notes 2015 2014 Assets Cash, cash equivalents and deposits at the Central Bank 9 6,766 502 Banks 10 8,908 10,174 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Loans and receivables 11 63,576 64,666 Interest-bearing securities 12 3,851 4,360 Intangible assets 13 3 3 Tangible assets 14 5 5 Other assets 15 0 65 Income tax 16 32 Derivative assets 17 8,204 7,651 Prepayments and accrued income 18 1 791 Total assets 91,314 88,249 Liabilities 77 Banks 19 2,455 1,276 Funds entrusted 20 5,371 5,325 Debt securities 21 67,478 63,178 Deferred tax liabilities 22 15 69 Income tax 16 29 Other liabilities 23 53 53 Derivative liabilities 24 14,302 16,302 Accruals and deferred income 25 1 734 Provisions 26 9 9 89,713 86,946 Subordinated debt 27 202 Paid-up and called-up share capital 28 7 7 Interest-bearing securities revaluation reserve 29 0 0 Other revaluation reserves 29 0 0 Other reserves 30 1,297 1,247 Unappropriated profit for the year 31 95 49 Equity 1,399 1,303 Total liabilities 91,314 88,249 Irrevocable commitments 32 2,518 2,111 Contingent liabilities 33 68 75 Statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Net changes in the interest-bearing securities revaluation reserve 0 0 Net changes in other revaluation reserves 0 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Net changes in other reserves 1 -2 Income tax on income and expenses recognised directly in equity 0 0 Income and expenses recognised directly in equity 1 -2 Net profit 95 49 Comprehensive income 96 47 78 Statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 (in millions of euros) Paid-up InterestRevaluation Other Unappro­ Total share bearing reserves reserves priated capital securities profit for revaluation the year reserve | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. As at 1 January 2014 7 0 0 1,215 34 1,256 Profit appropriation of 34 -34 previous year Dividend Change in value of interest-bearing securities 0 0 Changes in value as part of the pension provision -2 -2 Profit for the year 49 49 As at 31 December 2014 7 0 0 1,247 49 1,303 79 As at 1 January 2015 7 0 0 1,247 49 1,303 Profit appropriation of previous year 49 -49 Dividend Change in value of interest-bearing securities 0 0 Changes in value as part of the pension provision 1 1 Profit for the year 95 95 As at 31 December 2015 7 0 0 1,297 95 1,399 Statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Profit before income tax and bank tax 153 85 Adjusted for: Depreciation, amortisation and value adjustments of tangible and intangible assets 2 2 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Change in the value of assets and liabilities for fair value hedge accounting -261 -92 Bank loans and receivables not available on demand 2,487 -3,171 Public sector loans and receivables -48 794 Funds entrusted -39 1,445 Income tax paid -32 7 Bank tax paid -21 -15 Other assets and liabilities 218 -954 Net cash flows used in operating/banking activities 2,459 -1,898 Additions to interest-bearing securities -1,290 -4,438 Sales and redemptions of interest-bearing securities 1,774 2,457 80 Balance 484 -1,981 Additions to property and equipment -1 -1 Disposals 0 0 Balance -1 -1 Additions to intangible assets -1 -1 Net cash flows used in investing activities 482 -1,982 Issued bond loans, notes 9,397 12,405 Repayment of bond loans, notes -11,258 -9,200 Issued CP 33,103 16,429 Repayment of CP -28,119 -17,655 Issued subordinated debt 200 Balance 3,323 1,979 Dividend paid Net cash flow from financing activities 3,323 1,979 Net cash flow 6,264 -1,901 (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Cash flow 6,264 -1,901 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Cash and cash equivalents as at 1 January 502 2,403 Cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December 6,766 502 The amount disclosed under ‘Change in the value of assets and liabilities for fair value hedge accounting’ comprises changes in the value of financial assets and liabilities for fair value hedge accounting, changes | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. in the value of derivatives, and penalties paid and exchange differences. In 2015, the interest paid amounted to €1,574 million (2014: €1,769 million) and the interest received amounted to €1,760 million (2014: €1,877 million). These amounts are included under Other assets and liabilities in the statement of cash flows. 81 Notes to the financial statements ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate information The 2015 financial statements of Nederlandse Waterschapsbank N.V. (NWB Bank) were prepared by the Managing Board and authorised for issue by the Supervisory Board on 16 March 2016 and will be submitted for approval to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders (AGM) on 26 April 2016. | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. NWB Bank is a public limited liability company under Dutch law with its official place of business in The Hague, whose shares are owned by public authorities. NWB Bank’s services are geared towards the public sector. It finances water authorities, municipal and provincial authorities as well as other publicsector bodies, such as housing corporations, hospitals and educational institutions. Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The financial statements of NWB Bank have been prepared in accordance with the statutory requirements contained in Title 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the accounting principles generally accepted in the Netherlands (NL GAAP). NWB Bank, which consists of one single entity, prepares company financial statements. 82 Summary of significant accounting policies General These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of historical cost, with the exception of certain interest-bearing securities, derivatives and property. These are stated at fair value. The matching principle is applied to costs and revenue. The financial statements are presented in millions of euros and all amounts in the Notes are rounded to the nearest thousand (€000), unless stated otherwise. A number of items used in the Annual Accounts Formats Decree have been renamed, as these new names better reflect the content, according to NWB Bank. Continuity The financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the going-concern assumption. Recognition An asset is recognised if it is probable that the future economic benefits will flow to the company and the asset can be measured reliably. A liability is recognised if it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will result from the settlement of a present obligation and the amount at which settlement will take place can be measured reliably. A financial asset or financial liability is recognised at its transaction date. Accordingly, a financial asset or financial liability is recognised from the time the company has the right to the benefits from or is bound by the obligations arising from the contract terms of the financial instrument. Income is recognised in the statement of income when an increase in future economic benefits related to an increase in an asset or a decrease in a liability has arisen that can be measured reliably. Expenses are ANNUAL REPORT 2015 recognised in the statement of income when a decrease in future economic benefits related to a decrease in an asset or an increase in a liability has arisen that can be measured reliably. Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities An asset or liability presented in the balance sheet continues to be recognised where a transaction does not result in a significant change in the economic reality with respect to such an asset or liability. Likewise, such transactions must not result in the reporting of income or expenses. | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. A financial asset or liability (or, where applicable, part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets or liabilities) is derecognised where the transaction results in the transfer to a third party of or all or almost all rights to receive economic rewards and all or almost all risks of the asset or liability. Measurement Upon initial recognition, financial assets and liabilities are stated at fair value, including transaction costs directly attributable to the asset’s or liability’s acquisition or issue, with the exception of the transactions recorded at fair value through profit or loss. The transaction costs directly attributable to these balance sheet items are taken directly to profit or loss. The fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged or a liability settled in a transaction 83 between knowledgeable, willing and independent parties. If a relevant middle rate is available, it is used as the best indication of fair value. For the majority of NWB Bank’s financial instruments, the fair value cannot be established on the basis of a relevant middle rate because there is no listing or active market. NWB Bank calculates the fair value of these other financial assets and liabilities using models. The models use various assumptions relating to the discount rate and the timing and the size of the projected future cash flows. Option pricing models have been used to calculate the fair value of options. After initial recognition, financial assets are classified as loans and receivables, banks, interest-bearing securities or derivative assets. The loans and receivables, interest-bearing securities held to maturity, other unlisted interest-bearing securities as well as banks are stated at amortised cost. Other listed interest-bearing securities and derivative assets are subsequently stated at fair value. After initial recognition, financial liabilities are classified as banks, derivative liabilities, funds entrusted or debt securities. Banks, funds entrusted and debt securities are subsequently stated at amortised cost. Derivative liabilities are stated at fair value. Hedge accounting The bank hedges most interest rate and foreign exchange risks related to financial assets and liabilities by using financial instruments. In terms of market value, value changes due to interest rate and foreign exchange fluctuations are set off. Under hedge accounting, the recognition of a hedging instrument and the accompanying hedged position can be synchronised insofar as the hedging is effective. Hedge accounting is permitted only if adequate documentation has been prepared and the required effectiveness ANNUAL REPORT 2015 of the hedge is demonstrated. NWB Bank only uses derivative financial instruments as hedging items, and these are stated at fair value in the balance sheet. Together with the value changes in the hedged position related to the covered risk, value changes in the derivatives which are part of the fair value hedge are recorded in profit or loss as results on financial transactions. NWB Bank applies two types of fair value hedge accounting, which are micro hedging and macro hedging. Micro hedging relates to individual transactions which are included in an economic hedge relationship | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. covering interest rate and foreign exchange risks. It involves a one-on-one relationship between the hedged instrument and the hedged item. Macro hedging relates to a group of transactions that is hedged, for interest rate risk purposes, by using a group of derivative financial instruments. There is no oneon-one relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument at an individual level. It is demonstrated at a portfolio level that the derivative financial instruments in question set off the fair value changes caused by interest rate fluctuations. Foreign currencies Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the spot middle rates (ECB) ruling at the balance sheet date. The use of middle rates is connected to NWB Bank’s policy, which states that all foreign currency positions are hedged individually, and which effectively causes the day-today foreign currency-denominated flows of funds to be virtually nil. 84 Gains or losses arising from transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the rates ruling on the transaction date. All currency translation differences of monetary assets and liabilities are recognised in profit or loss. Currency swaps are used to hedge foreign exchange exposures on loans receivable and payable. These currency swaps are translated at the fair value of the instrument ruling at the balance sheet date. The results are recorded as results from financial transactions. Loans and receivables and banks Loans and receivables and banks are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method. A provision for uncollectibility is formed in the event of expected uncollectibility. Interest-bearing securities Interest-bearing securities are primarily intended to be held for an indefinite period and may be sold to meet liquidity requirements or in response to changes in interest rates. They are initially stated at fair value. For subsequent measurement, interest-bearing securities can be divided into the following three categories. Interest-bearing securities held to maturity Loans granted and receivables and purchased bonds with fixed or determinable payments which NWB Bank firmly intends to hold to maturity, and has the contractual and economic ability to do so, are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Other unlisted interest-bearing securities Other unlisted interest-bearing securities are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest ANNUAL REPORT 2015 method. Other listed interest-bearing securities Other listed interest-bearing securities are stated at fair value. As long as the value change of an individual interest-bearing security is positive, it is recorded directly in equity until the time of realisation. Once derecognised, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss on an individual asset recorded directly in equity is taken to profit or loss. Any cumulative decrease in value below cost is immediately taken to | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. profit or loss. Any subsequent unrealised increase in value of the relevant interest-bearing security is taken to profit or loss if it is below amortised cost. Any increase in value above amortised cost is recorded in equity. If interest-bearing securities are included in a fair value hedge relationship, the effective part of the hedge is recognised in profit and loss, rather than equity. If financial assets are derecognised, the cumulative profit recognised in equity or the cumulative loss is recognised in profit or loss. Intangible assets This item includes the costs and expenditure related to computer software. After initial recognition, the intangible asset is recognised at cost less any accumulated amortisation and impairments. The useful life is considered to be five years and amortisation is straight-line over the useful life. The amortisation period and amortisation method will be reviewed if there is cause to do so. 85 Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are property and equipment. They are stated at fair value and cost, respectively, net of straight-line depreciation. The fair value of property is assessed annually and measured regularly based on valuations conducted by independent property valuers. Depreciation of these assets is recognised in profit or loss over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned. Annual depreciation rates are: n Building 2.5% n Fixtures and installations 10% n Equipment, furniture and fittings, etc.: furniture and fittings, etc. 10% office equipment 20% n Computer equipment: personal computers 20% other equipment 20% n Cars 20% Land is not depreciated. An asset’s residual value, useful life and measurement methods are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, on an annual basis. Derivatives A derivative is a financial instrument with the following three characteristics: ANNUAL REPORT 2015 n The value changes as a result of changes in market factors, such as a certain interest rate, the price of a financial instrument, exchange rate, creditworthiness or other variable (the underlying value). n No or a minor net initial investment is required in comparison with other types of contracts that respond in a similar way to changes in the market factors mentioned. n It is settled at a future date. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. into. Any discrepancies between a financial instrument’s fair value and the value under the Bank’s measurement models are amortised over the instrument’s term. Derivatives are also subsequently remeasured at fair value including accrued interest. Derivatives are carried as assets when their fair value is positive and as liabilities when their fair value is negative. Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives are recognised in profit or loss under the item Result on financial transactions. In 2013, NWB Bank reviewed its method for measuring the fair value of the outstanding swap portfolio, prompted by evolved best practices. Its hedge accounting models were modified for the same reason. Generally accepted measurement models are applied, based on the most appropriate valuation curves, which include the OIS curve. Effective 2013, valuation also included what is known as a credit valuation adjustment. Embedded derivatives are measured separately if they meet the following characteristics: n There is no close relationship between the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded 86 derivative and those of the host contract. n The host contract is not carried at fair value through profit or loss; and n A separate instrument having the same characteristics would be classified as a derivative. Derivatives meeting these characteristics are included in the balance sheet under the host contracts to which they belong and carried at fair value, with changes in value being taking to profit or loss. Contracts are assessed only when the transaction is effected, unless the terms of a contract change such that expected cash flows are significantly impacted. Banks, funds entrusted, debt securities and subordinated debt All loans under banks, funds entrusted, debt securities and subordinated debt are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognised in net interest income when the liabilities are derecognised. Employee benefits defined benefit plan liabilities Pursuant to Dutch Accounting Standard 271 Employee Benefits, NWB Bank applies the IFRS-EU standard on pensions and other post-retirement benefits (IAS 19R) in full. NWB Bank has agreed a defined benefit pension plan with its employees. The plan is funded by paying premiums to an insurance company based on regular actuarial calculations. A defined benefit plan is a scheme in which the payment to the retired plan participant is defined, taking account of factors such as age, years of service and salary. The provision for defined benefit plans is the present value of the pension liabilities at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the plan assets. These are adjusted for unrecognised results and costs relating to past years of service. The pension liabilities are calculated annually by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method based on the expected return on plan assets. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Netting of financial assets and financial liabilities A financial asset and a financial liability are netted and reported on a net basis if there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and if there is an intention either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Revenue recognition | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Revenue is recognised if it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to NWB Bank and the revenue can be reliably measured. Net interest income Interest income and expenses are recognised in accordance with the effective interest method. The application of this method includes the amortisation of any discount or premium or other differences (including transaction costs and applicable commissions) between the initial carrying amount of an interest-bearing instrument and the amount at maturity, based on the effective interest method. Bank tax The bank tax is calculated on the basis of the prevailing rates and tax legislation and stated on an undiscounted basis. 87 Resolution levy The resolution levy is calculated pursuant to current legislation and is stated on an undiscounted basis. Income tax Income tax is recognised as an expense at the same time as profit. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are stated on an undiscounted basis. Current tax assets and liabilities Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are stated at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the tax authorities. The tax payable is calculated on the basis of current tax rates and tax laws. Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forwards of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, if it is probable that taxable profit is available against which the deductible temporary differences can be set off, and the deductible temporary differences, carry-forwards of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on current tax rates and tax laws. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 In recognising deferred tax assets, account is taken of the income tax due on the changes in value of the interest-bearing securities included under Available-for-sale financial assets. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted if a legally enforceable right to set them off exists. Basis for preparation of the statement of cash flows | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. The statement of cash flows is presented in accordance with the indirect method, distinguishing between the cash flows from operating/banking, investing and financing activities. Cash and cash equivalents represent those assets which can be converted into cash without restriction, including the cash available as well as balances payable on demand at central banks. The changes in loans and receivables, funds entrusted and those based on the bank deposit operations are stated under cash flows from operating/banking activities given the nature of the operations. Changes in interest-bearing securities not held to maturity are also stated under cash flows from operating/banking activities. Investing activities include the purchase and sale and settlement of interest-bearing securities held to maturity, as well as the purchase and sale of property and equipment. New long-term loans taken out 88 and repaid (terms > 1 year) are classified as a financing activity. Segment information As the Bank’s organisation is not geared towards operations in different sectors, NWB Bank’s Managing Board does not distinguish between operating segments in its assessment and decision-making about returns and the allocation of resources. Accordingly, no segment information is disclosed. Significant assumptions and estimation uncertainties The preparation of the financial statements requires that the Managing Board forms opinions and makes estimates and assumptions that have an impact on the application of accounting policies and the reported value of assets and liabilities and of income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on past experience, market information and various other factors considered to be reasonable given the circumstances. The outcomes form the basis for the opinion on most of the carrying amounts of NWB Bank’s assets and liabilities, which cannot be easily established from other sources. The actual outcomes may differ from these estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed regularly. Revisions of estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate was revised if the revision only has consequences for that period, or in both the reporting period and future periods if the revision also has consequences for future periods. Opinions formed by the Managing Board that could have a significant impact on the financial statements and estimates containing a substantial risk of a material adjustment in a subsequent financial year relate primarily to the measurement of financial assets and liabilities stated at fair value, as well as to the assumptions underlying the hedge accounting models. 1 Net interest income Interest income consists of interest income on loans and receivables, interest-bearing securities and ANNUAL REPORT 2015 commissions having the nature of interest, penalty interest on early redemptions, premiums and discounts. Premiums and discounts on loans and receivables not stated at fair value are recognised using the effective interest method, together with the relevant interest income. Interest expense consists of interest expense on liabilities, whether or not embodied in debt securities, and derivatives, as well as commissions having an interest nature, penalty interest on early redemptions, premiums and discounts. Premiums and discounts on debts, whether or not embodied in debt securities, | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. not stated at fair value are recognised using the effective interest method, together with the relevant interest expense. 2015 2014 Interest income on loans and receivables at amortised cost 1,731,804 1,819,183 Interest income on interest-bearing securities 26,987 32,606 Interest income 1,758,791 1,851,789 Interest expense on banks, funds entrusted and debt securities at amortised cost -711,462 -872,762 Derivatives (net interest income/expense) -867,468 -861,674 89 Interest expense -1,578,930 -1,734,436 Net interest income 179,861 117,353 2 Result on financial transactions NWB Bank applies two types of fair value hedge accounting, which are micro hedging and macro hedging. Micro hedging relates to individual transactions which are included in an economic hedge relationship covering interest rate and foreign exchange risks. It involves a one-on-one relationship between the hedged instrument and the hedged item. Macro hedging relates to a group of transactions that is hedged, for interest rate risk purposes, by using a group of derivative financial instruments. There is no one-on-one relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument at an individual level. It is demonstrated at a portfolio level that the derivative financial instruments in question set off the fair value changes caused by interest rate fluctuations. The result on financial transactions can be broken down as follows. 2015 2014 Macro hedge accounting -34,591 -23,638 Micro hedge accounting -110 5,917 Gain on maturity extensions and early redemptions 30,920 Other results -5,545 1,349 Total -9,326 -16,372 In 2015 a gain of €31 million was realised on maturity extensions and the early redemption of loans. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The result on financial transactions comprised realised and unrealised gains and losses. The result can be broken down as follows. 2015 2014 Unrealised changes in value: Revaluation of hedged positions recognised in profit or loss -1,155,846 5,860,996 | Revaluation of hedging instruments 1,417,028 -5,769,439 N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Unrealised revaluation of interest-bearing securities -299 -54 260,883 91,503 Realised changes in value: Realised net loss -270,209 -107,875 Total -9,326 -16,372 The realised changes in value include premiums and fees received and paid on settlement of derivative contracts, realised (revaluation) results on the sale of interest-bearing securities and commission. On the assets side of the balance sheet, the fair value when applying hedge accounting of the financial instruments is €16,982 million at 31 December 2015 (31 December 2014: €19,387 million). On the liabilities side, the fair value of the hedging instruments is €16,469 million at 31 December 2015 (31 90 December 2014: €19,135 million). The realised changes in value in 2015 and 2014 relate mainly to the restructuring of the derivatives portfolio. The other results relate to changes in value arising from new transactions, portfolio movements and yield curve changes. NWB Bank borrows significant amounts in foreign currency. The associated risks are immediately and fully hedged by means of currency swaps. The currency risks run by NWB Bank are minimal. 3 Employee benefits expense The average number of employees expressed in FTEs, including the Managing Board, totalled 49.6 (2014: 48.5). 2015 2014 Wages and salaries 4,729 4,449 Pension costs 1,454 205 Other social security costs 458 451 Other 869 715 7,510 5,820 In 2015, salary costs rose as a result of an increase in headcount and as a result of index-linked negotiated wages plus annual increments. Pension costs were lower in 2014 as a one-off result of the ANNUAL REPORT 2015 increase in pensionable age. The remuneration, including pension costs and excluding a number of specific elements listed below, of the members of the Managing Board amounted to €980,000 in 2015 (2014: €934,000). With effect from 2015 the pensionable salary has been maximised for tax purposes at €100,000. The compensation received by the Managing Board is included in ‘Pension contribution’ shown in the table below. | Remuneration of members of the N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Fixed Variable Pension remuneration remuneration contribution Managing Board (short-term element) 2015 Lidwin van Velden 212 18 65 Frenk van der Vliet 212 18 63 Ron Walkier 280 112 704 36 240 2014 Lidwin van Velden 210 19 57 Frenk van der Vliet 210 18 49 Ron Walkier 277 94 91 697 37 200 The fixed remuneration comprises the fixed salaries for 13 months as well as an 8% holiday allowance. The members of the Managing Board are granted a taxed annual expense allowance of €3,000 (2014: €3,000) per person, per year. In addition, the Bank has made a car available to them. Furthermore, they can use a staff mortgage loan discount plan. In 2015, this taxed benefit amounted to €7,000 for Lidwin van Velden (2014: €7,000) and €1,000 for Frenk van der Vliet (2014: €2,000). The Supervisory Board has decided to definitively grant the long-term component of the variable remuneration for 2012. Managing Board Chairman Ron Walkier has waived his variable remuneration for 2015, given the prevailing suspension of dividend distributions. His variable remuneration comprises a short-term component of €24,000 and a long-term component for 2012 of €14,000. The long-term components of the variable remuneration for 2013, 2014 and 2015 conditionally granted to Ron Walkier amount to €14,000, €12,000 and €12,000, respectively, representing 5% of his fixed remuneration for 2013, and 4.3% of his fixed remuneration for 2014 and 2015 respectively. The long-term components of the variable remuneration for 2013, 2014 and 2015 conditionally granted to Lidwin van Velden amount to €10,000, €10,000 and €9,000, respectively, representing 5% of her fixed remuneration for 2013, and 4.7% and 4.3% of her fixed remuneration for 2014 and 2015 respectively. The Supervisory Board has decided to definitively grant the long-term component of the variable remuneration for 2012 (€10,000). The long-term components of the variable remuneration for 2013, 2014 and 2015 conditionally granted to Frenk van der Vliet amount to €10,000, €9,000 and €9,000, respectively, representing 5% of his fixed ANNUAL REPORT 2015 remuneration for 2013 and 4.3% of his fixed remuneration for both 2014 and 2015. The Supervisory Board has decided to definitively grant the long-term component of the variable remuneration for 2012 (€10,000). The amounts stated above have been rounded to thousands. 4 Other administrative expenses | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. This item includes accommodation, office and general expenses. The remuneration of the seven (2014: nine) Supervisory Board members, which is also included in this item, amounted to €155,000 (2014: €164,000). Remuneration of the Supervisory Board members 2015 2014 Age Bakker 36 31 Else Bos 22 21 Dolf van den Brink 11 Peter Glas 20 17 Petra van Hoeken 16 92 Sjaak Jansen 7 Victor Goedvolk 13 Maurice Oostendorp 24 22 Albertine van Vliet-Kuiper 19 19 Berend-Jan van Voorst tot Voorst 18 23 155 164 The above amounts include membership fees for committees, general expense reimbursements, health insurance premiums and travel expense reimbursements. They exclude VAT where applicable. Auditor’s fees In the financial year, the following fees were recognised, within the meaning of Section 382a of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The amounts include VAT. 2015 2014 Audit of the financial statements 319 299 Other assurance engagements 201 220 Other non-assurance services 520 519 5 Contribution to Stichting NWB Fonds In 2015 no contribution was made to Stichting NWB Fonds (2014: €500,000). Established in 2006, the ANNUAL REPORT 2015 fund serves as a source of co-financing of and for water authorities in shaping their international partnerships. It offers them the financial means to contribute to solutions to global water issues in developing countries, based on their core tasks and core values. The Association of Regional Water Authorities nominates the majority of members of the board of Stichting NWB Fonds. 6 Depreciation This item consists of depreciation of the office building, fixtures and installations, installation costs, | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. furniture and fittings, computer equipment and cars as disclosed in the note to the item Property and equipment. The amortisation of intangible assets is also included in this item. 7 Bank tax and resolution levy NWB Bank has been liable for bank tax with effect from October 2012. The amounts for 2015 and 2014 are based on the balance sheet at year-end 2014 and 2013, respectively, and charged to profit for 2015 and 2014, respectively. The resolution levy, which is levied for the purpose of establishing the Single Resolution Fund, amounted to €2.7 million in 2015 and was paid in the financial year. 8 Income tax expense 93 2015 2014 Profit before income tax 131,686 70,175 Income tax at 25.0% 32,922 17,544 Non-deductible expenses relating to bank tax 4,617 3,644 Other non-deductible expenses and adjustments for prior financial years -559 -9 Income tax expense 36,980 21,179 Effective tax burden (%) 28.1% 30.2% The income tax burden can be broken down into current tax and deferred tax as follows: ANNUAL REPORT 2015 2015 2014 Current tax For the current financial year 28,809 -3,393 Income tax adjustments for prior financial years -553 28,256 -3,393 Deferred tax | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Release of deferred tax asset arising when the Bank first became liable for tax 1,916 2,330 Release/addition relating to provision for pensions 66 -550 Income tax on income and expenses recognised directly in equity -287 690 Results from ‘basisrentelening’ loans deferred for tax purposes -786 -786 Results from maturity extensions deferred for tax purposes 6,794 Change due to unrealised changes in value and changes in measurement 1,021 22,888 8,724 24,572 Income tax expense 36,980 21,179 The current tax charge for the 2015 financial year is 21.5%, which is lower than the 25.0% statutory tax rate. This is mainly attributable to the deferral of results not yet realised relating to loans for which a 94 maturity extension has been agreed. 9 Cash, cash equivalents and deposits at the Central Bank This item consists of legal tender and on-demand and other balances at the Dutch Central Bank (De Nederlandsche Bank, DNB) and the ECB. 10 Banks This item mainly comprises collateral held under collateral arrangements related to derivative contracts, which is not at the Bank’s disposal. With effect from 2015 the accrued interest on collateral is no longer stated under prepayments and accrued income but under banks. This item can be broken down as follows. 2015 2014 Balances payable on demand 55 199 Receivables under collateral arrangements 8,865,921 10,174,161 Receivables from or under guarantee from the Dutch government 41,709 Total 8,907,685 10,174,360 11 Loans and receivables This item consists of loans and receivables, other than interest-bearing securities, from customers ANNUAL REPORT 2015 other than banks. The receivables, which, apart from several employee loans, are all to public-sector customers, are mostly long-term. Public-sector loans and receivables are understood to include those to or guaranteed by Dutch public authorities, and to government-controlled public limited liability companies and other businesses or institutions with delegated government duties. Changes in loans and receivables were as follows. | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. 2015 2014 Balance as at 1 January 64,665,625 57,385,229 Newly granted long-term loans 7,112,769 6,394,431 Newly granted short-term loans 15,200,399 13,488,190 Redemptions -21,320,214 -20,616,190 Value adjustment for fair value hedge accounting -2,081,742 8,001,838 Value adjustment for separated derivatives embedded in loans and receivables -1,076 12,127 Balance as at 31 December 63,575,761 64,665,625 Breakdown of loans and receivables by nature of the receivable: 95 2015 2014 Receivables from or under guarantee from the Dutch government 51,550,221 50,700,417 Other loans to and receivables from the public sector and others 492,387 349,237 Value adjustment for fair value hedge accounting 11,536,152 13,617,894 Fair value of separated derivatives embedded in loans and receivables -2,999 -1,923 63,575,761 64,665,625 Receivables from or under guarantee from the Dutch government can be broken down as follows. 2015 2014 Water authorities 6,340,761 5,769,960 Municipal authorities 7,144,581 6,611,920 Social housing 33,153,922 33,293,991 Other 4,910,957 5,024,546 51,550,221 50,700,417 Given the risk profile of NWB Bank’s counterparties, a provision for uncollectibility is not necessary as at the balance sheet date. The separated derivatives embedded in the loans and receivables are separated structured components included in the interest terms. The collateral value of the portion of the loans and receivables portfolio contributed as collateral to ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DNB was €12.1 billion as at 31 December 2015 (€12.7 billion as at 31 December 2014). Loans and receivables totalling €3.3 billion (2014: €3.1 billion) have a term to maturity of less than twelve months. With effect from 2015 the accrued interest is no longer stated under prepayments and accrued income but under loans and receivables. | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. 2015 2014 Outstanding loans to and receivables from former members of the Managing Board: 294 294 12 Interest-bearing securities This item can be broken down as follows: 2015 2014 Interest-bearing securities held to maturity 2,897,527 3,722,616 Interest-bearing securities held to maturity 887,006 627,782 96 Other unlisted interest-bearing securities 66,631 10,056 3,851,164 4,360,454 The movement in interest-bearing securities in 2015 and 2014 was as follows: Public Other Total sector bodies Balance as at 1 January 2015 1,798,067 2,562,388 4,360,455 Purchases 1,075,000 215,000 1,290,000 Sales and redemptions -1,539,400 -234,359 -1,773,759 Changes in value of other interest-bearing securities -30,515 4,983 -25,532 Balance as at 31 December 2015 1,303,152 2,548,012 3,851,164 The collateral value of the portion of the interest-bearing securities portfolio contributed as collateral to DNB was €1.6 billion as at 31 December 2015 (€0.8 billion as at 31 December 2014). Furthermore in 2015 €0.2 billion in collateral was issued to a banking counterparty. Public Other Total sector bodies Balance as at 1 January 2014 414,731 1,935,097 2,349,828 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Purchases 3,142,000 1,295,968 4,437,968 Sales and redemptions -1,786,970 -670,295 -2,457,265 Changes in value of other interest-bearing securities 28,306 1,618 29,924 Balance as at 31 December 2014 1,798,067 2,562,388 4,360,455 Interest-bearing securities totalling €1,161 million (2014: €1,361 million) have a term to maturity of less | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. than twelve months. With effect from 2015 the accrued interest is no longer stated under prepayments and accrued income but under interest-bearing securities. 13 Intangible assets This item comprises capitalised expenses related to software. The breakdown of this item in 2015 and 2014 is as follows: 2015 2014 Carrying amount as at 1 January 2,790 3,389 Additions 1,166 599 Amortisation -1,345 -1,198 97 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2,611 2,790 The cumulative amounts as at 31 December were as follows: 2015 2014 Additions 8,752 7,586 Amortisation -6,141 -4,796 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2,611 2,790 14 Tangible assets This item comprises capitalised expenses related to the office building and other equipment. Other equipment consists mainly of furniture and fittings, computer equipment and cars. The breakdown of this item in 2015 is as follows. Property Other Total in use by operating the bank assets Carrying amount as at 31 December 2014 4,384 818 5,202 Additions 2015 334 343 677 Disposals 2015 -6 -6 Depreciation in 2015 -526 -303 -829 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2015 4,192 852 5,044 The cumulative amounts as at 31 December were as follows: ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Property Other Total in use by operating the bank assets Additions 9,621 7,290 16,911 Depreciation -5,687 -6,438 -12,125 Amortised cost 3,934 852 4,786 | Revaluations 258 258 N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. 4,192 852 5,044 The breakdown of this item in 2014 is follows: Property Other Total in use by operating the bank assets Carrying amount as at 31 December 2013 4,616 912 5,528 Additions 2014 270 238 508 Disposals 2014 -6 -6 Depreciation in 2014 -502 -326 -828 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2014 4,384 818 5,202 98 The cumulative amounts as at 31 December were as follows: Additions 9,287 6,953 16,240 Depreciation -5,161 -6,135 -11,296 Amortised cost 4,126 818 4,944 Revaluations 258 258 4,384 818 5,202 15 Other assets This item relates principally to amounts receivable and payments in transit on the balance sheet date. 16 Income tax With effect from 1 January 2005, NWB Bank has been liable for income tax. In 2008, the tax authorities ANNUAL REPORT 2015 approved the fair values applied in the opening balance sheet for tax purposes and the allocation of the fair value difference over future accounting periods. Income tax payable in 2015 and 2014 can be broken down as follows: 2015 2014 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. 2013 0 -28,121 2014 0 -3,393 2015 28,809 Carrying amount as at 31 December 28,809 -31,514 The amounts payable for the financial years can be broken down as follows: 2015 2014 Current tax expense 28,809 -3,393 Advances paid 0 0 99 Total 28,809 -3,393 In 2015, the unrealised results relating to the restructuring of the derivatives portfolio in 2013 and 2014 were settled in consultation with the tax authorities. 17 Derivative assets This item consists of interest rate swaps and currency swaps, caps, floors and swaptions. These products are carried at fair value, including accrued interest. Generally accepted valuation models are applied, based on the most appropriate valuation curves, which include the OIS curve. Furthermore with effect from 2013 a credit valuation adjustment was included in the measurement, and a debt valuation adjustment with effect from 2015. Breakdown by remaining term to maturity of fair values as at 31 December 2015: <3 3-12 1-5 >5 2015 months months years years Total Interest rate swaps 34,545 29,212 725,547 1,972,653 2,761,957 Currency swaps 742,884 622,581 2,443,581 1,398,264 5,207,310 Caps, floors and swaptions 59 234,647 234,706 Total 777,429 651,793 3,169,187 3,605,564 8,203,973 Breakdown by remaining term to maturity of fair values as at 31 December 2014: <3 3-12 1-5 >5 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 months months years years Total Interest rate swaps 978 35,217 848,262 2,428,572 3,313,029 Currency swaps 391,290 924,649 1,585,426 1,191,411 4,092,776 Caps, floors and swaptions 62 244,743 244,805 Total 392,268 959,866 2,433,750 3,864,726 7,650,610 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. 18 Prepayments and accrued income This item comprises prepaid amounts for costs related to the next accounting period(s) and the uninvoiced amounts to be received regarding income recognised in the current or previous accounting period(s). With effect from 2015 the accrued interest is no longer stated under prepayments and accrued income but under the balance sheet item to which the interest relates. 19 Banks This item consists of liabilities, other than debt securities, due to domestic and foreign banks. The collateral included in this item concerns collateral held under collateral arrangements related to derivative contracts. This item can be broken down as follows: 2015 2014 100 Loans taken out at banks 9,329 10,655 Value adjustment for fair value hedge accounting 1,877 2,253 Liabilities under collateral arrangements 2,443,300 1,262,720 2,454,506 1,275,628 With effect from 2015 the accrued interest is no longer stated under accruals and deferred income but under banks. 20 Funds entrusted This item consists of liabilities due to parties other than banks, including Namensschuldverschreibungen and Schuldscheinen. This item can be broken down as follows: 2015 2014 Funds entrusted 4,743,945 4,481,648 Value adjustment for fair value hedge accounting 627,496 843,744 5,371,441 5,325,392 With effect from 2015 the accrued interest is no longer stated under accruals and deferred income but under funds entrusted. 21 Debt securities This item, which consists of negotiable interest-bearing debt instruments, can be broken down as follows: ANNUAL REPORT 2015 2015 2014 Bond loans 51,809,169 51,729,021 Short-term debt securities 13,530,413 8,805,920 Value adjustment for fair value hedge accounting 2,184,280 2,886,029 Fair value of separated derivatives embedded in debt securities -45,759 -243,285 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. 67,478,103 63,177,685 Of the total amount in long-term debt securities issued, €6.4 billion (2014: €9.9 billion) carries a variable interest rate. Debt securities totalling €21.9 billion (2014: €19.6 billion) have a term to maturity of less than twelve months. The separated derivatives embedded in the debt securities are separated structured components included in the interest terms. With effect from 2015 the accrued interest is no longer stated under accruals and deferred income but under debt securities. 101 22 Deferred tax liabilities The changes in deferred tax liabilities were as follows: 2015 2014 Balance as at 1 January 69,421 45,538 Release of deferred tax liability arising when the Bank first became liable for tax 1,916 2,330 Change as a result of tax adjustments for previous years -62,955 Change as a result of temporary differences in the financial year recognised in profit or loss 154 22,339 Results from ‘basisrentelening’ loans deferred for tax purposes -786 -786 Results from maturity extensions deferred for tax purposes 6,794 Balance as at 31 December 14,544 69,421 In 2015 the unrealised results relating to the restructuring of the derivatives portfolio in 2013 and 2014 were settled in consultation with the tax authorities. The change resulting from temporary differences in the financial year recognised in profit or loss relates predominantly to the difference between measurement of the financial instruments for tax purposes and that for financial reporting purposes. It also includes the different tax treatment of pension costs. 23 Other liabilities This item consists principally of amounts payable and offsetable in connection with amounts to be ANNUAL REPORT 2015 amortised, payments in transit on the balance sheet date and VAT payable. 2015 2014 Prepaid interest and redemptions 49,465 51,901 Other liabilities 3,942 923 | 53,407 52,824 N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. This item relates principally to amounts payable and offsetable in connection with payments in transit on the balance sheet date. 24 Derivative assets This item consists of interest rate swaps and currency swaps, caps, floors and swaptions. These products are carried at fair value, including accrued interest. Generally accepted valuation models are applied, based on the most appropriate valuation curves, which include the OIS curve. Furthermore with effect from 2013 a credit valuation adjustment was included in the measurement, and a debt valuation adjustment with effect from 2015. Breakdown by remaining term to maturity of negative fair values as at 31 December 2015: 102 <3 3-12 1-5 >5 2015 31 December 2015 months months years years Total Interest rate swaps 23,094 68,817 1,208,438 12,310,613 13,610,962 Currency swaps 59,408 34,426 120,358 250,153 464,345 Caps, floors and swaptions 59 226,977 227,036 Total 82,502 103,243 1,328,855 12,787,743 14,302,343 Breakdown by remaining term to maturity of negative fair values as at 31 December 2014: <3 3-12 1-5 >5 2015 31 December 2014 months months years years Total Interest rate swaps 28,467 62,435 1,186,017 14,331,130 15,608,049 Currency swaps 12,542 52,820 96,647 295,342 457,351 Caps, floors and swaptions 4 236,787 236,791 Total 41,009 115,255 1,282,668 14,863,259 16,302,191 25 Accruals and deferred income This item comprises advance receipts for income attributable to the next accounting period(s) and uninvoiced amounts payable in relation to expenses attributable to the past accounting period(s). With effect from 2015 the accrued interest is no longer stated under accruals and deferred income but under the balance sheet item to which the interest relates. 26 Provisions This item only comprises a provision for pensions. The changes in this provision are as follows: ANNUAL REPORT 2015 2015 2014 Current service costs 1,102 884 Past service cost 0 -1,079 Interest cost 694 885 Expected return on plan assets -507 -664 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Administrative and other costs 56 75 Employee benefits expenses 1,345 101 Defined benefit obligation 32,321 33,447 Fair value of plan assets -23,318 -24,180 Provision for employee benefits 9,003 9,267 Opening balance defined benefit obligation 33,447 25,374 Interest cost 694 885 Current service costs 1,102 884 Benefits paid -803 -649 103 Past service costs 0 -1,079 Employee contributions 18 Gain (loss) caused by changes (in assumptions) in plan assets -2,137 8,031 Closing balance defined benefit obligation 32,321 33,447 Opening balance fair value of plan assets 24,180 18,309 Expected return 507 664 Employer contributions 758 715 Employee contributions 18 Benefits paid -803 -649 Loss (gain) caused by changes in assumptions or actuarial losses (gains) on liabilities -1,342 5,140 Fair value of plan assets as at 31 December 23,318 24,180 With effect from 2015 the pensionable salary has been maximised for tax purposes at €100,000, the effect of which has been recognised in the financial year. The one-off gain presented under Past service costs relates to the increase in the normal retirement age from 65 to 67 and the adjustments to pension plans in line with market trends. The projected employer contributions for 2016 to the defined benefit plans as at 31 December 2015 amount to €1.4 million (2014: €1.3 million). The principal assumptions used in determining the employee benefits provision (for pensions) are shown below. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 2015 2014 Discount rate 2.40% 2.10% Expected rate of return on assets 2.40% 2.10% Future salary/pay increases 1.50% 1.50% Future pension increases 1.50% 1.50% | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Changes in these assumptions may significantly impact the measurement of defined benefit obligations and plan assets. 27 Subordinated debt In view of the leverage ratio requirements due to be implemented by the regulatory authority, the bank began raising hybrid capital (in the form of subordinated loans) in 2015. The first tranche of €200 million was issued in September. These loans are intended to boost NWB Bank’s Tier 1 capital in order to meet the leverage ratio requirement. The loans were issued by Dutch public sector parties. The loans are subordinated to receivables from creditors with a higher order of priority than ordinary shares. The loans are perpetual and do not have a fixed repayment date. Early redemption is subject to the consent of the regulatory authority on dates 104 agreed in advance or in specific situations. The interest rate is 3.1% for the first ten years and will be subsequently reviewed provided no early repayments have been made. Interest payments by the bank are entirely discretionary. If the Tier 1 core capital ratio declines below 5.125%, the nominal principal amount of this and all similar type loans will be reduced by the amount required to take the Tier 1 core capital ratio above the 5.125% level. 28 Paid-up and called-up share capital This item consists of: A shares These shares have a nominal value of €115, of which 100% was required to be paid up. Each A share carries one vote at shareholders’ meetings. B shares These shares have a nominal value of €460, of which 25% was required to be paid up. Under the Articles of Association, the Supervisory Board may call for further payments to be made. Each B share carries 4 votes at shareholders’ meetings. Issued Paid-up Breakdown at year-end 2015: A shares ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Balance as at 31 December 2015 (50,478 shares) 5,805 5,805 B shares Balance as at 31 December 2015 (8,511 shares) 3,915 Of which unpaid: (74% of 8,510 shares) -2,896 1,019 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Total paid up as at 31 December 2015 6,824 Total paid up as at 31 December 2014 6,824 29 Revaluation reserves Movements in the revaluation reserves in 2015 and 2014 were as follows. Interest-bearing Other Total securities revaluation revaluation reserves reserve Balance as at 1 January 2014 267 267 105 Changes in the value of interest-bearing securities 40 40 Balance as at 31 December 2014 40 267 307 Changes in the value of interest-bearing securities 225 225 Changes in the value of shares -7 -7 Balance as at 31 December 2015 265 260 525 NWB Bank states certain assets, notably derivatives, at fair value. It has elected to consider the unrealised changes in their value arising upon the revaluation of such assets and the unrealised changes in the value of liabilities stated at fair value in the aggregate, given that these positions are also assessed in the aggregate as part of the Bank’s risk management. If and to the extent that increases in the value of such assets must be included in a revaluation reserve pursuant to Section 390(1) of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, the net amount in unrealised changes in fair value at 31 December 2015 did not give the Bank reason to form a revaluation reserve. 30 Other reserves Changes in other reserves were as follows. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Balance as at 1 January 2014 1,215,132 Appropriation of 2013 profit 33,893 Distribution for 2013 Changes in value as part of the pension provision -2,112 Balance as at 31 December 2014 1,246,913 | Appropriation of 2014 profit 48,997 N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Distribution for 2014 Changes in value as part of the pension provision 638 Balance as at 31 December 2015 1,296,548 31 Unappropriated profit for the year The balance sheet is presented before profit appropriation. The proposed profit appropriation for 2015 is included under Other information. 32 Irrevocable commitments These commitments relate to: 2015 2014 106 Loans granted but not yet paid 705,681 693,494 Collateral commitments 15,870 109,700 Unused current account overdraft facilities 784,784 680,392 Unused financing facilities 1,009,823 625,046 Guarantees issued 1,926 2,124 2,518,084 2,110,756 33 Contingent liabilities The item Contingent liabilities not included in the balance sheet consists of commitments which could arise on guarantees issued (Standby Letters of Credit) in connection with the cross-border financing of water authorities and bank guarantees issued to clients amounting to €68 million (2014: €75 million). 34 Fair value of financial instruments General The fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged or a liability settled in a transaction between knowledgeable, willing and independent parties. When determining the fair value of financial instruments, reference is made to market prices to the extent the financial instruments are traded in an active market. Such market prices are unavailable for most financial instruments, however. In such cases the fair value is determined using measurement models. The models use various assumptions relating to the discount rate and the timing and the size of the projected future cash flows. When calculating the fair value of options, generally accepted option pricing models are used. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The Bank establishes on a regular basis that the application of the measurement models leads to reliable fair values that fit the risk profile of the assets and liabilities. Ongoing changes in market conditions require the Bank to adjust, on a regular basis, the measurement parameters that serve as inputs for the measurement models. Loans and receivables, and debt securities | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. A measurement model is used to determine the fair value of loans and receivables, and debt securities. The model is also used as a basis for internal risk reports. The principle underlying the model is a going concern approach pursuant to which the Bank i) generally grants loans that it holds until they mature and ii) funds the relatively long-term loans with shorter-term loans on average. The measurement curve is based on the average cost of funding, which is the swap interest rate plus a spread. The spread is effectively a measure of the additional funding charges the Bank pays on account of liquidity and credit risks. Those additional charges are determined based on the funding outstanding as at the reporting date. The spread resulting from this calculation method is used across all relevant maturities (continuous curve). The assumption is that the spreads applying to the Bank are equally representative of the non-market-observable spreads applying to the Bank’s borrowers. 107 Interest-bearing securities Other listed interest-bearing securities are carried at market prices. Fair values of the other interestbearing securities are determined using the model that is also used for loans and receivables. Derivatives Derivatives are measured by applying generally accepted valuation models, based on the most appropriate valuation curves, which include the OIS curve. Effective 2013, valuation also included what is known as a credit valuation adjustment. Furthermore with effect from 2015, valuation also included what is known as a debt valuation adjustment. The curves used reflect the price level at which the Bank closes swaps. Credit risks associated with the derivatives transactions entered into are largely mitigated by exchanging collateral. Overview of fair values of financial instruments The table on next page sets out the estimated fair value of the financial assets and liabilities and other financial instruments not disclosed on the face of the balance sheet. For comparative purposes, accrued interest is allocated to the carrying amounts. A number of items are not included in the table as they do not meet the definition of a financial asset or liability. The total of the fair values disclosed below does not represent the underlying market value of NWB Bank and therefore should not be interpreted as such. Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value 31-12-2015 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Assets Cash, cash equivalents and deposits 6,766,469 6,766,469 502,243 502,243 at the Central Bank Banks 8,907,685 8,907,685 10,174,360 10,174,360 Loans and receivables 63,575,761 66,206,119 65,439,969 67,584,850 Interest-bearing securities 3,851,164 3,882,749 4,372,362 4,390,999 | Derivatives 8,203,973 8,203,973 7,650,610 7,650,610 N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Shares 199 199 205 205 Liabilities Banks 2,454,506 2,553,754 1,275,628 1,343,010 Funds entrusted 5,371,441 4,965,247 5,399,432 4,850,433 Debt securities 67,478,103 68,119,670 63,821,872 64,663,051 Subordinated debt 202,067 239,648 Derivatives 14,302,341 14,302,341 16,302,190 16,302,190 108 Determining fair values of financial instruments The table below sets out how the fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value in the balance ANNUAL REPORT 2015 sheet are determined. Measurement Measurement based on based on Measurement models using models using 31 December 2015 based on data available data unavailable (in millions of euros) market prices in the market data in the market data | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Assets Other listed interest-bearing securities 887 Derivatives 8,204 Separated derivative liabilities -3 Liabilities Derivatives 14,302 Separated derivative liabilities -43 Measurement Measurement based on based on 109 Measurement models using models using 31 December 2014 based on data available data unavailable (in millions of euros) market prices in the market data in the market data Assets Other listed interest-bearing securities 552 75 Derivatives 7,651 Separated derivative liabilities -2 Liabilities Derivatives 16,302 Separated derivative liabilities -243 Other financial instruments listed above under ‘fair values of financial instruments’ were measured based on models using data in part available in the market. Financial derivatives ANNUAL REPORT 2015 2015 2014 Notional amounts of interest rate swaps Breakdown according to remaining terms to maturity: Up to one year 6,659,955 6,304,825 Between one and five years 23,757,972 23,008,220 More than five years 46,943,480 45,787,393 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. 77,361,407 75,100,438 Notional amounts of currency swaps 2015 2014 Breakdown according to remaining terms to maturity: Up to one year 18,603,193 15,399,309 Between one and five years 13,049,498 14,207,709 More than five years 6,863,646 6,247,442 38,516,337 35,854,460 The notional amounts of the caps and floors total €124 million (2014: €176 million) and those of the swaptions amount to €1,005 million (2014: €1,005 million). These derivatives are included under the 110 interest rate swaps in the previous table. 35 Risk management This section describes the internal risk management system for each relevant type of risk. The Bank lends almost exclusively to public authorities and to companies and institutions related to the public sector. The counterparty risk arising from derivatives and money market transactions is limited as much as possible by applying a limit system, minimum creditworthiness requirements and collateral requirements. On balance, the credit risks are low and, consequently, so are the interest margins. INTEREST RATE RISK: ‘The possible impact on profit and capital of interest rate fluctuations’ The Bank’s exposure to fluctuations in interest rates arises from differences in the interest rate and terms between lending and borrowing. The Bank pursues a prudent policy towards these risks. The policy is to manage the interest rate risk bank-wide by closing interest rate swap transactions for both the asset and the liability side of the balance sheet, in which the Bank agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable interest rates calculated by reference to an agreedupon notional amount. The spreads payable by the Bank when raising long-term funds fluctuate against its benchmark, i.e. the swap interest rates. These spread developments lead to changes in the fair value of assets and liabilities and also have an impact on net interest income (interest received less interest paid). Prudent policy, supplemented by a management system tailored to that policy, constitutes the basis for the calculation, monitoring and management of the interest rate risks. The Asset & Liability Committee ANNUAL REPORT 2015 (ALCO) decides on the size of the risks within the parameters set. To manage risks, a gap analysis according to the interest rate period, risk measures such as (spread) DV01 (see explanation below), and Earnings at Risk, and scenario analyses are used. Outcomes from positions adopted are analysed using profit forecasts, interest margin analysis and performance analysis. This management information is also important for the decision-making process within the ALCO. Interest rate sensitivity analysis (DV01) | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. NWB Bank uses DV01 (the dollar value of a basis point) as the key measure of interest rate risk. An absolute measure derived from duration, it indicates the change in price or fair value, expressed in monetary units, caused by a one basis point (0.01%) change in the yield curve. A system of DV01 limits applies to the overall interest rate risk position. These relate to the strategic interest rate risk position, which is based on the NWB Bank’s benchmark return agreed with the shareholders. The strategic position is dependent on having a certain vision for interest rate developments. The interest rate sensitivity of the portfolio to which macro hedging is applied is monitored on the basis of DV01s for various time intervals. To manage this spread risk, a spread DV01 measure and concomitant limit apply. They indicate a maturity mismatch between funding and lending. The spread DV01 is quantified on the basis of the interest rate sensitivity of all long-term lending and funding. At year-end 2015, it was within the limit set. 111 Earnings at Risk In addition to the DV01 analysis, which provides an insight into the interest rate risk for the total term of the portfolio, NWB Bank applies the Earnings at Risk measure for the short term, with the aim of setting limits to the volatility of interest income during the next 365 days. This is a simulation measure, comparing the expected net interest income or expense for the next twelve months under various interest rate scenarios with the outcome of a baseline scenario. At year-end 2015, the outcomes for those scenarios were within the limits set. Gap analysis An example of a gap analysis according to interest rate period is shown below. The table is based on ANNUAL REPORT 2015 internal reports. The ALCO uses this analysis to review the positions of the Bank on the yield curve. 31 December 2015 Total <3 3-12 1-5 >5 (in millions of euros) months months years years Assets Loans and receivables 81,565 21,378 4,757 17,236 38,194 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Interest-bearing securities 3,887 2,134 676 1,061 16 Fixed-interest derivative assets 54,533 8,965 4,773 24,215 16,580 Variable interest derivative liabilities -46,272 -40,798 -5,825 43 308 Total assets 93,713 -8,321 4,381 42,555 55,098 Liabilities Banks, funds entrusted and debt securities 76,444 23,046 6,556 25,795 21,047 Subordinated debt 244 6 25 213 Fixed-interest derivative liabilities 49,386 225 1,802 15,475 31,884 112 Variable interest derivative liabilities -35,321 -29,952 -5,224 -21 -124 Total liabilities 90,753 -6,681 3,140 41,274 53,020 Total assets less liabilities in 2015 2,960 -1,640 1,241 1,281 2,078 Total assets less liabilities in 2014 2,762 -2,283 1,973 1,161 1,911 The present value of all instruments is presented on the basis of the swap curve. The derivatives include notional amounts to give a clearer picture of interest rate positions. Accordingly, no direct link can be made to the balance sheet. Scenario analysis NWB Bank performs scenario analyses to gain an additional insight into the interest rate risk. A common scenario is to calculate the changes in the fair value of equity in the event of a parallel shift in the yield curve of -100 basis points (bp) and +100 bp. The effect of this sudden change in the interest rate as at 31 December 2015 is shown in the table on the next page. It shows the consequential changes in fair value which have been subsequently broken down into the effect on the annual result and the effect on future annual results. The long-term effect merely indicates an opportunity loss. In other words, if NWB Bank had fully hedged its interest rate position, its future financial results would have been €88 million higher (2014: €95 million higher) in the event of a 100 bp rise in interest rates. (in millions of euros) Total change Immediate effect Long-term effect in fair value on profit or loss on profit or loss ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Interest rate shock of +100 bp -73 15 -88 Interest rate shock of -100 bp 38 -4 42 LIQUIDITY RISK: ‘The possible impact on profit and capital of not being able to meet current obligations without incurring unacceptable losses’ | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. NWB Bank has an AAA/Aaa credit rating identical to that of the State of the Netherlands. With this credit rating, under normal circumstances, NWB Bank should always easily be able to cover its current and future liquidity requirements in the market. In case of market stagnation, NWB Bank has sufficient means, among other things in the form of liquid assets and collateral pledged with DNB to repay loans and finance new loans at all times. NWB Bank currently has an ample collateral position at DNB. Virtually the entire loans portfolio of NWB Bank is accepted as collateral at DNB. The collateral value of the portion of portfolio contributed as collateral to DNB was €13.6 billion as at 31 December 2015 (€13.5 billion as at 31 December 2014). However, NWB Bank did not call on this position. In terms of short-term funding, NWB Bank mainly relies on the commercial paper market. The bank uses a Euro Commercial Paper programme capped at €25 billion and a U.S. Commercial Paper programme capped at $10 billion. The Bank has the highest short-term ratings (A-1+/P-1) with respect to those programmes. As at 31 December 2015, €13.5 billion (as at 31 December 2014: €8.8 billion) in commercial paper was outstanding. 113 The liquidity position is monitored daily. The aim of liquidity management is to ensure that there are sufficient funds available for the Bank to meet not only foreseen, but also unforeseen financial commitments. The Bank’s management is informed daily by means of a liquidity gap analysis, containing differences between the cash flows receivable and payable. The liquidity position is subject to a system of limits. One limit relates to the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR), a liquidity ratio set out in CRD IV/CRR to which a minimum requirement applies with effect from 1 October 2015. DNB requires Dutch banks to maintain a minimum LCR of 100% as at the effective date. The internal LCR limit is higher than the minimum requirement. Along with LCR, another liquidity risk has been included in the regulations, the Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR). A minimum requirement of 100% is expected to apply with effect from 1 January 2018. NWB Bank meets both minimum requirements as at 31 December 2015. The LCR was 134% and the NSFR was 117% as at the balance sheet date. The balance sheet categories according to remaining contractual term, including all future undiscounted interest cash flows and before proposed profit appropriation, are presented below. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 (in millions of euros) Total <3 3-12 1-5 >5 months months years years Assets Cash, cash equivalents and deposits at the Central Bank 6,766 6,766 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Banks, loans and receivables 88,093 1,774 5,605 24,616 56,098 Interest-bearing securities 3,895 8 1,176 2,688 23 Intangible assets 3 3 Tangible assets 5 5 Derivative assets 16,096 1,222 1,074 4,715 9,085 Other assets 0 0 Prepayments and accrued income 1 1 Total as at 31 December 2015 114,859 9,770 7,856 32,019 65,214 Total as at 31 December 2014 112,387 3,405 8,749 31,303 68,930 Liabilities 114 Banks, funds entrusted and debt securities 85,901 15,641 7,331 29,448 33,481 Subordinated debt 262 6 25 231 Other liabilities 53 53 Derivative assets 25,382 404 1,006 4,507 19,465 Accruals and deferred income 1 1 Provision 9 9 Deferred tax liabilities 15 15 Income tax 29 29 Equity 1,399 1,399 Total as at 31 December 2015 113,051 16,045 8,426 33,980 54,600 Total as at 31 December 2014 110,671 7,646 15,778 34,507 52,740 CREDIT RISK: ‘The possible impact on profit and capital of counterparties not meeting their obligations’ The Bank’s policy is geared towards an extremely high-quality loans portfolio. NWB Bank principally lends to governments and government-backed institutions. It also provides loans to water supply companies, without a government guarantee, and, in addition to Public-Private Partnership (PPP) projects with the government as the contracting authority, other new client groups may also be added to the loans portfolio. NWB Bank’s Articles of Association prohibit lending to the private sector. To a very small extent, the Bank also purchases bonds issued by governments in other Western European countries, particularly with a view to increasing the liquidity portfolio, applying the same quality standards as for domestic lending. Finally, the Bank enters into agreements with banks for money market transactions and currency and interest rate swaps, which result in counterparty risk. The Bank applies no credit limits to Dutch public authorities. The other loans are included in the bank’s credit assessment system pursuant to its credit risk management policy. If a credit limit is set for a counterparty, ANNUAL REPORT 2015 it is adjusted annually, at a minimum, in line with the latest developments. Given the public sector nature of most of its customers, who are, moreover, exempt from solvency requirements, the credit portfolio’s credit risk is limited, which is also expressed in the robust capital ratios. The weighted credit risk (including commitments for unpaid loans) to which NWB Bank is subject in accordance with standards prescribed by the CRD IV/CRR was as follows on the reporting date: | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. (in millions of euros) Nominal Weighted Nominal Weighted 2015 2015 2014 2014 Central governments 7,558 2,046 Regional governments 15,666 15,599 Institutions with delegated government duties 48,235 488 50,162 378 Development banks 66 63 International organisations 353 194 Banking counterparties * 8,984 480 10,174 292 RMBS (NHG) notes * 2,189 441 2,347 472 Covered bonds 50 5 Others 7 7 10 10 Total 83,108 1,421 80,595 1,152 115 * Based on ECAI rating Most of NWB Bank’s lending comes under the category of 0% weighting, which means that the credit risk is considered to be very limited. The counterparty risks and potential money market lending by banking counterparties come under the 20% and 50% weighting categories. The portfolio of residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) with government-backed National Mortgage Guarantee (NHG) notes comes under the 20% weighting category if they are senior A notes. A smaller portion (lower S notes) comes under the 100% weighting category. Lastly, loans provided to Dutch water supply companies (government-controlled public limited liability companies) are included in the 100% weighting category. The table below provides an insight into the breakdown of loans granted by the Bank: ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Loan portfolio in nominal amounts 2015 2014 (in millions of euros) Water authorities 5,494 5,285 Municipal authorities 6,667 6,604 Other public authorities 314 337 Social housing 31,632 32,301 Healthcare institutions 3,577 3,695 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Other borrowers under government guarantee 641 626 Joint schemes 218 224 Government-controlled public liability limited companies 353 296 Public-private partnerships 78 Credit institutions 42 Other 53 53 49,069 49,421 NWB Bank’s borrowers as listed above are mainly public authorities and entities in social housing and healthcare to which funds are lent under the guarantee of public authorities. The Bank has never suffered a loan loss. Owing to the adequate guarantees obtained and the very limited credit risk, no losses on the loans granted are expected. There is, therefore, no provision for uncollectibility, nor were 116 any loans written down on account of the credit risk involved. Both during the year and at the balance sheet date, arrears were low in monetary terms (non-material) and of very short duration. In 2015 NWB Bank held six notes of RMBS programmes from five Dutch originators in its portfolio. The RMBS notes are securitised by Dutch mortgage loans backed by the government under the National Mortgage Guarantee scheme (NHG). By purchasing these bonds, NWB Bank contributes to the financing of government-guaranteed private home loans. NWB Bank only actively uses securitisation in its role as an investor, monitors the associated credit, market and liquidity risks during the period to maturity and firmly intends to hold the RMBS (NHG) notes until the expected call date. Credit risk is expressed in riskweighted assets based on the Standard Approach to Securitisations as set out in Article 251 of the CRR, in which the ratings issued by S&P, Moody’s or Fitch are used to indicate credit risk. The table below shows the data as at 31 December 2015. Nominal amount Last call Rating (million) date Class AAA 1,837 2020 A AA 351 2018 A BBB+ 4 2018 S To manage the interest rate and currency risks, NWB Bank uses derivatives. To limit the credit risks associated with these derivatives as much as possible, in principle, NWB Bank only enters into transactions with counterparties with a single A rating at a minimum and limits are set to minimise the total exposure from derivatives. The fair values of these derivatives are hedged by collateral agreements (also known as CSAs) using mostly zero thresholds and exchanging collateral on a daily basis. The Bank’s policy is to conclude agreements with counterparties within the ISDA framework consisting of at least agreements in CSAs and Schedules and to ensure that netting agreements apply. ISDA agreements concluded with the majority of counterparties in recent years were amended to bring them more into ANNUAL REPORT 2015 line with the market standard for exchanging collateral (zero thresholds and daily valuation). Portfolio management, monitoring and collateral management have been stepped up over the past years with respect to individual derivatives portfolios for all counterparties, as well as for the total derivatives portfolio. This involves monitoring sensitivities in counterparty-specific portfolios and the option of novating a portfolio, or part thereof, to a central counterparty under central clearing in due course. In addition, concentrations in the swap portfolio are assessed and adjusted in terms of both interest-rate sensitivities, credit ratings and other early warning signals for each counterparty. The total fair value | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. exposure from derivatives to financial counterparties at year-end 2015 was €2,472 million, of which €2,294 million was covered by collateral pledged to the Bank (2014: €1,432 million and €1,263 million respectively). The total fair value exposure from derivatives from financial counterparties at year-end 2015 was €8,799 million, of which €8,795 million was covered by collateral provided by the Bank (2014: €10,328 million and €10,174 million respectively). The tables below show the net fair values of the derivatives, i.e. including collateral received and provided. (in millions of euros) Assets Positive fair value of Netting with negative Cash Net collateral position deratives fair value received 117 deratives Banking counterparties 7,969 -5,497 -2,294 178 Non-banking counterparties 235 235 Total for 2015 8,204 -5,497 -2,294 413 Total for 2014 7,651 -5,974 -1,263 415 Liabilities Positive fair value of Netting with positive Cash Net collateral position deratives fair value provided deratives Banking counterparties -14,302 5,497 8,795 -10 Non-banking counterparties Total for 2015 -14,302 5,497 8,795 -10 Total for 2014 -16,302 5,974 10,174 -154 The derivatives entered into with non-banking counterparties are primarily embedded derivatives in the form of agreements which are included in the loan contracts. No ISDA or CSA agreements have been made, which means that no netting takes places for these parties. Settlement risk refers to the risk that, in settling a transaction, a counterparty fails to meet its obligations while the Bank meets its own. Instances in which this may happen include when the notional amount of a foreign exchange swap is ultimately exchanged, which is used to repay associated foreign currency funding. The currency risk from foreign currency funding is hedged on a one-to-one basis using foreign exchange swaps. The Bank monitors settlement risks that arise chiefly upon payment and receipt of foreign currency during foreign exchange swaps. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CURRENCY RISK: ‘The possible impact on profit and capital of changes in exchange rates’ The Bank’s policy is to eliminate all currency risks on both loans granted and borrowings. Currency risks arise primarily in respect of funds borrowed by the Bank. NWB Bank borrows significant amounts in foreign currency. The resulting currency risks are fully hedged immediately by entering into currency swaps. | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. The table below shows the nominal values in millions in local currencies. 2015 2014 CCY Asset Liability Derivatives Total Asset Liability Derivatives Total AUD -2,705 2,705 -2,152 2,152 CAD -493 493 -512 512 CHF -3,840 3,840 -4,450 4,450 GBP -4,021 4,021 -2,871 2,871 HKD -100 100 -100 100 JPY -189,899 189,899 -234,600 234,600 NOK -4,125 4,125 -4,125 4,125 118 NZD -179 179 -165 165 SEK -1,100 -1,100 -2,450 2,450 USD 126 -31,313 31,186 131 -32,150 32,019 ZAR -116 -116 OPERATIONAL RISK: ‘The possible impact on profit and capital of inadequate or ineffective internal processes and systems, inadequate or ineffective human actions or external events’ For NWB Bank, the main components of operational risk are losses incurred due to disruptions to the information, transaction processing and settlement systems, and ineffective procedures, particularly with respect to new services or products, as well as fraudulent and/or unauthorised actions on the part of employees or third parties. Procedures As part of the management of operational risks, all important processes are described. The Internal Audit Department checks regularly whether the various procedures are being properly adhered to and whether they are still effective. All important operating processes were reviewed and updated in the year under review. New products or services The product approval process refers to the procedures the Bank follows in deciding whether it will produce or distribute a certain product, either at its own risk and expense or for the benefit of its clients, or whether it will enter a new market. This process involves a widely-scoped review in terms of transparency and risk management. No new product is marketed or distributed without careful ANNUAL REPORT 2015 consideration of risks by those responsible for risk management and meticulous checks against other relevant aspects. The Managing Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the product approval process. The Internal Audit Department, based on its annual risk assessment, each year verifies the process’ design, existence and effectiveness and reports its findings to the Managing Board and the Audit and Risk Committee. Incidents | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Any incidents are reported to the Compliance Officer and/or the Operational Risk Officer. Any incidents are reported to the Management Board and the bank’s management team. If so requested by the Managing Board, the Internal Audit Department investigates the causes. The Compliance Officer and/or the Operational Risk Officer propose measures where necessary to prevent similar incidents from occurring in the future. Information systems To prevent disruptions to the information systems, NWB Bank makes ongoing investments to improve its systems. Key words include security, integrity, manageability and continuity. A transparent infrastructure and ICT organisation and optimum security of ICT components are in place to limit as far as possible the impact of operational disruptions at NWB Bank. For this purpose, adequate service and maintenance contracts have been concluded for all relevant hardware and software, IT employees receive ongoing training through classes and seminars and contracts have been entered into with external parties for back-up, recovery and contingency facilities. In the event of a disaster, NWB Bank has access to an 119 external location where it can continue all its core activities. Using a data warehouse, the Bank has a reliable management information system available based on integrity for generating reports that meet its business demands. In addition, the firewall infrastructure is up to date, so as to offer robust protection against cybercrime and other irregularities that might affect NWB Bank’s ICT infrastructure. The Bank’s information security policy is based on ISO-27002 (NEN), the internationally recognised information security standard. Outsourcing NWB Bank has outsourced its back office for customer funds transfers and the related ICT support operations. This means that certain services are performed outside the core of the business. The direct organisational management has therefore been reduced. As a result, an additional control mechanism has been set up because NWB Bank continues to be responsible for funds transfers. This control mechanism focuses on a controlled and hence measurable and verifiable service. Integrity and compliance NWB Bank attaches great value to its reputation as a solid and respectable Bank for the public sector. For this reason, compliance and integrity play an important role in the Bank’s control mechanism. The Bank wishes to ensure that its customers and investors can be completely confident in using its services and secure in the knowledge that their funds are safe. The members of the Managing and Supervisory Boards took the banker’s oath in 2013, pursuant to the Dutch Oath or Promise (Financial Sector) Regulation (Regeling eed of belofte financiële sector), which came into effect on 1 January 2013. In compliance with the new Dutch Banking Code, which took effect on 1 January 2015, all bank employees took the banker’s oath (which includes the related Code of Conduct and a disciplinary system). The members of the Managing and Supervisory Boards also signed a declaration regarding disciplinary rules. NWB Bank updated its Code of Conduct on the basis of the new Banking Code. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The NWB Bank Code of Conduct forms part of the employment contracts, and it was posted on both the Intranet and the Bank’s website. NWB Bank has assigned some of the compliance-based duties to the Legal & Compliance Department and, where supervision of compliance with the Insider Regulation is concerned, to an external party. The external supervisor reports to the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board, while the internal Compliance Officer reports directly to the Managing Board. These reporting lines confirm the value that | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. the Bank attaches to the internal supervision and the work of both Compliance Officers. The supervisionbased rules and code of conduct are an important element of the compliance role. Legal risk Like any other bank, NWB Bank is exposed to legal risk. NWB Bank operates on the principle of providing proper and sound financial services. The rapid succession of new and complex laws and regulation over the past few years is putting pressure on legal risk management. By keeping tabs on new trends in laws and regulations, and using standard contracts whenever possible, the Bank seeks to limit the legal risks for both NWB Bank and its customers. If needed, external advisers are consulted on legal issues and to review documents relating to these transactions. MINIMUM CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS The standardised method for credit risk uses external ratings linked to certain risk weightings. 120 NWB Bank uses the credit ratings of Moody’s, S&P and/or Fitch for this purpose. The capital 1) requirement pursuant to the CVA is additional to the capital requirement for counterparty default risk. This capital requirement is calculated using a standard formula based on exposure, rating and average terms of derivatives positions entered into with counterparties, among other things. The market risk concerns risks in the trading portfolio and currency and commodity risks. NWB Bank does not keep a trading portfolio and has no commodity positions. Due to its stringent policy on currency risk, on balance there are no outstanding currency positions, and therefore the minimum capital requirement for market risk is nil. When calculating qualifying capital for operational risk, NWB Bank uses the basic indicator approach. Under this approach, 15% of the relevant indicator is taken as a benchmark for the operational risk. The relevant indicator is the three-year average of the total of the annual net interest income and the annual net non-interest income at the end of the financial year. For NWB Bank, the indicator is limited to the net interest income. The Large Positions rules limit the concentration risk of a bank. NWB Bank’s large positions are mainly connected to the swap portfolio. These positions are limited as much as possible by concluding CSAs and applying netting. 1) S  ee Article 1 Joint Consultation Paper (EBA, 06-03-2015) Draft Implementing Technical Standards on the allocation of credit assessments of ECAIs to an objective scale of credit quality steps under Article 109 (a) of Directive 2009/138/EC. Calculation of the Tier I capital ratio as at the reporting date: ANNUAL REPORT 2015 (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Equity excluding profit for the current financial year 1,304 1,254 Intangible assets -3 -3 Prudential filters -1 CET1 capital 1,300 1,251 Additional Tier 1 capital 200 Tier I capital (A) 1,500 1,251 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Weighted credit risk 1,421 1,152 Capital charge under CVA 411 455 Weighted operational risk 166 173 Risk-weighted assets (B) 1,998 1,780 Tier I ratio (A/B) 75% 70% At the end of 2015 visible equity totalled €1,304 million (excluding profit for the current financial year) against €1,254 million at the end of 2014 (excluding profit for the current financial year). As at the end of 2015, CETI capital including the additional Tier I capital amounted to €1,500 million (excluding profit for the current financial year). The bank’s total risk-weighted assets rose from €1,780 million as at the 121 end of 2014 to €1,998 million as at the end of 2015. The increase was largely brought about by a different method of calculating the capital requirement for counterparty risk from derivative transactions the bank concludes to hedge interest rate and currency risks. See also the section entitled ‘NWB Bank in 2015’ in the Report of the Managing Board. 36 Information on related parties The shareholders and the members of the Managing and Supervisory Boards qualify as related parties. With respect to the obligation to report information on related parties, there are no particular circumstances at NWB Bank that warrant disclosure. For more information on the remuneration of, and loans to, members of the Supervisory Board and the Managing Board, as well as the contribution to Stichting NWB Fonds, please refer to Notes 4 and 5. As at 31 December 2015 an amount of €5,807 million in loans had been granted to shareholders on market terms (2014: €5,620 million). 37 Events after the balance sheet date No material events occurred between the reporting date and the date of the preparation of the financial statements that had such an impact on the overall presentation of the financial statements that disclosure in this section was considered necessary. 38 Members of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Managing Board Ron Walkier Lidwin van Velden Frenk van der Vliet Supervisory Board Age Bakker | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Maurice Oostendorp Else Bos Peter Glas Petra van Hoeken Albertine van Vliet-Kuiper Berend-Jan van Voorst tot Voorst The Hague, 16 March 2016 122 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. 123 Other information Independent auditor’s report ANNUAL REPORT 2015 To the General Meeting of Shareholders and the Supervisory Board of Nederlandse Waterschapsbank N.V. Report on the audit of the 2015 financial statements | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Nederlandse Waterschapsbank N.V. as at 31 December 2015 and of its result and the cash flows for 2015 in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Scope of our audit We have audited the 2015 financial statements of Nederlandse Waterschapsbank N.V. (the company) based in The Hague. The financial statements comprise the following: 1. The balance sheet as at 31 December 2015. 2. The following statements for 2015; the profit and loss account, the statement of comprehensive 124 income, the statement of changes in equity and the statement of cash flows. 3. The notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Basis for our opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’ section of our report. We are independent of Nederlandse Waterschapsbank N.V. in accordance with the Regulation regarding the Independence of Accountants performing Assurance Engagements (Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten) and other relevant independence requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the Code of Conduct and Professional Practice for Accountants Regulation (Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants). We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Audit method Summary Audit opinion ■ Unqualified audit opinion MATERIALITY ■ Materiality of 12 million ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ■ 7% the interest margin OUR KEY AUDIT MATTERS ■ Valuation of derivatives ■ Hedge accounting ■ Reliability and continuity of electronic data processing ■ Result on financial transactions, including disclosure | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Materiality Misstatements may arise from fraud or error and will be considered material, if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. We have used our professional judgement to determine that materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at EUR 12 million (2014: EUR 8 million). The materiality is based on the interest margin, which has risen considerably relative to 2014. We consider the interest margin as the most appropriate benchmark because we regard it as a key consideration for stakeholders in assessing the financial performance of Nederlandse Waterschapsbank N.V. The stability of the interest as a source of income, combined with a relatively low profit before tax, led us to choose interest as the most appropriate 125 benchmark for materiality. We also take misstatements and/or possible misstatements into account that in our opinion are material to users of the financial statements on qualitative grounds We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee of the Supervisory Board to report any misstatements in excess of EUR 600,000 that we identified through our audit as well as other misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. Our key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters which, in our professional judgement, were of the most significance in our audit of the financial statements. Although we have communicated the key audit matters to the Supervisory Board, they do not constitute a complete representation of all that was discussed. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Elements of estimation in the valuation of derivatives Description NWB Bank has substantial positions in derivatives as part of its policy to hedge interest rate risk and currency risk. As disclosed in Notes 17 and 24 of the financial statements, derivative assets totalled EUR 8.2. billion and derivative liabilities EUR 14.3 billion as at 31 December 2015. Derivatives are stated at fair value. The fair value of the derivatives is subject to estimation uncertainty as subjective variables need to be used to determine fair value. As explained in Note 34, NWB Bank does not hold level 3 type derivatives, being derivatives with the highest level of valuation uncertainty. Models and market data are used to determine the value of type 2 derivatives. Based on the size of the derivative positions and the elements of estimation in determining their value, we consider the valuation of derivatives a key audit matter. Elements of estimation in the valuation of derivatives ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Our approach The bank performs regular tests to verify whether the collateral value calculated by derivative counterparties reconciles with the value of the derivatives recognised in the accounts. We tested this internal control. We also examined the valuation of a substantial share (more than 85%) of the total value of the derivatives portfolio in detail. The selection included various types of derivatives and derivative maturities. We engaged our valuation specialists to conduct this examination. They applied their own valuation models and used the available market data to verify fair value. | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Our observation Our audit procedures have shown that the valuation of derivatives has resulted in an appropriate determination of the fair value of the derivatives disclosed in the financial statements. Hedge accounting Description NWB Bank applies macro and micro hedge accounting to reduce the accounting mismatch in the reporting between the accounting of assets/liabilities and the accounting of the related derivative contracts. As a result of applying hedge accounting, assets increased by EUR 11.5 billion and liabilities by EUR 2.8 billion as at 31 December 2015. NWB Bank uses complex hedge accounting models. The proper functioning of the hedge accounting models and the integrity of the data used as input in these models 126 are highly important in safeguarding accurate calculations of hedge accounting adjustments. In view of the complexity and the materiality of hedge accounting for the financial statements, we consider the correct application of hedge accounting a key audit matter. Our approach Our audit procedures comprise the assessment of the internal control procedures relating to the inclusion of derivatives in a hedge accounting relationship and the effectiveness tests. We concluded that we were able to rely on these internal controls for the purpose of our audit. Our audit procedures also include an evaluation of the adequacy of hedge documentation in accordance with the requirements of the Dutch Annual Reporting Guideline RJ290 Financial Instruments. We furthermore concluded at aggregate level that the contract information incorporated in the hedge accounting models reconciles with the information in the financial accounting system. Finally, we examined the functioning of the hedge accounting models in detail by comparing the results of the hedge accounting model for a number of derivatives and hedge positions with the hedge documentation. Our observation We concluded that hedge accounting has been applied in accordance with the Dutch Annual Reporting Guideline RJ290 Financial Instruments Reliability and continuity of electronic data processing Description NWB Bank is dependent on its IT systems for the continuity of its operations and for reliable financial reporting. The source system, the data warehouse set-up, the payment system and the hedge accounting application are particularly important to us. We therefore consider the IT systems as a key audit matter. Our approach We assessed the reliability and continuity of the IT systems. These audit procedures were performed ANNUAL REPORT 2015 by our IT auditors and consisted of testing the relevant internal controls relating to the IT systems and processes. Our audit focused mainly on the core system OPICS and the data warehouse system. With respect to these systems, our IT auditors concluded that the internal controls covering the reliable processing of data and continuity operate effectively. Reliability and continuity of electronic data processing | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. We received an ISAE 3402 type II report from another auditor concerning the outsourced payment system. This report states that the design and functioning of the internal control measures for the payment system have been assessed and that no special items were found. Our audit procedures included determining the existence of the minimum expected control measures at NWB Bank and subsequently evaluating the internal control measures described in the report certified by the external auditor, the procedures performed to test the operating effectiveness of these measures and the results. Our observation Our audit procedures show that we were able to rely on the electronic data processing system for the purpose of our audit. A number of findings were reported in our report to the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board. Result on financial transactions, including disclosures 127 Description NWB Bank recognises the ineffective portion of hedges in addition to certain non-recurrent results, such as the results of adjusting loan maturities, in the Result on financial transactions. Note 2 to the financial statements of NBW Bank contains further disclosures on the Result on financial transactions. In view of the fact that the Result on financial transactions forms an important component of NWB Bank’s total results, offers insight into the effectiveness of interest and currency risk management and consists of other important items, we consider the disclosures on this result as a key audit matter. Our approach Management has presented a detailed specification of the Result on transactions, of which we audited in detail the significant items included in this result. During this procedure we reconciled the results arising from hedge ineffectiveness with the results of the hedge accounting models. We evaluated the other results, including the result on loan maturity extensions, based on the underlying specifications and source documentation. We additionally examined whether the breakdown of the Result on financial transactions has been adequately disclosed in the financial statements. Our observation Our audit procedures show that the Result on financial transactions is adequately stated in the financial statements. We have also found that the disclosures set out in Note 2 of the financial statements are adequate. Responsibilities of Management and the Supervisory Board for the financial statements ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements and for the preparation of the management board report, both in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, Management is responsible for such internal control as Management deems necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to errors or fraud. As part of the preparation of the financial statements, Management is responsible for assessing the | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting framework referred to, Management should prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting, unless management either intends to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Management should disclose events and circumstances in the financial statements that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s financial reporting process. Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objective is to plan and perform the audit engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence for our opinion. Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not 128 have detected all errors and fraud. For a detailed description of our responsibilities relating to the audit of the financial statements, please visit the website of The Royal Netherlands Institute of Chartered Accountants (NBA): www.nba.nl/ standaardteksten-controleverklaring. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Report on the Management Board report and the other information Pursuant to the legal requirements set out in Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code (concerning our obligation to report on the Management Board report and other information): ■ We have no deficiencies to report as a result of our examination whether the Management Board report, to the extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and whether the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code has been added. ■ We report that the Management Board report, to the extent we can assess, is consistent with the financial statements Appointment On 26 October 2006, we were appointed by the Supervisory Board as the external auditor of Nederlandse Waterschapsbank N.V. with effect from the audit for the 2007 financial year, and have operated as auditor since then. During the Shareholders Meeting held on 23 April 2015, a new external auditor was appointed ANNUAL REPORT 2015 with effect from 1 January 2016. Amstelveen, 16 March 2016 KPMG Accountants N.V. | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. M. Frikkee, RA 129 Articles of Association provisions governing profit appropriation ANNUAL REPORT 2015 With effect from the 2005 financial year, the appropriation of profit is governed by Article 21 of the Articles of Association, which reads as follows Article 21 | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. 1 Profit shall be distributed only insofar as the shareholders’ equity of the company exceeds the amount of that part of its issued capital which is paid up and called up, plus the reserves which must be kept by law or the Articles of Association. 2 The annual profit disclosed in the adopted statement of income shall be allocated as follows: a the Managing Board is authorised, subject to the prior approval of the Supervisory Board, to appropriate all or part of the profit to reserves; b any balance of profit remaining after the addition to reserves shall be at the disposal of the shareholders in general meeting; c to the extent that the shareholders in general meeting do not decide to distribute a dividend for any financial year, such profit shall be added to reserves. 130 3 The shareholders in general meeting can decide to make a profit distribution chargeable to a distributable reserve only on the basis of a resolution proposed by the Managing Board and approved by the Supervisory Board. 4 To the extent that the company has profits, the Managing Board, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, may with due regard for the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article resolve to distribute an interim dividend on the basis of an interim statement of the company’s financial position as provided for in Section 105, subsection 4 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. 5 On a resolution proposed by the Managing Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, the shareholders in general meeting can decide to distribute to shareholders a dividend or interim dividend other than in cash chargeable to the part of the profit to which they are entitled. Proposed profit appropriation ANNUAL REPORT 2015 (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Profit for the year 94,706 48,997 The proposed profit appropriation is as follows: | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Cash dividends on A shares A 0% 0% Cash dividends on B shares A 0% 0% Added to the reserves on the approval of the Supervisory Board 94,706 48,997 94,706 48,997 131 List of shareholders at 1 January 2016 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Number of Number of A shares B shares à € 115 à € 460 | Aa en Maas Water authority 627 301 N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Amstel, Gooi en Vecht Water authority 281 60 Brabantse Delta Water authority 2,016 483 Delfland Water authority 755 60 De Dommel Water authority 533 360 Drents Overijsselse Delta Water Board 232 Fryslân Water authority 3,309 100 Hollandse Delta Water authority 1,893 143 Hollands Noorderkwartier Water authority 4,399 204 Hunze en Aa’s Water authority 1,915 175 Noorderzijlvest Water authority 1,107 170 Peel en Maasvallei Water authority 1,866 153 Province of Drenthe 15 25 132 Province of Friesland 24 25 Province of Gelderland 44 50 Province of Limburg 11 20 Province of Noord Brabant 33 40 Province of Noord Holland 43 60 Province of Utrecht 43 60 Province of Zeeland 15 20 Province of Zuid Holland 33 40 Rivierenland Water authority 3,968 437 Roer en Overmaas Water authority 535 146 Rijn en IJssel Water authority 5,666 345 Rijnland Water authority 4,858 289 Scheldestromen Water authority 4,380 166 Schieland en de Krimpenerwaard Water authority 610 430 State of the Netherlands 1,208 3,333 De Stichtse Rijnlanden Water authority 224 47 Vallei en Veluwe Water authority 631 88 Vechtstromen Water authority 7,158 423 Zuiderzeeland Water authority 42 26 50,478 8,511 Summary of compliance with the principles of the Dutch ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Banking Code In 2015 NWB Bank implemented the ‘Future-Oriented Banking’ package. The Regulations for the | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Managing Board, the Supervisory Board, the Audit and Risk Committee, the Remuneration and Appointment Committee, the Code of Conduct and further regulations were revised accordingly. The Corporate Governance chapter in the Annual Report addresses a number of aspects of the Dutch Banking Code. PRINCIPLE COMPLIANCE Conducting business operations with restraint and integrity Formulate a mission, a strategy and objectives. Managing Board Regulations,1) Articles 1.1 and 1.3 Supervisory Board Regulations,2) Article 1.1 Supervisory Board Profile,3) Article 1.5 133 Positioning the bank. Managing Board Regulations, Article 1.3 Supervisory Board Regulations, Article 1.1 Set up a governance structure and ensure compliance with the Managing Board Regulations, Article 1.2 governance principles. Supervisory Board Regulations, Article 1.2 The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board must set an Managing Board Regulations, Article 3.1 example and this will be evaluated accordingly. Supervisory Board Regulations, Article 2.1 Develop, communicate and enforce standards on integrity, Managing Board Regulations, Article 3.2 morals and leadership in the bank. Supervisory Board Regulations, Article 2.2 The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board will ensure Managing Board Regulations, Articles 1.6, there are proper checks and balances and will safeguard a 1.9 and 4.5 solid IT infrastructure. Supervisory Board Profile, Article 2.4 Promote responsible behaviour and a healthy culture in the Managing Board Regulations, Article 3.3 interests of the bank’s clients and other stakeholders, under Supervisory Board Regulations, Article 2.3 the supervision of the Supervisory Board. The principles in the Social Charter of the Dutch Banking Managing Board Regulations, Introduction Association apply to all members of the Dutch Banking Supervisory Board Regulations, Association. These principles must be embedded in the bank’s Introduction organisation and the bank will use them as guidance in its Code of Conduct, Article 14) contact with stakeholders. This will provide an insight into the way in which the bank deals with the principles in the Charter. Compliance with the formal rules and self-regulation by all Managing Board Regulations, Introduction employees and responsibility for ensuring compliance. Supervisory Board Regulations, Introduction Code of Conduct, Article 1 1) Regulations of the Managing Board of NWB Bank, February 2015. 2) Regulations of the Supervisory Board of NWB Bank, February 2015. 3) Profile for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of NWB Bank, February 2015. 4) NWB Bank Code of Conduct, September 2015. Supervisory Board Composition. Supervisory Board Regulations, Article 3.7 Supervisory Board Profile, Articles 2 and 3.1. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Establishment of an audit and risk committee. Supervisory Board Regulations, Article 6.1 Sufficient time, effort, commitment, critical and independent. Supervisory Board Regulations, Article 1.10 Supervisory Board Profile, Articles 1.4 and 4. Awareness of the bank’s social role and stakeholders’ Supervisory Board Regulations, Article 1.1 interests. Supervisory Board Profile, Articles 1.5 and 2.6. | The members of the Audit and Risk Committee must have the ARC Regulations,5) Article 2.2 N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. requisite competencies and experience. Availability of a lifelong learning programme. Supervisory Board Regulations, Article 4.2a Content of lifelong learning programme. Supervisory Board Regulations, Article 4.2a Participation in lifelong learning programme and evaluation Supervisory Board Regulations, Articles of its effectiveness. 4.2a and 7.3 Evaluation of the functioning of the Supervisory Board under Supervisory Board Regulations, Article 7.4 independent supervision. Appropriate compensation for each Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Regulations, Article 13.1 member. Managing Board Composition Managing Board Regulations, Articles 1.3, 4.3 and 4.4 134 One Managing Director will have the duty of preparing Managing Board Regulations, Articles 4.8 decision-making on risk management. and 4.9 The impact of potential systemic risks on the bank’s risk Managing Board Regulations, Article 4.8 profile. The availability and aim of a lifelong learning programme for Managing Board Regulations, Article 4.5 the Managing Board. The content of the lifelong learning programme for the Managing Board Regulations, Article 4.5 Managing Board. Each member of the Managing Board must take part in the Managing Board Regulations, Article 4.6 lifelong learning programme and must meet the programme requirements. Risk policy A comprehensive approach to a transparent risk policy, which Managing Board Regulations, Article 4.8 has both a short and long-term focus. The risk policy also Supervisory Board Regulations, Articles takes reputational risks and non-financial risks into account. 1.8c, 1.9 and 7.5 Supervisory Board Profile, Articles 1.7d, 2.3a and 2.4 Responsibility for risk policy and ensuring proper risk Managing Board Regulations, Article 1.6 management. Supervisory Board approval of (material changes to) risk Managing Board Regulations, Article 1.7a appetite proposed by the Managing Board. Supervisory Board Regulations, Article 7.2 The Supervisory Board will monitor the risk policy pursued by Supervisory Board Regulations Article 1.9 the Managing Board. ARC Regulations, Articles 1.1a and 1.1b 5) Regulations of the Audit and Risk Committee of NWB Bank, February 2015. Audit Systematic audit of risk management by the Managing Board. Managing Board Regulations, Article 1.6 Presence of an internal audit function and the relevant The NWB Bank Audit Charter6) provides ANNUAL REPORT 2015 reporting lines. that the Internal Audit Department (IAD) is directly accountable to the Chairman of the Managing Board. It is not subject to line management and is unrelated to the internal controls integrated into the various components of the separate business processes. The IAD reports primarily to the Chairman of the Managing Board. The | Head of the IAD reports independently N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. to the Audit and Risk Committee on the basis of the quarterly reports submitted to the Managing Board, and may contact the Chairman of the Supervisory Board Audit and Risk Committee directly. The Head of IAD will consult with the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee at least once a year (ARC Regulations, Article 4.6). In addition, the Audit and Risk Committee will hold at least one meeting each year with the internal auditor without the Managing Board being present (ARC Regulations, Article 1.3). Periodic exchange of information between the IAD, the The IAD, the external auditor and the external auditor and the Audit and Risk Committee. Audit and Risk Committee will periodically 135 exchange information. The topics discussed during these information-sharing meetings will include the risk analysis and the IAD’s and the external auditor’s audit plan (Audit Charter). The IAD, DNB (the Dutch Central Bank) and the external The IAD will take the initiative to arrange auditor will discuss each other’s risk analysis, findings and talks with DNB/the European Central Bank audit plan. These talks will be encouraged. (ECB) and the external auditor at least once a year to discuss each other’s risk analyses, findings and audit plans at an early stage. The Managing Board and the IAD will encourage these periodic tripartite talks (Audit Charter). 6) NWB Bank Audit Charter, January 2016. Remuneration policy A prudent, restrained and sustainable remuneration policy. Managing Board Regulations, Article 6 RAC Regulations, Article 1a7) ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Assessment of NWB Bank’s Remuneration Policy8) The total income of a member of the Managing Board. Managing Board Regulations, Article 7.3 RAC Regulations, Article 1.b NWB Bank’s Remuneration Policy for the Managing Board9) Variable remuneration of a member of the Managing Board. Managing Board Regulations, Article 7.3 RAC Regulations, Article 1.b | N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. NWB Bank Managing Board Remuneration Policy 136 7) Regulations of the Remuneration and Appointment Committee of NWB Bank, February 2015. 8) Assessment of NWB Bank’s Remuneration Policy, November 2014. 9) Remuneration Policy for the Managing Board of NWB Bank, September 2015. Publication details ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Editing and coordination of production: NWB Bank Andrea Groenewegen, Full-fledged Services The KEY Agency, Den Haag | Translation: N E D E R L A N D S E W AT E R S C H A P S B A N K N . V. Metamorfose Vertalingen Photography: Pictures on pages 5 through 10: Managing Board and Supervisory Board, taken by Bert Rietberg Picture on page 53: voluntary work (NL Doet), taken by Izabella de Jong Picture on page 66: The Water Innovation Prize 2015, taken by Ron Offermans Picture on page 67: source: NWB Fonds, taken by Henk Loijenga (private collection) Design and production: The KEY Agency, Den Haag 137 © 2016 | Nederlandse Waterschapsbank N.V. NWB Bank prepared this Annual Report in the Dutch language. The English translation was made for information purposes only. In the event of inconsistencies or differences between the English translation and the original Dutch version of the Annual Report 2015, the latter will prevail.
