Bristol-Myers Squibb UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Bristol-Myers Squibb is a participant of the United Nations Global Compact, which is the world’s largest corporate citizenship and sustainability initiative. To Our Stakeholders It is with both pride and excitement that I submit Bristol-Myers Squibb’s sixth annual Communication on Progress report. For us, this report provides an opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles and to share the many ways we bring those principles to life. In fact, the UNGC is closely aligned with our own longstanding company “Commitment” – a statement of company principles that places a premium on integrity, ethics, transparency, diversity and economic, social and environmental sustainability. Meeting these high standards is therefore natural for us. It is who we are. It is what we do. It is how we do it. We appreciate this opportunity, and we thank our UNGC colleagues for their leadership and partnership. Sincerely, Giovanni Caforio Chief Executive Officer Introduction Bristol-Myers Squibb joined the U.N. Global Compact in December 2010 and this year we further integrated its principles encompassing Human Rights, Labor, Environment and AntiCorruption across our company. Our commitment to the U.N. Global Compact is available to all employees and to the public on our company website. We continue to focus on opportunities for improvement. In 2016, Bristol-Myers Squibb was ranked No. 6 overall on Corporate Responsibility magazine’s annual list of the 100 Best Corporate Citizens, a leading benchmark for socially responsible investors and other stakeholders. Bristol-Myers Squibb has ranked among the top 10 overall each of the last eight years. We issued the Sustainability 2015 Goals Final Report highlighting our accomplishments and launched our new Sustainability 2020 Goals. We developed a Bristol-Myers Squibb 2016 Global Citizenship Report. The company continued to collaborate with Business for Social Responsibility to support the Guiding Principles on Access to Healthcare, which include a principle on respecting human rights. Through a Quick-Start program led by the Clinton Health Initiative, Duke University and AmeriCares, 10,000 hepatitis C patients in six developing countries in Africa and Southeast Asia will be treated with Daklinza (daclatasvir) donated by Bristol-Myers Squibb. Beyond the donation to kick-start the program, sustainability is enabled by the licensing and technology transfer agreement for daclatasvir with the Medicines Patent Pool. Bristol-Myers Squibb is working in partnership with the Baylor International Pediatric AIDS Initiative, Chevron Corporation, Americares and the Government of Angola to address the impact that sickle cell disease (SCD) has on children. The five year demonstration project in Angola will show the benefits of early detection and treatment for children with SCD. BristolMyers Squibb has committed to provide Droxia (hydroxyurea), valued at over $4,000,000. We issued a new Global Position Statement on Human Rights and updated the Corporate Security Human Rights Statement which reflects our commitment to protecting human rights with the work that we and our service providers do to protect the business. Under a program called Procurement Risk Assessment and Mitigation (PRAM), we increased efforts to mitigate risk in our suppliers by collecting information on Environment, Health and Safety (EHS), labor and ethics practices in addition to their ability to provide goods or services in the future. The company continued its collaboration with the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI), which promotes Principles for Responsible Supply Chain Management among our suppliers and capacity building in developing countries. We developed a draft statement to demonstrate compliance with the UK Modern Slavery Act provisions. The Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation in cooperation with Global Sustainable Partnerships extended the clean water project in Tanzania to install additional BioSand filters in schools, clinics and homes to proactively support the health of people in rural villages. Annual Earth Day celebrations were held at about 50 global sites, as part of our Go Green initiative to engage employees to take action to protect the environment at work and at home. Bristol-Myers Squibb employees around the world demonstrated their commitment to environmental stewardship by participating in a range of activities from planting trees to building awareness about wildlife and conservation of energy and water. Several sites held Treasure Hunts to look for opportunities to reduce energy and water. Bristol-Myers Squibb received a 2016 Energy Star Partner of the Year Award for a second year from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) for its comprehensive policies and programs to manage energy use at its facilities worldwide. Our Green Labs certification program that recognizes and encourages employees to reduce the environmental impact of their work, including energy, water and waste continued to grow with over 550 labs participating. Bristol-Myers Squibb opened a new office building in New Jersey designed to Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) standards. Our facility in Devens, Massachusetts received LEED silver certification from the U.S. Green Building Council. We reported our CO2 emissions and water use through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). As members of the CDP Supply Chain Initiative we assessed our carbon footprint from 67 suppliers. The Principles of Integrity -our Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics for Employees provide a common framework for how we conduct business, interact with our colleagues and serve our patients. Employee training is required and a section on Anti-Corruption is included. Our website contains additional information about our policies, goals and progress relevant to the U.N. Global Compact, as well as our Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility programs. These resources include our Sustainability Report, which follows the format of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), with measurement of outcomes related to various performance indicators and targets. Early in 2016 we upgraded our Sustainability Report to meet the GRI G4 Guidelines. Below is a list of the U.N. Global Compact principles and a table that identifies the relevant content from our website. Human Rights • Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labor • Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor • Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor • Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment • Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption • Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Bristol-Myers Squibb Website References Human AntiLabor Environment Rights Corruption Responsibility Message from CEO Our Mission and Commitment Our Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics Our Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics for Third Parties Sustainability Report GRI Index Workplace Policies Our Suppliers Diversity & Inclusion Social Progress Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation Sustainability 2015 Goals Sustainability 2020 Goals Achievements Our Employees Management Approach Environment, Health and Safety Policy Management Systems Sustainability Goals and Key Indicators Environmental Performance Go Green Corporate Governance Our Compliance and Ethics Code of Conduct for U.S. Pharmaceuticals Counterfeit Drugs Human Rights Policy Human Rights Statement California Transparency in Supply Chains Act
