Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report 2015 Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 1 From the CEO Assaad Razzouk Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders: In February 2015 I started my TEDx talk ‘the Climate Change Movement has failed’ by citing Albert Einstein: “The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results”1 Of course that is not the correct definition of insanity nor is it something that I usually indorse, however the idea of promoting the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and incorporating them into business models worldwide is something we should strive for until we achieve the desired result: “By committing to sustainability, business can take shared responsibility for achieving a better world.”2 I am pleased therefore to confirm that Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Pte. Limited pledges its ongoing support to the United Global Compact initiative in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this, our second annual Communication on Progress report, we will aim to explain how we have developed and how we are trying to incorporate the principles into our operation. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication which includes our website, intranet and newsletters. Yours sincerely, Assaad Razzouk Chief Executive Officer 1 Albert Einstein, http://www.quotationspage.com/quote/26032.html 2 United Nations Global Compact, https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 2 2015 at a glance... Global Business Excellence Responsible Business Awards 2015 Awards 2015 “SME Category” “Outstanding Commodity Business Awards 2015 “Excellence in emission Green Initiative” markets” 3.2 Million tCO2e 340 GWh Reduced Clean electricity generated Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 3 Training & Education 35 Internships and Scholarships 35 From the CEO 2 Diversity and Equal Opportunities 36 2015 at a glance... 3 Environmental Performance 37 About Us 5 Energy Consumption and Management Our Mission 6 38 Our Approach to Sustainability 7 Reduction in Energy Consumption 39 Sustainable investing 7 Power Generation from Sindicatum’s Sustainability is integral to our business 8 Projects 39 Sustainable resources are vital to a Carbon footprint – Emissions Aspect 39 sustainable economy 9 Reduction in GHG Emissions 42 Organizational Structure 10 Emission Reductions from our Green Corporate Governance 12 Projects 43 Risk Management 15 Economic Performance 44 Value Creation 17 Significant indirect economic impacts 44 Sustainability Strategy and Reporting Awards and Accolades – 2015 47 Approach 19 2nd Communication on Progress 19 Stakeholder Groups 21 Identifying Stakeholders 21 Sindicatum’s Stakeholders 22 Global Outreach 23 Engagement and communication with stakeholders 24 Stakeholder communication process 24 Social Performance 25 Labour Practices, Human Rights & Decent work 27 HR Policies & Practices 28 Performance Review and Employee engagement 28 2015 Performance 29 2016 Targets 29 Health & Safety 31 Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 4 About Us Renewable Energy Sindicatum Renewable Energy Company Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Pte. Pte. Ltd (Singapore) (“SREC”) develops, Limited (“Sindicatum”) is a developer, owns and operates renewable energy owner and operator of clean energy projects in South and Southeast Asia. At projects worldwide and a producer of the core of SREC’s track record is the sustainable products from natural proven ability to identify, develop, invest, resources and waste. Founded in 2005, finance and operate small-scale Sindicatum provides a one stop solution, renewable energy projects in its target developing, operating and financing markets. projects that produce clean energy and sustainable resources (biogas, sustainable A key feature of each of its projects is a biomass, water and physical secure supply of fuel which ensures commodities) whilst reducing greenhouse projects are not constrained in their ability gases. to generate power or exposed to fuel price risk. A global footprint across four of the largest renewable energy markets (i.e. the Resource Efficiency US, China, India and Southeast Asia) Sindicatum’s projects in this category aim allows Sindicatum to be close to the to maximize the value realized from sources of supply of natural resources and natural resources so that natural capital waste as well as to the largest population depletion can be minimized. Efficient centres in the world with rapidly rising utilization of natural capital is a predemand for energy. In addition, this requisite for both a functioning global footprint allows an exposure to local and society and the transition to an economy global compliance and voluntary which functions within environmental environmental markets and therefore the limits. ability to benefit from different outcomes in an evolving regulatory landscape. This concept applies equally to both the elements of the planet’s natural capital At present, Sindicatum is headquartered3 which are renewable – such as timber or in Singapore and has offices in Bangkok fish stocks – and those which are non (Thailand), Beijing & Taiyuan (China), renewable, at least on an Jakarta (Indonesia), New Delhi (India), anthropological time scale, such as fossil London (UK) and Manila (Philippines). fuels. Sindicatum’s business is organised in two divisions, Renewable Energy and Resource Efficiency. 3 http://www.sindicatum.com/ Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 5 Corporate Vision To be a publicly-listed developer, owner and operator of thousands of MW of distributed, profitable clean energy projects worldwide. Our Mission Environmental standards, introduce new Sindicatum’s portfolio of green projects technologies and provide jobs and skills has a tremendous beneficial impact on transfer to local communities. the environment. These projects implement the highest Health, Safety & Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 6 Our Approach to Sustainability Sustainability lies at the heart of our business. We undertake our work because we believe in the strength of our company, our business and in the importance of what we do in a broader sense. As a result we are highly motivated to achieve our goals. Sustainable Investing Sustainability in our Business Sustainable Economy Sustainable investing increasing demand for resources) will The need to work within environmental continue to strain natural resources and social limits in an increasingly worldwide. Our investment thesis is based resource-constrained world is crucial to on the premise that such macro-trends will our investment approach and to our have an important influence on the ability to meet the expectations of our pricing of increasingly scarce resources stakeholders – we believe it has a direct such as energy, water, agricultural link to our long-term profitable resources and clean air. performance and sustainability as recognized in our Investment Approval Consequently, our aim is to produce long Process. term supplies of these sustainable products as well as related environmental The theme of “resource scarcity” is central commodities. to our strategy. We believe that, globally, economic development (and thus Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 7 Sustainability is integral to our run”. We aim to ensure people feel they business and their contributions are appreciated and that a proper balance between work We recognize that all of our investments and their life outside Sindicatum is depend on our relationships with a wide maintained. range of stakeholders and, in particular, A core feature of our sustainability the local communities where our projects projects is the mitigation of carbon are undertaken. Our business model emissions. Our projects, however, have therefore aims to meet the highest more than just a beneficial impact on the standards of ethical investing, environment. They also ensure governance and sustainability with a international standards of health and strong emphasis on health and safety. safety, introduce new technologies, and provide skills transfer and training while We also consider sustainability to be propagating the importance of the critical to the management of our most sustainability message on national and crucial asset – our staff. Our aim is to international levels. promote a working environment where people feel they are “in it for the longThis approach helps safeguard our future. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 8 Sustainable resources are vital to a sustainable economy the case of fossil fuels, create global Since the industrial revolution, natural environmental risk through climate capital has been gradually depleting and change. The traditional economic model commodities from aquatic life to forests of resource utilisation is a linear process by have become increasingly scarce. What’s which natural capital is exploited, more, such commodities are often creating waste, pollution and produced from unsustainable fossil environmental degradation: sources, which have a finite life, and in Traditional Economic Model Natural Capital Ecosystem Goods and Services Consumption Waste, Pollution and Environmental Degradation Sindicatum seeks to redress this balance commodities required for the functioning through the production of long-term of a global economy which is viable into “sustainable resources”, in order to help perpetuity. Through this we aim to help displace our reliance on unsustainable facilitate the transition to a system which sources. We aim to create supplies of key utilises natural capital without depleting it. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 9 Sustainable Model Natural Capital Ecosystem Goods PRESERVATION and Services Consumption We continue to revise our management all individuals within the company. The approach to adapt to the changing management of health, safety and business and climate change landscape. environment is the responsibility of The organizational structure within everyone. However, the EHS&S Policy, and Sindicatum reflects the fact that the promoting a positive safety culture and responsibility for all EHS&S issues rests at implementation of effective EHS&S in the the highest level of management, workplace is driven by senior cascading down to engage management. Organizational Structure Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 10 Due to the importance we place on our appropriately within the organization and environmental and social activities, reports on a regular basis on the responsibility ultimately lies at the highest Company’s performance to the Board at level with our Board – and is its main Board meetings. A Group EHS&S implemented across the company Director ensures the EHS&S coordination, through the Executive Committee (Ctraining and auditing across the suite). The Group President ensures the company. EHS&S function is discharged The EHS&S Director is accountable to the and activities to ensure full compliance Group President and will provide advice with the national and international EHS&S and support on all aspects of policy, regulations and 3rd Party standards. development and implementation of Safe Additional details can be found on Working Procedures (SWP) and any Sindicatum’s Environmental & Social changes necessary to the documents Corporate Policy Statement. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 11 Corporate Governance approach to fair employment practices, Sindicatum is committed to maintaining zero-tolerance to corruption, sustainability good corporate governance and and compliance with laws and business integrity in all of its business regulations. The Code of Conduct activities. The Board and Senior supports high standards of business ethics Management are committed to and corporate governance and provides conducting business with integrity, an understandable framework for consistent with high standards of business employees to observe the Company’s ethics, and in compliance with all principles. It defines acceptable applicable laws and regulatory standards of conduct in compliance with requirements. This shapes a culture of Sindicatum’s policies and serves as responsibility among employees, with a guidance to employees for business system of checks and balances at all conduct and behaviour. Where levels of the organisation. Sindicatum’s Sindicatum has invested in a joint venture corporate strategy is underpinned by or in another company, we will clear policies that outline our commitment encourage our joint venture partners to to sustainability. Our Code of Conduct, adopt the relevant aspects of the Code Sustainability Policy and Environmental of Conduct for the joint venture and Social Corporate Policy Statement company. guides our staff and stakeholders on our The code provides guidance on the 8 Key Principles as specified below: Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 12 Compliance with Laws and Regulations Serves as guidelines for all employees to understand and comply with the laws and regulations of the countries where business is being conducted. It emphasizes the importance of lawfully conducting business and specifies the procedures by which dealings of securities should be conducted. Confidentiality Highlights the importance of protecting personal and corporate information. The principle of protecting personal information states that all personal information regarding Sindicatum’s employees, agents, joint venture partners, customers and suppliers will be handled in an appropriate and lawful manner. Similarly, the principle of protecting corporate information provides employees with information and guidance on recognizing, addressing and communicating this information to third-parties. Zero-tolerance to corruption Sets out the Company’s “zero-tolerance” stance for all forms of corruption, bribery and extortion. It provides employees with information and guidance on how to identify, address, resolve, avoid, prevent and report corruption, bribery and extortion which may occur as part of their work. Sindicatum maintains a zerotolerance policy to corruption and any third-party that we cooperate with are required to sign anti-corruption undertakings. It is Sindicatum’s policy to conduct its business in such a way as to be consistent with all relevant anti-bribery laws in all the jurisdictions in which the group transacts business. It is vital for all in Sindicatum to ensure zero-tolerance to corruption, even if the country that the business is being conducted does not have its own anti-bribery laws. Sindicatum’s strategy and policy on Anti-Corruption principles are centred on the implementation of Principle 10 of the United Nations Global Compact: Sindicatum is committed to eradicate corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery – Principle 10 Our stand on anti-corruption is further elaborated in our Code of Conduct that also serves to communicate our anti-corruption policies and procedures to our employees across all of our operations. In 2015, Sindicatum continued implementation of its anti-corruption policies and procedures across the Group, including training, monitoring and investigation of potential bribery incidents. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 13 Avoidance of conflicts of interest This framework guides employees to identify and mitigate situations where their personal interests could conflict with the interests of the company. Fair dealings with others This principle aims to promote fair business practice amongst employees internally and externally. All staff are encouraged to act in an honest, trustworthy and fair way with all customers, suppliers, and competitors. Fair employment practices This principle aims to showcase the fair employment practices that govern Sindicatum’s recruitment and retention policy. Implementing fair employment practices is consistent with our values, and also aims to boost Sindicatum’s reputation. Unbiased treatment benefits all in the Sindicatum community, improving employees’ well-being and aiding in the retention of our competent staff. Health, Safety & Environment Policy Serves as a framework by which effective Health & safety systems are applied throughout Sindicatum’s operations and projects. This is further elaborated in our Health & Safety Aims and Rules Manual. Whistle-blowing policy As well as the Code of Conduct, Sindicatum has also implemented the Employee Guide to supplement the policies addressed in the Code of Conduct. It essentially provides employees with a working manual for understanding the day-to-day administration of personnel policies and practices. The whistle-blowing policy specified in the employee guide serves as guidance for employees to raise concerns through the proper channels within the organization and to reassure staff that they should be able to raise genuine concerns in good faith without fear of reprisals, even if they turn out to be mistaken. Once a concern has been raised, the HR team will carry out an initial assessment to determine the scope of any investigation. In some cases we may appoint an investigator or team of investigators including staff with relevant experience of investigations or specialist knowledge of the subject matter. The investigator(s) may make recommendations for change to enable us to minimise the risk of future wrongdoing. Sindicatum prohibits retaliation against anyone raising or helping to address an integrity concern. Staff must not suffer any detrimental treatment as a result of raising a concern in good faith. Detrimental treatment includes dismissal, disciplinary action, threats or other unfavourable treatment connected with raising a concern. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 14 Risk Management Risk management plays an essential role in the Company’s business activities and is an essential component of Sindicatum’s planning process. Top-down Approach Sindicatum’s Executive Committee meets on a regular basis to discuss corporate strategy which includes a risk analysis of the Company and the industry within which it operates. Examples of threats that are monitored and discussed include financial, credit, foreign exchange as well as country, political and operational risks. Furthermore, Sindicatum’s quarterly Risk Monitoring Reports summarise key risk factors taken from project operational reports and additional risk factors at group level, any mitigating actions taken and the corresponding results. These regular reports are reviewed by Sindicatum’s Executive Committee for further action. Determining materiality of Risks •Risk assessment conducted at the investment approval Project and project design stage which are carried out for each project and managed in the company’s risk registry Level Risk •To be approved by the investment committee, the Assessment projects will need to show how the risks can be managed or mitigated Quarterly •Quarterly Risk Monitoring Reports summarize key risk factors taken from project operational reports and Risk additional risk factors at group level, any mitigating Monitoring actions taken and the corresponding results •Sindicatum has undertaken a risk audit in order to looking in depth at the possible substantial risks that face the Risk Audit company and industry •Risk audit has provided the basis for Sindicatum’s ongoing and regular Risk Monitoring Reports Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 15 Project and Portfolio Risk A risk assessment is done at the investment approval and project design stage which are carried out for each project and managed in the Company’s risk registry. For projects to be approved by the company’s Executive Committee, the projects will need to show how these risks can be managed and, where possible, mitigated. Through both regular risk assessment meetings held by Sindicatum’s senior management and quarterly Risk Monitoring Reports, Sindicatum is systematic about its identification and management of risks both on company and industry levels. As part of our investment process, Sindicatum uses methodical risk analysis in order to evaluate business opportunities carefully including sensitivity analysis around major risk parameters that have been identified. This risk assessment includes macro and project specific risks analysis encompassing rigorous due diligence, feasibility studies and sensitivity analysis on key investment assumptions and variables. Risk mitigation and avoidance strategy Risk mitigation and management are incorporated into project design and implemented within the construction of the projects themselves. Sindicatum’s risk mitigation and avoidance strategy encompasses the following: Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 16 Value Creation Our business model represents Our projects result in Greenhouse Gas sustainability to our end-users and aims to (“GHG”) emission reductions which meet the highest standards of contribute globally in the fight against sustainability, governance, and ethical climate change, as well as provide investing along with maintaining a strong numerous other benefits to the countries emphasis on health and safety. We and communities in which they are identify, design and implement profitable located such as improved air quality for renewable energy, energy substitution the community, technology and skills and energy demand projects using new transfer to the local population, local job and innovative technologies while creation, development of human producing environmental commodities to resources and improved local enhance our returns. infrastructure. Social and environmental considerations are usually burned or discarded in a are integral to Sindicatum’s investment baseline scenario, are converted into criteria and this has resulted in positive useful inputs in the production of financial returns and longevity in our commodities such as biogas, sustainable projects. biomass and clean energy. The unique aspect of Sindicatum’s Along with power generated from our business strategy is the generation of Solar Photovoltaic (PV) power plants, the socio-economic-environmental value clean electricity generated bridges the from low value products such as demand-supply gap in countries that are municipal, agricultural and industrial perennially short of reliable power. The organic wastes. Rice & coconut husks, success of Sindicatum’s projects can be bagasse and other organic wastes that attributed to its innovative business model Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 17 coupled with the usage of the most up-to(i) The production of clean date technology to generate a dual resources/energy, and revenue stream that results in high value(ii) The creation of environmental added projects. commodities such as carbon credits achieved through fossil The dual revenue stream is comprised of: fuel displacement. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 18 Sustainability Strategy and Reporting Approach Sindicatum’s sustainability framework is defined by its triple-bottom line of People, Planet and Profits. This framework of Social Progress “People”, Environmental Stewardship “Planet” and Economic Growth “Profits” form the core of our sustainability strategy and play an integral role in our business model. We operate a proven business model meeting the highest standards of sustainability, governance, and ethical investing, with a strong emphasis on health & safety. As Sindicatum’s footprint and power capacity continue to expand, we are also well placed to attract opportunities with partners who appreciate our track record in sustainability and as a project developer. 2nd Communication on Progress business and stakeholders. For this disclosure, materiality only applies to 2015 will mark the second year for operations under Sindicatum’s direct reporting our sustainability performance. control. For each Disclosure on For this Sustainability Report, we have Management Approach (DMA) and adopted Global Reporting Initiative’s indicators related to the Material Aspects, (GRI) G4 guidelines as a framework to we have incorporated data and results provide our standard disclosures in from all of Sindicatum’s operations and accordance to the Core Standard. entities. The entities include all 15 projects and operations spanning across 8 The GRI G4 guidelines define Material countries and the reporting scope has Aspects as key facets of an organization been expanded to disclose 2015 data that reflect its significant economic, from our key subsidiaries, including: environmental and social impacts and substantially influence the decisions of our a. All projects developed and stakeholders. For this 2nd report, we have operated by Sindicatum (including strived to provide greater insights in our – Sindicatum’s role as a consultant) data, initiatives and policies whilst setting b. Sindicatum Carbon Capital (SCC) more ambitious goals for the 2015 Holdings (UK) disclosure. The standard disclosures c. SCC Singapore include: d. Sindicatum LFG Company Standard Disclosures (Singapore) Economic I ndirect Economic Impact Energy e. Sindicatum Captive Energy Environmental Emissions Singapore Labour Practices, Human Rights & Decent w ork Social f. PT Biogas Energy Indonesia HR Policies and Practices Society g. Sindicatum Renewable Energy Holdings Philippines This Report emphasizes the economic, h. Verdeo Sindicatum (USA) environmental and social aspects that i. SCC Hydro (Singapore) have been determined as material to our j. SCC NZEM (Singapore) Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 19 This report contains a full year’s data from 1st January 2015 to 31st December 2015 and highlights information on performance regarding the key aspects that have been identified as material to our operations and stakeholders. In order to help us improve our sustainability performance and reporting standards, feedback from our stakeholders is essential. We welcome all comments and feedback which can be directed to: Ms. Sonia Luis Sonia.luis@sindicatum.com Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 20 Stakeholder Groups Stakeholder Groups are defined as individuals, groups or organisations that are impacted by the activity of the business and its operations. Based on the significance and impact of their interest on Sindicatum’s business, we have identified five key stakeholder groups: Identifying Stakeholders At the project design stage, Sindicatum identifies its stakeholders by distributing invitations to its stakeholder consultation meetings – this is in the form of direct invitations to government, local officials, NGOs, academic institutions, as well as indirectly through advertisements in the local newspaper and notices in the local community areas. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 21 Sindicatum’s Stakeholders Local Governments • Sindicatum's approach to Sustainability goes beyond compliance, to partner key agencies for successful project implementation, elevating industry standards for renewable energy projects, sustainable practices as well as health and safety standards. Local Community • A core feature of our sustainability projects is the mitigation of carbon emissions & generation of clean reliable power. Our projects yield addtional benefits to the local communities in the form of improved living conditions, improved infrastructure, job creation and technology transfer. Ahead of investing and developing a project we hold consultations with the local community and continue to engage the local community once our projects are operational to ensure continued buy-in Project Partners • Sindicatum works closely with partners in our value chain – such as coal mines, sugar mills and landfill owners to ensure that international EHS&S standards are adhered to. We partner only with companies who share our dedication to sustainable development and have signed up to our sanctionable practices governing the responsible way we operate Investors • We believe that integrating sustainability into our investment approach can create opportunities for long-term enhanced risk-adjusted returns for our shareholders, while producing a wide range of benefits for society as a whole Employees • Sustainability is also crucial in relation to our most important asset, our staff. Our aim is to promote a working environment where people feel they are “in it for the long-run”. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 22 Global Outreach On a global level, Sindicatum has strived to expand policies that govern the sustainability sector, often against a changing and unpredictable political backdrop. As well as cofounding the Project Developer Forum – the most respected lobbying group in the carbon markets – we also sit on the Board of the Carbon Markets & Investment Association and Chair the Association for Sustainable & Responsible Investment in Asia4. Our CEO, Assaad Razzouk, has been on a continual mission to speak out to the wider world on the importance of building a sustainable economic future. Figure 1: Caring for Climate Business Forum COP21 – Mr. Assaad Razzouk This is reflected in some 20 articles, blogs5 and interviews in the 2015 alone where Assaad’s ardent appeals for positive environmental change backed by supportive political and institutional reforms are persuasive and inspiring. 4 http://www.sindicatum.com/about-us/partnerships/ 5 http://www.sindicatum.com/author/assaad-razzouk/ Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 23 Engagement and communication with stakeholders With each of our sustainability projects, Furthermore, as part of our third-party we conduct stakeholder consultations in verification processes, independent order to inform, educate and engage all verifiers’ interview a sample of the local individuals and organisations that may be residents during the verification to ensure affected by the implementation of our that social as well as environmental project. As well as our stakeholder standards are being maintained to the consultation programme, we also satisfaction of all local stakeholders. encourage stakeholders to communicate Additionally, the manager of each of our with us if any problems arise at any point projects has Corporate Social during the lifetime of the project. This is Responsibility activities as part of their done in the form of request/complaint yearly KPIs. This leads to staff engaging in boxes positioned at local government activities linked to education and welfare offices surrounding the project area. within the communities that we operate. Stakeholder communication process Stakeholder and local community consultations prior to and during project implementation informing surrounding communities of the benefits of the project while responding to any concerns. Local communities continue to be informed/engaged once our projects are operational. Quarterly shareholder newsletter – reporting on new and future company initiatives, project performance as well as regulatory and market analysis Quarterly Board Meetings and Monthly Executive Committee (senior management) reports and meetings – the minutes of which are circulated to staff so they are kept abreast of business developments. Monthly CEO update to all staff on business performance and strategy and weekly team meetings led by senior management to discuss current and upcoming projects, share ideas and transfer knowledge Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 24 Social Performance The Company’s contribution to sustainable development is implemented through social responsibility principles and practices that take into account the needs and expectations of its stakeholders. In furthering the corporate objective of generating wealth and wellbeing for society, the Company adopts a statement of responsible corporate ethics that is contained in the ten principles noted below:1) Compliance with applicable law in the 6) Encourage communication and countries in which we do business, with dialogue with the various groups the supplemental adoption of related to the Company’s activities, in international provisions and guidelines, order to match corporate values and where appropriate, in those countries social expectations in which the legal framework is 7) Disseminate relevant and truthful inadequate information regarding the activities 2) Respecting human rights and, in carried out and subject such particular, those the violation of which information to internal and external degrades workers, which entails the verification procedures that ensure its opposition to child labour and reliability and encourage the compulsory labour continuous improvement thereof 3) Develop a favourable employment 8) Promote a culture of respect for the relationships framework based on natural environment, reducing the equal opportunities, nonenvironmental impact of the discrimination, and respect for Company’s activities and fostering diversity, promoting a safe and healthy information and training in this culture environment and facilitating 9) Favour transparency and free market communication with the workforce rules, rejecting bribery, corrupt 4) Develop responsible practices in the practices, or other types of chain of value, establishing contributions aimed at obtaining transparent, objective, and impartial corporate advantages, and processes with suppliers and providing respecting the rules of free users with all relevant information competition regarding the principal activities of the 10) Adopt corporate governance Company and its related companies practices, in line with good 5) Promote socially responsible actions at governance recommendations those companies in which the generally recognized in international Company has control or management markets, based upon corporate capacity, and also advance such transparency and mutual trust in the actions at supplier companies through relationships with shareholders and the processes of selection and hiring investors Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 25 Sindicatum’s strategy and policy on human capital are centred on the implementation of Principles 1 – 6 of the United Nations Global Compact: Sindicatum supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights – Principle 1 Sindicatum ensures that our practices are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals – Principle 2 Sindicatum upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining – Principle 3 Sindicatum has eliminated all forms of compulsory labour in its operations – Principle 4 Sindicatum has ensured the effective abolition of child labour – Principle 5 Sindicatum has taken great efforts to abate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals – Principle 6” Underpinned by our commitment to responsible corporate ethics, Sindicatum has established and maintains a robust environmental management system that supports its assessment of all investments against the IFC Performance Standards and includes environmental, health & safety, stakeholder and labour principles. The Director of EHS&S is responsible for developing specific policies, standards, work procedures and reporting requirements to ensure compliance with the IFC Performance Standards. Sindicatum ensures that all its partners comply with its health, safety and environment policies and procedures, all environmental and social requirements, basic terms and conditions or employment and core labour standards, in all cases consistent with the IFC Performance Standards. It ensures its partners and investee companies are contractually obliged through investment agreements to comply with IFC Performance Standards. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 26 Labour Practices, Human Rights & Decent work Sindicatum adheres to the “Core Labour Standards” on child and forced labour, discrimination and freedom of association and collective bargaining, stemming from the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We also require wage, working hours, labour contracts and occupational health & safety issues to conform with conventions 26 and 131 (on remuneration), 1 (on working hours) and 155 (on health & safety). In 2015, Sindicatum had 786 employees who were all under a system established by a professional Human Resource manager. All staff have accepted Sindicatum’s Code of Conduct and received a copy of the Employees Handbook. All of our employment practices comply with the Global Compact’s Labour Principles. Moreover, Sindicatum maintains an anonymous grievance mechanism system in place to remediate any concerns or impacts. As highlighted in the Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report 2014, Sindicatum operates a zero tolerance to forced and child labour and encourages its project partners and service providers to do the same by asking them to review and comply with our Code of Conduct which stipulates the following: “Respect human rights and develop & maintain HR policies and favourable employee relationship based on equal opportunity and non discrimination to improve labour health and work environment with regards to no engagement of child & forced labour.” 6 No. of employees is 86 at the time of writing Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 27 HR Policies & Practices Performance Review and Employee engagement Sindicatum is a private limited company; our employees are therefore not members of trade unions. However, we do not discourage such involvement. Given our flat structure organisation we do encourage an open line of communication between employee and management to nurture relationships and boost productivity. In our most recent performance review (reviewing 2015), we: 1. Provided the following guidelines to management:7 2. Updated our Performance Review Pack to make it more user-friendly and fitting to our business. We formulated the following framework for the employee to prepare for the review and also to ensure/encourage each of our employees to have a voice and feel they contribute and can contribute actively to the direction of the business:8 7 Performance Review – pointers for management, circulated to management on 17 February 2016 by the Group CEO Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 28 Related Party Transactions and Conflict of Interest On an annual basis Sindicatum asks its employees, board members and consultants to complete a Conflict of Interest Questionnaire. In our 2015 questionnaire we incorporated a new section to oversee Related Party Transactions. We believe in and try to operate a policy of transparency and encourage our staff members to disclose any information that may be perceived as a conflict of interest, for and to the business, so that we can manage potential conflicts effectively. However, we do not discourage fair and just bargaining: “This questionnaire provides you with an opportunity to review your position within the Company and to disclose relationships or activities that could potentially present a conflict of interest. Should you respond “Yes” to a question it does not necessarily constitute a conflict of interest. However, full disclosure of the facts should be identified, so a reasonable assessment of the situation can be made by the Board.”9 In this same questionnaire we provide links to and ask every individual to re-visit and reaffirm their commitment to abide by the Sindicatum: • Anti-Corruption Principles and Procedures; and • Code of Conduct We are happy to report that we received 100% of the completed questionnaires for the period 1 January to 31 December 2015. 2015 Performance In 2015, Sindicatum ensured every employee / new employee was issued with an employment contract which stipulates the terms and conditions of service, and most importantly highlights that they can cease employment by following the stated procedures and giving the correct notice. 2016 Targets Implementing fair employment practices is consistent with Sindicatum’s values, boosts Sindicatum’s reputation for hiring based on merit and increases access to a wider talent pool. Unbiased treatment benefits all in the Sindicatum community, improvements in employees’ well-being and retention of competent staff. In 2015, we added the following section to the Sindicatum Code of Conduct, to promote equal opportunities and discourage discrimination on the grounds of the nine Protected Characteristics. “Further to the above, as a member of the United Nations Global Compact we have made a firm commitment to adhere to their ‘Ten Principles’, advocating human rights in the areas of labour, environment and anti-corruption. We encourage all our employees, workers and 8 Performance review pack for the year ending 31 December 2015 circulated to management on 17 February 2016 by the Group CEO 9 Sindicatum Related Party Transactions and Conflict of Interest Questionnaire for the period 1 January to 31 December 2015 Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 29 consultants to familiarize themselves with the Principles and to incorporate the ideology in to their everyday business activities / planning to increase our ethical standing in the business realm. The following sources will provide you with the core fundamentals of the Principles: • Universal Declaration of Human Rights, http://www.un.org/Overview/rights.html • ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, http://www.ilo.org/global/lang--en/index.htm • United Nations Convention against Corruption, http://www.unodc.org/unodc/en/treaties/ “ The HR team noted two separate occasions, at the beginning of 2015, where an age minimum requirement was given on a ‘New Employee Hire Request’ form; this was instantly rectified and deleted. 2016 Targets include: 1. Review the Sindicatum annual performance review process with the objective to introduce a more open and frequent feedback system between the employee and management 2. Draft and introduce a Diversity policy 3. Introduce a system where by any service contractor/provider with a minimum retainer of USD 7,000 per annum also completes a Related Party Transactions and Conflict of Interest Questionnaire for fair practice 4. Review and update the Sindicatum Group recruitment and selection policy so to ensure: a. a proficient and consistent approach to recruitment and selection; b. introduce the Diversity policy; c. attract skilled talent when recruiting in future; and d. That the UN Global Compact Principles 4, 5 and 6 are covered. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 30 Health & Safety Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; – Principle 1 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses – Principle 2 “Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person.”10 Our workers and employees continue to be our main priority. As outlined in our first COP report, health and safety is pivotal to sustaining our human capital and every individual has the right to feel safe and protected in the work place. Assaad Razzouk, Group CEO, reaffirmed this in his 2015 Season's Greetings email to all employees and our consultants: “As 2015 draws to a close, I want to stress the critical importance of environmental integrity and of health safety to our business. In this regard, I ask that every one of you continues to pay the utmost attention to our environmental impact and to our relationship with local communities, fostering equal opportunities and following the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact wherever we operate. Most importantly, I ask that you operate to the highest standards of health and safety and that Project Managers communicate these principles and priorities to our project partners and other relevant stakeholders.”11 Our Investment Approval Process (updated in April 2015) ensures that we carry out the required due diligence at the planning and approval stages of any project / potential project. Our Executive Committee which comprises of our: Group CEO, Group President, Group CFO, Legal Director and Managing Director, Delivery / Climate Change are presented with Approval Papers / Reports identifying how the project could potentially affect the regional area in which it will operate and what factors we have to consider and tackle to ensure we are not negatively impacting the surrounding area and actually providing opportunities. Examples of some of the factors the investment process requires: • Background and Market Environment (competition, growth, alternative technologies, etc.) • Counterparties • Sustainability and Climate Change – discussion of how the project reduces emissions and develops sustainability – where applicable, analysis of issues relating to environmental commodities (eligibility, timing, technical, market and pricing) • Risks and Key Mitigants 10 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, http://www.ohchr.org/EN/UDHR/Documents/UDHR_Translations/eng.pdf, page 2 11 Assaad Razzouk, Email to Sindicatum Internal Distribution List, 30/12/2015 Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 31 In 2015, we continued to work with our project partners to highlight the importance of safe working and following our EHS&S Management System to ensure issues, risks and impacts are identified and the necessary audits and checks are done. Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate (LTI) In 2014 we reported a LTI frequency rate of 0.46 (for every 100,000 hours worked). We are pleased to report that in 2015 our LTI frequency rate fell to 0.31. Although this is an improvement we are still hopeful and aim to bring the rate down to zero for all projects. Incident Information for the Sindicatum Group 2015 Safety Performance Incident Information SSR / JVs Plants and Projects 2015 12 10 Number of Incidents 8 6 4 2 0 Category of Incident Thailand Philippines Philippines Clark Project Indonesia India JV's All project sites incorporate an emergency response plan into their management plan to ensure that any incident is effectively managed and impacts on community and environment are mitigated. All project sites conduct an annual review of its internal emergency response program as well capabilities of the community emergency response organization and develop action plans to address any areas needing improvements. The Director of EHS&S monitors EHS&S Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). Monthly reports are provided to executive management and quarterly reports provided to the Board of Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 32 Directors. These reports cover projects as well as all SSR offices worldwide. Indicators are disclosed in internal performance reports and, in the case of emission reductions for many of our CDM-registered projects, external reports that are verified by third parties under the stringent rules of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. A grievance management is in place at all our projects and settlement of grievances is a part of our EHS&S management system. In addition to the EHS&S standards, a Human Resources management system framework has been established at the corporate and project levels. These are based on SSR’s HR Manual and IFC EHS Performance Standard 2. Reminder of our 2015 Goals and Outcomes: You may recall in our first COP we set out 8 Goals & Targets for 2015 to improve on our EHS&S. In the below table you will see how we performed: Goal / Target set for 2015 Update Initiate dual certification (ISO 14001 & OHSAS Initiated review and update process by our 18001) for India Biomass projects existing EHSS management system per ISO 14001 & OHSAS 18001 standard requirements. Started implementing system at JV sites. Overall Environmental and Social Action Plan Achieved 80% ESAP action points. Balance (ESAP) compliance at 90% or better from 65 – are ongoing activities which are maintained 79% in 2014 at sites. All project sites asbestos free Identified all Asbestos Containing Material (ACM). No new procurement of ACM. Zero lost time accident frequency rate and We are saddened to report that zero fire incidents unfortunately, there were 2 Fatal accidents at our JV partner site. 2015, our FR was 0.31 against 0.41 of 2014. Introduce Spot the Hazard Scheme and Spot the hazard scheme is introduced and recognition at project level followed at site. Along with this scheme, Last Minute Risk Assessment (LMRA) is performed before every activity. Adopt 5S12 for good housekeeping We are yet to make any progress on this. We will try to aim for 2016/17. Implement hazardous material safe storage, Hazardous material storage, handling and handling and disposal at all sites disposal system implemented by ensuring proper secondary containment, Hazard information display etc. Ensure that dedicated EHS&S Resources are in Initiated and shortlisted candidate for JV place at all project sites partner site. Will be on board by February 2016 12 5S is a system to reduce waste and optimize productivity through maintaining an orderly workplace and using visual cues to achieve more consistent operational results. Implementation of this method cleans up and organizes the workplace basically in its existing configuration Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 33 2016 Goals & Targets 1. Ensure 50%+ employees of total strength trained on EHSS topics 2. Ensure issues raised in ESIA/ESDD of new projects are part of the final document seeking investment approval. 3. Implement Corporate ESMS system at new projects in line with IFC PS, WHO and ISO 14001 & OHSAS 18001 standard requirements. 4. Maintain and monitor Environmental and Social Action Plan as per target 5. Zero Fatal Accident and no Lost Time Accident. 6. Ensure Stakeholder engagement at all projects, and address any grievances or other issues as needed 7. Ensure compliance with labour laws and IFC PS, across the company. 8. Initiate process for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programs. 9. Ensure that dedicated ESHS Resources are in place at all new project sites Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 34 Training & Education particular topics – examples include classes on monitoring and verification for Training and education is an essential our climate change team and financial aspect of the training roadmap for all modelling training for our finance teams. Sindicatum employees. The development of skills amongst all of our staff is a priority. Staff are encouraged to lead talks as well Sindicatum encourages staff at all levels as suggest topics for further learning. Our to realise their personal potential through Corporate Finance Team appoints a continual training, further education and ‘Knowledge President’ each month from strong manager-employee relationships. within the team whose responsibility it is to share relevant news articles and Sindicatum has a performance appraisal information to the rest of the team in a bid process which enables management to to keep staff up to date on industry effectively monitor and operate an developments and to foster discussions. effective performance management Sindicatum also financially supports system among all employees across the members of staff who decide to study for Group. This appraisal assists with agreeing external qualifications in order to further individual achievements and setting their personal development. personal goals aligned to corporate objectives and helps to identifying training Although staff undergo a formal review needs and supporting individual process each year in order to discuss and development. map out their development needs in detail, Sindicatum also strongly Sindicatum managers lead (and encourages staff to maintain a dialogue encourage their staff to lead) regular with their managers about their personal ‘Toolbox Talks’ within our organization in development needs throughout the year. order to increase knowledge about Internships and Scholarships As part of our on-going effort to make a positive socio-economic contribution to the regions in which we operate, we have continued with our scholarship programme at TERI University Delhi and have also introduced a scheme at Kasetsart University in Thailand. In In 2015, 2015, Sindicatum Sindicatum reported: reported: • • an average an average ofof 39 hours per 39 hours per month worth of month worth of training training • • an average of 9 hours per month worth of courses an average of 9 hours per month worth of courses • • 7 internship 7 internship placements placements • • 4 scholarships through our 4 scholarships through partnership with our partnership with TERI University in TERI University in India India • • 2 scholarships through our partnership 2 scholarships through our partnership with Kasetsart University in with Kasetsart University in Thailand Thailand Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 35 Diversity and Equal Opportunities management staff are found in an array of Sindicatum teams including HR, finance Our culturally diverse workforce spans 7 and engineering. Sindicatum strives to countries, a wide variety of professional maintain good employee relations backgrounds (finance, engineering, through the promotion of active learning, technology, climate change, IT to name dialogue, flexibility and the formation of just a few) and our teams are compiled of internal networks in the workplace. By people of a range of ages. Equal promoting a culture of openness and opportunities, especially when transparency, we enable people to share considering gender at senior levels, are of their concerns and their experiences. huge importance to Sindicatum. Female Active learning Dialogue Good employee relations Formation of Flexibility internal networks Sindicatum considers its staff as its most and a constant sharing of ideas in order vital asset and endeavours, daily, to to maintain an organization which is create a working environment that is permanently learning and developing its conducive to a happy work-life balance, people. leading to a low staff turnover which in Through formal and informal performance turn helps to protect our company’s review programs, regular training classes, future. In many cases our people have joined Sindicatum to play a significant role supported further education and effective manager-employee in a dynamic team in a pioneering sector. relationships, Sindicatum constantly strives We therefore believe that to maintain to create an environment where all of our motivation for our staff we must be able to provide an environment where employees – full-time, part-time or contract are prepared to take on new individual creativity and positive challenges, develop new skills and take teamwork can flourish. on responsibility for their continuous We aim to empower, inspire and educate learning; all of which contributes to a people. To achieve this, we promote an motivated and happy workforce who organization which is globally linked, with choose to remain with Sindicatum. strong networks between different offices Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 36 Environmental Performance environment and the living conditions of local communities. Sustainability is our The environmental facet of sustainability business, and we believe it is crucial to encompasses Sindicatum’s impact on work within environmental and social living and non-living natural systems. boundaries in order to shift from the Given that we are an investor, developer, reigning economic model to a common owner and operator of clean energy path of decarbonised highly resilient projects and a producer of sustainable economy underpinned by a stabilized products from natural resources and climate. Sindicatum’s strategy and policy waste, this dimension is classified as a key on environmental protection are centred material aspect. Having a global footprint around the implementation of Principles 7, of decentralized clean energy projects, 8 & 9 of the United Nations Global our projects have a direct impact on the Compact: Sindicatum supports a precautionary Sindicatum encourages the approach to environmental development and diffusion of challenges – Principle 7 environmentally benign technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals – Sindicatum undertakes initiatives to Principle 9 promote greater environmental responsibility – Principle 8 Apart from setting the strategic associated with our operations in clean sustainability direction for all departments energy projects and as a producer of and employees, we have integrated an sustainable resources from the utilization Environmental & Social Corporate policy of natural products and waste. into our business operations and Additionally, the policies, procedures and incorporated measures to mitigate protocols implemented are benchmarked environmental impact. This policy was against the International Financial developed to define policy commitments, organizational roles and responsibilities, Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability work procedures and implementation and associated IFC/World Bank EHS arrangements at the corporate level for guidelines. managing environmental & social risks Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 37 Energy Consumption and offices and operational project sites. For Management the remaining projects that are under development and where Sindicatum has Sindicatum’s projects and operations developed projects in the capacity of a produce clean power that is consumed consultant, we have incorporated our by off-takers (businesses and industries) environmental impact in the form of airand the local community (through the travel based emissions. grid). For office based power usage, electricity While these projects mitigate climate is the significant form of energy change overall, our operations also consumption regardless of country of consume energy and as part of this operation and was measured through indicator, we will report the energy metering devices and electricity tariff consumption only by entities owned or rates. The total office based energy usage controlled by our organization. As part of for 2015 amounted to 145,125 kWh which this energy consumption inventory, we represents a 15% decrease from 2014. have included our power use in all of our Annual Office Electricity Usage by Country 70,000 60,830 60,000 50,000 42,860 40,000 Annual Power Usage (kWh) 30,000 20,000 16,154 13,985 10,732 10,000 564 0 Indonesia UK China Singapore India Thailand For 2016, we will target to reduce our office-based energy consumption by 10% from 2015. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 38 Reduction in Energy Consumption Sindicatum’s raison d’etre as a global green brand means that we constantly strive to reduce resource wastage and due to their very nature, our sustainability projects will continue to significantly reduce the use of non-renewable resources for many years to come. Within each of our green projects we are constantly searching for ways to be even more efficient and effective to the environment. For example, in our Indian bagasse-based cogeneration power projects, we will constantly innovate and improve our equipment (such as boilers and steam turbine driven generators) in order to achieve higher efficiency and to enable plants to operate for longer periods on renewable energy resources. Within our own offices, we have achieved a significant reduction, Microsoft Cloud services to replace on-site servers, minimizing power consumption and participating in Microsoft Office 365. Power Generation from Sindicatum’s Projects The very nature of our business is centred on the generation of clean energy and emission reductions. In 2015, net13 generation of clean electricity totalled 326,842 MWh representing an electricity export intensity of 4,190 MWh/employee. For 2016, we will strive to improve on this through ensuring high operational performance at our existing project sites and new projects that are expected to be commissioned and operational. Net Electricity Generation 2015… Year Total India 212,635 Thailand 114,208 Carbon footprint – Emissions Aspect For this aspect, Sindicatum has reporting standards based on the WRI14 and WBCSD15 “Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard”16. This framework encompasses of classifying the GHG emissions into three scopes. A substantive portion of the GHG attributed to Sindcatum’s operations can be categorized under Scope 2 and Scope 3 Emissions in the form of purchased electricity and air-travel respectively. 13 Net power generation is the total power exported to the local grid and is calculated as follows: Gross generation – (auxiliary consumption + power imported from grid + power generation from diesel (if any)) 14 World Resources Institute 15 World Business Council for Sustainable Development 16 GHG Protocol Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 39 There is a very small portion of Scope 1 emissions as a result of emissions from land transport and transportation of agricultural feedstock by vehicles owned by Sindicatum. Scope 1 emissions in 2015 accounted for 402 tCO2e17. For our second sustainability report, we decided to incorporate emissions due to land transport in addition to air-travel to enhance our disclosure and also review operational aspects that have a significant impact. Emissions of ozone depleting substances and Nitrogen and Sulphurous oxides are indicators with negligible impact. In 2015, the environmental footprint as a result of Sindicatum’s offices was 124 tCO2e with our Indian operations accounting for nearly 50% of office-based emissions. Office GHG Emissions by Country 8% Singapore 4% UK 11% China 46% Indonesia Thailand India 31% Total: 124 tCO2e Note: A carbon dioxide equivalent is a metric measure18 used to compare the emissions from various greenhouse gases on the basis of their global-warming potential (GWP), by converting amounts of other gases to the equivalent amount of carbon dioxide with the same global warming potential. 17 Comprised of train & vehicle travel and transport of biomass feedstock 18 Ecometrica (2011). Electricity-specific emission factors for grid electricity Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 40 Project GHG Emissions by Country 8% US 22% China India Philippines Thailand Indonesia 70% Total: 199,980 Our projects accounted for c. 200,000 tCO2e in 2015 in large part due to our Chinese “Coal Mine Methane” project portfolio. With regards to Sindicatum’s Indonesian projects, Sindicatum has an advisory role and we use our climate change expertise to develop the CDM documentation and to manage the registration and on-going CER verification processes. As such project emissions from our Indonesian projects have been accounted for via international & local travel and any resource use under office based emissions. Taking Thailand into consideration, the actual project emissions only includes electricity imported from the Thai grid as most of the auxiliary power consumed is produced on-site from our landfill gas to energy projects. GHG emissions from outside the organization that can be attributed to activities of the organization such as air-travel also account for considerable GHG emissions. We have chosen to measure and report emissions due to air-travel of all our staff using the International Civil Aviation Organization Carbon Emissions Calculator19. Our corporate offices in UK and Singapore comprised of a substantive portion of air-travel in 2015 and this is largely due to frequent business travel as a result of Sindicatum’s overseas expansion strategy. 19 http://www.icao.int/environmental-protection/CarbonOffset/Pages/default.aspx Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 41 Airline GHG Emissions by Office 2015 0% 1% 24% Singapore 13% 2% 1% UK China Indonesia Thailand Total: 212 tCO2e 59% The total GHG emission from the air-travel of for 2015 is 212 tCO2e which represents a 30% increase from 2014. This can be attributed to our aggressive expansion strategy in our renewable energy business necessitating additional overseas travel by our key personnel. Sindicatum Group's Carbon Footprint Scope Impact (tCO2e) Scope 1 402 Scope 2 200,104 Scope 3 212 Total 200,718 Sindicatum’s carbon footprint for 2015 was 200,718 tCO2e. The group’s emissions intensity for 2015 was 2,573 tCO2e/employee20. In 2016, we will strive to reduce our footprint by 10% through (i) Energy efficient operational practices, (ii) Implementing newer/more efficient technology where required and (iii) working closely with our project partners to reduce energy consumption at the projects. Reduction in GHG Emissions In our offices, we educate our staff about the importance of conserving electricity, resources and the importance of good consumption habits. Additionally, we have advocated the use teleconferencing and other web-based communication technology where possible to minimise overseas travel. 20 78 employees globally Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 42 Emission Reductions from our Green Projects21 Last year alone, Sindicatum’s projects22 generated more than 3.2 million tonnes of emission reductions. This equates to abatement of an equivalent volume of GHGs that would have been released into the atmosphere by c. 690,000 passenger vehicles. Emission reductions generated are net of any project emissions and have been verified and issued by internationally recognized standards such as the Clean Development Mechanism (“CDM”) and the California Environmental Protection Agency – Air Resources Board (“ARB”). Our emission reduction projects are subject to 3rd party independent audits to verify that the emission reductions generated are accurate, real and additional. Details of the projects, verification and monitoring reports are published on respective databases. GHG Emission Reductions by Country 7% 22% US China India Philippines Thailand Indonesia 21% 50% Total: 3,271,806 TCO2e 21 Emission reductions are calculated net of project emissions 22 Refers to Sindicatum owned projects and consulting projects Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 43 Asia depend on imported fossil fuel based Economic Performance energy and our projects enable these countries to achieve energy security and The economic facet of sustainability improve balance-of-payments. measures Sindicatum’s impact on economic systems at local, national and Sindicatum’s projects result in high levels global levels. Our ability to create a of local involvement which will improve positive impact on our community forms a the long-term stability of its operations. significant component of the wider Therefore, we invest in the local economic value we create for the community through job creation, local society. supplier contracts and fundraising support for local schools. On a macro-level, we all know that energy is at the core of engaging in all The largest socio-economic beneficiaries economic activity and Sindicatum’s of our projects are the surrounding renewable energy projects play a key role communities who profit from increased in enabling its target markets to meet its job opportunities not just at Sindicatum’s increasing demand for energy. Many of projects but also at the other local the developing countries in Sindicatum’s businesses that arise to support the needs target market of South and South East of the project and its staff. Significant indirect economic impacts and training while propagating the Our projects have more than just a importance of the sustainability message beneficial impact on the environment. on national and international levels. Some They also ensure international standards of the indirect economic benefits to the of health and safety, introduce new extended population include: technologies, and provide skills transfer Bridging the energy demand and supply gap Sindicatum’s projects are mainly located in developing countries that are perennially short of reliable power and bridging the demand – supply gap for power opens up avenues of growth for other businesses and infrastructure in the region. These projects also reduce a country’s dependence on centralized fossil fuel based power generation and subsequently on fossil fuel based price fluctuations. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 44 Development of waste management infrastructure that is sustainable and environmentally benign The international health and safety standards implemented at our project sites by our world-class engineering teams and the very nature of our sustainability projects not only benefit the local employees working on site but also the surrounding communities. In Thailand, for example, the advanced management of waste in our landfill-gas-toenergy projects has resulted in improved local air quality and a significantly decreased risk of fires which, unfortunately, are not an uncommon feature of poorly managed landfills in Thailand and elsewhere. Development of supporting infrastructure such as transmission lines, roads and financial facilities Our Thailand landfill Gas-to-Energy projects handle approximately two-thirds of the municipal solid waste generated in Bangkok. The projects seek to collect landfill gas generated at the site to generate electrical power and maximise climate change mitigation. Apart from producing c.120,000 MWh of clean electricity and reducing greenhouse gas emissions by c. 600,000 tonnes every year, these projects have resulted in the 15km extension of the network connection and transmission line which has helped economic development in the local area with the formation of numerous other factories. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 45 Implementation of ground-breaking first of its kind projects and the benefits accrued creates greater incentives for further investment into clean energy projects in the region Our engineers use their experience and expertise to adapt either new or existing technologies to the specific conditions. For example: 1. Sindicatum’s pioneering nZEM initiative represents the world’s first near-zero methane emissions mining projects. This remarkable achievement is made possible by a highly specialized, international coal mining engineering team that works with local project owners to enhance gas drainage performance and mine safety to international standards. 2. Sindicatum’s highly successful landfill gas-to-energy projects enhanced business competitiveness by introducing technical innovations such a proprietary landfill gas collection system adapted to local conditions; a gas collection system developed by Sindicatum’s engineers allowing higher LFG collection efficiency. This also includes a LFG pre-treatment system to clean the gas of impurities to increase the engine operational hours and reduce engine maintenance cost. Alleviate poverty by job creation, internships and scholarships for local university students studying related vocations At our project sites, the majority of the suppliers are domestic with raw materials being sourced locally. In addition, local workers and contractors are employed through the construction phase and this continues into the operation phase where all staff from the projects are predominantly from the region. Investment in the local community is continual through job creation, local supplier contracts and internship/scholarship programs for local students. Sindicatum’s projects support the local communities and future generation by initiating internship programmes in cooperation with local universities. These internship programs allow students to develop skills in the industry and also create job opportunities. Aside from the sustainability credentials inherent in our core business, Sindicatum staff and management direct a great deal of effort to helping the communities in which our projects operate. We fund education at post-graduate level; taking science graduates in developing countries and providing them with the expertise to become directly involved in sustainability, clean energy and related industries. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 46 Awards and Accolades – 2015 1) Global Business Excellence Awards 2015 Sindicatum’s RenewCo (Renewable Energy) initiative won the Outstanding Green Initiative of the year category for this award. 2) Responsible Business Awards 2015 Sindicatum Sustainable Resources won the smallmedium enterprise category for this award 3) Commodity Business Awards Sindicatum Sustainable Resources was awarded the 2015 Commodity Business Awards for the Excellence in Emission Markets category Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2015 47
