UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Dear Reader The year of 2015 was a busy year for GSOL Energy A/S. GSOL Energy A/S has constructed many different sizes and types of Solar Power Systems around the world. We have constructed Solar Power Systems globally from the cold areas of Northern Europe and down to Southern Africa. In 2015 we also succeed in developing new versions of Hybrid Solar Power Systems in order to support and supply customers around the world. GSOL Energy A/S has kept focus on developing better and more cost effect solutions within renewable energy. I would like to draw attention to the new Solar Power Containers where the development was finalized in 2015. The Solar Power Containers have already ended up in contracts with international organizations. These quick installed Solar Power Solutions are able to be used in a wide range of areas from refugee camps, natural disaster zones to villages in rural areas. The development of these products is an ongoing focus for our company at all time. GSOL Energy A/S has done a variety of tasks with the establishment of renewable energy solutions in African countries in difficult conditions. All tasks has been solved with a fantastic result which means stabile energy sources for the customers and lots of diesel saved. Last but not least, I would to thank everyone at GSOL Energy A/S for the performance which have resulted in progress the last year. On behalf of GSOL Energy’s employees, I reaffirm our commitment to compliance with the 10 Principles of the Global Compact, which will continue to be an important reference for GSOL Energy in our work at maintaining responsible business practices. Mads Halgaard Madsen, CEO GSOL Energy A/S HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. The protection of internationally proclaimed human rights is included in GSOL Energy's business policy and principles and fully integrated in our company management system. Since 2012, as part of the GSOL Energy implementing of a now code of conduct, GSOL Energy has conducted a monitoring process for non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety, labour practices, product, standards, environmental regulatory compliance and anticorruption. 2. Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. We began monitoring our compliance against human rights abuses in 2012. In the period from then until December 2015, GSOL Energy have recorded no incident of human rights abuses either at GSOL Energy or at any partners or subcontractors. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 LABOUR RIGHTS 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. GSOL Energy upholds such a policy for its employees. The policy is included in GSOL Energy's business policy and principles and integrated in our company management system. 4. Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. All employees have individual contracts stating terms and conditions of service and the notice of leave. Our employment policies forbid the use of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Our policies for the selection of sub-contractors and suppliers similarly forbid the use of forced or compulsory labour in our supply chain. The policy is included in GSOL Energy's business policy and principles and integrated in our company management system. 5.Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. GSOL Energy fully supports the policy of abolishing child labour. The policy is included in GSOL Energy's business policy and principles and integrated in our company management system. 6. Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. GSOL Energy has implemented a recruitment policy securing equal employment opportunities based solely upon an evaluation of relevant qualifications. Our policies for ensuring equality of opportunity expressly commit us to working towards elimination of all forms of discrimination based on race, colour, sex, age, religion, political opinion or social origin. The policy is included in GSOL Energy's business policy and principles and integrated in our company management system. We began monitoring our compliance against human rights performance in 2012. In the period from then until December 2015, GSOL Energy recorded no anti-discriminatory code of practice. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 ENVIRONMENT 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. GSOL Energy see it as our corporate responsibility and business role to advise on how to develop green energy solutions where we live and work in ways that are responsible, both now and into the future, using increasingly scarce natural resources wisely. This is why our focus segments are: Solar energy, Sustainable Buildings and recycling of renewable products after being used Operations: since 2013 GSOL makes a yearly 'environmental challenge and what can we do' report. 8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. GSOL Energy undertakes a number of initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Every project we undertake has an impact on the environment. That is why GSOL Energy's purpose is to enable our clients to make informed decisions and wellconsidered investments as they invest in green energy solutions. Growing urbanisation and population and climate change have generated a new set of issues for our clients in both the public and private sectors. Issues like how to guarantee the supply of energy. How to protect land against flooding. How to meet the ever increasing demand for mobility. How to improve the buildings we all live and work in. And how to deal with tomorrow’s energy challenges. GSOL Energy’s areas of expertise are key in helping clients create smart and practical solutions for these issues in proving green energy solutions. Together, we make a lasting contribution to a changing world. As corporate responsibility is of great value in the execution our projects, we also have to take up these responsibilities in our own operations. We are committed to developing and applying new technologies and processes that have great value in executing our projects in a sustainable way. These involves best possible planning in transport and recycling of green energy solutions. Most of GSOL Energy's suppliers are ISO-9001 certified and most suppliers are certified according to ISO-14001. These management standards help us to comply with (environmental) legislation, improve the quality of environmental performance in our projects and to identify potential risks. 9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. GSOL Energy contributes positively to some of the world’s most pressing environmental problems through its innovative solar solutions and technologies. We solve problems, design and engineer green energy solutions and supervise or monitor their implementation – all from a sustainable perspective. GSOL Energy is making a widespread effort to encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our responsibility to the use and development of environmentally friendly technologies is included in GSOL Energy's business policy and principles and is integrated in our company management system. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti corruption is an important part of GSOL Energy's business policy and principles and is integrated in our integrity management system. We began monitoring our compliance against corruption 2012. In the period from then until December 2015, we have recorded no incident of corruption either at GSOL Energy or at any partners or subcontractors. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 • To ensure the exact right solar PV system for our customers, we GSOL ENERGY recommend having a site inspection, where we have an in-depth IN BRIEF Site inspection discussion about objectives for the solar system, what product possibilities will fit requirements, placement of solar panels, access to battery banks etc. GSOL Energy has over 20 years of experience in sustainable energy and specializing in solar power. • Our experienced and certified technicians will help to size and design a Our core competencies are advising and supplying Sizing & tailor-made system as per your requirements. We will provide clear configuration drawings of our solutions and provide power calculations showing exact high quality PV systems like roof-mounted, groundcapacity. mounted and building-integrated PV systems, offgrid hybrid systems and Solar Containers. GSOL can solve all kinds of work that deals with design, • Our in-house shipping department will handle all orders from dispatch of shipments from Denmark to any destination worldwide. As most installation and servicing of PV systems. Shipping & logistics systems are quite heavy, most deliveries take place in either 20’ or 40’ containers, but we also have the possibility to airlift equipment for rapid deliveries, e.g. in case of emergency. GSOL Energy is a part of United Nations Global Compact which reflects our desire to share the responsibility to participate in solving global • GSOL Energy’s technicians will be onsite to ensure fast and correct challenges in areas such as human rights, labour, Installation & installation and commissioning of the delivered systems. Often systems environment and anti-corruption. commissioning are installed within a week and will immediately start to produce CO2 neutral power. GSOL Energy is a member of the Danish Solar Association which is the trade association for companies that specialized in PV systems and • As a unique feature we can offer to do remote monitoring of the Remote system installed systems, providing our customers with the security and related technologies. easiness that the installed solar PV systems are running as efficiently as monitoring planned. We take great pride in supporting our customers from configuration phase through installation & commissioning to the after sales support. • Hence the far and often remote locations of our delivered systems, we are dedicated to continuously supporting our customers with after sales After sales support support, whether it is replacement of faulty items, new spare parts or up-grade of existing system. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016
