The start of a new future Nomura Holdings, Inc. Nomura Report 2016 About Nomura Report 2016 < Additional Information > Please visit the Nomura websites if you require more detailed information than has been included in this Nomura Report. In FY2012/13, we began publishing the Nomura Report, an integrated version of our annual report and our citizenship report, which detailed our CSR initiatives. We hope that this integrated report helps readers gain a broader understanding of our activities to support sustainable development and aim to grow and develop together with our stakeholders, including our clients and shareholders, as Asia’s global investment bank. • Nomura Holdings Website • CSR Website • Investor Relations Website http://www.nomura.com/ http://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/ http://www.nomuraholdings.com/investor/ Basic Information in the Report Forward-Looking Statements This Nomura Report contains forward-looking statements about the future plans, strategies, beliefs, Period Covered Entities Covered Reference Guidelines and performance of Nomura Group. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts. They April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016 Nomura Holdings, Inc. and its major subsidiaries • Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) are expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections based on information currently available to (Some content may be outside this time frame.) and affiliates This report contains information regarding the standard disclosure the Company and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, which, without http://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/group/ items contained in the fourth edition of the GRI Sustainability Reporting limitation, include market trends, economic trends, competition in the financial industry, laws and Numerical data are presented alongside inforGuidelines. Please access the following URL on our corporate website for regulations, and tax systems. As such, actual results may differ materially from those projected. mation on the scope of companies covered. our GRI Guidelines Index. http://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/gri/index.html • Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 Version) of Japan’s Ministry of the Environment • Charter of Corporate Behavior of Keidanren P. 17 〜 P. 2 〜 P. 12 〜 P. 63 〜 Nomura Actions for Performance Review & Leadership Shaping Our Future Today Data Section A look at the current state of Insights into management’s Based on our philosophy of “placing our clients In this section, we present the basic information needed to underNomura Group. thinking and the current status of at the heart of everything we do,” Nomura stand Nomura Group, beginning with our performance history, the Executive Officers and Senior Group continues to innovate and take up in addition to our Company-wide and business segment results Managing Directors. new challenges to drive sustainable growth, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 and Nomura Holdings’ along with undertaking a variety of activities to financial strategies. fulfill our corporate social responsibility (CSR). We hope that this section will increase your understanding of these and other actions. Nomura Today 2 Message from Message from Corporate Governance 39 Key Financial Data 64 CSR Key Facts 74 12 18 the Group CEO the Group COO Financial and Compliance 45 Message from the CFO 66 Independent Assurance 78 4 Non-Financial Highlights Executive Officers and Shaping Our Future with 16 20 Senior Managing Directors Actions in Each Division Risk Management 48 Performance Review of History 79 69 The Principles Established Divisions by Nomura’s Founder and Actions Across the Regions 28 6 CSR Management 50 Global Network 80 the Current Corporate Eight-Year Consolidated Culture Advisory Board 31 Financial Summary 72 Contributing to Sound and Nomura Securities 52 (US GAAP) 81 Sustainable Capital Markets Domestic Network Nomura Group Directors 34 Businesses Underpin 8 Our Founder’s Principles Contributing to Sustainable Share Data / Credit Rating 82 54 Outside Director’s Communities 37 Message At a Glance / Corporate Data 83 10 Business Segments Fostering Human Resources 58 with a Respect for Diversity Our Environment 61 Nomura Report 2016 1 Nomura Today Overview of Nomura Group Presence of Nomura Group Nomura Group is Asia’s global investment bank with an integrated network spanning over 30 countries and 28,865 70 regions. By connecting markets East and West, we service the needs of individuals, institutions, corporates and governments through our three business divisions: Retail, Asset Management, and Wholesale (Global Group-wide Markets and Investment Banking). More than countries Number of employees Number of nationalities among Group personnel Nomura Holdings As of March 31, 2016, 28,865 employees were Executives and employees working in working in Nomura Group in Japan and the Nomura Group are citizens of more than 70 rest of the world. Of these, 44% were working countries. The goal of the Group is to create outside Japan. a corporate culture where staff with diversified Asset Management backgrounds can mutually respect each Retail Division Wholesale Division other’s values and work together. Division Nomura Today Wealth Management Global Investment ¥100.6 159 Retail Markets Banking Division trillion branches (1,214 consolidated subsidiaries and consolidated variable interest entities as of March 31, 2016) Number of Nomura Securities Branches Retail client assets in Japan Retail client assets, a sign of the trust placed Through 159 branches nationwide, Nomura Assessments from Third Parties in us by our clients, was ¥100.6 trillion as of March 31, 2016. This was twice the size of the Securities provides meticulous products and services that suit each individual client’s needs. balance of client assets of the second largest company, which was ¥51.0 trillion. Inclusion in SRI Indices • Dow Jones Sustainability Indices The world’s first sustainability equity indices, Nomura’s CSR initiatives and environment, social, Dow Jones & Company and RobecoSAM, ¥40.1 24.8 % jointly choose the companies to be included Asset and governance (ESG) information disclosure in these benchmarks Management practices have been widely recognized outside the • FTSE4Good Index Division trillion Company. Nomura Holdings has been selected for FTSE, a subsidiary of the London Stock exchange, has created a socially responsible Assets under management Share of public investment trust market inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, investment index by selecting excellent in Japan companies from around the world the FTSE4Good Index, and, as of January 2016, The total balance of assets, including Nomura Asset Management’s share of the the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment • MS-SRI investment trusts and exchange-traded funds, public investment trust market in Japan was Index (MS-SRI), all of which are socially responsible Morningstar, Inc. selected 150 companies from Japanese and overseas individual and 24.8%. We are maintaining our leadership, that were assessed as excellent socially aware institutional investors that have been entrusted by far outstripping the second largest asset investment (SRI) indexes. Furthermore, in November companies from among companies listed in Japan, and created Japan’s first socially responsible to us for management as of March 31, 2016 management company in Japan, which has a 2015, Nomura was selected for inclusion in “100 investment index by indexing their stock prices was ¥40.1 trillion. 14.5% share. (Source: The Investment Trusts Most Sustainable Companies in Asia” announced by Association, Japan) Channel NewsAsia, the CSR think-tank CSR Asia, • 100 Most Sustainable Companies in Asia Channel NewsAsia and other ESG organizations and the ESG assessment organization Sustainalytics. 63.1% 64.0 % rank companies in Asia with the best ESG indicators Wholesale Division Credit Rating Percentage of Japanese listed companies Rating and Investment Percentage of revenues from overseas A+ Standard & Poor's A– which name Nomura as lead / deputy underwriter Information, Inc. (R&I) Nomura Securities, which is the core operating Over the years, Nomura Group has built a Wholesale revenues for the fiscal year ended company within Nomura Group, has received ratings Japan Credit Rating relationship of trust with its clients. We have March 31, 2016 totaled ¥720.3 billion, of AA– Fitch Ratings A– of A rank or higher from five Japanese and overseas Agency, Ltd. (JCR) been named as the lead underwriter by 38.8% which 64.0% was contributed from overseas. of Japanese listed companies and 63.1% of Through a network covering more than 30 rating agencies. Japanese listed companies, including roles as countries and regions, we offer global products Moody's A3 deputy underwriter (on a market capitalization and services to a wide range of clients. (As of June 30, 2016) basis). We support a wide range of clients as regards their financing and financial affairs. 2 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 3 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights Net revenue Income before income taxes, Net income* Members of the board (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Percentage of Percentage of 2,000 400 Outside Directors non-Japanese Directors 55% 27% 1,814 1,557 1,604 1,536 1,500 1,396 300 Number of Number of 225 Outside non-Japanese 1,000 200 214 Directors Directors 132 6 of 11 3 of 11 500 100 107 12 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (End of June 2016) (End of June 2016) Nomura Today (Fiscal years ended March) (Fiscal years ended March) ■ Income before income taxes Net income* * Net income attributable to Nomura Holdings shareholders. EPS* ROE Women in managerial positions Ratio of employees by region (Yen) (%) (Employees) (%) (%) 80 10 1,500 20 100 8.9 8.6 20 20 20 23 24 60.03 8 16 80 60 55.81 15 9 9 9 9 15 8 1,000 15 14 13 6 13 13 13 60 12 12 4.9 40 35.52 10 28.37 4 4.9 40 500 56 57 58 56 56 20 5 2 20 0.6 3.14 0 0 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Fiscal years ended March) (Fiscal years ended March) (End of March) (End of March) * Diluted net income attributable to Nomura Holdings shareholders per share. ■ Number of women in managerial positions (lhs) ■ Japan ■ EMEA ■ Americas ■ AEJ Percentage of women in managerial positions (rhs) Total assets RWA, Tier 1 capital ratio* Education and training expenses Social contribution-type bonds (Trillions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) (Bonds) 2,972 2,880 24 50 20,000 20 3,000 200,000 25 43.5 2,515 41.8 41.1 2,441 40 37.9 16.1 20 35.7 15,000 15 150,000 19 14.2 13.2 2,033 2,000 30 12.9 15 11.9 10,000 10 100,000 14 11 20 10 1,000 5,000 5 50,000 10 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 (End of March) (End of March) (Fiscal years ended March) (Fiscal years ended March) ■■ RWA (lhs) ■ Tier 1 capital ratio* (rhs) ■ Proceeds (lhs) Bonds issued (rhs) * Figures for March 2012 were prepared under Basel 2.5 standards. Figures for March 2013 to March 2016 were prepared under Basel 3 standards. 4 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 5 The Principles Established by Nomura’s Founder and the Current Corporate Culture Carrying Forward Our Founder’s Principles Our Founder's Principles Are To this day, Nomura Group employees draw on the ten principles handed down from the founder for inspiration in their business activities. We introduce some examples of the principles here. the Cornerstone of Our Business Activities Ten principles set out by our founder We remain committed to enriching society by delivering superior services and solutions to our clients that meet all their investment needs. This has been our 5. Staying one step ahead 7. Human resources unwavering spirit since our founding. It is our social mission and our raison d’être. Shohei Goto Philipp de Cassan Our History & Founder's Principles Founder Tokushichi Nomura Managing Director, http://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/basic/ Deputy Manager Financial Consulting Section, Namba Branch, Head of Euro Flow Rates Trading, Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Nomura International plc Nomura Today 1. Nomura’s raison d’être I make comprehensive proposals on business succession, Here at Nomura in London, I oversee our group’s risk reorganization and M&As to corporate customers, as well and trading decisions, where we show liquidity in “Nomura’s mission is to enrich the nation through the securities business. This is something as inheritance strategies for individual customers. Through financial assets to our clients from across Nomura's we must absolutely see though.” counseling customers, I try to find out their various needs broad franchise. We are always working very closely such as a real estate transaction or an M&A. I then work with our international client base, in order to help them 2. Principle of putting the customer first with our specialized Head Office departments and affiliate achieve the best possible outcome for their investment “We must place our customers’ interests before our own.” companies to come up with forward-looking solutions. or hedging needs. We constantly strive to come up When a certain customer was having difficulty trying to with innovative and strategic solutions for our clients, 3. Global ambition sell an apartment building, we went a step further to often working closely with our colleagues in Asia. This “Nomura is destined to become an active player on the international stage.” propose the sale of the corporation that nominally owned approach ensures that our clients know that we are the building instead. As a result, the customer invested fully committed to delivering best-in-class solutions for 4. Emphasis on rigorous research and analysis the proceeds to other financial products through us. The them and reinforces how we are linking markets East “We have a duty to research scientifically the intrinsic nature of all securities.” customer was very pleased and surprised by the reach of and West. our financial consulting services. Apart from our investment 5. Staying one step ahead capabilities, I also draw on the Group’s organizational strengths to come up with new ideas for customers. “Always strive to stay one step ahead. Standing still is retrogressive.” 6. Entrepreneurial spirit 8. Emphasis on team work 10. Customer service mindset “If, as an entrepreneur, you can determine something to a 70% certitude, you must have the courage to take up the challenge even though some uncertainty remains.” Keishi Nobukuni Mizuho Sugiura 7. Human resources Deputy Head, Equity Capital Markets Deputy Manager Financial Consulting “Nomura underscores the fact that the development of human resources, acquisition of Dept./Capital Markets Dept., Section, Okazaki Branch, talented personnel and ability to match the right talent with the most appropriate position are Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. more formidable assets than sheer capital strength.” In 2015, three companies of the Japan Post Group To further the depth of our customer consultations, 8. Emphasis on team work held their initial public offering (IPO) at once. To guide we are using tools developed by the Company to run “It is the management’s task to see that Nomura employees take responsibility and pride in this IPO to success in coordination with the client and lifelong financial planning and inheritance simulations their work and to form a unified team under the control of branch office managers.” many divisions within the Company, it was important and make tailored proposals. In the process, we for each member of the team to demonstrate their often listen to the daily worries of our customers in 9. Business development frame of mind abilities as a professional. To make sure that we addition to their asset management needs. My job maintained smooth interaction between all parts of is to suggest the best products in anticipation of “We must have the courage to boldly follow the path of our convictions.” the project, we strove to keep the team organization changes in the market. But I also think that it’s my 10. Customer service mindset compact so as to remain in close communication with job to understand what customers plan to do with the client and to centralize the management of the their lives and what they’re trying to accomplish with “If you conduct your work in a mechanical manner, believing simply that your role is over once IPO. We had to take on many initiatives for the first their investments. I’m always ready to listen because the deal is done, there is no use in drawing on the strengths of those around you.” time, including a briefing for individual investors at 12 I want to be of assistance when customers are willing locations throughout Japan, but the Company worked to open up their hearts. together as a team to make the project a success. 6 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 7 Nomura Group Businesses Underpin Our Founder’s Principles Looking Ahead Based on our philosophy of “placing our clients at the heart of everything we do,” Nomura Group leverages our high-quality management resources to develop creative solutions for our stakeholders. We deliver value-added services to our clients through our core businesses while also engaging in key CSR initiatives that will help Nomura establish Output a solid position as Asia’s global investment bank. Value creation Establish solid position as Input Wide range of stakeholders Economic value “Asia’s global Nomura Today Shareholders Clients Creditors • Deliver stable profitability investment bank” Management Governments and central banks and investors Suppliers • FY2019/20 management target: Environment Employees EPS of ¥100 resources • Invest in areas of growth and Community generate appropriate shareholder Capital exchange, payment for services, Deliver value through core returns constructive dialogue, etc. business functions Financial capital Create value Sales of secondary products Underwriting, syndication and distribution required by • Robust financial position Provide creative of primary deals and Corporate value, • Efficient allocation of solutions M&A advisory brand-building our global management resources Asset management Provide • Win clients’ trust stakeholders and investment advisory services liquidity Human capital • Develop a unique corporate culture • Diversified talents Retail • High sense of ethics and professional and social norms Added value, innovative services Intellectual capital • Deliver competitive products, services and solutions • Knowledge of financial Collaborate across Asset • Create financial innovation products divisions and regions Management Wholesale • High-quality research Social capital Social value • Mission to provide Corporate Nurture human products and services governance resources with • Contribute to society through our to the public markets a respect for core businesses diversity • Coexist and coprosper with Compliance Dialogue with stakeholders regional societies Risk Contribute to sound management and sustainable capital markets Key CSR Initiatives of Nomura Group 8 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 9 At a Glance / Business Segments Clients Channels Highlights » P.20 Our Services Our Focus Retail Nomura Securities 22.7% • Individual investors • Regional government agencies Retail Division provides a broad range of Income before 5,389 thousand accounts • Regional financial institutions • 159 branches nationwide financial products and services through its income taxes: • Corporates • Call centers and websites head office and its nationwide network of 159 ¥127.6 billion • Educational institutions branches, as well as Nomura Net & Call (online• Other legal entities Retail client assets: All accounts held at based platform and call centers), to individual securities companies and corporate clients. Nomura also develops ¥100.6 trillion in Japan: • Equities • Bonds its Wealth Management Business in Japan and 23,737 • Investment trusts Number of thousand accounts Asia ex-Japan. branches: • Insurance • Enhancing in-depth identification of client needs 159 • Discretionary investments • Expanding recurring revenue by increasing client assets • M&A advisory Source: Japan Securities Dealers Association • Real estate (agency services) Nomura Today • Inheritance and business succession services » P.22 Nomura Asset Management Asset Management • Domestic investment trusts: Securities companies, banks, 24.8% • Individual investors Japan Post Bank, insurance companies, and other intermediary sales companies Asset Management Division operates globally, with Income before ¥23.0 trillion • Domestic and overseas pension income taxes: funds • Domestic investment advisory: Direct sale of services to Nomura Asset Management playing a central role. pension funds, institutional investors, etc. Investment trusts business offers a wide lineup of ¥36.7 billion • Governments and central banks • Institutional investors, etc. • Overseas business: Intermediary sales companies and direct products through a broad range of channels such as Total net assets of Assets under sales of services to pension funds, institutional investors, etc. securities companies (including Nomura Securities), publicly offered management: investment trusts banks, post offices and insurance companies. Investment advisory and overseas business provide ¥40.1 trillion in Japan: ¥92.4 trillion • Domestic equities and bonds • Further improving fund performance high-quality products and asset management services Share of ETFs in Japan: • Asian equities and bonds • Strengthening capabilities for providing products and to a broad spectrum of institutional investors, including 48% • Global equities and bonds solutions matching client needs pension funds in Japan and overseas, government (Source: The Investment Trusts Association, Japan) Source: The Investment Trusts • Balanced funds • Establishing a highly transparent corporate governance organizations, central banks, commercial banks and Association, Japan structure • Absolute profit-type investments insurance companies. » P.25 Nomura Wholesale 27.9% • Financial institutions • Institutional investors Wholesale Division consists of two businesses: Income before Ranked No.1 • Network covering more than 30 countries and regions • Corporates Global Markets providing financial products and income taxes: • Governments and government solutions and secondary market liquidity, and ¥15.4 billion entities Investment Banking offering capital-raising transacTotal transactions Countries possessing tions and advisory services. of the Japan ECM the Primary Dealer League Table: Nomura Group provides diverse services to qualification • Underwriting of bonds and stocks • Offering solutions that match client needs and a broad range of clients including corporates, $ 45.1 billion • M&A advisory regional characteristics government entities and financial institutions in World's major • Syndication of financial products, • Strengthening cross-divisional and cross-regional Japan and overseas. markets provision of liquidity collaboration 15 countries (April 2015 to March 2016) • Proposals for investment, high-level execution • Connecting markets East and West Source: Thomson Reuters * Income before income taxes is for FY2015/16, and the remaining figures are as of March 31, 2016, unless otherwise defined. 10 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 11 Message from the Group CEO We continue to transform ourselves and take on new challenges to improve satisfaction among clients, shareholders, and employees. Looking Back can feel excited about their job. We have kept refreshing our organization by promoting It is now four years since I took over as Group younger managers and have proactively rotated CEO in August 2012. people between divisions. In addition, we are Leadership At that time, Nomura faced an unprececonducting regular employee surveys that target dented number of complaints from our clients our entire population in order to gauge the and dissatisfaction about our slumping share current understanding of the firm. We have also price in the wake of a scandal. Our internal focused on promoting a risk culture by having culture had become restrictive and our organiall employees understand and follow the firm’s zation was outdated. This caused satisfaction stance towards risk. Koji Nagai Group CEO levels of our stakeholders to drop dramatically. I For shareholders, although we could not made it my first mission to raise the satisfaction make a commitment regarding our share price, levels of clients, shareholders, and employees, we committed to returning our EPS to ¥50 by while rebuilding the firm from the ground up. March 2016, the end of the range it was at To improve client satisfaction, I announced before we conducted two capital raisings and that our underlying approach would be to put our earnings slumped. We achieved this target clients at the heart of everything we do. This two years ahead of schedule. meant moving away from a product-driven sales approach where we pushed products to the Our Founder’s Principles and clients. Instead, we would have to listen closely Nomura’s Corporate Culture deregulation, Nomura then transformed itself principles: “Principle of putting the customer to what they had to say and work to be chosen from a securities firm to a financial services first.” Based on this philosophy, it is critical that by our clients as a true partner. For instance, Nomura celebrated its 90th anniversary in group. In this way, Nomura has continued to we continue to transform ourselves. the needs of retail clients extend beyond just December 2015. Although Nomura was estabtransform itself in line with the changing times We also place great importance on corporate financial products. They require services for all lished in 1925, we can trace our roots back and take on new challenges. ethics. In 2015, we established Nomura their assets, including real estate. To respond to further to 1872 when Nomura Shoten was We have been able to survive for 90 years Founding Principles and Corporate Ethics Day so these needs, we established new organizations established as a moneychanger. thanks to our ability to transform ourselves to that employees never forget the fact that we lost and introduced more training programs so our Nomura grew from a moneychanger to a adapt to the unpredictable markets in which we the trust of society and learned many lessons from employees can improve their consulting skills. huge conglomerate before the end of World operate. the insider trading incidents related to capital To improve employee satisfaction, we War II when it as was dismantled. Nomura then Nomura has ten principles that we follow raisings in 2012. This is an opportunity to reflect changed our corporate culture to an open one embarked on an extensive international push called Our Founder’s Principles (see p.6 ). Our on our founding principles and for all officers and by bringing down the walls between divisions on the back of the rapidly expanding Japanese philosophy of putting clients at the heart of employees to understand our past and recognize and creating a workplace where everyone economy. Driven by the shift to financial everything we do comes from one of these the heavy social responsibility we bear. 12 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 13 Message from the Group CEO Towards Further Growth Investments announced in December 2015, we Achieving Continued Growth raising stakeholder satisfaction levels. are accelerating our growth to become a global In the year ended March 2016, we estabIn August 2014, we outlined a long-term asset manager. Nomura’s social mission is to contribute to lished our Corporate Governance Guidelines management vision targeted at the fiscal year To improve profitability in Wholesale, we have economic growth and social development as a way to ensure transparent, fair, swift, and ending March 2020. We expect our operating stringently managed costs and taken a number through the securities business by promoting the decisive decision-making. environment to change more than ever. But of steps to raise our global market share to the appropriate flow of funds in the capital markets. we see this as the perfect chance to change high 3% range. Aside from our core business, we are actively Transforming Ourselves and ourselves. That is why we named this Vision C&C. However, in the current environment, we are involved in contributing to society by providing Taking on Challenges There are two main themes for this vision: seeing the impact of monetary policies around opportunities for people all around Japan to 1. Transforming our domestic business model the world coupled with heightened geopolitical learn about economics and finance in order to Our operating environment will continue to 2. Further improving the profitability of our uncertainties. At the same time, U.S. and expand Japan’s financial markets and enhance change not only until 2020 but through to our international operations European firms that played the role of liquidity financial literacy. 100th anniversary in 2025. Nomura will transform In addressing these issues, we are laying providers have significantly reduced their operaInternationally, we have participated in the itself to deliver continued growth under any the ground for all divisions to achieve continued tions due to regulatory requirements. This has UN Global Compact since 2015. We support the environment and contribute to economic growth Leadership growth in any market environment. resulted in volatile markets and a deeper than voluntary actions advocated by the UN and are and social development by promoting the shift In Retail, we aim to gain client trust and expected drop in market liquidity. working to ensure sustainable growth based on from savings to investment for Japan’s more expand our business, focusing on delivBased on a conservative assumption that Our Founder’s Principles and the Code of Ethics than ¥1,700 trillion in personal financial assets. ering products and services matched to the this environment will continue in the foreseeable of Nomura Group. individual needs of each client. Our Retail key future, we decided to step up our focus on core Communication with all stakeholders is We look forward to your continued support performance indicators (KPIs) are Retail client businesses and significantly reduce our cost becoming increasingly important. Transparent as we transform ourselves and take on new assets of ¥150 trillion and a recurring revenue base. Specifically, while we will maintain our corporate governance is a critical factor in challenges. cost coverage ratio* 1 of approx. 50% by 2020. current business lineup in Japan and the rest As of March 2016, we had Retail client assets of Asia, we have decided to close or streamline of ¥100.6 trillion and our recurring revenue certain businesses in EMEA and the Americas. cost coverage ratio was 25%. We remain focused on improving profitability Asset Management is making steady to deliver consistent earnings under any progress to achieving its target of assets environment. under management of over ¥50 trillion. With *1 Total Retail expenses divided by recurring revenue. Recurring revenue refers to revenue received from ongoing services related to client our strategic alliance with American Century assets such as investment trust administration fees. Key Performance Indicators (KPI) to reach our FY2019/20 management target FY2019/20 FY2019/20 Income from three Segments before income taxes ¥450-470 billion management target Division Retail Income before income taxes ¥195-205 billion Client assets ¥150 trillion August 2016 Recurring revenue cost coverage ratio Approx. 50% EPS Asset Income before income taxes Management Assets under management ¥55-60 billion*2 ¥50 trillion +α*2 Koji Nagai Group CEO ¥100 Wholesale Income before income taxes ¥200-220 billion*2 Fee pool market share 3% plus *2 Revised in December 2015 in line with the changed environment 14 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 15 Executive Officers and Senior Managing Directors (As of June 1, 2016) Actions for Group CEO Koji Nagai • Group COO Tetsu Ozaki • Retail Head of Retail Division Eiichiro Yamaguchi • Shaping Asset Management Head of Asset Management Division Kunio Watanabe Steven Ashley Wholesale Joint Heads of Wholesale Division Kentaro Okuda Head of Global Markets Steven Ashley Our Future Global Markets Global Markets Co-Head Yasuo Kashiwagi Head of Global Markets EMEA Yutaka Nakajima Investment Banking Head of Investment Banking Kentaro Okuda Head of Americas David Findlay Americas Co-Head of Americas Tsutomu Takemura Executive Chairman, EMEA Minoru Shinohara EMEA Head of EMEA Jonathan Lewis Head of Asia ex-Japan Toshiyasu Iiyama Asia ex-Japan Based on our philosophy of “placing our clients at the heart of Co-Head of Asia ex-Japan Takeo Aoki everything we do,” Nomura Group continues to innovate and Banking Banking Chie Toriumi take up new challenges to drive sustainable growth, along with Chief of Staff Shoichi Nagamatsu • undertaking a variety of activities to fulfill our corporate social Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Takumi Kitamura • responsibility (CSR). We hope that this section will increase your Group Entity Structure and Co-CRO Yuji Nakata • Chief Risk Officer (CRO) Lewis O’Donald understanding of these and other actions. Chief Information Officer (CIO) Kaoru Numata Group CAO (Wholesale IT, Global Operations, Paul Spanswick Facility Management) Head of Group Compliance and Operations Tomoyuki Teraguchi Corporate Chief Legal Officer (CLO) Yasushi Takayama Deputy Chief of Staff and Group Strategy Yo Akatsuka Group Corporate Communications, Corporate Citizenship and Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Hajime Ikeda Paralympic Global Head of Human Resources Kenji Kimura General Services Rikiya Nonomura Asia Strategy (China) Toshihiro Iwasaki Internal Audit Group Internal Audit Junko Nakagawa • indicates an Executive Officer 16 Nomura Report 2016 Message from the Group COO Koji Nagai Group CEO Tetsu Ozaki Group COO Japan AEJ EMEA Americas “Our long-standing commitment to building relationships of trust Retail Eiichiro Yamaguchi Head of Retail Division with clients underpins the Koji Toshiyasu Iiyama Minoru Shinohara David Findlay competitive advantage of the Nagai Head of Asia ex-Japan Executive Chairman, Head of Americas Asset Kunio Watanabe EMEA Nomura brand.” Management Head of Asset Management Division Takeo Jonathan Tsutomu Tetsu Aoki Lewis Takemura Ozaki Co-Head Head of Co-Head of of Asia EMEA Americas Steven Ashley ex-Japan Wholesale Kentaro Okuda Joint Heads of Wholesale Division Tetsu Ozaki Group COO Cooperation with business infrastructure division heads Actions for Shaping Our Future Our operating environment is at a crucial point debate over the state of capitalism and financial medium to long term. For over 90 years, Nomura Driven by this corporate culture, senior for two reasons. services. Regulations have been tightened, has met the needs of our clients and faced management has a strong commitment to First, our clients’ needs are increasing placing downward pressure on the earnings market fluctuations together with our clients. implement change and take on new challenges dramatically and becoming more diverse. It has of financial institutions. As FinTech and other During that time we have built up an organitogether with the strong leadership we have in been difficult to forecast the recent significant financial innovation accelerate, business models zation that is speedy and responsive, focuses on our management matrix across divisions and moves in interest rates and currencies, which could also be completely transformed. innovation by developing new schemes, and has regions. We have delegated appropriate authority have impacted the economic activity of governthe people and organizational strength to make to division heads, business infrastructure division ments and corporates as well as investment Amid this environment, we will take the time all that happen. Nomura’s corporate culture heads, and regional heads in order to improve results for investors. As a result, our clients to understand the issues our clients face and is founded on listening closely to our clients’ the expertise in each area and ensure close require diverse solutions. In Europe and Japan proactively provide solutions in a timely way, needs and not shying away from change or new collaboration centered on each head. With this where interest rates have entered negative working hard for our clients at this historical challenges. vertical and horizontal management approach, territory, many financial institutions, investors, turning point by placing them at the heart of This corporate culture based on relationships we can cooperate together and maintain a and corporates require new solutions. In Japan, everything we do. As a partner to our clients, of trust with clients runs through all of us and stable management structure globally. for example, many industries and companies we will further differentiate ourselves and provides a solid foundation for differentiation and of different sizes are working to improve capital continue to achieve efficiencies to ensure profits will give us a significant competitive advantage Our global clients place high expectations on efficiency and setting out their growth strategies and continue to transform and take on new under the Nomura brand. We have over 70 us every day. Each of our clients is in the midst for the next generation. This is an area where challenges for the next generation. nationalities working for us. Our corporate of historical changes and faces new challenges. client needs are growing. culture is based on mutual respect of diverse Nomura will focus on meeting the expectations Second, the financial services industry is in Corporate culture is critical when it comes views across divisions and regions and this is of our clients and delivering results while transthe middle of a historical transformation. Since to addressing the next generation and ensuring something we work to develop globally in all forming ourselves and taking on new challenges. the global financial crisis, there has been much competitiveness that sets us apart over the regions. 18 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 19 Shaping Our Future with Actions in Each Division Retail Division S • Largest branch network in Japan’s securities sector and client base centered on wealthy individuals • Insufficiency of engaging clients’ core assets W Stre n g th s Weakn esses • Sophisticated consulting services • Level of recurring revenue, earnings Responding to • Differentiation from other securities firms structure exposed to market environment by collaborating with various Group • Acquisition of younger clients Clients’ Diversifying functions and creation of new business Needs and Concerns Along with Era’s Changes. O • Challenges of asset management in a • Rise of online securities firms • Close relationship between mega banks T Opportunities low interest rate environment Th reats and clients • Actualizing needs of inheritance • Trends in FinTech and impact of new Eiichiro Yamaguchi Head of Retail Division technologies Strengths of the Division Recent Business Conditions and Risks Actions to Shape Our Future advisory for smallto medium-sized enterprises, completing 37 transactions in FY2015/16, up Retail Division provides a broad range of financial Amid a greying of the population, client needs Aiming towards “winning client trust” and from 13 in the previous year. products and services through its nationwide are diversifying into addressing such risks as “business expansion,” our Retail Division has In July 2015, we invited preeminent network of 159 branches as well as Nomura Net preparing for longer life and succession of been working to transform its business model leaders of the regions to become members of & Call (online-based platform and call centers). assets to the next generation. With the Bank since August 2012. The Division is targeting Branch version of Advisory Board, and receive As of March 31, 2016, Nomura held 5.389 of Japan's introduction of the negative interest to achieve Retail client assets of ¥150 trillion, advice and suggestions on our initiatives and Actions for Shaping Our Future million client accounts (excluding those without rate policy, our individual and corporate clients a sign of trust placed in us by our clients, and businesses so we could provide better service balances), with client assets totaling ¥100.6 are concerned about how to safeguard their a recurring revenue cost coverage ratio* of to the clients. trillion. This represents 23% of the securities money, and are waiting for a variety of asset approximately 50% by FY2019/20. We also focus on proposing solutions for accounts in Japan. management solutions. On the other hand, this With an eye on transforming the business the entire families of our customers through One of Retail Division’s strengths is its policy could encourage individuals to move their model, Retail Division has been taking various Junior NISA, a junior version of Nippon Individual sophisticated consulting services. For individual money out of savings accounts into investments. actions to correspond to clients’ needs. These Savings Account which started this year, and investors, we provide tailored services to each Risk factors include changes in the global efforts have begun to show steady results. For Estate Planning Reports, a comprehensive client by listening to their life plans, family economy such as weak crude oil, slowdown example, the volume of real estate transactions service for customers taking action regarding structure and goals. Consulting services and in the Chinese economy and uncertain exceeded ¥80 billion in FY2015/16. In addition, inheritance matters. periodic follow-up advice are provided through monetary policies. Risks also entail potential we have seen a steady increase in M&A * Recurring revenue is revenue from ongoing services linked to assets under custody, such as fees from investment trusts. Nomura Financial Tools, which include advice adverse effects on Retail Division's operating based on the future life plans, assets and environment such as expansion of FinTech in inheritance matters of each client, as well as the financial sector and the declining population Asset Portfolio Reports, which include advice of Japan. Initiatives to Improve Products and Services and analysis of entire portfolio, even assets held outside Nomura. Efforts to Improve Customer Satisfaction Another major strength is to provide high-quality products and services by leverRetail Division is redoubling efforts to improve customer satisfaction. With members including the Head of Retail Division and other senior managers of the division, the Customer Satisfaction Improvement Liaison aging our expertise within the Group, including Committee meets once a month to discuss how to improve products, services and systems based on Wholesale and Asset Management Divisions. customer feedback. The Branch Customer Satisfaction Survey was conducted for the five times, asking approx. 250,000 customers in total about their experience visiting our branch offices (details on results of the survey may be found on page 74). In addition, we conducted customer satisfaction surveys for sales representatives. On our website, we show the 20 sales representatives who received the best assessments from customers as financial consultants chosen by customers. 20 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 21 Shaping Our Future with Actions in Each Division Asset Management Division S • Sophisticated in-house research and investment capabilities, and multimanager fund management systems • Room for improvement in our presence outside Nomura Group W To better meet the needs of our clients, Stre n g th s • Capabilities for global product devel• Different stages of progress in retail development in Japan versus overseas Weakn esses opment and supply we are strengthening our • Ability to propose and provide solutions • Business expenses need to be reduced through greater efficiency tailored to diverse needs of clients investment capabilities while focusing on product development and the proposal of solutions. O • Growing needs for asset management around the world, tailwinds from system reforms • Global stiff competition • Tougher regulatory environment after T Opportunities Th reats • Global business expansion from business the financial crisis partnership with American Century Investments • Pressure of reducing fee level Kunio Watanabe Head of Asset Management Division • Further address diversifying client needs Strengths of the Division Recent Business Conditions and Risks Management Division is making every effort to which an Outside Director also participates, has latch onto these trends in the development of formulated company-wide policies to address In addition to sophisticated in-house research Reforms being advanced by the Japanese new products. issues relating to the environment, social, and and investment expertise, Asset Management government have provided a tailwind for the governance (ESG). With proxy voting and Division’s strengths include its ability to select asset management industry, such as raising tax Actions to Shape Our Future engagement through investee companies for external managers through its multi-manager fund exempt amounts in the Nippon Individual Savings increasing their enterprise values, we encourage management system, which works with excellent Account (NISA) program, introducing a Junior Asset Management Division is focusing on growth them to strengthen their governance structures to Actions for Shaping Our Future fund managers outside the Company to augment NISA program, and expanding the range of people in overseas operations. By leveraging UCITS* , 2 achieve sustainable growth and aim to increase in-house investment capabilities. qualified to contribute to defined contribution the European criteria for investment trusts, we returns on investments for beneficiaries over the Asset Management Division has been expanding pension plans. aim to expand overseas business by offering such medium term. Furthermore, we established the into differentiated investment products such as Moreover, the asset management reforms by products to global institutional investors, private Fund Management Council, of which the majority high-yield bonds, absolute profit-type investment the Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF), banks, and retail channels. of members are independent Outside Directors, funds, smart beta indexes, and exchange traded one of the largest pension funds in the world, are Moreover, we are reinforcing our business in order to verify that our fund management funds (ETFs) in addition to our traditional foothold bringing about significant changes in the industry. foundation in North America through a strategic activities, such as investment trust product develin Japanese and Asian equities, where we have These changes have presented Asset Management business partnership with American Century opment, redemption and consolidation and policy extensive experience and track records. Also we Division with many business opportunities. Investments (ACI), an investment management firm of investment trust fee level, meet the fiduciary promote research and development by pilot funds However, conditions in the industry have in the U.S. duty standards so that our clients’ interests are and mergers and alliances with other companies for become more challenging as a result of industry Our Responsible Investment Committee, in adequately protected. complementary global investments. consolidation, such as moves by major banks and *2 UCITS stands for “Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities” and is a general term referring to funds that meet certain criteria Another strength is our ability to propose regional financial institutions to strengthen their established in European Union Directives. UCITS is part of a basic investment trust framework focused on the EU, but has also been adopted in some countries in Asia and Latin America. solutions tailored to the various needs of our asset management businesses. Nomura’s Asset clients, combining a variety of investment products Management Division aims to reinforce its in-house and services. Not only do we offer investment investment capabilities and its sales network in Initiatives to Improve Products and Services products to customers including individual order to enhance its competitiveness. Telephone Support Service investors, institutional investors, intermediary The introduction of a negative interest rate sales companies and financial institutions, we also policy has had negative consequences as bond Nomura Asset Management has set up a dedicated telephone support service to field inquiries about investment trusts from individual investors provide evaluations and analytical information about funds are losing attractiveness due to declining and intermediary sales companies. In the fiscal year ended March 2016, external asset management companies, a fund yields in the money market, but it could have the the service responded to 36,922 inquiries. In addition to using this wrap management platform, and various consulting considerably positive effect of accelerating the support service to carefully explain our products to clients, the opinions services related to asset management. shift from savings accounts to investments. Asset and requests obtained through this channel are a precious information resource that is used to develop new products and services that better fit the needs of our clients, as well as to further raise service quality. *1 Absolute profit-type investment funds employ an asset management method that seeks to realize profits on investment principal. These funds do not necessarily guarantee a positive return. Absolute profit type investment funds are generally shielded from market trends, but their performance largely depends on the investment capabilities of the fund managers. 22 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 23 Shaping Our Future with Actions in Each Division F e at ure Wholesale Division A Strategic Partnership By leveraging Nomura’s strength in Asia-Pacific, with American Century we are effectively connecting markets Investments ACI’s logo is the oak tree which is symbolic of continued growth and stability. To honor our East and West, and delivering competitive services partnership, ACI presented Nomura with the bronze statue pictured above. to our clients. On May 19, 2016, Nomura Holdings acquired a non-controlling approx. 41% economic interest (voting rights of 10.1%) in American Century Investments (ACI), Global Markets an independent investment management firm in the U.S. Looking ahead, Nomura and ACI intend to work together as strategic partners. Investment Banking A Partnership with Advantages A Common Founding Spirit and for Both Companies Corporate Culture Strengths of the Division position for U.S. Agency Securities*3 (Fannie Founded in 1958, ACI is an independent investment The founder of ACI believed that “if we help others Mae, Freddie Mac, etc.). We were also ranked management firm based in the U.S., with offices in the U.K. become successful, they, in turn, will make us successful.” and Hong Kong. This saying, similar to Nomura’s founder’s principle of At Nomura, all the divisions and regions work #7 in the Global SSA*4 underwriting league table. ACI has a strong presence in the U.S. mutual fund “putting the customer first,” illustrates ACI’s and Nomura’s collaboratively to provide best-of-breed products As our clients globalize their businesses, market, which is about 22 times the size of Japan’s, and common values. Nomura was also attracted to ACI and solutions to meet the diverse needs of our we have strengthened our cross-regional and has particular expertise actively managing U.S. and global because of its corporate culture and practice of appreciclients globally. For example, we have a robust cross-divisional collaboration in Wholesale to equity funds. In addition, ACI has strong connections to ating and praising employees who work enthusiastically to underwriting and distribution capability, with offer holistic support to clients encompassing Actions for Shaping Our Future key distribution channels including leading global advisors, help their clients succeed. banks, and insurance companies. > For information about Nomura’s founder’s principles and our current shares and bonds underwritten by Investment cross-border M&A, capital-raising, and currency Given the minimal overlap between Nomura’s and corporate culture, please refer to page 6. Banking and distributed to a broad investor base and interest rates hedging. ACI’s investment strategies, products and regional Regular Management Meetings Will globally by Global Markets and Retail branches. coverage, both companies expect the strategic partnership Enhance Strategic Direction will bring value to its organization. To date, ACI has had Global Markets also provides secondary Recent Business Conditions and Risks limited business development opportunities outside of the Jonathan S. Thomas, CEO of ACI, and Kunio Watanabe, market liquidity, market and macro insights, U.S., making Nomura Group’s strength in Japan and Asia Head of Asset Management Division, jointly chair the and investment ideas to help clients effectively FY2015/16 was a challenging year, with extremely attractive. Nomura Asset Management plans to Business Opportunity Committee that will be held twice access and leverage ACI’s expertise to offer a wider range a year. During its first meeting on April 19, 2016, the manage their portfolios. macroeconomic headwinds emerging from the of investment management solutions to our individual and committee outlined concrete strategies that will shape Nomura positions Asia-Pacific as our resurgence of the Greek debt crisis, the slowdown institutional clients in Japan and the rest of the world. Nomura’s partnership with ACI and contribute to the “mother-market.” We have an unparalleled in the Chinese economy, diverging central bank growth of the two companies. presence in Japan, as evidenced by our #1 rank policies, and a sharp decline in commodity prices, in the Japan ECM underwriting league table* , 1 especially crude oil. Secondary market liquidity and a top-tier market share of volumes traded in including stock, bond and loan markets declined Tokyo Stock Exchange and a high market share further during the year, impacting client activity in JGB auctions. and the fee pool for the industry. Nomura’s international network spans more In primary markets, the issuance of equities than 30 countries and regions including the and bonds decreased on the back of volatile Americas, EMEA and Asia ex-Japan, and we markets and global economic uncertainty. The support clients globally. This is complemented M&A market was very active with an increase in by 15 primary dealerships in major markets companies looking to expand their businesses around the globe, a Top-10 U.S. Fixed Income through industry consolidation or strategic franchise* including a Top-3 market maker 2 acquisition of companies. *1 Source: Thomson Reuter (April 2015 to March 2016) *2 Source: Greenwich Associates, 2015 From the left: Kunio Watanabe, Head of Asset Management Division; Koji Nagai, Group CEO of Nomura Holdings; *3 Source: U.S. Federal Reserve *4 Sovereign, Supranational and Agency. Source: Dealogic (Jan to Dec 2015) Jonathan S. Thomas, CEO of ACI; Michael Green, Senior Vice President of ACI; and Mark Killen, Senior Vice President of ACI 24 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 25 S • Asia-Pacific leadership, particularly in Japan • Global client base through an interna• Seeking efficient usage of resources to improve international productivity W Stre n g th s Weakn esses tional network that covers more than 30 • Relatively high sensitivity to market countries fluctuation • Leading facilitator of cross-border transactions globally O • Increase in globalization of Japanese / APAC corporates • Tailor-made products and innovative • Macroeconomic uncertainty and geopolitical risks • Further impact from tightening regulaT Opportunities Th reats solutions to meet specific client needs tions on financial institutions • Connecting “West” to Asia growth and • Increased competition from domestic Joint Heads of Wholesale Division Kentaro Okuda Steven Ashley Asia to develop market products and global peers / mega banks In FY2016/17, we expect the market expertise and competitive advantages, and on the back of mediumto long-term growth in October 2015, we arranged and sold Education, environment to continue to be challenging. On position our business to deliver sustainable profit the region. We will continue to deliver competYouth and Employment (EYE) Bonds to retail the regulatory front, we continue to pay close across market cycles. itive products and services to our clients by investors in Japan. Also, our continuous efforts attention to the pace of reform. The purpose of In detail, we continue to strengthen our connecting markets East and West, leveraging resulted in a total sale of over ¥56 billion in these regulations is to ensure the stability of the Global Macro business including Rates products our strengths in Asia-Pacific as well as our broad World Bank Sustainable Development Bonds, broader financial system, the health of relevant and our Emerging Markets platform, building client base and strong product capabilities in making it this product’s largest distributor in entities and the protection of clients. However, on our success in the past few years. We also EMEA and the Americas. the Uridashi market. We will continue to offer Actions for Shaping Our Future required changes to comply with upcoming remain focused on reinforcing our agency investment products that contribute to the rules may lead to a reduction in capacity and execution business, Instinet, which includes Promoting Socially Responsible resolution of social issues and help create a liquidity provided by market participants. It is expanding our product offering to position the Investment (SRI) more affluent society by serving as an intermeour mission to play a role as a liquidity provider business as a multi-asset agency platform. diary between individuals who are interested in and respond to the various needs of our clients, In the M&A advisory business where we see Nomura has been promoting SRI as an participating in providing solutions to social and while maintaining a resilient risk culture as well increasing client demand, we continue to investment strategy for Japanese retail investors, environmental issues, and projects or funding as flexible resource allocation. provide high-quality services while also seeking and established a track record in this field. In needs in developing countries. Furthermore, the Corporate Governance to provide clients with ancillary financing and risk Code went into effect in June 2015 in Japan. As solutions including interest rates and FX hedges. our corporate clients look to improve their ROE, The new Wholesale structure has reinforced we will provide tailor-made solutions to meet the partnership between Global Markets and the specific requirements of each of our clients. Investment Banking, which should encourage For example, we have supported many clients in product innovation and improve ‘time to market,’ Initiatives to Improve Products and Services unwinding their cross shareholdings and share especially for our Solutions businesses. buybacks using derivative solutions. Such strategic review of the businesses in Global Research Portal EMEA and the Americas will enable us to have Nomura’s global research team collaborates across regions and products to Actions to Shape Our Future a stronger focus on our areas of strength, which provide clients with insightful opinions and investment recommendations in should support our transition to a more profitable core areas including the economy, equities, quantitative strategies, foreign In April 2016, Wholesale conducted a strategic and sustainable business model. In Asia-Pacific, exchange, interest rates and credit. Our team has achieved high acclaim from review of the business portfolio in EMEA and the our business will not be negatively affected by our clients. They are easily able to access our research online at the Global Americas. The purpose of this exercise was to these changes. We will maintain and seek to Research Portal (GRP), where they have the option to automatically receive reallocate our managerial resources to further further grow the existing full-service platform, to the latest reports of their choosing through GRP’s mail delivery service. focus on selected businesses where we have tap into various business opportunities that arise Research reports are provided online in Japanese and English. 26 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 27 Actions Across the Regions Actions Across the Regions Americas EMEA Our focus is to support Nomura’s The Americas commitment global vision to connect markets East to sustainable profitability is and West, and to improve EMEA’s unwavering. sustainable profitability. David Findlay Head of Americas Jonathan Lewis Head of EMEA The Americas represents the largest financial Americas region. To do so, we will emphasize the The key priorities in EMEA (Europe, the Middle and efficiently across businesses, ensuring they market in the world. Over time, the market has importance of working across regions and across East and Africa) are aligned with Nomura’s are targeted to our most valued clients. grown dynamically while adapting to change divisions to leverage our diversified franchise and underlying approach to our international business. This year, we have both enhanced and refined and promoting financial innovation. We started play a key role for our global clients. We will continue to strengthen our global our regional corporate governance, most notably to organically rebuild our business in the region Our ability to adjust to evolving markets is client franchise, focus on areas of competitive with the appointment of Jim Leng as Chairman in 2009 and, as markets evolve, we continue to critically important and our management team advantage and improve profitability. of NEHS, who brings a wealth of boardroom take the steps required to grow stronger, build our remains focused on how the macro environment EMEA is dedicated to serving a diverse experience from a wide range of international Actions for Shaping Our Future franchise and use our advantage in Japan and Asia and financial regulations may affect our businesses. range of important clients including institutional companies. We also aim to develop a culture that to connect markets East and West. We remain flexible and nimble and will optimize resources and improve efficiencies to enhance our investors, financial institutions, corporates, promotes proper conduct and accountability, Our Wholesale business provides differentiated services that meet each of our client’s individual value proposition to our clients. Our commitment financial sponsors and government entities. This empowers colleagues and embeds a collaborative needs. In Global Markets, we offer a full range to our clients remains steadfast and we will means that the region is critical to Nomura’s environment. of products across Equities and Fixed Income, continue to deliver value-added services to meet global business vision of connecting markets East All of these changes will not only provide more focusing on our areas of strength. In Investment our long-term goals by achieving sustainable and West. value to our clients but also improve Nomura’s Banking, we continue to deliver superior service to profitability. However, Nomura’s regional strategy is EMEA and international profitability. We have our clients across M&A, ECM, DCM and Solutions. a selective model. In light of the challenging taken steps to significantly reduce both our cost Our Asset Management business, Nomura business environment, we have recently refined base and risk-weighted assets over the last few Corporate Research and Asset Management our proposition to a more focused product offering years, and this vigilance on costs and return on (NCRAM), complements the Americas Wholesale that plays to our strengths. resources will remain. EMEA now has a strong franchise. With high-yield investment as its core For example, we have a strong Rates business foundation to further strengthen our franchise and competency, NCRAM continues to win large and have been developing our G10 Foreign drive sustainable regional profitability. institutional mandates and grow assets under Exchange and Emerging Markets’ franchise. management. In addition, we recently entered into a strategic alliance with American Century Our Solutions business builds on our intellectual Investments, which could expand our presence capital to provide bespoke structured solutions in the U.S. and also allow Nomura to access to financial institutions, corporates and sovereign American Century’s asset management capabilities clients. In Equities, we recently made strategic for our retail and institutional clients around the choices to exit certain product lines. Our business world. is now centered on equity sales of Japanese We believe it is imperative that we work and Asian stocks, as well as ECM for Japanese together to deliver the superior products and issuers. We deliver these services and solutions innovative solutions that are expected of the through a globally integrated Wholesale structure. This enables us to allocate our resources flexibly 28 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 29 Actions Across the Regions AEJ Advisory Board Nomura Holdings formed its Advisory Fully committed to Board in 2001 to advise the firm’s Executive Asia ex-Japan. Management Board, which is responsible for making decisions on business executions. In 2015, Nomura newly appointed four preeminent Asian leaders as Toshiyasu Iiyama Head of Asia ex-Japan its eighth Advisory Board members and held its second meeting in Tokyo in February 2016. The meeting was held over two days with executives in attendance and opinions were exchanged from a variety of perspectives on matters including Nomura’s business development in Asia, social infrastructure needed to bring about growth in Asian countries and the type of support that capital markets can provide. Advisory Board members also visited the Head Office Sales The fast-growing region of Asia ex-Japan (AEJ) needs for funding and investing. While tougher Department in Nomura Securities, where they received an explanation is a critical part of Nomura’s core strategy competition is anticipated in the long run, we and watched on an iPad how Retail Division provides clients with to establish a solid position as Asia’s global will continue to establish a solid operating consulting services. “We were impressed with Nomura’s people and investment bank. The scale of the financial platform that can generate profits sustainably by their consulting skills. Nomura will prove to have a strong competitive markets and the number of high-net-worth leveraging our strengths to capture client needs edge overseas,” some of the Advisory Board members commented. individuals in the region are both expected to and continuing to transform ourselves and take expand rapidly. Nomura has been committed on new challenges. Actions for Shaping Our Future to AEJ for 50 years. Over this time, we have We intend to continue to invest strategically built up an extensive presence across twelve in talent to enhance key business areas and countries and regions. We offer a diverse range countries where we see the greatest long-term of services to a broad client base that includes opportunities and potential with the view to governments, central banks, corporates, institumeeting clients’ needs. Also, our philosophy of tional investors and retail clients. placing clients at the heart of everything we do As the market matures, we expect to see a will remain central to our core values, and we rapid increase in the number of high-net-worth will continue to further enhance communication individuals and an expansion in direct financing. with clients. In line with this, our clients’ needs are becoming In Asia, Retail and Wholesale can work increasingly sophisticated and diverse. For together to create synergies using our instance, in infrastructure space, we believe we two-pronged approach that has been successful can play a significant role in response to client in Japan for many years. With Nomura’s global vision of connecting markets East and West, we will collaborate within the Group and integrate our products and coverage teams further to deliver seamless solutions across divisions and regions. Front row, from the left: Mr. Deepak Parekh, Mr. Goh Chok Tong, Mr. Sofjan Wanandi, and Mr. Kan Trakulhoon Back row: Nomura Group management In FY2015/16, AEJ reported its second consecutive profitable year despite the difficult Mr. Deepak Parekh Mr. Goh Chok Tong Mr. Sofjan Wanandi Mr. Kan Trakulhoon (India) (Singapore) (Indonesia) (Thailand) operating environment. We will continue to Chairman of HDFC Group Emeritus Senior Minister of Singapore Senior Advisor to the Vice President Director and Chairman of the Management Advisory capture the opportunities in Asia and focus on Chairman of HDFC since 1993. He Prime Minister of Singapore from 1990 of Indonesia Committee of SCG has successively filled roles on various to 2004 and Senior Minister from 2004 Former Chairman of APINDO (Indonesian Former President and CEO of SCG, one of Thailand’s most future growth going forward. high-powered economic groups, governto 2011. He has been Emeritus Senior Employers Association) and founder of the reputable industrial conglomerates established in 1913. ment-appointed advisory committees, and Minister of Singapore and Senior Advisor Santini Group. He has been Senior Advisor Chairman of the Management Advisory Committee from 2016. task forces. to the Monetary Authority of Singapore to the Vice President of Indonesia since He was recently awarded the 2014 Deming Distinguished since 2011. November 2014. Service Award for Dissemination and Promotion (Overseas). 30 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 31 Message from an Advisory Board Member Discussing Nomura’s Growth from a Global Perspective Advisory Board Member The Nomura Group Has Goh Chok Tong Emeritus Senior Minister of Singapore Great Growth Potential in Asia Prime Minister of Singapore from 1990 to 2004 and Senior Minister from 2004 to 2011. He has been Emeritus Senior Minister of Singapore and Senior Advisor to the Monetary Authority of Singapore since 2011. Please give us your view of the global with and invest in other economies in the region. economic situation, including the uncertainty in There are areas, such as robotics or infrastructure financial markets. technology, that Japanese companies have an advantage in, and Japanese companies will do The current slowdown in the developed economies, well to export their expertise, in particular to the and to some extent the emerging economies, emerging economies. will continue to lead to uncertainty in the financial Asia ex-Japan needs immense investments in markets. Slower global growth rates are a strucinfrastructure such as for transport and energy. The tural issue. For the developed economies generally, Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) has been we see a continued decline in productivity growth. set up, although Japan is not involved, so we are There is no easy way to achieve sustained on the verge of having a global system for estabI suggest that Nomura increase its brand Nomura’s aim to look beyond Japanese markets growth in the future, and countries will have to lishing infrastructure. Japan has also expanded awareness in these markets, and establish itself as and explore new ideas with non-Japanese advisors. raise productivity through long-term measures of its Partnership for Quality Infrastructure program, a trusted partner in the emerging markets. It also To me, this is an enlightened approach as I underinvestment in new technologies, education and under which Japanese agencies would partner with can draw on its wide networks in the Japanese stand that most Japanese companies tend not to Actions for Shaping Our Future continuing re-training of workers. the Asian Development Bank (ADB) in providing up market, pick up detailed messages from customers, have foreign directors and advisors. Looking at the Asian region, the Chinese to $200 billion in funding for infrastructure projects and seek to link Japanese companies with other The Nomura Advisory Board comprises economy is currently in a transition phase. As their over the next 5 years. With funding available for partners that are looking for advice in addition to preeminent persons from throughout Asia. The labor force ages and growth slows, moderation infrastructure from the ADB and AIIB, Japanese investment funds. Advisory Board’s current members, Mr. Wanandi in the economic growth rate is expected. The companies which have expertise and experience in from Indonesia, Mr. Parekh from India and Mr. Chinese government is also looking at rebalancing executing major projects will benefit. What is your impression of Nomura’s Trakulhoon from Thailand all have expertise and the Chinese economy away from exports toward Even for China’s proposed One Belt One Road management team? How should the Nomura fine track records, and we are capable of providing internal consumption and services. There will be (1B1R), there will be opportunities for Japanese management team make the best use of the Nomura with appropriate opinions from various some short-term adjustment costs. companies. The Maritime Silk Road, for example, Advisory Board? different perspectives. It is my desire to play a role I am optimistic about the longer-term prospects will benefit Japan, given that Japan is a major ensuring the Advisory Board will be actively utilized of the regional economies, in particular China, commercial maritime nation. I think Nomura’s management team is prepared to as an advisory organ by Mr. Nagai and the Nomura India and ASEAN. The number of middle income listen, ask questions and learn. These are positive management team. consumers continues to grow. If they manage to What is your view of Nomura’s initiatives attributes for growth. When we first met in June last The management team should continue to successfully reform and make the transition, the aiming to contribute to the development of Asian year, the management team sought the views of challenge the Advisory Board by asking good potential is immense. capital markets? the Advisory Board on Nomura’s business in Asia. questions and seeking more in-depth knowledge Geopolitically, there are areas of disputes The Advisory Board members were also learning from us. over sovereignty of islands and seas. They get The Nomura Group has great growth potential in about Nomura and its business. Nevertheless, they I think before future meetings, the management head-lined. But I believe these disputes will be Asia. Having firmly established itself in the Japanese shared some areas where Nomura could explore. team can pose specific questions or areas which managed. Put these disputes in the multi dimenmarket, Nomura can build on its strong working This February, when we had our second meeting they want the individual advisors to comment on. sional and long-term context of relations between relationships with Japanese firms and existing in Tokyo, the management team had prepared a Advisors are not “all-knowing. But they can do the disputing countries, and it is clear that there is networks in its Asian offices, and work as a bridge very detailed brief on the areas we had discussed some research and thinking on these issues before too much to lose for all if they get out of hand. for Japanese companies to invest their funds in in June. We then had two days of meetings where they meet the management team. other countries. In particular, I see Southeast Asia the management team asked deeper questions to For me, I hope to contribute to Nomura’s growth What role do you think Japan and globally and India as regions where Nomura can expand glean more insights from the Advisory Board. We by sharing my insights on the global and regional active Japanese companies should play amid the its reach and invest even more resources. This is a even had a working discussion during lunch! political and economic landscapes. Personally, current environment? particularly good window for Nomura as traditional Not only is the management team hardworking I have also learnt from sharing with the Nomura investment banks from the West are looking to but it is also very much on the ball. As I undermanagement team and the other board members. Japan and its companies should find ways to work reduce their roles in emerging markets. stand it, the setup of the Advisory Board is part of 32 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 33 Directors of Nomura Holdings (As of July 1, 2016) Nomura Holdings’ organizational design is the Company with Three Board Committees structure, where the oversight Hisato Miyashita Director, Member of the Audit Committee (Full-time member) function is strengthened by separating the management oversight and business execution functions, enabling the Company Jul. 1987 Joined the Company Jun. 2012 Senior Managing Director of the Company, Group to realize an expedited decision-making process through the Board of Directors delegating considerable authority for the Jun. 1993 Joined Union Bank of Switzerland (currently UBS) Compliance Head (concurrently Senior Managing Aug. 1996 Joined Bankers Trust Asia Securities Ltd. Director of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd.) execution of business functions to Executive Officers, and to realize increased transparency through establishing three Apr. 1998 Joined Credit Suisse First Boston Securities (Japan) Limited Apr. 2013 Senior Managing Director of the Company, Group Compliance Dec. 1999 Joined Nikko Citigroup Limited (currently Citigroup Head (concurrently Representative Executive Officer of Nomura (Nomination, Audit, and Compensation) board committees, each comprised of a majority of Outside Directors. Global Markets Japan Inc.) Securities Co., Ltd., Internal Control Supervisory Manager) Mar. 2005 Executive Officer of Nikko Citigroup Limited, Internal Apr. 2015 Senior Managing Director of the Company, Deputy Chief of Control Supervisory Manager Staff and Group Compliance Head (concurrently Representative Jul. 2009 Management Director of Group Compliance Executive Officer and Senior Corporate Managing Director of Department of the Company Nomura Securities Co., Ltd., Internal Control Supervisory Manager) Apr. 2012 Senior Managing Director of the Company, Head of Apr. 2016 Advisor of the Company (Current) Nobuyuki Koga Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chairman of the Nomination Committee, Wholesale Compliance Jun. 2016 Director of the Company (Current) Chairman of the Compensation Committee Mr. Miyashita has engaged in legal and compliance work for many years at a number of securities companies, including the Company, and by Apr. 1974 Joined the Company Jun. 2003 Director, President & CEO of the Company (concurrently working in positions such as the Group Compliance Head of the Nomura Group, he has extensive experience and knowledge in the compliance Jun. 1995 Director of the Company Director and Executive Officer and President of Nomura field. As a full-time member of the Audit Committee, he contributes to enhancing the effectiveness of audits by the Audit Committee. Apr. 1999 Managing Director of the Company Securities Co., Ltd.) Jun. 2000 Director and Deputy President of the Company Apr. 2008 Director and Representative Executive Officer of the Oct. 2001 Director and Deputy President of the Company Company (concurrently Director and Chairman of Dame Clara Furse Outside Director; External Member of the Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee (concurrently Director and Deputy President of Nomura Nomura Securities Co., Ltd.) Securities Co., Ltd.) Jun. 2008 Director and Chairman of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Feb. 1983 Joined Phillips & Drew (currently UBS) Jan. 2001 Chief Executive of the London Stock Exchange Group Apr. 2003 Director and President of the Company (concurrently Jun. 2011 Director and Chairman of the Company (concurrently Jun. 1990 Non-Executive Director of the London International Jun. 2010 Outside Director of the Company (Current) Director and President of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd.) Director and Chairman of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd.) Financial Futures Exchange (LIFFE) Apr. 2013 External Member of the Bank of England's Financial (Current) Jun. 1997 Deputy Chairman of LIFFE Policy Committee (Current) May 1998 Group Chief Executive of Credit Lyonnais Rouse Mr. Koga, who has held a number of significant positions, including Director and President of Nomura Holdings and Director and President of Nomura Securities, and currently holds the positions of Vice Chairman of Nippon Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) and Vice Dame Clara Furse has held a number of significant positions, including Chief Executive of the London Stock Exchange Group, and she Chairman of the Japan Securities Dealers Association, is well-versed not only in the business of Nomura Group but also in the customs of was also made Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire. Her achievements and insights have been evaluated highly both the securities industry, and contributes to the smooth operation of the meeting of the Board of Directors, acting as chairman. within and outside of the Company. Applying her global and extensive experience with respect to financial businesses, Dame Clara Furse contributes to the Company as an Outside Director. Takao Kusakari Outside Director, Member of the Nomination Committee, Member of the Compensation Committee; Special Advisor of NYK Line Michael Lim Choo San Outside Director; Former Executive Chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers, Singapore Apr. 1964 Joined Nippon Yusen Kabushiki Kaisha (NYK Line) Apr. 2009 Director and Corporate Advisor of NYK Line Aug. 1972 Joined Price Waterhouse, Singapore Sep. 2002 Chairman of the Land Transport Authority of Singapore Aug. 1999 President of NYK Line Jun. 2010 Corporate Advisor of NYK Line Jan. 1992 Managing Partner of Price Waterhouse, Singapore Sep. 2004 Independent Director of Olan International Limited Apr. 2002 President, Corporate Officer of NYK Line Jun. 2011 Outside Director of the Company (Current) Oct. 1998 Member of the Singapore Public Service Commission Jun. 2011 Outside Director of the Company (Current) Apr. 2004 Chairman, Corporate Officer of NYK Line Apr. 2015 Special Advisor of NYK Line (Current) (Current) Nov. 2011 Chairman of the Accounting Standards Council, Singapore Apr. 2006 Chairman, Chairman Corporate Officer of NYK Line Jul. 1999 Executive Chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers, Singapore Apr. 2013 Chairman of the Singapore Accountancy Commission Mr. Kusakari has held a number of significant positions, including President of NYK Line and Vice Chairman of Nippon Keidanren (Japan Mr. Lim has held a number of significant positions, including Executive Chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers, Singapore and was also Business Federation), and his achievements and insights have been evaluated highly both within and outside of the Company. Applying awarded with national honors by the Government of Singapore three times. His achievements and insights have been evaluated highly his extensive experience with respect to management, Mr. Kusakari contributes to the Company as an Outside Director. both within and outside of the Company. Applying his global and extensive experience and his high degree of expertise with respect to international accounting systems, Mr. Lim contributes to the Company as an Outside Director. Actions for Shaping Our Future Hiroshi Kimura Outside Director, Member of the Nomination Committee, Member of the Compensation Committee; Advisor of Japan Tobacco Inc. David Benson Director Apr. 1976 Joined Japan Tobacco and Salt Public Corporation Jun. 2006 President and CEO and Representative Director of Feb. 1997 Joined Nomura International plc Jan. 2011 Senior Managing Director of the Company, Vice (currently, Japan Tobacco Inc.) Japan Tobacco Inc. Jul. 1999 Head of Risk Management, Nomura International plc Chairman, Risk and Regulatory Affairs Jun. 1999 Director of Japan Tobacco Inc. Jun. 2012 Chairman of the Board of Japan Tobacco Inc. Mar. 2005 Chief Operating Officer (COO) of Nomura International plc Apr. 2011 Vice Chairman of the Company (Senior Managing Director) Jun. 2001 Resigned as Director of Japan Tobacco Inc. Jun. 2014 Special Advisor of Japan Tobacco Inc. Aug. 2007 Resigned from Nomura International plc Jun. 2011 Director of the Company (Current) Jun. 2005 Director of Japan Tobacco Inc. Jun. 2015 Outside Director of the Company (Current) Nov. 2008 Chief Risk Officer (CRO), Jul. 2016 Advisor of Japan Tobacco Inc. (Current) Senior Managing Director of the Company Mr. Kimura has held a number of significant positions, including President, CEO and Representative Director of Japan Tobacco Inc., and Mr. Benson has held a number of significant positions, including Vice Chairman (Senior Managing Director) and Chief Risk Officer (CRO) his achievements and insights have been evaluated highly both within and outside of the Company. Applying his extensive experience of the Company. Applying his experience and expertise, Mr. Benson contributes to strengthening the oversight functions of the Board of with respect to management, Mr. Kimura contributes to the Company as an Outside Director. Directors in relation to risk management. Noriaki Shimazaki Outside Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee; Advisor of the IFRS Foundation Asia-Oceania Office; Former Executive Vice President of Sumitomo Corporation <Concurrently Serving as Executive Officers> Apr. 1969 Joined Sumitomo Corporation Jan. 2009 Trustee of the IFRS Foundation Jun. 1998 Director of Sumitomo Corporation Jul. 2009 Special Advisor of Sumitomo Corporation Apr. 2002 Representative Director and Managing Director of Jun. 2011 Director of the Financial Accounting Standards Foundation; Koji Nagai Director, Representative Executive Officer, Group CEO Sumitomo Corporation Chairman of Self-regulation Board; Public Governor of Apr. 1981 Joined the Company Apr. 2012 Senior Managing Director of the Company (concurrently Jan. 2003 Member of the Business Accounting Council of the the Japan Securities Dealers Association Apr. 2003 Director of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Director and President of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd.) Financial Services Agency Sep. 2013 Advisor of the IFRS Foundation Asia-Oceania Office (Current); Jun. 2003 Senior Managing Director of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Aug. 2012 Representative Executive Officer and Group CEO of Apr. 2004 Representative Director and Senior Managing Advisor of the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Apr. 2007 Executive Managing Director of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. the Company (concurrently Director and President of Executive Officer of Sumitomo Corporation Accountants (Current) Nomura Securities Co., Ltd.) Oct. 2008 Senior Corporate Managing Director of Nomura Apr. 2005 Representative Director and Executive Vice President Jun. 2016 Outside Director of the Company (Current) Securities Co., Ltd. Jun. 2013 Director, Representative Executive Officer and Group of Sumitomo Corporation CEO of the Company (concurrently Director and Apr. 2009 Executive Managing Director and Executive Vice President of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. President of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd.) (Current) Mr. Shimazaki has held a number of significant positions, including Representative Director and Executive Vice President of Sumitomo Corporation, and his achievements and insights have been evaluated highly both within and outside of the Company. Applying Apr. 2011 Co-COO and Deputy President of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. his abundant experience in corporate management and high degree of expertise with regard to international accounting systems Mr. Nagai has held a number of significant positions, including Director and President of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. By having Mr. Nagai, corresponding to a Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 financial expert, he contributes to the Company as an Outside Director. who serves as Representative Executive Officer and Group CEO of the Company, the Board of Directors will be able to easily understand the business execution status and internal affairs of the Company, and he contributes to the effectiveness of the oversight functions of the Board. Toshinori Kanemoto Outside Director, Member of the Audit Committee Of-Counsel, City-Yuwa Partners Tetsu Ozaki Director, Representative Executive Officer, Group COO Apr. 1968 Joined National Police Agency Apr. 2001 Director of Cabinet Intelligence, Cabinet Secretariat, Government of Japan Apr. 1982 Joined the Company Apr. 2013 Director and Deputy President of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Apr. 1992 Kumamoto Prefecture Police Headquarters, DirectorGeneral Jan. 2007 Registered as Attorney-at-Law (Dai-ichi Tokyo Bar Apr. 2004 Senior Managing Director of the Company (concurrently Apr. 2014 Executive Managing Director of the Company (concurrently Association) Senior Managing Director of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd.) Deputy President of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd.) Aug. 1995 Director General of the International Affairs Department, National Police Agency Feb. 2007 Of-Counsel, City-Yuwa Partners (Current) Apr. 2008 Executive Managing Director of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Jun. 2016 Representative Executive Officer and Group COO of the Oct. 2008 Senior Corporate Managing Director of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Company (concurrently Director and Deputy President Oct. 1996 President of ICPO-INTERPOL Jun. 2011 Outside Director of the Company (Current) Aug. 2012 Deputy President of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd.) (Current) Aug. 2000 President, National Police Academy Mr. Kanemoto has held a number of significant positions, including President of ICPO-INTERPOL, and his achievements and insights Mr. Ozaki has held a number of significant positions including CEO of the Wholesale Division (Executive Managing Director) of the have been evaluated highly both within and outside of the Company. Applying his sophisticated expertise and extensive experience as a Company and Deputy President of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. By having Mr. Ozaki, who serves as Representative Executive Officer and currently active attorney, Mr. Kanemoto contributes to the Company as an Outside Director. Group COO serve concurrently as a Director, the Board of Directors will be able to easily understand the business execution status and the status of the Company, and he contributes to more-effective oversight functions of the Board. 34 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 35 Outside Directors of Major Subsidiaries in Japan Outside Director’s Message (Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. / Nomura Asset Management Co., Ltd.) Nomura has a good board Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. culture that is open and invites Toshiaki Hiwatari Outside Director; Advisor Attorney of TMI Associates commentary and challenge Former Superintending Prosecutor Apr. 1970 Public Prosecutor Jul. 2008 Prosecutor General Jun. 1997 Public Prosecutor, the Supreme Public Prosecutors’ Sep. 2010 Registered as Attorney-at-Law (Dai-ichi Tokyo Bar Office Association); Advisor Attorney of TMI Associates Aug. 2002 Detective Superintendent, Ministry of Justice (Current) Jun. 2004 Administrative Vice-Minister of the Ministry of Justice Dec. 2006 Superintending Prosecutor, Tokyo High Public Oct. 2012 Outside Director of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. (Current) Dame Clara Furse — Outside Director Prosecutors’ Office Dame Clara Furse has held a number of significant positions, including Chief Executive of the London Stock Exchange Group, and Mr. Hiwatari has held a number of significant positions, including Administrative Vice-Minister of the Ministry of Justice and Prosecutor General, and his achievements and insights have been evaluated highly both within and outside of the Company. Applying his she was also made Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire. Her achievements and insights have been evaluated sophisticated expertise and extensive experience as a currently active attorney, Mr. Hiwatari contributes to Nomura Securities as an highly both within and outside of the Company. Applying her global and extensive experience with respect to financial businesses, Outside Director. Dame Clara Furse contributes to the Company as an Outside Director. Motoki Ozaki Outside Director; Former Chairman of the Board of Directors of Kao Corporation Apr. 1972 Joined Kao Corporation (formerly Kao Soap Co., Ltd.) Jun. 2004 Representative Director, President and Chief Executive Apr. 2000 President, Prestige Cosmetics of Kao Corporation Officer of Kao Corporation Apr. 2002 President, Global Fabric and Home Care of Kao Jun. 2012 President and Representative Director of the Kao Corporation Foundation for Arts and Sciences (Current) What are your thoughts on your mission as As an Outside Director of Nomura Holdings, Jun. 2002 Board of Director, Executive Officer of Kao Corporation Jun. 2015 Outside Director of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. (Current) an Outside Director? could you please share with us your evaluation of Mr. Ozaki has held a number of significant positions, including Representative Director, President and Chief Executive Officer of Kao Corporation, and his achievements and insights have been evaluated highly both within and outside of the Company. Applying his Nomura’s corporate governance system and the extensive experience with respect to management, Mr. Ozaki contributes to Nomura Securities as an Outside Director. I was delighted to be asked to join the board of effectiveness of the Board of Directors? Nomura Holdings in 2010, a year after I stepped down as Chief Executive of the London Stock Our board completed a self-evaluation of its Nomura Asset Management Co., Ltd. Exchange. My time at the Exchange pulled together effectiveness this year. This supports the aims Actions for Shaping Our Future a career in global markets with the challenge of of the Corporate Governance Code recently running a complex organization and listed company issued by Japan’s financial authorities. I believe Rikio Nagahama Outside Director; Board Chairperson of NPO Triton Arts Network that entered the FTSE-100. The Exchange was this important exercise showed that Nomura Apr. 1967 Joined Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company Jun. 2009 Councilor of DIAM Co., Ltd. almost constantly in the public eye, valued as a has a good board culture that is open and Apr. 2003 Representative Director and Executive Vice President Jun. 2010 Board Chairperson of NPO Triton Arts Network (Current) of Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company Jun. 2015 Outside Director of Nomura Asset Management Co., national institution, but also subjected to critical invites commentary and challenge. Suggestions Jun. 2004 Representative Director and President of DLIBJ Asset Ltd. (Current) Management Co., Ltd. media attention. to management are met with a prompt and Jan. 2008 Representative Director and President of DIAM Co., Ltd. (company name changed) It was a period of immense change for the satisfactory response. The Nomura board is Mr. Nagahama has held a number of significant positions, including Representative Director and President of DIAM Co., Ltd., and his Exchange, as it navigated its way through a number already very diverse with a broad range of achievements and insights have been evaluated highly both within and outside of the Company. Applying his extensive experience with respect to management of an asset management company, Mr. Nagahama contributes to Nomura Asset Management Co., Ltd. as an of strategic, technological, corporate, reputational, experience, nationalities and perspectives. Outside Director. anti-trust and shareholder challenges. Moreover, independent Outside Directors are in Prior to joining the Exchange, I had managed the majority. Akiko Kimura Outside Director; Of-Counsel, Anderson Môri & Tomotsune Apr. 1973 Registered as Attorney-at-Law (Dai-ichi Tokyo Apr. 2013 Member of the Certified Public Accountants and global business lines, mainly for UBS, covering A committee system has been in place Bar Association) and joined Nishimura Komatsu & Auditing Oversight Board (Current) commodity, currency, fixed income and derivatives since 2003 and I have a high regard for the Tomotsune (currently Anderson Môri & Tomotsune) Jun. 2014 Outside Corporate Auditor of Daiichi Sankyo Co, Ltd. Jan. 1977 Partner of Nishimura Komatsu & Tomotsune (Current) markets. At that time, I was also on the boards Audit Committee, which does a thorough job of Jan. 2011 Of-Counsel, Anderson Môri & Tomotsune (Current) Jun. 2015 Outside Director of Nomura Asset Management Co., Jun. 2012 Outside Corporate Auditor of Fuji Electric Co., Ltd. Ltd. (Current) of the LIFFE and critical parts of the financial evaluating and overseeing the Company’s risks. I (Current) infrastructure, notably LCH.Clearnet and Euroclear. am also pleased with the increasingly detailed and Ms. Kimura has held a number of significant positions, including many years of service in fields such as finance as Of-Counsel of Anderson Môri & Tomotsune, and her achievements and insights have been evaluated highly both within and outside of the Company. This brought wider experience in the areas of informative Risk Report presented at each board Applying her advanced expertise and extensive experience with respect to the law, Ms. Kimura contributes to Nomura Asset Management Co., Ltd. as an Outside Director. financial networks and global inter-connectedness meeting; a sharp focus on risk has become vital as well as counterparty and operational risk. in this more difficult, post-2008-crisis world where My mission as an Outside Director is to bring political risk has also increased in some important this financial services and corporate experience developed economies. to the board table in a way that helps Nomura to More recently, regular meetings for Outside deliver its global strategy and create shareholder Directors were introduced in order for us to value, by putting clients at the heart of everything exchange views and share our understanding of it does. rapidly changing issues outside the boardroom. 36 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 37 Outside Director’s Message Corporate Governance Corporate Governance http://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/cg/ Could you please share your thoughts on What role do you think diversity should play Nomura Group is progressively working Nomura’s strategy of establishing a dominant in global management? position as Asia’s global investment bank? to enhance corporate governance. One of my first invitations to speak within Nomura I believe Nomura rightly sees many opportunities as was from WIN (Women in Nomura) in London. I Asia’s global investment bank. While transforming was inspired by their businesslike and inclusive the business model in Japan, Nomura pursues approach, which welcomes all employees to regular Fundamental Approach opportunities for growth across Asia, but is also events and open discussions. I discovered that Nomura Holdings recognizes that the enhancement We are working to make the Group’s decisionin a unique position to support global clients as Nomura has an impressive program to assist and of corporate governance is one of the most important making process speedy and efficient, in conjunction the most solid financial bridge between East and support employees, with generous and sensitive issues in terms of achieving management’s goal of with ensuring effective oversight of management and West. The recent strategic changes in EMEA and initiatives during maternity and parental leave. enhancing corporate value by deepening society’s trust management transparency through the enhancement in the firm and increasing the satisfaction of stakeholders the Americas are important initiatives in this regard, More recently, the Group COO has established beginning with clients. of corporate governance. as they are geared to stabilizing the profitability of a Diversity and Inclusion Committee, chaired the global franchise, thereby improving the strength by himself, to promote more active and diverse and resilience of the bridge. participation across the Company, consistent with Addressing Japan’s Corporate Governance Code As regulatory authorities in all global centers one of the three arrows of the Abenomics Growth endeavor to secure a strong financial system, Strategy. • Implemented all principles of Japan’s Corporate Governance Code Nomura management has worked hard to build As more than 70 nationalities work for Nomura, constructive relationships, in EMEA, for example, I am pleased to see that diversity is embedded In anticipation of the enforcement of Japan’s nominee” for all internal director nominees in the where regulatory reform has been particularly within the Company. Management is aware that Corporate Governance Code to all publicly listed Notice of Convocation of the 111th Annual Meeting Actions for Shaping Our Future ambitious and demanding. this will help Nomura to deliver financial solutions companies from June 2015, Nomura Holdings has of Shareholders (held in June 2015), along with I believe and expect that this strategic bridge to clients around the world. Nomura is committed been taking various initiatives to reinforce corporate undertaking an evaluation of the effectiveness of the will sustain and invite increasing amounts of ‘traffic’ to employee networks that support career governance. Board of Directors as a whole. As a result, Nomura over the coming years and decades, delivering opportunities across a wide range of nationalities, Additionally, we took new actions such as Holdings has implemented all principles of Japan’s important financial services to Nomura’s clients cultures, ages and levels of experience and for disclosing the “Reasons for designation as a director Corporate Governance Code at this time. around the world. female employees and LGBT staff. I believe this is a source of strength that will help to drive future growth for the Company. Establishing Corporate Governance Guidelines • Structure for transparent/fair and timely/decisive decision-making In November 2015, the Board of Directors of Nomura An outline of the Corporate Governance Guidelines is Holdings, recognizing the perspectives of various provided on the next page. stakeholders beginning with shareholders and Please visit our website to view the full text of the clients, established the Nomura Holdings Corporate Corporate Governance Guidelines and the Corporate Governance Guidelines, with the aim of defining Governance Report, which discloses the status and contributing to the realization of a framework of our measures to address Japan’s Corporate of effective corporate governance as a structure for Governance Code. transparent/fair and timely/decisive decision-making. Corporate Governance http://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/cg/ Meetings attended only by Outside Directors are periodically held. 38 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 39 Corporate Governance Measures for Reinforcing Governance Outline of the Nomura Holdings Corporate Governance Guidelines • Establishment of the Advisory Board • Adoption of the “Company with Three Board Committees” structure Board of Directors ( »p.42) Internal Controls System ( »p.43) • The Board of Directors shall, as a general rule, delegate its • The Board of Directors shall oversee the status of the authority to execute business to the Executive Officers. The maintenance and operation of internal controls through Since 2001, when we adopted a holding company information disclosure system. main role of the Board of Directors shall be management audits by the Audit Committee and activities by the Internal structure and listed on the New York Stock Moreover, in 2003, we further strengthened and oversight. Audit division, which is independent from the business • The composition of the Board of Directors shall have a execution functions. Exchange (NYSE), we have taken steps to ensure increased the transparency of our oversight functions diversity that enables active discussions from diverse • An Internal Controls Committee attended by the Group the transparency of management, including installing and expedited Nomura Group’s decision-making perspectives. CEO and the members of the Audit Committee shall be • As a general rule, the majority of the Board of Directors shall established for the purpose of further strengthening and Outside Directors and establishing an Internal process by adopting the “Company with Committees, be Outside Directors, and Directors shall include experts in enhancing the Internal Controls System. Controls Committee, a Compensation Committee etc.” structure (now the “Company with Three Board accounting, corporate management, and law, etc. • The involvement of the Audit Committee in the • Three (Nomination, Audit and Compensation) board implementation plans of the Internal Audit Division as well as (the majority of the members are Outside Directors), Committees” structure), a governance structure in the election and dismissal of the Head of the Internal Audit committees shall be established, each comprised of a Division shall be assured. and an Advisory Board of distinguished persons under which management oversight and business majority of Outside Directors. from outside the Company, and further improved our execution functions are clearly separated. • The Board of Directors shall, based on the evaluation by each Director, analyze and evaluate the effectiveness of the Risk Management ( »p.48) Board of Directors as a whole and disclose a summary of • To ensure financial soundness and to maintain and the results. Chronological Table improve corporate value, management shall establish a risk management framework and the Board of Directors shall » Nomination Committee oversee the effectiveness of the framework. 1994 Company with Board of Auditors Appointed one Outside Statutory Auditor • The Nomination Committee shall decide director nominees based on certain appointment standards, 1998 Established the whistle-blowing system “Compliance Hotline” including personality, insight, ethics, in-depth knowledge Dialogue with Shareholders and experience in his/her field of expertise. Actions for Shaping Our Future • The Company shall treat shareholders equally based on their 2001 Established the Compensation Appointed two Outside Directors • The Nomination Committee shall establish Independence shareholdings, and shall disclose information appropriately Committee (voluntary) Adopted a holding company structure and changed the Company’s name to Criteria for Outside Directors and shall, as a general rule, and timely to avoid information disparity. nominate Outside Director nominees who satisfy such Nomura Holdings, Inc. • The Company, based on the importance of shareholder (1) Strengthen corporate governance and ensure transparency criteria. rights, shall take necessary measures to ensure that (2) Election of two Outside Directors and two Outside Statutory Auditors • In light of the responsibilities of the Nomination shareholders are not unfairly precluded from exercising their Committee, the Chairman of the Nomination Committee (3) Established the Internal Controls Committee rights. shall be a Director who is well-versed in the business of (4) Established the Executive Compensation Committee (one Representative the Nomura Group and the practices of the securities • The Company shall engage in a constructive dialogue with Director and two Outside Directors) industry. major shareholders for the purpose of sustainable growth Listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) of the Company and the midto long-term enhancement of » Compensation Committee corporate value. 2003 Company with Committees, etc Adopted a “Company with Committees, etc.” structure • On the basis of the general rule of paying compensation • Regarding dialogue with stakeholders, the Company Established the Nomination, Passed resolution on the Internal Controls System commensurate with business performance, the shall endeavor to enhance methods of dialogue and also Audit and Compensation Compensation Committee shall decide the compensation provide explanations on general policies for the allocation of of Directors and Executive Officers while seeking to management resources. Committees enhance objectivity and transparency based on analysis • An officer in charge of IR shall endeavor to share the performed by external evaluation institutions, etc. 2004 Formulated the Code of Ethics of Nomura Group outcomes of such dialogue with the Board of Directors. • The Compensation Committee shall utilize deferred compensation, to seek alignment with the interests of 2006 Company with Committees Passed resolution on amending the Internal Controls System Basic Policy for Strategic Shareholdings Began making pledges to abide by the Code of Ethics of Nomura Group shareholders and increase long-term incentives. • In light of the responsibilities of the Compensation • Regarding strategic shareholdings, the Company and Committee, the Chairman of the Compensation its core subsidiaries shall consider perspectives of 2010 Diversification of the composition of Directors (appointed two non-Japanese Committee shall be a Director who is well-versed in the business strategy, and shall hold such shares only if such Directors and one female Director) business of the Nomura Group and the practices of the shareholdings will contribute to maintaining/enhancing the Outside Directors became the majority of Directors securities industry. corporate value of the Nomura Group. 2012 Appointed an Outside Director who does not serve concurrently at Nomura » Audit Committee Holdings to Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Fulfillment of Corporate Responsibilities ( »p.50-62) • All members of the Audit Committee must satisfy the criteria for independence in accordance with the • The Company established the “Code of Ethics of Nomura 2013 Passed a resolution on amending the Internal Controls System Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Group” as a code of conduct for each director, officer, and Published the Independence Criteria for Outside Directors of Nomura • As a general rule, at least one member shall be a financial employee of the Nomura Group to comply with. Holdings, Inc. expert. • The Company shall enhance corporate value in the long• As a general rule, the Chairman of the Audit Committee term by respecting the diversity and different values among 2015 Company with Three Board Passed a resolution on amending the Internal Controls System shall be an Outside Director in order to strengthen the the directors, officers and employees of the Nomura Group, Committees Appointed an Outside Director from outside the Nomura Group to Nomura independence of the Audit Committee from execution and establishing a sound workplace to enable all directors, Asset Management Co., Ltd. functions and to enhance the transparency of audit officers, and employees to perform at their full potential. activities. Established the Nomura Holdings Corporate Governance Guidelines • The Company shall actively engage in CSR activities, Established August 3 as Nomura Founding Principles and Corporate Ethics Day • In order to enhance the effectiveness of audits, the Board including educational activities in economics and finance, of Directors shall appoint an internal Director who does in addition to contributing to expanding securities markets not concurrently serve as an Executive Officer and who 2016 Established “office of Non-Executive Directors and Audit Committee” as through daily business. an organization to support Directors’ execution of duties by ensuring full is well-versed in the Nomura Group’s business as a fulltime member of the Audit Committee or an Audit Mission provision of information to Outside Directors and so forth. Director. Passed a resolution on amending the Internal Controls System 40 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 41 Corporate Governance Board of Directors Business Execution • Outside Directors comprise a majority of the Board of Directors • Broadly delegate decision-making authority to the Executive Officers to ensure speedy and efficient • Emphasis on diversity within the Board of Directors to oversight from diverse perspectives business execution • Emphasis on the independence of Outside Directors The Board of Directors has broadly delegated decisionthe Internal Controls Committee. These management Nomura Holdings has made management oversight We emphasize the independence of Outside making authority for business execution functions to bodies report to the Board of Directors on the status of the main role of the Board of Directors. Based Directors from the Nomura Group, and in order to the Executive Officers to ensure that they can execute their deliberations at least once every three months. on supervision with an emphasis on an external maintain such independence, we have established business with speed and efficiency. Furthermore, among In order to further bolster our business execution perspective, we are aspiring to put in practice Independence Criteria for Outside Directors within the matters of business delegated to the Executive framework for financial operations that are becoming management with a high level of transparency, the Nomination Committee. As none of the Outside Officers by resolutions adopted by the Board of increasingly sophisticated and specialized, we utilize a through such means as structuring the Board of Directors of Nomura Holdings fall under the Directors, certain important matters must be deliberated system whereby the Executive Officers delegate a part Directors with a majority of Outside Directors. categories for which independence is considered and decided by specific management bodies within the of their authority for business execution decisions to Moreover, in order to achieve effective oversight suspect, and since none of the Outside Directors Company, including the Executive Management Board, Senior Managing Directors, whose role is to focus on of business execution functions from multiple have any conflicts of interests with the shareholders, the Group Integrated Risk Management Committee, and individual business and operations. perspectives, we place importance on diversity within we have reported that each of the six Outside the Board of Directors. Each Director of Nomura Directors are independent Directors in our submission Internal Controls Holdings has a diverse background in terms of to the Tokyo Stock Exchange. • Established the Group Internal Audit Department, which is independent from the business execution nationality, gender, professional experience, etc., Board of Directors (As of July 1, 2016) functions, and other similar audit sections in major subsidiaries and by utilizing their extensive experience in their Actions for Shaping Our Future respective fields, such as accounting, corporate Outside Directors 55% (6 of 11) We are committed to strengthening and improving our and its subsidiaries, in addition to the audits carried management and law, the Directors assist with the Non-Japanese Directors 27% (3 of 11) internal controls system to promote proper corporate out by the Audit Committee. The implementation determination of important managerial matters and behavior throughout the Nomura Group, from the status of internal audits is also reported to the Board oversee business execution. Female Directors 9% (1 of 11) viewpoints of ensuring management transparency of Directors and the Audit Committee. Additionally, 6 of the 11 Directors making up More information on the Company’s Independence and efficiency, complying with laws and regulations, In addition, to strengthen the independence of the Criteria for Outside Directors our Board of Directors are Outside Directors. controlling risks, ensuring the reliability of business internal audit sections from the business execution http://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/cg/data/ criteria.pdf and financial reports, and fostering the timely and functions, implementation plans and the formulation Management Structure appropriate disclosure of information. Furthermore, of the budget of the Internal Audit Division, as well in order to ensure effective and adequate internal as the election and dismissal of the Head of the Shareholders’ Meeting controls, the Group Internal Audit Department, which Internal Audit Division require the consent of the • Three Directors, including two Outside Directors is independent from the business execution functions, Audit Committee. Audit Committee members may Nomination Board of Directors • Determines the details of proposals on the election and dismissal of Directors for submission and other similar audit sections placed in major recommend changes to the implementation plan, Committee to a meeting of shareholders in accordance with a set criteria for character, insight, corporate management experience and specialization, and independence subsidiaries conduct internal audits of the Company etc., to Executive Officers. • Directors concurrently serving as Executive Officers are not members • Three Directors, including two Outside Directors, one full-time member of the Audit Committee Audit • Audits the execution of duties by the Directors and Executive Officers, prepares audit reports, Committee and determines details of proposals regarding the election, dismissal and non-reelection of the Internal Controls System Independent Auditor for submission to a meeting of shareholders • All committee members satisfy requirements for independent Directors as defined in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Compensation • Three Directors, including two Outside Directors Internal Controls Committee Agrees on IA’s audit Audit Committee • Determines policy with respect to the particulars of compensation for each Director and plan, human resources, Committee Executive Officer, as well as individual compensation • Deliberates on and determines matters concerning the and budget • Consists of two Outside Directors • Directors concurrently serving as Executive Officers are not members establishment and assessment of internal control, along with and one Director not concurrently promoting proper corporate behavior serving as an Executive Officer Established as a consulting body to the Report • Made up of the Group CEO, the Group COO, two Audit Executive Management Board, with the Assists the Audit Committee Group CEO Executive Management Board Advisory Board Committee members, and persons appointed by the Group CEO aim of bringing an external perspective to with its duties the formation of our management strategy Deliberates on and determines important management formation of our • Internal audit plan and budget approval Report Office of Non-Executive management strategy matters, such as the management strategy for the Nomura • Appointment and dismissal of IA head Report Directors and Audit Committee Group, business plans, budgets, and allocation of management resources Deliberates on and determines important Internal audit Group Integrated Risk matters concerning the integrated risk Internal Audit (IA) Management Management Committee management of the Nomura Group Business Risk Compliance Deliberates on and determines matters concerning the Management Internal Controls Committee establishment and assessment of internal control of the Nomura Group and promoting proper corporate behavior 42 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 43 Corporate Governance Compliance Compliance http://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/compliance/ Compensation for Directors and Executive Officers Nomura Group has established an appropriate compliance framework, and insists on compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations As Nomura has adopted the “Company with Three 1. Base Salary in all Group companies and departments. Board Committees” structure, the Compensation Base salary is determined based on factors Committee has prepared and approved the such as professional background, career history, Compensation Policy of Nomura Group and responsibilities, and compensation standards Compensation Policy for Directors and Executive of related business fields. A portion of base Fundamental Approach Officers of Nomura Holdings, Inc. salary may be paid in the form of equity-based compensation with a certain non-exercise period Compliance is a top management priority for Nomura year. Also, we have established Nomura Founding Compensation for Directors and Executive Officers http://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/cg/ to ensure that the interests of Directors and Group, and the Code of Ethics of Nomura Group Principles and Corporate Ethics Day, as a day for compensation.html Executive Officers are closely aligned with those of defines our fundamental policy on compliance. The management and employees to annually reaffirm our shareholders. management and employees of the Group pledge corporate culture and corporate ethics, underpinned to abide by the rules stated in this code once each by Our Founder’s Principles. Compensation Policy of Nomura Group 2. Annual Bonus To enable us to achieve sustainable growth, realize a Annual bonuses of Directors and Executive Officers are determined by taking into account Compliance Framework long-term increase in shareholder value, deliver added value to our clients, compete in the global market, and both quantitative and qualitative factors. enhance our reputation, Nomura has developed the Quantitative factors include performance of the We have appointed a Group Compliance Head to structures of each Group company, including Compensation Policy of Nomura Group applicable to Group and the division results, while qualitative Actions for Shaping Our Future oversee compliance for the Group as a whole along overseas offices. regular employees, including senior management. The factors include achievement of individual goals and with a Group Compliance Department that provides In addition to Group-wide initiatives, Nomura policy is broadly divided into six key themes. subjective assessment of individual contributions. support. In addition, Compliance Officers have been Securities has established a Compliance Program 1. Align with Nomura values and strategies Depending on the level of bonus payment, a assigned to each Group company to strengthen our as a detailed action plan, and put into place a 2. Reflect firm, division, and individual performance portion of payment in cash may be deferred. In internal controls in response to global business, and compliance framework based on this program. 3. Establish appropriate performance measurement addition, a portion of deferred bonus may be paid to develop and maintain the respective compliance with a focus on risk in equity-based compensation with a certain non4. Align with employee and shareholder interests exercise period in lieu of cash. Such deferred Nomura Securities’ Compliance Structure 5. Establish appropriate compensation structures bonus may be unpaid or forfeited under specific 6. Ensure robust governance and control processes Nomura Holdings circumstances. • A Compliance Committee chaired by the President oversees Company-wide initiatives 3. Long-Term Incentive Plans and is in charge of establishing and deliberating Board of Directors Audit Committee on important issues related to internal controls. Compensation Policy Long-term incentive plans may be awarded to for Directors and Executive Officers of Directors and Executive Officers, depending on • The Company has established the post of Executive Management Board Nomura Holdings, Inc. their individual responsibilities and performance. Internal Administration Supervisor to monitor compliance issues in line with Japan Securities Payments under long-term incentive plans are Group Compliance Head The compensation of Directors and Executive Officers Dealers Association’s rule made when a certain degree of achievements is comprises base salary, an annual bonus, and a long• The Company has established the posts of Direction Report accomplished. Payments are made in equity-linked term incentive plan. The Compensation Committee Sales Officers, Internal Controls Officers and awards with appropriate vesting periods to ensure Group Compliance Department has approved the following matters related to the Compliance Officers that mediumto long-term interests of Directors compensation of Directors and Executive Officers: • The Compliance Division strengthens and and Executive Officers are closely aligned with Direction Report improves legal and regulatory compliance those of shareholders. as well as the internal controls system by Nomura Group companies Form 20-F formulating internal rules and disseminating http://www.nomuraholdings.com/investor/library/sec/ them throughout the Company. Compliance Officers Direction Report Departments 44 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 45 Compliance Legal Compliance Measures Ensuring Fair Financial Business Practices • Insistence on legal compliance and enhancement of management systems • Prohibition of transactions with anti-social forces • Establishment of a Compliance Hotline • Prevention of acceptance or giving of bribes • Carrying out compliance training • Management of conflicts of interest and prevention of insider trading In all Group companies and departments, Nomura by Nomura Holdings, including Outside Directors, Nomura Group works to prohibit transactions with business practices to prevent the acceptance or Group insists on compliance with laws and through the Compliance Hotline (persons reporting anti-social forces and to prevent money laundering. giving of bribes. regulations and endeavors to prevent the occurrence have the option of remaining anonymous). In Nomura Group has established guidelines We manage conflicts of interest and insider of activities that may be construed as illegal by FY2015/16, there were 19 calls received via the related to gifts and entertainment of public officials information from a global perspective by structuring the necessary administrative systems. In Compliance Hotline, and the status of related matters and private-sector groups, and by disseminating concentrating information in the Group Compliance the event that such issues arise, they are reported in was confirmed, and appropriate measures were them throughout the Company, works to ensure fair Department. full to management-level officers without delay, and processed. organizations and systems are structured to respond We conduct comprehensive compliance training appropriately. for all Executive Officers and employees on topics Customer Protection and Information Security Nomura employees who have become aware such as the prevention of money laundering and • Appropriate segregation of customer assets of potential legal or regulatory violations are able insider trading, firewall regulations, and guidelines for • Effective protection of clients’ personal information and other information assets of the Group to report their concerns to persons designated managing customer information. Under various applicable laws and regulations, relevant U.S. standards as regards the segregation of Actions for Shaping Our Future including the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act customer assets by Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC. Offering High-Quality Financial Services and the Personal Information Protection Act, Nomura Nomura Group Information Security Policy is the Nomura Securities seeks to enhance the quality of financial products and services offered to customers Group works to properly protect customers’ assets basic document governing the effective protection of through the following initiatives under the Guidelines for Supervision of Financial Instruments Business and information. clients’ personal information and other information Operators, etc. In accord with various applicable laws and assets. Customer-related personal information is regulations, including the Financial Instruments handled under stringent standards set out in Nomura Nomura Securities’ Primary Initiatives and Exchange Act, Nomura Securities properly Group Privacy Policy and other information security• Appointing officers to oversee internal controls, • Conducting sales and solicitation activities segregates the assets of its customers from the related rules, and in full compliance with personal compliance, etc., and developing systems to in compliance with the Financial Instruments assets of Nomura Securities itself. Nomura Securities information-related laws and regulations. For further ensure compliance and the appropriateness of and Exchange Act and applicable laws and has received a report certifying its compliance with information, please refer to our website. operations regulations governing each operation with an all material aspects of the criteria in effect under overall understanding of the customer’s needs • Thoroughly screening account openings Privacy Policy and knowledge of financial instruments and and conducting proper examinations when http://www.nomuraholdings.com/policy/privacy_hd.html financial status underwriting securities • Structuring systems that establish guidelines • Carefully reviewing product details and taking for sales to senior customers and requiring action to provide accurate and comprehensive compliance with these guidelines information • Ensuring compliance with laws, regulations, and Nomura Founding Principles and Corporate Ethics Day internal rules through compliance training TO PICS Nomura Group, which celebrated its 90th anniversary in 2015, has established Nomura Founding Principles and Corporate Ethics Day. This provides an opportunity each year for all of us to reflect on our corporate culture and corporate ethics based on Our Founder’s Principles and remind ourselves of the actions that have brought scrutiny upon the firm. Every year on Nomura Founding Principles and Corporate Ethics Day, we take measures for everyone in each Group company, including overseas offices, to think about Nomura’s founding principles and corporate ethics to ensure we never repeat the mistakes of the past. 46 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 47 Risk Management Risk Management http://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/risk/ Nomura Group implements processes to properly identify the possibility Ensuring Financial Soundness and Transparency of potential losses arising from various operations and transactions, • Calculate risk factors on a daily basis • Utilize risk measurement models and seeks to establish a framework for assessing all risks and enforcing • Periodically conduct stress tests appropriate controls. Nomura Group calculates vast amounts of risk factors a high degree of reliability and transparency regarding on a daily basis using cutting-edge risk management the soundness of Nomura Group’s financial position. methodologies for measuring increasingly complex Furthermore, Nomura Group periodically conducts and diverse risks. Based on periodic verification of risk stress tests to monitor the amount of losses that Fundamental Approach measurement models, and with the approval of the may emerge under assumptions of extremely difficult authorities, the Group uses risk measurement models economic conditions. The business activities of Nomura Group are exposed Risk Appetite Statement. This statement sets forth to compute its capital adequacy ratio, thus ensuring to various risks such as market risk, credit risk, the content of risks that the Group can undertake, operational risk, model risk, and other risks caused and it takes account of the Group’s business strategy by external factors. We are working constantly to and business targets, including the amount of capital Business Resilience* further upgrade and strengthen our risk management and liquidity required under regulations, and the • Established the Crisis Management Committee • Strengthen systems for dealing with major earthquake disasters systems. In parallel, Nomura Group has prepared its business environment. • Strengthen and enhance cyber security Risk Management Systems Nomura Group has established the Crisis Management to develop systems toward natural and other disasters. Committee, comprised of officers who concurrently Moreover, in view of the release of studies by Japan’s Actions for Shaping Our Future The Risk Appetite Statement is proposed by the risk appetite, the Group Integrated Risk Management serve as the Crisis Management Manager in each Central Disaster Prevention Council in 2013, regarding Chief Risk Officer (CRO) and the Chief Financial Committee, which has been delegated responsibility Nomura Group company worldwide, to address any the impact of earthquakes that might occur directly Officer (CFO), and submitted for final approval to the by the Executive Management Board, is responsible crisis that may occur. Chaired by an Executive Officer beneath the Tokyo metropolitan area and along the Executive Management Board. With a basic policy for deliberating and determining all important matters appointed by the Group CEO, this committee has Nankai Trough off the coast of Nagoya, we reviewed our established a system for managing crises and ensuring disaster risk scenarios to take account of the impact of of controlling risks that arise in the course of the pertaining to risk management. business continuity in the event of an emergency. such major earthquakes. Key issues identified were how Group’s operations within the limits of the Group’s Under the crisis management system, the Crisis to deal with these disasters and how to secure business Management Committee reports to the Executive continuity, and, as part of addressing these issues, we Management Board regarding matters related to crisis are working to strengthen and upgrade our collaboration management. In addition, this committee’s secretariat with Nomura Group companies in Japan and overseas. Board of Directors regularly conducts employee safety verification drills, To deal with the increasing number of cyber attacks, disaster prevention drills, and business continuity drills, Nomura is taking further measures to enhance system Executive Management Board in order to respond immediately during an emergency. security, and, by forming a specialized unit, is working Internal Controls Committee As part of these efforts, the secretariat is also tasked to strengthen its organizational response. Nomura is Group Integrated Risk with fostering greater awareness of crisis management also endeavoring to further improve the capabilities Management Committee as well as maintaining and strengthening our ability of its management and employees to handle cyber Report • Market risk management to respond to emergencies. This system and these attacks through training and practice drills, along with • Credit risk management measures are stipulated in Nomura Group Crisis enhancing cooperation on information sharing with Group Internal Audit Department CFO CRO Management Policy. external organizations. For further details, please refer to • Operational risk management In addition, Nomura Group is using the lessons our website. • Other learned at the time of the Great East Japan Earthquake *Ability of an organization to anticipate, prepare for, and respond and adapt to Risk Management Departments incremental change and sudden disruptions in order to survive and prosper. Report Check Individual Business Units Social and Environmental Risk Management Audit • Identify social and environmental risk in the assessment process and other business operations Form 20-F We believe that considering the social and environmental our business operations, we focus on these risks in the http://www.nomuraholdings.com/investor/library/sec/ risks that may arise from various transactions is key to same cautious manner as legal compliance. managing our reputational risk. As such, in executing 48 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 49 CSR Management Nomura Group's CSR http://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/group/ Nomura Group’s CSR Identification of Material CSR Issues In 2014, Nomura Group reassessed its material CSR CSR. Based on these, we identified the issues for Fundamental Approach Framework for Promoting CSR Activities issues through reflecting the opinions of third parties, the Group. Next, we assessed the “stakeholders’ Nomura Group actively engages in initiatives to The CSR Committee has been formed as the hearings conducted across internal departments, and materiality” of the identified issues based on the address social issues to fulfill its social responsibilities management-level decision-making entity for receiving confirmations on our reassessment by the evaluations of representative SRI institutions in Japan as a corporate citizen. The Group believes promoting Group-wide CSR programs. Chaired by CSR Committee. and overseas. We then assessed and prioritized the that promoting and managing corporate social the chairperson appointed by the Group CEO, the In the reassessment process, we first looked issues as regards “the Group’s materiality” based responsibility (CSR) activities properly is an important committee comprises seven Executive Officers, at the external elements. We analyzed the GRI on hearings conducted across internal departments factor to maintain and increase its corporate value. including the chairperson. The responsibilities of Guidelines (G4), the criteria for information disclosure and reflecting the Group’s Basic Management Policy. The basic policy concerning CSR is set forth in the committee include formulating policies for CSR on sustainability, such as those of the Sustainability We formed a “materiality matrix” of the issues based the Code of Ethics of Nomura Group and its Basic initiatives as well as approving and monitoring Accounting Standard Board (SASB), and Japan’s on these two assessments to identify issues of high Management Policy. Moreover, Nomura Holdings progress of these activities. The activities of the Stewardship Code. Turning to the internal elements, importance to both stakeholders and the Group as Corporate Governance Guidelines formulated in committee are reported to the Board of Directors and we analyzed elements such as the Code of Ethics material CSR issues. November 2015 stated Nomura shall actively engage the Executive Management Board accordingly. During of Nomura Group and our fundamental approach to in CSR activities, including educational activities in FY2015/16, the CSR Committee held two meetings. economics and finance, in addition to contributing to expanding securities markets through daily business. Material CSR Issues Actions for Shaping Our Future Code of Ethics of Nomura Group CSR Framework http://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/ Japan basic/ethics.html Board of Directors Executive EMEA Corporate Governance Strengthening corporate governance » P.41 Management Board CSR management » P.50 Americas Report Approve Cooperation Report Secretariat: Corporate CSR Committee Citizenship Department AEJ Legal compliance and reporting of violations » P.46 Approve Compliance Ensuring fair financial business practices » P.47 Preventing bribery » P.47 Identification of Material CSR Issues in Nomura Group Preventing money laundering » P.47 Enhancing and strengthening risk management systems » P.48 Ensuring financial soundness and transparency » P.49 Impact on stakeholders Risk management Business resilience » P.49 Social and environmental risk management » P.49 Clients Communities • Key non-financial indicators, such as GRI and SASB Shareholders Government organizations Offering high-quality financial services » P.46 Contributing to sound Investors NGOs/NPOs • Dialogue with socially responsible investment (SRI) organizations and sustainable Products and services responding to environmental and social issues » P.27 Employees Economic and business • Trends among financial institutions capital markets Customer protection and information security » P.47 groups Improving financial literacy » P.52 Bases of Nomura Group Contributing to Global CSR initiatives » P.54 sustainable communities Communication with stakeholders » P.54 Our Founder’s Principles • Contribute to economic growth and social development » Code of Ethics • Draw on the capabilities of personnel and respect for diversity Fostering human resources » P.58 Fostering human » Basic management policy • Maintain the spirit of putting the customer first, etc. resources with a respect Diversity and inclusion » P.58 for diversity Employee-friendly work environments » P.60 Respecting human rights » P.60 50 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 51 Contributing to Sound and Sustainable Capital Markets Expanding Financial and Economic Education http://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/society/education.html Perspectives on Broadening Access to TO PICS Financial and Economic Education Nomura’s social mission is to contribute to economic growth and Contributing to Social Development Actions Ahead since Our Foundation social development through the securities business by promoting the In step with changes in Japan’s economy and society Our Founder’s Principles contain the phrase “Nomura’s including the creation of a Junior NISA program which appropriate flow of funds in the capital markets. mission is to enrich the nation through the securities is a tax-free, small-sum investment system for minors business.” In essence, this means that Nomura will help to and a lowering of the voting age to 18, there has been create a fulfilling society through its business activities. This growing interest in finance and economic education. In spirit has been carefully handed down to the present day. response, Nomura Group provides programs according Fundamental Approach Under our Fundamental Management Policy, we to society’s needs, through actions including teaming up One of the highest-priority issues for Nomura Group financial and capital markets, and providing highhave set out to engage in educational activities regarding with schools to develop textbooks focused on the theme is contributing to sound and sustainable capital quality financial services. Moreover, Nomura is taking economics and investments. Every year, we send around of fostering life skills. In addition, the Group will also work markets. The Group is listening intently to the active initiatives to contribute to society, principally 400 Nomura Group employees to universities to serve to nurture personnel who will become the next generation opinions of its customers and the market, offering through providing opportunities for financial and as lecturers, along with conducting off-site lectures at of leaders in the capital markets, and foster entrepreneurs high-value-added solutions to its customers through economic education. elementary, junior high and senior high schools across who support new businesses. Nomura is working to Japan. make it possible for everyone, including people in remote areas and economically disadvantaged children, to have Initiatives and Accomplishments in Review equal access to opportunities for financial and economic Offering High-Quality Financial Services The number of participants in all programs provided by education. Similarly, for adult members of society, the • Working to offer high-quality and appropriate financial services to contribute to economic growth and Nomura Group since 2000 has reached a cumulative Group offers its Lifelong Learning Venues program in social development total of around 720,000. Our financial education courses regional communities and workplaces. The aim of this Actions for Shaping Our Future For further details, please refer to the following sections of this report. for university students are attended by more than 10,000 program is to provide participants with knowledge of Retail Division: Pages 20-21 / Asset Management Division: Pages 22-24 / Wholesale Division: Pages 25-27 / Compliance: Pages 46-47. students annually. Off-site lectures for elementary, finance and investments that will enable them to live junior high and senior high school students are carried affluent “second lives.” Customer Protection and Information Security out more than 150 times a year, and more than 4,700 • Appropriate segregation of customer assets students have participated. In other activities, the Group provides a wide range of educational content through Growing Demand • Effective protection of clients’ personal information and other information assets of the Group initiatives including lectures for adult members of society, for Financial Knowledge For further details, please refer to page 47. distribution of textbooks, the Nikkei Stock League stock education contest and special support for the Nikkei I believe that allowing students to come into Products and Services Responding to Environmental and Social Issues Future Investment Program. contact with professionals in their respective fields • Underwriting and sale of social contribution-type bonds is the key to nurturing students who think and act 2000 Nikkei Stock League stock education contest • Promoting ESG investment within the Group independently. Talks given by businesspeople active 2001 Financial education courses for universities on the front lines have inspired many students to give For further details, please refer to the following sections of this report. 2004 Lectures on securities for adult members of society serious thought to their future educational and career Asset Management Division: Page 23 / Wholesale Division: Page 27 / CSR Key Facts: Page 74. 2006 Provided textbooks to junior high schools nationwide planning. Financial knowledge is crucial to surviving 2008 Provided textbooks to elementary schools nationwide in our increasingly complex and specialized society. Improving Financial Literacy “Let’s Learn Classes” off-site lectures for elementary school students Therefore, I believe that demand and expectations for • Providing more than 100 financial education lectures to universities annually 2010 Financial education seminars for instructors Nomura’s program, which was developed based on • Conducting off-site lectures by Nomura employees at elementary, junior high, and senior high schools 2011 Actual working experience and off-site lectures for extensive specialized knowledge and experience, will nationwide junior and senior high school students only continue to grow “What is Investing?” “A Talk on Your Future and Money” • Developing educational programs according to contemporary needs in the years ahead. 2014 Nikkei Future Investment Program Development of new textbooks with instructors Participation in Saturday school initiatives with Japan’s Isao Hirano Knowledge and understanding of finance and markets and appropriate flows of funds. Since the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Principal, economics are important for leading self-reliant, 1990s, Nomura Group has been providing financial Technology Komaba Toho Junior and secure, and prosperous lives. We trust that having and economic education targeting a wide range of 2015 Renewal of a program for junior high school students Senior High School Provided “Dreams, Support, Company,” a finance and each and every citizen improve their financial literacy age groups, from Japanese elementary and junior economic education TV program for parents and their leads to promoting the development of sound capital high school students to adults. children 52 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 53 Contributing to Sustainable Communities Dialogue with Stakeholders http://www.nomuraholdings.com/ csr/stakeholder/ We believe that dialogue with stakeholders inside and outside the Group Dialogue with Stakeholders (Selected Examples) is important to understand the expectations and requests of society and Themes External Organization Outline reflect these in our business and CSR activities. Human rights, United Nations (UN) Participation in the Global labor, environment, Global Compact Compact Network Japan anti-corruption ESG UN Principles for Participation in the Japan Responsible Investment network Fundamental Approach ESG Principles for Financial Participation in a working Through continuing communication with a range Action for the 21st group on asset management, FY2015/16 Community Contribution Expenditure Century securities, and investment of stakeholders, from customers to shareholders, 13.3% banking businesses I the community and employees, we are working 4.2% ESG Climate Bonds Initiative Participation as a partner in activities to promote green to contribute to finding solutions to social and 3.0% G H Total bonds environmental issues. Nomura Holdings Corporate 2.2% F Approx. A 42.4% ESG CSR Asia Exchanges of opinions on ¥1.33 Governance Guidelines, formulated in November 6.0% E ESG issues in Asia 2015, laid out the principle that the Company shall D billion Environment The Carbon Disclosure Promotion, as a signatory, of endeavor to contribute to the development of society 12.2% Project (CDP) the climate change and water at all times and shall fulfill Nomura Group’s corporate C B programs 9.0% 7.7% social responsibility as a corporate citizen through the A: Education & young people B: Art and Culture, Sport implementation of Our Founder’s Principles that have Actions for Shaping Our Future C: Science and Academia D: Community Contribution been inherited since the foundation of the Company. E: Healthcare and Welfare F: Environment G: People H: Emergency relief I: Others Dialogue with Communities Note: The total includes approximately ¥0.14 billion from Nomura Foundation TO PICS and ¥0.05 billion from The Nomura Charitable Trust. Urgent Humanitarian Assistance through Partnerships with NGOs Global CSR Initiatives Japan Platform (JPF) was formed in 2000 to provide his expectations for JPF’s future, noting that JPF’s • Share the basic CSR theme of “For Future Generations” a new framework for humanitarian assistance by activities have enhanced Japan’s presence on the • Conduct activities in line with regional needs linking NGOs in Japan with political and business international stage as a nation offering humanitarian circles. Today, JPF is undertaking humanitarian support and have led to the formation of stronger In the regions around the world where Nomura These activities will be focused on nurturing future assistance activities in the international community relationships of trust between NGOs and corporations. Group conducts its business activities, we will generations, including activities aimed at eradicating in cooperation with various institutions, including the Nomura Group sees NGOs as important carry out activities in line with regional needs while disparities that may be carried forward to future United Nations. Nomura Group has been working in stakeholders. Accordingly, Nomura will continue forming partnerships with NGOs and other entities. generations. collaboration with JPF since its establishment and to work closely with NGOs and other stakeholders For further details, please refer to page 56-57. offering humanitarian aid. as it pushes ahead with its corporate citizenship In January 2016, a symposium was held to mark activities. the 15th anniversary of the establishment of JPF. Communication with Stakeholders While Nobuyuki Koga, Chairman of of the Board of Directors of Nomura Holdings, Inc., gave a speech • Participate in initiatives in Japan and overseas to fulfill corporate social responsibility as a corporate citizen as a representative of the business community, One of the ways Nomura Group interacts with with stakeholders, we carefully examine and review reviewing JPF’s accomplishments from its founding stakeholders is through participation in activities the activities and information disclosure we undertake to the present day. He noted that JPF’s cooperative with various initiatives in Japan and overseas that that are related to the economy, society (human framework, linking NGOs with political and business have the objective of contributing to society and the rights and labor), and environmental issues. We also circles, is functioning effectively and fostering environment. Through dialogue and collaboration report to the CSR Committee when needed. cooperation toward the goal of implementing timely and effective humanitarian assistance. He shared his perspectives on the significance of JPF and Nobuyuki Koga, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Nomura Holdings, Inc., delivers a greeting at the 15th anniversary of the establishment of JPF. 54 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 55 Contributing to Sustainable Communities JAPAN Glo b al CSR Initia tive s EMEA Americas Support for Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games Nomura’s UK Community Affairs program is The CSR program in the Americas focuses on benefiting split into three key areas: Two-Year London the younger generation and local community. Nomura Charity Partnership, The Nomura Charitable works to help children study and learn in an effort to Nomura Holdings will sponsor Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games (Tokyo 2020 Games) as the Trust, and Employee Engagement. In 2015, positively impact their lifestyles. Nomura partners with exclusive Gold Partner in the Securities category. Nomura Holdings sees the Tokyo 2020 Games as not just a we signed a two-year agreement with Rays Read Ahead and the Covenant House New York to provide of Sunshine, a charity that grants wishes for mentorship and literacy support for children and teens in sports event, but also a perfect opportunity for Japan to emphasize its commitment to embracing “Change and seriously ill children. In one year, we have the community. Nomura has held career sessions, book Challenge” on the world stage as it seeks to revitalize the Japanese economy and achieve sustainable growth raised over US$500,000 through a variety drives and backpack drives to support local students by overcoming challenges such as deflation, low economic growth, and an aging population with a low birth of fundraising activities—from runs, walks participating in these programs. rate. With this in mind, Nomura Holdings has decided to support the Tokyo 2020 Games as a sponsor in the and challenge events to a talent competition, Instinet’s* CSR activities aim to reduce income highest domestic tier of the Tokyo 2020 Sponsorship Program. Eyeing 2020, all employees of the Nomura Group raffles and quizzes. The partnership has been disparities among young people by motivating them to study an incredible success and this contribution in addition to providing support for life planning. Instinet will make a concerted effort to contribute to the success of the Tokyo 2020 Games while fostering economic will provide over 200 wish experiences. partners with Elevate New York and Operation Backpack. growth and social development in Japan. * Instinet, a Nomura subsidiary The Road to 2020 http://www.nomuraholdings.com/tokyo2020/ Support for Para-Sports Although public awareness of para-sports still remains low Recognizing that support for para-sports is in Japan, in the run-up to 2020, I would like to see the crucial, the Nomura Group is committed to paralympic games and para-sports become an integral supporting para-sports as an official partner part of people’s lives, and to create a society where all of Japanese Para-Sports Association. Nomura people can enjoy sports together, regardless of physical Actions for Shaping Our Future Group also supports Japan Para-Volleyball disability. Sitting volleyball is a sport that is accessible Association as a special partner. This association to a wide range of age groups, from elementary is working to popularize sitting volleyball, an official school children to the elderly. I believe that enabling all event of the Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Games. The participants to truly enjoy and understand sitting volleyball Powai, India AEJ Nomura Group will support para-sports by taking will ultimately lead to the advancement of this sport. steps such as broadening the appeal of these Nomura Powai continues to focus on supporting In Asia ex-Japan, a group of employee volunteers sports, training athletes, and encouraging general the lesser privileged communities across India by established the Nomura CARES network to be the Yoshihisa Mano, Chairman, Japan Para-Volleyball Association delivering quality education and healthcare. We focal point for CSR initiatives across the region. We understanding of para-sports. partner with various NGO’s and fund projects in now have charity partnerships with local NGOs in these focused areas, thereby creating significant Hong Kong, Singapore and China that our employees impact to the lives of children and youth from these support via various fundraising and volunteering events communities. One of the objectives of Powai CSR throughout the calendar year. We also have local is to integrate employee volunteering initiatives CSR initiatives in Australia, Korea and India. Nomura with ongoing CSR projects. This provides every CARES focuses on four main streams: our local charity employee an opportunity to contribute towards partnerships, green/environmental initiatives including the CSR efforts of the firm. Over the past year, annual beach cleanup events, small grant donations 4,550 volunteer hours were put in by a total of to NGOs that our employees are actively involved 2,668 volunteers through 158 unique volunteering with, and the Interbank Not-For-Profit Director Training initiatives, fund raisers, and drives conducted Program in Hong Kong and Singapore that Nomura collaboratively with our NGO partners. helps to organize along with four other industry peers. Japan women’s national sitting volleyball team seeks to deliver a strong performance at Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Games. Nomura Holdings supports the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games as the Gold Securities Partner. 56 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 57 Fostering Human Resources Our People http://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/employee/ with a Respect for Diversity Developing a diverse workforce is Nomura Group’s greatest asset and is Supporting Women through Their Career one of the highest priority issues in continuing to create new added value. In May 2015, Nomura Securities set a quantitative other measures to establish an equal employment target of 550 female managers by 2020 (384 as of environment in which women can fully exert their June 1, 2016). In March 2016, an action plan was abilities. announced to promote the active participation of Initiatives to support women in improving their Fundamental Approach women in the workplace. careers include a mentoring program for management The action plan outlines initiatives to achieve candidates and a sponsorship program supported by Today, persons of more than 70 nationalities work orientation, gender identity, age, religion, beliefs, quantitative targets, including support for female senior management, among other efforts to further in the Group and this diverse workforce is the social standing, physical impairments, or any other employees' career formation and support for aid women's active participation. Group’s greatest asset. Each and every employee criteria. In addition, the Nomura Holdings Corporate balancing their careers with life events, among is given an equal opportunity to be active and Governance Guidelines formulated in November 2015 successful, utilizing her/his capability and personal promotes establishment of a sound workplace to strengths. The Code of Ethics of Nomura Group enable all employees to perform at their full potential Employee Networks forbids discrimination in any way on the basis and strive to enhance corporate value. of nationality, race, ethnic origin, gender, sexual Nomura has three autonomously operated employee networks that provide a range of events with information related to diversity in the Diversity and Inclusion at Nomura workplace and provide opportunities to share both internally and externally. Nomura Group employees come from various Diversity and Inclusion Committees respectively as Actions for Shaping Our Future backgrounds and have different sets of values, but an organization to hold firm-wide discussions on • Women’s career advancement we believe that by showing mutual respect and by promoting such active participation. The Nomura Women in Nomura (WIN) working together we will be able to provide high Group Diversity and Inclusion Committee will be • Health, childcare and senior care value-added services to fulfill customers’ diverse chaired by the Group COO and members include Life & Family Network considering needs. In December 2015, Nomura Holdings and representatives of each division. Through these work-life management Nomura Securities established the Nomura Group measures, we have established a system in which • Multicultural, disability, LGBTA Diversity and Inclusion Department as an organization all employees are enabled to demonstrate their Promote understanding of diverse value systems to promote active participation of diverse employees. individual character and capabilities. Multicultural value In April 2016, the two companies established Employment of People with Disabilities Nomura Group motivates employees with disabilities work and aim to provide them with a stable work life. by deciding their job tasks (job description) At Nomura Securities, each year, the employment assignments flexibly through ongoing discussions rate people with disabilities continues to exceed the with the workplaces where they will be assigned. By legal requirements, and they are contributing actively placing them in positions suited to their capabilities, in a wide range of departments. Nomura encourages them to be autonomous in their 58 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 59 Fostering Human Resources with a Respect for Diversity Our Environment Our Environment http://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/environment/ Employee-Friendly Work Environments In 2009, Nomura Group created both its Environmental Statement and • Provide work environments enabling each employee to fully concentrate on work in a physically and Environmental Policy and, with the Environmental Activities Working mentally healthy condition Group as the core, the Group is proactively working to reduce the • Build healthy labor-management relationships • Realizing work practices that allow flexibility and diversity environmental impact of its business activities. Mental Healthcare Realizing Work Practices that Allow Flexibility and Diversity To safeguard the mental health of employees, we Fundamental Approach and Environmental Management provide access to psychiatrists and an employee Management and labor are monitoring employees’ counseling room staffed by a dedicated professional. working hours to maintain physical and mental health of The Code of Ethics of Nomura Group states, “Nomura activities. Also, to make sure the plan, do, check, Since May 2016, we have conducted stress checks employees and enable them to conduct work efficiently. Group is committed to acting in an environmentally action (PDCA) management approach is functioning, to promote employee awareness of their own stress, Also, in some departments, Nomura works to optimize responsible manner and should, therefore, approach internal environmental audits are conducted and aim to prevent mental health issues from arising total hours worked by giving consideration to the actual environmental issues positively.” periodically. by creating workplaces that are easy to work in. conditions in each department and having managerial In Japan, we have established an environmental Our offices around the world are implementing Furthermore, we are committed to helping employees staff exercise flexibility regarding hours worked, management system (EMS) and are implementing environmental initiatives. For example, our London who have taken leave to recover from mental illness including such measures as adopting a work shift comprehensive environmental preservation activities headquarters building obtained ISO 14001 return to the workplace. system and encouraging employees to use their allotted to deal with environmental risks and issues. Our certification in 2007 following an audit performed by vacation days. Moreover, Nomura’s flexible work styles Environmental Activities Working Group, which is a a local accreditation body and has maintained its Relationships with Labor Unions Actions for Shaping Our Future provide employees with work security for the long term. Group-wide organization, meets once a month to certification to the present. More than half of the employees of Nomura In specific terms, Nomura has endeavored to provide monitor the progress of environmental preservation Securities are members of the Nomura Securities improved arrangements that allow employees to take half-day paid vacation time and leave for childbirth and Nomura Group Environmental Management Framework Employees Union, and Nomura Securities has standing labor agreements with the union. To child-rearing, and has enhanced the system for nursing Board of Directors maintain sound and healthy relationships between care. In fact, all of the benefits provided by Nomura are labor and management, discussions are conducted above the legal requirement minimum, including leave Executive with the union on a wide range of topics on day-tobefore and after childbirth, leave for child-rearing, leave Management Board day issues, including respect for employee rights for nursing for sick children, subsidies for nurseries, Report Asia Report Approve and management issues. Through these discussions, nursing care leave and long-term leave for senior care. Cooperation The Head of Environmental Activities Nomura has also started a corporate contract to use CSR Committee Europe management and labor share views, and employees Environmental Affairs Working Group in the workplace have the opportunity to make their nurseries to improve the level of support for those Approve Americas views known. engaged in both child-rearing and work. Nomura Securities Nomura Group head office/branch companies offices Respecting Human Rights • Established various mechanisms to prevent discrimination and harassment • Continue to conduct human rights training • Bolstered Sexual Harassment/Power Harassment Hotline Environmental Targets The Nomura Group has set up Nomura Group awareness about human rights issues. The Group We set environmental goals for each year and To deepen the understanding of environmental Human Rights Committee to have discussions over has established consultation contacts both within closely manage the progress of our environmental issues and conduct related educational programs, we various human rights issues and determine human and outside the Company and provides similar preservation activities. In Japan, in line with the target have held an annual environmental training program rights initiatives. In addition, we continue to hold advisory functions for all harassment issues. to cut electricity consumption per square meter in for all Nomura Group employees since 2009. In human rights training for all Nomura people, including FY2030/31 by 20% or more from FY2009/10, the FY2015/16, 94% of employees in Japan participated members of the Board of Directors, to create greater Group is working to conserve resources and energy. in this program. 60 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 61 Our Environment Nomura Group Environmental Objectives and Progress (Japan) FY2015/16 targets Assessments FY2016/17 targets Reduction of Reduce domestic Nomura Group CO2 〇 Reduce domestic Nomura Group CO2 greenhouse gas emissions per square meter of floor space Reduction: 31.3% emissions per square meter of floor space emissions by 20% or more from FY2009/10 by 20% or more from FY2009/10 Performance Shift and maintain the percentage of fuel〇 Reduce the CO2 emissions per mileage efficient, low pollution leased vehicles of Switchover ratio: 99.9% driven of leased vehicles of Nomura Nomura Securities at 95% Securities from the previous year Raise the wastepaper recycling rate at 〇 Reduce the waste emissions volume at principal offices to 95% Recycling ratio: 99% principal offices from FY2013/14 Effective use of Have green products account for 85% of 〇 Have green products account for 85% of Review & resources supplies request system items Purchase ratio: 88.65% supplies request system items Reduction of paper Reduce use of copy paper (as measured × Reduce use of copy paper (as measured usage by the annual volume purchased) from the 3.9% increase year on year by the annual volume purchased) from the previous year previous year Encourage electronic document delivery 〇 Encourage electronic document delivery service Accounts accepting electronic document service delivery: 1.35 million Data Section Contribution to Increase the number of financial products 〇 Increase the number of financial products environment through and services that help resolve social issues Pursued underwriting and sales of and services that help resolve social issues Nomura’s main sustainable development bonds to promote businesses “social contribution-type investments” Note: For further information on environmental objectives, please visit: http://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/environment/management Efforts to Address Climate Change The proper management of climate change risk Nomura Group is working to lighten the impact of and the promotion of measures to deal with global its activities on the environment through the purchase warming will lead to solutions to social problems of green power. Our purchases of green power began and will contribute to maintaining and increasing domestically in 2006, and these reached a cumulative In this section, we present the basic information needed to corporate value. Nomura Group, as a multinational total of 60.76 million kWh. Beginning in 2014, we have understand the Nomura Group, beginning with our performance corporation with offices around the world, is making set a goal of continuing these purchases of green history, in addition to our Company-wide and business segment every effort to help resolve climate change issues power (from biomass power generation and other through its business activities and to reduce the green sources) for three consecutive years, and it will results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 and Nomura impact of its business activities on the natural be allocated to our principal domestic offices (located in Holdings’ financial strategies. environment. Nihonbashi in Tokyo, Osaka, and Nagoya). In addition, We collect and disclose environmental at our offices in London and elsewhere in Europe, we information, and, since FY2009/10, we have make use of electric power generated by renewable introduced third-party assurance verifications to energy sources, including hydroelectric power. ensure the reliability of this information (refer to page 78 for the third-party verification). Going Paperless and Promoting Recycling We are making efforts to more effectively use limited reduce paper usage. We also use these devices for natural resources and reduce the environmental training and internal meetings. impact of our activities and assist in the creation of a We are also continuing to expand the range of recycling-oriented society. As part of our commitment documents that are distributed electronically for our to reducing paper usage, we continue to digitize Nomura Home Trade service. prospectuses, reports, forms, and other documents. During FY2015/16, approximately 11.13 million Beginning in 2012, our initiatives have included documents were delivered electronically. providing all of our sales staff with tablet devices In our offices, we are working to raise employee featuring digitized sales and marketing tools to awareness of the amount of paper they use as part enhance the quality of our services and further of our campaign to reduce paper consumption. 62 Nomura Report 2016 Key Financial Data (billions of yen) (billions of yen) P/L FY2011/12 FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 Funding and liquidity March 31, 2012 March 31, 2013 March 31, 2014 March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 Net revenue 1,535.9 1,813.6 1,557.1 1,604.2 1,395.7 Liquidity portfolio* 5,427.7 5,883.5 6,127.2 6,064.0 5,947.1 Income before income taxes 85.0 237.7 361.6 346.8 165.2 Short-term unsecured debt 3,009.1 2,293.3 2,969.3 2,557.0 3,303.8 Net income* 11.6 107.2 213.6 224.8 131.6 Long-term unsecured debt 6,373.0 6,457.3 6,218.6 6,509.4 6,593.6 *Net income attributable to Nomura Holdings shareholders *Definition differs from financial disclosures reflecting Liquidity Management’s view. Cash and cash deposits portion of liquidity portfolio excludes funds on deposit at exchanges and segregated client funds. (billions of yen) (yen) Segment information FY2011/12 FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 Per share data FY2011/12 FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 Net revenue Retail 350.3 397.9 511.9 476.5 435.6 Basic-net income attributable to Nomura Holdings 3.18 29.04 57.57 61.66 36.53 Asset Management 65.8 68.9 80.5 92.4 95.4 shareholders per share (EPS) Wholesale 555.0 644.9 765.1 789.9 720.3 Diluted-net income attributable to Nomura Holdings 3.14 28.37 55.81 60.03 35.52 shareholders per share (EPS) Subtotal 971.1 1,111.7 1,357.5 1,358.7 1,251.3 Nomura Holdings shareholders’ equity per share (BPS) 575.20 618.27 676.15 752.40 748.32 Other 560.9 664.2 188.8 220.8 165.1 Dividends per share (DPS) 6.0 8.0 17.0 19.0 13.0 Unrealized gain (loss) on investments in equity securities held for operating purposes 3.8 37.7 10.7 24.7 (20.7) Dividend payout ratio (%) 188.7% 27.5% 29.5% 30.8% 35.6% Net revenue 1,535.9 1,813.6 1,557.1 1,604.2 1,395.7 Consolidated capital adequacy, etc.*1 March 31, 2012 March 31, 2013 March 31, 2014 March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 Income (loss) Retail 63.1 100.6 192.0 161.8 127.6 (billions of yen) before income Asset Management 20.5 21.2 27.1 32.1 36.7 Tier 1 capital 2,090.2 2,092.9 2,314.2 2,459.2 2,577.5 taxes Wholesale (37.7) 71.7 111.8 82.2 15.4 Tier 2 capital 319.6 359.2 401.5 361.2 323.1 Subtotal 46.0 193.5 330.9 276.1 179.7 Total capital 2,427.0 2,452.1 2,715.7 2,820.4 2,900.6 Other 35.2 6.6 20.0 46.0 6.1 RWA 14,681.0 17,546.7 17,425.9 18,929.2 15,970.5 Unrealized gain (loss) on investments in Tier 1 capital ratio 14.2% 11.9% 13.2% 12.9% 16.1% equity securities held for operating purposes 3.8 37.7 10.7 24.7 (20.7) CET 1 capital ratio* 2 14.2% 11.9% 13.2% 12.9% 15.4% Income before income taxes 85.0 237.7 361.6 346.8 165.2 Consolidated capital adequacy ratio 16.5% 13.9% 15.5% 14.8% 18.1% Performance Review & Data Section Consolidated leverage ratio* 3 — — — 3.82% 4.28% (billions of yen) (trillions of yen) Geographic information* FY2011/12 FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 HQLA*4 — — — — 6.2 Income (loss) Japan 214.1 317.2 386.3 363.2 244.8 before income LCR* 4 — — — — 175.8% Americas (24.6) 25.7 29.5 (27.6) (32.0) taxes by region *1 Figures for March 2012 were prepared under Basel 2.5 standards. Figures for March 2013 to March 2016 were prepared under Basel 3 standards. Europe (91.5) (93.1) (48.9) (23.5) (67.4) *2 CET 1 capital ratio is defined as Tier 1 capital minus minority interests divided by risk-weighted assets. *3 Tier 1 capital divided by exposure (sum of on-balance sheet exposures and off-balance sheet items). Asia and Oceania (12.9) (12.1) (5.2) 34.6 19.8 *4 Monthly average of 4Q. Subtotal (129.1) (79.4) (24.7) (16.4) (79.6) Consolidated 85.0 237.7 361.6 346.8 165.2 Number of shares outstanding, share price, etc. March 31, 2012 March 31, 2013 March 31, 2014 March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 *Region information is based on US GAAP. Revenues and expenses are allocated based on the country of domicile of the legal entity providing the service. This information is not Number of shares outstanding (thousands) 3,822,563 3,822,563 3,822,563 3,822,563 3,822,563 used for business management purposes. Share price (fiscal year-end) (yen) 366 577 662 706.2 502.9 Market capitalization (trillions of yen)* 1.4 2.2 2.5 2.7 1.9 ROE FY2011/12 FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 PBR (times)* 0.64 0.93 0.98 0.94 0.67 ROE 0.6% 4.9% 8.9% 8.6% 4.9% PER (times)* 115.09 19.87 11.50 11.45 13.77 (billions of yen) *Figures based on the fiscal year-end share price. B/S March 31, 2012 March 31, 2013 March 31, 2014 March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 Total assets 35,697.3 37,942.4 43,520.3 41,783.2 41,090.2 Total Nomura Holdings shareholders’ equity 2,107.2 2,294.4 2,513.7 2,707.8 2,700.2 Gross leverage (times) 16.9 16.5 17.3 15.4 15.2 Net leverage* (times) 10.4 10.4 10.4 9.3 9.6 *Total assets minus securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities borrowed, divided by Nomura Holdings shareholders’ equity. 64 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 65 Message from the CFO I was appointed as CFO in April 2016. FY2015/16 Financial Results Improving Profitability and Prior to that, I spent around 20 years working Capital Efficiency in finance-related roles that supported our The year ended March 2016 started off relatively businesses. Based on this background, I have smoothly. However, the second half of the Our first priority must be to create a lean set myself two key missions to carry out as CFO. year proved to be challenging as client activity structure capable of delivering profits amid My first mission is to improve profitability weakened on the back of fears over a slowdown challenging market conditions. We are focused and enhance the firm’s capital efficiency. For in China from August onwards and uncertainty on the future, investing in IT systems to increase instance, I will track the progress of our recently surrounding the direction of monetary policy in the efficiency of our work processes, and announced cost reductions to ensure they major countries. Asset Management reported intensifying our focus on areas where we can are properly carried out. I will also allocate stronger earnings as it continued to grow its compete. resources appropriately and evaluate the assets under management. However, Retail Our Wholesale has started to review its return on resources to ensure that our limited and Wholesale both booked a decline in pretax businesses in EMEA and the Americas with the management resources are put to the best use. income compared to the previous year. As a aim of improving international profitability. We My second mission is to maintain our approresult, income before income taxes from our are lowering our breakeven point by closing priate financial position. Nomura’s core business three business segments totaled ¥179.7 billion, some businesses and streamlining others. We is to provide financial products in the volatile representing a decline of 35% year on year. are also focusing our management resources capital markets. Amid the trend to apply tighter 250 Aside from the three segments, there was100 on profitable areas that require a high-level of regulations to global financial institutions, it is downward pressure on earnings from unrealized expertise. We have made significant cost reduc200 80 critical to have abundant liquidity and a solid losses on securities held due to the decline tions in the past. This time, by closing certain 60.03 financial position. Indeed, at times these can in stock prices and expenses related 150 to the 60 businesses, we are taking an even sharper 55.81 also be a competitive advantage. settlement of legal proceedings. Group income approach to refining our business portfolio. Takumi Kitamura 100 before income taxes was ¥165.2 billion,35.52 net 40 We are working to ensure the optimal Performance Review & Data Section Chief Financial Officer (CFO) 28.37 income 50 was ¥131.6 billion, and earnings per 20 allocation of financial resources across share (diluted) was ¥35.52. businesses and regions in order to meet the 3.14 0 0 needs of our clients and move swiftly to capture business opportunities as they arise. We are regularly monitoring whether the resources allocated to each business are generating Net income*1 and EPS*2 Net revenue in FY2015/16 Wholesale costs*1 sufficient returns. We are making the necessary Aiming at reducing costs by approximately decisions and reallocating management 20% compared to FY2014/15 (Billions of yen) (Yen) Other Retail (Millions of dollars) resources flexibly, taking into account a compre−15% 250 100 Net revenue Net revenue 8,000 7,519 hensive range of factors for each business ¥ 165.1billion ¥ 435.6 6,879 6,511 6,419 Approx. −20% including the earnings outlook, the relevance 200 80 Income before billion 5,871 6,000 to our franchise, and our position within the income taxes Income before 150 60.03 60 ¥ 6.1 billion Segment total income taxes industry. ¥ 127.6 100 55.81 40 ¥1,416.4 billion 4,000 35.52 billion 28.37 2,000 50 20 Wholesale Asset Net revenue Management 3.14 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 ¥ 720.3 billion Net revenue 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Future run rate (Fiscal years ended March) Income before ¥ 95.4 costs*2 income taxes billion (Fiscal years ended March) ■ Net income*1 (lhs) EPS*2 (rhs) ■Fixed costs ■Variable costs *1 Net income attributable to Nomura Holdings shareholders. ¥ 15.4 billion Income before income taxes *1 Converted into USD using average month-end spot rate for each period. *2 Diluted net income attributable to Nomura Holdings shareholders per share. ¥ 36.7 *2 Cost base assuming FY2015/16 business environment continues. billion 66 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 67 8,000 7,519 20,000 20 8 6,879 6,511 6,419 Message from the CFO Performance Review of Divisions / Retail Financial Position Shareholder Returns FY2015/16 Financial Results client assets of ¥150 trillion, a sign of trust placed 250 100 in us by our clients, and a recurring revenue One of our strengths is our robust financial Our main approach to shareholder returns is to At the start of FY2015/16, stock markets were cost coverage ratio*1 of approximately 50% by 200 80 position. Since the global financial crisis in 2008, consistently improve shareholder value while also relatively calm, with the Nikkei Stock Average FY2019/20. We made progress on this initiative in 60.03 FY2015/16. While Retail brokerage commissions there 150 has been much discussion about tight60 providing returns in the form of dividends. A key hovering around ¥20,000. In August however, 55.81 concerns about the Chinese economy and the from securities transactions declined, approxiening regulations for global financial institutions. indicator for dividends is a consolidated dividend 100 40 impact of global monetary policies resulted in a mately ¥1.2 trillion flowed into investment trusts Several key regulations are yet to be finalized, 35.52 so payout ratio of 30% based on half-yearly 28.37 dramatic decline in stock prices and meaningful and discretionary investment products*2, thereby at50the moment, we are not sure of the full impact 20 consolidated earnings. In determining dividends, yen appreciation. In addition, the beginning of increasing our recurring revenue by 20% from the of these regulations on our business. That said, we also take into account a range of factors 3.14 calendar year 2016 also saw some turbulent prior year. as0 of the end of March 2016, our Tier 1 capital 0 including the regulatory environment globally and Retail Division continues to develop existing price movements as the Nikkei Stock Average ratio remained high at 16.1%. Our liquidity our operating environment. For the year ended and new client relationships and last year, we were declined for six consecutive days and the yen’s portfolio was ¥5.9 trillion, which positions us March 2016, we paid an annual dividend of ¥13 exchange rate against the U.S. dollar again able to offer clients access to several large primary as being able to continue operating for one per share, representing a consolidated dividend reached the ¥110 range. transactions, including the initial public offering year under liquidity stressed market conditions payout ratio of 35.6%. The challenging market environment, particuof three companies of the Japan Post Group. In without the need for additional funding. As part of our flexible capital policy, we also larly in the second half of the year, had a negative addition, the Nippon Individual Savings Account Nomura has a broad range of stakeholders conducted a share buyback program to improve impact on Retail investor sentiment. Sales of (NISA) program, which started in 2014, continues 8,000 including7,519 clients, shareholders, creditors, capital efficiency. Working towards our 2020 stocks and investment trusts slowed and as a to expand. As of March 31, 2016, 1.55 million NISA 6,879 accounts were opened at Nomura, with accumucounterparties, financial 6,511 and 6,419 taxation authorities target of EPS of ¥100, we will invest in business result, Retail net revenue was ¥435.6 billion, down 5,871 9% from last year, and income before income taxes lated investments of nearly ¥1.2 trillion. in various countries, and credit rating agencies. 6,000 areas with strong profitability and high growth was ¥127.6 billion, down 21% year on year. As of March 31, 2016, total client accounts I believe it is essential to listen closely to what potential while delivering appropriate shareholder (excluding those with empty balances) amounted to our stakeholders 4,000 have to say and implement returns, taking into account our share price and 5.389 million, representing an increase of approx. the best financial strategy and capital policy in regulatory capital requirements. Initiatives to Transform Our Business 95,000 accounts from the prior year. Retail client Model and Expand Our Client Base Are Performance Review & Data Section such 2,000 a way that allows us to achieve sustainable assets remained at a high level of ¥100.6 trillion, growth into the future. Ongoing although it was down from ¥109.5 trillion at the end 0 of the previous fiscal year. Aiming towards “winning client trust” and “business *1 Recurring revenue represents revenue received from ongoing services expansion,” our Retail Division has been working linked to assets under custody, such as management fees from investment trusts, etc. to transform its business model since August *2 The amount obtained after deducting the redemptions from RWA and Tier 1 capital ratio* Liquidity portfolio* 2012. The Division is targeting to achieve Retail subscriptions. (Billions of yen) (%) (Trillions of yen) 20,000 20 8 Net revenue and Recurring revenue and income before income taxes recurring revenue cost coverage ratio 16.1 5.9 6.1 6.1 5.9 15,000 15 6 (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) 14.2 13.2 5.4 25 12.9 600 192.0 200 100 25 11.9 10,000 10 4 161.8 20 80 20 450 150 17 127.6 5,000 5 2 15 60 15 300 100.6 100 0 0 0 40 10 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 63.1 (End of March) (End of March) 150 50 20 5 ■■ R WA (lhs) ■ Tier 1 capital ratio* (rhs) * Definition differs from financial disclosures reflecting Liquidity Management’s view. The cash and cash deposits portion of liquidity portfolio excludes * Figures for March 2012 were prepared under Basel 2.5 standards, and 0 0 0 0 funds on deposit at exchanges and segregated client funds. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 figures for March 2013 to March 2016 were prepared under Basel 3 standards. (Fiscal years ended March) (Fiscal years ended March) ■ Net revenue (lhs) ■ Recurring revenue (lhs) Income before income taxes (rhs) Recurring revenue cost coverage ratio (rhs) 68 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 69 Performance Review of Divisions / Asset Management Performance Review of Divisions / Wholesale FY2015/16 Financial Results bond mandates. Overseas, Nomura Corporate FY2015/16 Financial Results businesses such as foreign exchange and Research and Asset Management, whose interest rate hedges to corporates and financial In FY2015/16, Asset Management Division core competency is high-yield bonds, received The start of FY2015/16 ushered in a period of institutions. Among overseas regions, we saw reported record net revenue of ¥95.4 billion, up favorable evaluations for its mediumto higher volatility driven by concerns surrounding solid performance in EMEA and Asia ex-Japan, 25 3% from the prior year. Income before income long-term performance and also saw inflows the fiscal sustainability of 600 Greece. In the latter part 192.0 200 while the Americas experienced a slowdown due 100 25 of the year, market conditions deteriorated 161.8 further to significant market headwinds. 20 taxes increased 14% year on year to ¥36.7 from pension funds and other institutional 80 20 and client activity plummeted as the economic 150 450 17 billion, its highest level since FY2006/07. investors. As a result, inflows for the entire 127.6 slowdown in China, widening credit spreads, Initiatives to 15 Improve Profitability At year-end, assets under management investment advisory business were approxi60 15 plunging oil prices and 300 100.6 monetary policy uncer100 (AUM) were ¥40.1 trillion, an increase of approxmately ¥2 trillion during the year. tainties drove market participants to the sidelines. Wholesale 40 Division has lowered its cost base by10 imately ¥800 billion from last year. Despite the In this challenging 63.1 market environment, Wholesale $2 billion since 2011, including taking strategic 150 50 impact market factors such as declining stock Initiatives Aimed at Expanding Our Division delivered net revenue of ¥720.3 billion, actions 20 to align the Fixed Income business 5 market indices and ongoing yen appreciation Investment Footprint in North America 9% lower than in the previous year, and income portfolio to the evolving market environment 0 had on AUM, net inflows during the year were before income taxes of ¥15.4 billion, 81% lower 0 0 during FY2015/16. At the start of FY2016/17, 0 ¥4.8 trillion, largely due to our efforts to provide In December 2015, we formed a strategic than in the previous year. another strategic review of the business portfolio clients with investment trusts and investment partnership and acquired a non-controlling Global Markets recorded net revenue was conducted in view of the challenging market advisory services that matched their specific approx. 41% economic interest (voting rights of ¥600.3 billion, a decline of 12% over the outlook, and a number of actions were taken needs. of 10.1%) in American Century Investments previous year. Equities remained resilient amid particularly in EMEA and the Americas. In the investment trust business, we offered (ACI), an independent investment management difficult market conditions, but Fixed Income net Our mother-market platform in the revenues declined significantly, particularly in Asia-Pacific region was not affected by these funds to meet clients’ needs and worked to firm in the U.S. ACI is an active manager of 192.0 100 and global equities for its large client base25 25 the second half of the fiscal year when volatility40 changes. In EMEA, we closed39.3 certain down 40.1 increase 600 AUM of existing funds. Net cash inflows 200 U.S. 100 40 heightened and liquidity dried up. 36.7 businesses with structural disadvantages to continued into discretionary investments 161.8 and throughout North America. 20 When coupled with 80 20 Investment Banking enhanced32.1 cross-regional focus on areas of our strength. 30.8 In the Americas, privately 450 placed funds for regional financial insti-150 Asset Management 17 Division, with its expertise 75 30 30 27.9 127.6 and cross-divisional collaboration, producing a we streamlined some of our businesses to Performance Review & Data Section 15 27.1 24.6 tutions. ETF products with unique characteristics, in60Japanese and Asian equities and high-yield 15 number of notable M&A transactions and multirefocus on our core businesses and pursue such 300 as leveraged ETFs, 100.6 drew investor attention100 bonds and its broad client base in Japan, 50 21.2 20 20 product deals 20.5across all regions. As a result, selective growth opportunities to expand our 40 10 as did conventional index-linked ETFs. As a result, we believe both companies will benefit from Investment Banking net revenue was ¥120 share of the world’s largest fee pool. Through 63.1 inflows 150 for the entire investment trust business 50 the other’s know-how and will deliver broad billion, 25 13% higher than in the previous year. In 10 these actions, we have lowered the breakeven 10 20 5 amounted to ¥2.7 trillion during the year. investment solutions to a wider range of global Japan, revenues increased year on year, driven point of the Division, and positioned the interna0 In the investment advisory business, 0 retail 0 and institutional clients. The acquisition 0 by0 the participation in key landmark financing 0 tional 0 Wholesale platform to deliver sustainable Nomura was selected by the largest Japanese was completed in May 2016. transactions, industry consolidation and performance across market cycles. public pension fund to manage four foreign cross-border M&A deals, as well as Solutions Net revenue and Net revenue and Assets under management* Net revenues by region income before income taxes income (loss) before income taxes (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Trillions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 39.3 40.1 789.9 100 40 40 800 150 800 765.1 36.7 720.3 111.8 644.9 32.1 30.8 75 30 30 27.9 600 100 600 555.0 27.1 24.6 82.2 71.7 50 21.2 20 20 400 50 400 20.5 15.4 25 10 10 200 0 200 -37.7 0 0 0 0 −50 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Fiscal years ended March) (End of March) (Fiscal years ended March) (Fiscal years ended March) ■ Net revenue (lhs) ■ Net revenue (lhs) Income before income taxes (rhs) * Net after deducting duplications from assets under management of Income ( loss) before income taxes (rhs) ■ Japan ■ AEJ ■ EMEA ■ Americas companies that belong to Asset Management Division. 70 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 71 Eight-Year Consolidated Financial Summary (US GAAP) For the fiscal years beginning April 1 and ending March 31 of the following year Note: This financial summary is prepared solely for convenience. Readers are recommended to refer to Form 20-F. (Millions of yen) FY2008/09 FY2009/10 FY2010/11 FY2011/12 FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 Operating Results: Revenue: Commission ¥ 306,803 ¥ 395,083 ¥ 405,463 ¥ 347,135 ¥ 359,069 ¥ 473,121 ¥ 453,401 ¥ 431,959 Fees from investment banking 54,953 121,254 107,005 59,638 62,353 91,301 95,083 118,333 Asset management and portfolio service fees 140,166 132,249 143,939 144,251 141,029 168,683 203,387 229,006 Net gain (loss) on trading (128,339) 417,424 336,503 272,557 367,979 476,356 531,337 354,031 Gain (loss) on private equity investments (54,791) 11,906 19,292 25,098 8,053 11,392 5,502 13,761 Interest and dividends 331,356 235,310 346,103 435,890 394,007 416,350 436,766 440,050 Gain (loss) on investments in equity securities (25,500) 6,042 (16,677) 4,005 38,686 15,156 29,410 (20,504) Other 39,863 37,483 43,864 563,186 708,767 179,485 175,702 156,460 Total revenue 664,511 1,356,751 1,385,492 1,851,760 2,079,943 1,831,844 1,930,588 1,723,096 Interest expense 351,884 205,929 254,794 315,901 266,312 274,774 326,412 327,415 Net revenue 312,627 1,150,822 1,130,698 1,535,859 1,813,631 1,557,070 1,604,176 1,395,681 Non-interest expenses: Compensation and benefits 491,555 526,238 518,993 534,648 547,591 570,058 596,593 574,191 Commissions and floor brokerage 73,681 86,129 92,088 93,500 91,388 111,849 129,977 123,881 Information processing and communications 154,980 175,575 182,918 177,148 179,904 192,168 192,300 189,910 Occupancy and related depreciation 78,480 87,806 87,843 100,891 91,545 80,142 76,112 78,411 Business development expenses 31,638 27,333 30,153 48,488 49,010 38,485 35,230 35,892 Other 262,558 142,494 125,448 496,227 616,463 202,754 227,205 228,238 Total non-interest expenses 1,092,892 1,045,575 1,037,443 1,450,902 1,575,901 1,195,456 1,257,417 1,230,523 Income (loss) before income taxes (780,265) 105,247 93,255 84,957 237,730 361,614 346,759 165,158 Income tax expense (benefit) (70,854) 37,161 61,330 58,903 132,039 145,165 120,780 22,596 Net income (loss) (709,411) 68,086 31,925 26,054 105,691 216,449 225,979 142,562 Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (1,219) 288 3,264 14,471 (1,543) 2,858 1,194 11,012 Net income (loss) attributable to NHI shareholders ¥ (708,192) ¥ 67,798 ¥ 28,661 ¥ 11,583 ¥ 107,234 ¥ 213,591 ¥ 224,785 ¥ 131,550 Balance Sheets (Period End): Performance Review & Data Section Cash and cash deposits ¥ 1,422,709 ¥ 1,352,244 ¥ 2,150,453 ¥ 1,953,677 ¥ 1,652,752 ¥ 2,189,310 ¥ 2,096,596 ¥ 3,898,843 Loans and receivables 1,643,007 2,071,714 2,227,822 2,211,423 2,629,875 2,570,678 2,948,424 2,969,578 Collateralized agreements 8,412,618 12,467,213 15,156,318 13,742,646 14,115,257 17,347,001 16,719,520 15,077,660 Trading assets and private equity investments 11,672,612 14,700,282 15,241,931 14,123,594 17,124,349 18,714,314 17,308,848 16,410,002 Other assets 1,686,902 1,638,975 1,916,466 3,665,972 2,420,206 2,699,011 2,709,848 2,734,084 Total assets ¥ 24,837,848 ¥ 32,230,428 ¥ 36,692,990 ¥ 35,697,312 ¥ 37,942,439 ¥ 43,520,314 ¥ 41,783,236 ¥41,090,167 Short-term borrowings ¥ 1,183,374 ¥ 1,301,664 ¥ 1,167,077 ¥ 1,185,613 ¥ 738,445 ¥ 602,131 ¥ 662,256 ¥ 662,902 Payables and deposits 1,242,318 1,528,419 2,103,608 2,437,370 2,413,801 2,836,873 3,398,600 4,249,118 Collateralized financing 10,157,954 11,216,481 13,686,438 12,519,274 15,409,383 17,111,999 15,379,803 16,605,591 Trading liabilities 4,752,054 8,356,806 8,688,998 7,495,177 8,491,296 11,047,285 10,044,236 7,499,335 Other liabilities 467,574 494,983 552,316 1,165,901 978,163 1,141,750 1,217,099 1,200,647 Long-term borrowings 5,483,028 7,199,061 8,402,917 8,504,840 7,592,368 8,227,063 8,336,296 8,129,559 Total liabilities 23,286,302 30,097,414 34,601,354 33,308,175 35,623,456 40,967,101 39,038,290 38,347,152 Total NHI shareholders’ equity 1,539,396 2,126,929 2,082,754 2,107,241 2,294,371 2,513,680 2,707,774 2,700,239 Noncontrolling interests 12,150 6,085 8,882 281,896 24,612 39,533 37,172 42,776 Total equity 1,551,546 2,133,014 2,091,636 2,389,137 2,318,983 2,553,213 2,744,946 2,743,015 Total liabilities and equity ¥ 24,837,848 ¥ 32,230,428 ¥ 36,692,990 ¥ 35,697,312 ¥ 37,942,439 ¥ 43,520,314 ¥ 41,783,236 ¥41,090,167 Cash Flows: Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities ¥ (712,629) ¥ (1,500,770) ¥ (235,090) ¥ 290,863 ¥ 549,501 ¥ 457,426 ¥ (77,028) ¥ 1,238,372 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (98,905) (269,643) (423,214) 9,942 (160,486) (103,195) 12,337 (23,711) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 999,760 2,176,530 1,284,243 (844,311) (701,623) 289,385 (178,206) 986,387 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (81,896) 964 (26,246) (6,314) 47,175 41,089 68,513 (40,195) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents ¥ 106,330 ¥ 407,081 ¥ 599,693 ¥ (549,820) ¥ (265,433) ¥ 684,705 ¥ (174,384) ¥ 2,160,853 72 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 73 CSR Key Facts Data for FY2015/16 items marked with have undergone assurance verification by a third party. Corporate Governance Dialogue with Stakeholders Unit June 30, 2012 June 30, 2013 June 30, 2014 June 30, 2015 June 30, 2016 Unit FY2011/12 FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 Members of the board Community contribution expenditures Board of Directors No. of people 11 11 11 12 11 Total Millions of yen 1,235 1,348 1,323 1,457 1,325 No. of people 7 6 6 7 6 Education Millions of yen 582 556 604 530 562 Outside Directors Ratio (%) 64 55 55 58 55 Arts, culture, and sports Millions of yen 106 81 66 333 102 No. of people 3 3 3 3 3 Non-Japanese Directors Science and academic achievement Millions of yen 83 129 117 114 120 Ratio (%) 27 27 27 25 27 Community contribution Millions of yen 200 199 190 161 162 No. of people 1 1 1 1 1 Female Directors Welfare and health Millions of yen 49 79 39 85 79 Ratio (%) 9 9 9 8 9 Environment Millions of yen 43 47 84 34 29 Unit FY2011/12 FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 Human rights and labor Millions of yen 3 4 20 19 39 Officers (Executive Officers and Senior Managing Directors) Disaster relief Millions of yen 71 88 78 68 56 Men No. of people 41 23 27 26 27 Other Millions of yen 103 171 129 113 176 Women No. of people 2 2 2 2 2 Ratio of women % 4 8 6 7 7 Cumulative Unit FY2011/12 FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 total Unit FY2011/12 FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 Participants and materials in financial and economics education Board of Directors meetings Visiting classes (elementary, junior, No. of schools 22 31 56 265 304 731 No. of times held No. of times 10 11 10 10 10 senior high schools, universities, Since 2008 No. of teachers) participants 1,087 1,865 2,825 9,836 9,637 28,470 Average attendance rate % 95 97 98 99 100 No. of schools 115 114 112 108 106 1,654 Financial courses for universities Since 2001 No. of participants 12,000 11,000 11,000 11,000 11,000 217,000 Client Focused No. of courses 536 444 531 566 412 7,546 Unit FY2011/12 FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 Financial courses for the general Since 2003 No. of public 27,839 21,696 23,897 24,712 14,958 380,724 Caseload at Customer Help Desk Department (Nomura Securities) participants Total No. of cases 5,005 5,693 7,010* 1 5,540 5,767 No. of teams 1,420 1,287 1,484 1,361 1,429 24,500 Complaints No. of cases 3,012 3,409 4,023*2 2,537 2,771 Nikkei Stock League Since 2000 No. of members 5,741 5,120 5,699 5,167 5,587 97,066 Inquiries No. of cases 1,836 2,119 2,730 2,766 2,749 Opinions and requests No. of cases 13 23 55 81 128 Teaching material for elementary No. of schools 120 396 227 366 361 3,670 schools (The Economics Other No. of cases 144 142 202 156 119 Since 2008 Classroom,“The Framework of No. of copies 5,000 17,422 14,639 24,170 21,377 282,608 *1 The increase in the caseload in FY2013/14 was due to a rise in the number of incoming calls and heavy demand on telephone circuits. Society and the Role of Money”)* *2 Of the total, 69 calls were related to the handling of customer information. No. of schools 180 387 215 161 79 4,722 Performance Review & Data Section Teaching material for junior high Since 2006 Unit FY2011/12 FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 schools (The t-shirt shop)* No. of copies 17,200 17,326 12,162 15,380 5,928 447,996 Branches that are barrier-free and have AEDs (Nomura Securities) *The total volume of learning materials donated to elementary and junior high schools by Nomura Holdings Certified universally accessible No. of branch offices 30 30 30 30 33 Wheelchair-accessible toilets No. of branch offices 80 81 78 78 83 Developing Human Resources Who Respect Diversity Wheelchair-accessible elevators No. of branch offices 54 57 66 66 68 Unit FY2011/12 FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 With steps removed from entrances and No. of branch offices 140 139 129 130 128 Education and training expenses exits (with ramps, elevators, or no steps) With installations to mitigate entrance and Total 2,033 2,441 2,515 2,972 2,880 No. of branch offices 14 13 13 14 14 Japan Millions of yen 1,468 1,907 1,978 2,076 2,020 exit steps (railings or reduced step heights) Percentage of branches equipped with Europe Millions of yen 133 108 81 115 225 % — — 100 100 100 AEDs (automated external defibrillators) Americas Millions of yen 280 233 262 573 426 Percentage of branches with personnel Asia-Pacific Millions of yen 153 193 194 208 209 % — — 80 80 80 designated to provide assistance to seniors Participation in education and training* Unit January 2012 December 2013 August 2014 January 2015 February 2016 Aggregate no. of hours 225,184 254,117 406,602 507,639 589,242 Total Results of customer satisfaction surveys at branch offices (Nomura Securities) Aggregate no. of participants 21,928 22,048 89,657 132,672 211,014 Extremely satisfied/satisfied % — 81.6 81.4 80.9 82.1 Aggregate no. of hours 169,385 208,087 284,920 333,305 307,295 Japan Neither satisfied nor dissatisfied % — 15.7 16.3 16.3 15.1 Aggregate no. of participants 11,965 12,081 12,325 14,398 16,294 % — 2.7 2.2 2.8 2.8 Aggregate no. of hours 2,766 1,732 26,117 48,434 137,565 Extremely dissatisfied/dissatisfied Europe Aggregate no. of participants 977 647 21,822 41,654 62,077 Unit FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 Aggregate no. of hours 7,390 7,204 7,811 15,439 17,589 Americas Social contribution-type bonds (Nomura Securities) Aggregate no. of participants 1,182 1,794 5,598 12,255 25,122 ADB Clean Energy Bonds/ ADB Bonds/ADB Water Bond/ Aggregate no. of hours 45,643 37,094 87,754 110,461 126,793 ADB Water Bonds/AfDB AfDB Food Safety and Security ADB Bonds/IADB EYE Bonds/ Asia-Pacific ADB Clean Energy Bonds/ Aggregate no. of participants 7,804 7,526 49,912 64,365 107,521 Name of bonds issued IFC Bonds Education Support Bond/ Bond/IADB Bonds/IBRD IBRD Bonds/IFC Bonds/ IFC Bonds/IFC Green Bonds/ Bonds/IBRD Green Bonds/ NIB Bonds *Certain subsidiaries and affiliates were excluded from the number of participants in internal education and training in Europe, the Americas and Asia as the data was EIB Bonds IFC Bond/IFC Green Bond compiled based on persons registered through the Wholesale Division’s internal training system. Bonds issued Number 14 11 19 24 Proceeds Millions of yen 76,883 95,960 159,145 72,310 74 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 75 CSR Key Facts Data for FY2015/16 items marked with have undergone assurance verification by a third party. Developing Human Resources Who Respect Diversity Our Environment Unit FY2011/12 FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 Unit FY2011/12 FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 Composition of employees*1 GHG Emissions No. of employees 27,168 26,242 26,019 28,672 28,865 Japan t-CO2 2,373 2,247 2,207 2,107 1,986 Total Ratio of male employees (%) 62 62 62 62 62 Europe t-CO2 1,299 1,318 1,131 797 752 Scope 1: Direct emissions*1 Ratio of female employees (%) 38 38 38 38 38 Americas t-CO2 0 0 46 69 72 No. of employees 15,145 15,004 15,062 15,973 16,083 Asia-Pacific t-CO2 76 76 143 143 169 Japan Ratio of male employees (%) 56 57 56 58 58 Japan t-CO2 34,214 38,988 42,300 40,965 39,065 Ratio of female employees (%) 44 43 44 42 42 Europe t-CO2 21,629 16,842 17,334 14,164 12,822 No. of employees 4,014 3,618 3,461 3,485 3,424 Scope 2: Indirect emissions*1 Americas t-CO2 12,208 11,672 10,143 13,486 11,975 Europe Ratio of male employees (%) 70 70 71 71 71 Asia-Pacific t-CO2 24,357 24,323 21,601 22,007 21,892 Ratio of female employees (%) 30 30 29 29 29 Japan t-CO2 2.4 2.8 3.0 2.9 2.7 No. of employees 2,420 2,271 2,281 2,449 2,503 Europe t-CO2 6.9 6.2 6.0 4.6 4.3 Scope 1, 2 Emissions Americas Ratio of male employees (%) 74 74 74 74 74 per employee Americas t-CO2 5.0 5.1 4.5 5.5 4.8 Ratio of female employees (%) 26 26 26 26 26 Asia-Pacific t-CO2 5.0 5.4 4.9 4.3 4.2 No. of employees 5,589 5,349 5,215 6,765 6,855 Japan t-CO2 18,505 17,919 18,729 20,823 22,013 Asia-Pacific Ratio of male employees (%) 66 65 64 61 61 Scope 3 Emissions from Europe t-CO2 9,446 9,728 9,253 8,127 7,651 Ratio of female employees (%) 34 35 36 39 39 employee travel*2 (Air, rail, and automobile travel) Americas t-CO2 6,060 5,124 5,561 4,349 4,966 Ratio of employees by region Asia-Pacific*3 t-CO2 11,883 11,057 9,552 10,575 11,587 Total % 100 100 100 100 100 Energy Consumption Japan % 56 57 58 56 56 Japan MWh 12,664 11,948 11,729 11,229 10,573 Europe % 15 14 13 12 12 Direct energy consumption Europe MWh 6,981 7,025 6,210 4,438 4,201 Americas % 9 9 9 9 8 (Natural gas, etc.)*4 Americas MWh 0 0 225 340 355 Asia-Pacific % 20 20 20 23 24 Asia-Pacific MWh 272 800 608 611 732 Number of new hires*2 Japan MWh 74,648 74,293 74,117 72,780 70,520 Total No. of employees 3,359 2,554 2,920 2,934 2,868 Indirect energy consumption Europe MWh 50,091 38,679 41,164 30,836 30,133 Japan (Nomura Holdings, Men (No. of employees) 573 446 507 482 537 (Purchased electric power)*4 Americas MWh 16,194 16,104 15,896 22,148 21,882 Nomura Securities) Women (No. of employees) 495 581 522 363 395 Asia-Pacific MWh 27,474 28,012 26,942 27,862 26,720 Men (No. of employees) 389 286 Europe 663 307 503 Including, Green electric Women (No. of employees) 121 119 MWh 7,424 6,329 6,317 32,626 34,652 purchase power*5 Men (No. of employees) 382 313 Americas 478 361 418 Japan MWh 20,550 17,523 15,258 12,400 11,971 Women (No. of employees) 128 111 (Purchased cooling and heating Europe MWh 0 0 0 0 0 Performance Review & Data Section Men (No. of employees) 718 714 Asia-Pacific 1,150 859 970 power) Americas MWh 10,047 7,924 2,220 238 140 Women (No. of employees) 351 393 Asia-Pacific MWh 2,352 1,907 1,731 1,694 1,617 Composition of managers Environmental Resource Efficiency Men 7,299 7,024 6,913 7,095 7,165 Total Women 1,064 1,055 1,031 1,234 1,370 Japan Thousand m3 188 178 177 171 170 Ratio of women (%) 13 13 13 15 16 Europe Thousand m3 136 124 124 97 115 Water consumption*6 Men 3,623 3,549 3,480 3,437 3,345 Americas Thousand m3 4 4 13 26 30 Japan (Nomura Holdings, Women 205 219 218 236 270 Asia-Pacific Thousand m3 33 45 45 48 36 Nomura Securities) Ratio of women (%) 5 6 6 6 7 Copy paper consumption*7 Ton 820 759 746 1,041 1,083 Men 1,693 1,557 1,507 1,479 1,503 Amount of waste generated*8 Ton 1,223 1,904 2,659 2,281 2,540 Europe Women 325 315 290 311 335 The scope 1, 2, and 3 classifications follow The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol): http://www.ghgprotocol.org/ Ratio of women (%) 16 17 16 17 18 The coverage by region is as follows: Japan: The Group companies located in Japan (http://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/group/) Men 1,060 1,016 1,028 1,093 1,123 Europe: Offices in London, Paris, Frankfurt, Zurich, Madrid, Milan, and Luxembourg Americas Women 243 234 234 250 276 Americas: Offices in New York and Instinet offices Ratio of women (%) 19 19 19 19 20 Asia-Pacific: Offices in Hong Kong, Singapore, India, Dalian, and Bangkok However, data on air transportation in scope 3 are compiled based on corporate data Men 923 902 898 1,086 1,194 Asia-Pacific Women 291 287 289 437 489 *1. The Bangkok office was included in the scope for Asia from FY2014/2015 *7. Data for FY2011/12 and FY2013/14 were compiled based on paper purchased *2. Data based on airline and long-distance railway travel in Japan and overseas from specified suppliers by Nomura Securities for Japan, paper consumed Ratio of women (%) 24 24 24 29 29 purchased from specified travel agencies. Data for Japan, Europe, and the India, by the London office for Europe, and paper consumed by the India and Hong Hong Kong and Bangkok office components of Asia include emissions from Kong offices for Asia. From FY2014/15, the scope was expanded to include *1 Composition of employees: The figures cover Nomura Group on a consolidated basis. In FY2013/14 and prior years, some subsidiaries were not included in the scope of automobiles in regular use. the Bangkok office for Asia, and from A4 paper to all copy paper purchased by the calculations. *3. Assurance-verified data for Asia totaled 10,275 t-CO2 in FY2015/16 (Two offices Nomura Securities for Japan. *2 Number of new hires: In Asia-Pacific, certain subsidiaries were not covered in the data for FY2014/15. Those not covered included Capital Nomura Securities Public in Hong Kong and one office each in Singapore, India and Bangkok) *8. Data for FY2011/12 and FY2012/13 were compiled based on the Nihonbashi Company Limited (CNS) and Nomura Asset Management Taiwan Ltd. *4. As a result of improvements in data collection precision, figures on direct energy Head Office building and Dai-ni Edobashi Building in Tokyo, the Osaka Branch, Please refer to standards for calculation (http://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/data/). and the Nagoya Branch for Japan, the London, Paris, Frankfurt, and Zurich offices consumption in Japan for FY2014/15 were revised. for Europe, and the India office for Asia. Additions to the scope were the Urbannet *5. Data for FY2011/12 and FY2012/13 were comprised of Japan and the Frankfurt Otemachi Building in Tokyo, the Kyoto Branch, and the Okayama Branch for and Zurich offices for Europe. Additions to the scope for Europe were the Milan Japan, and the Hong Kong office for Asia from FY2013/14, the Luxembourg office from FY2013/14, the London office from FY2014/15, and the Luxembourg office for Europe from FY2014/15, and the Nomura Asset Management Head and Paris offices from FY2015/16. Office building in Tokyo for Japan from FY2015/16. *6. Only the India office was included in the scope for Asia in FY2011/12. 76 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 77 Independent Assurance History Nomura’s continuous commitment to society has been demonstrated throughout its 90 year history 1925 — Supported Japan’s securities market at the dawn of its development 1925 • The Securities Department of Osaka Nomura Bank split Major Issue of New Companies’ Stocks off into a separate company, Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Marks the First Step toward Recovery 1927 • Opened the representative office in New York Nomura Securities was established in 1925 and, following World War II, became prominent in Japan’s 1949 • Became a full member of the Tokyo Stock Exchange securities business. Between 1947-1948, many Japanese companies, including electric power distri1953 • Head Office moved to the Nihonbashi Nomura Building bution companies (today’s electric power generation companies), banks and textile companies, sought to 1959 • Founded Nomura Securities Investment Trust Co., Ltd. raise capital from investors. It was at this time that Nomura, as a key underwriter and distributor of such transactions, had the opportunity to contribute to the post-war recovery while also building a leading position in the securities market. 1960 — Provided fund-raising support during the era of high economic growth in Japan 1961 • Nomura Securities listed its shares on the Tokyo Stock Growing Influence in the Movement of Exchange, Osaka Securities Exchange, and Nagoya Capital between Japan and Overseas Stock Exchange Over time, a gradual easing of trade restrictions has enabled the movement of capital between foreign 1967 • Established Nomura International (Hong Kong) Limited and domestic investors. Japanese companies were 1969 • Established Nomura Securities International, Inc. (NSI), a more frequently interested in issuing securities in U.S. subsidiary international markets, and the number of international investment trusts incorporating overseas 1972 • Established Nomura Europe N.V. in the Netherlands, securities increased. Also, new channels opened Nomura’s first subsidiary in Europe for domestic investors to buy investment overseas. Nomura Group has responded to the evolving needs of its clients by establishing overseas branches and building foundation for today’s global business. 1980 — Offered products and services in response to Japan’s “financial Big Bang” Performance Review & Data Section 1980 • Began sales of the Medium-Term Japanese Government Moving toward Comprehensive Bond Fund Financial Business Operations 1981 • Established Nomura Investment Management Co., Ltd. Nomura Group continued to expand its business capabilities to meet clients’ demands as a compre• Established Nomura International Limited, a U.K. hensive financial services company. This has subsidiary included the establishment of Nomura Investment Management Co., Ltd., The Nomura Trust and 1993 • Established The Nomura Trust and Banking Co., Ltd. Banking Co., Ltd., and other affiliated companies. In addition, in response to Japan’s financial Big 1997 • Nomura Securities Investment Trust and Nomura Bang, Nomura expanded its offering of products Investment Management merged to form Nomura Asset and services. Lastly, to meet the needs of corporate Management Co., Ltd. clients with evolving business operations outside of Japan, Nomura has established several overseas subsidiaries. 2000 — Began providing solutions to meet the increasingly diverse needs of clients 2001 • Separated the roles of Nomura Holdings and Nomura Strengthening Global Competitiveness Securities to form a holding company structure and Improving the Business Operation System • Nomura Holdings listed its shares on the New York Stock Exchange Japan’s financial Big Bang in the late 1990s was characterized by financial deregulation and the 2008 • Absorbed the personnel of Lehman Brothers Asia Pacific expectation that financial assets would flow from and its European and Middle Eastern divisions bank deposits to investments. Nomura believed it was essential to strengthen its global competi2009 • Nomura Holdings completed two public equity offerings tiveness and in 2001, created a holding company structure that ensures compatibility between each 2016 • Entered into a strategic alliance with American Century business unit. Looking ahead, Nomura remains Investments, a U.S. based investment management firm committed to offering optimal solutions and working together across divisions and regions. Aiming to establish ourselves as Asia’s global investment bank 78 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 79 Global Network Nomura Securities Domestic Network (As of June 30, 2016) (As of June 30, 2016) Hokuriku Hokkaido Fukui Branch Niigata Branch Asahikawa Branch Kanazawa Branch Toyama Branch Hakodate Branch Kushiro Branch Sapporo Branch Chubu Tokachi Obihiro Office Gifu Branch Nagano Branch Shizuoka Branch Hamamatsu Branch Nagoya Branch Toyohashi Branch Tohoku Kanayama Branch Nagoya-ekimae Toyota Branch Kariya Branch Branch Tsu Branch Akita Branch Kasugai Branch Numazu Branch Yokkaichi Branch Aomori Branch Matsumoto Branch Okazaki Branch Fukushima Branch Hachinohe Branch Iwaki Office Koriyama Branch Morioka Branch Japan Sendai Branch Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Yamagata Branch • Beijing Representative Office Europe, the Middle East and Africa • Shanghai Representative Office Nomura Asset Management Co., Ltd. Nomura Europe Holdings plc (London) • Seoul Representative Office Nomura International plc (London) The Nomura Trust and Banking Co., Ltd. • Vienna Representative Office • Helsinki Branch Nomura Babcock & Brown Co., Ltd. • Frankfurt Branch • Milan Branch Nomura Capital Investment Co., Ltd. • Qatar Branch • Madrid Branch Nomura Investor Relations Co., Ltd. • Stockholm Branch • Dubai Branch Nomura Funds Research And Technologies Co., Ltd. • South Africa Branch Nomura Research & Advisory Co., Ltd. Nomura Bank International plc (London) Nomura Business Services Co., Ltd. Nomura Asset Management U.K. Ltd. (London) Nomura Investment Banking (Middle East) B.S.C. (Bahrain) Nomura Facilities, Inc. Kinki Tokyo metropolitan area Nomura Institute of Capital Markets Research Banque Nomura France (Paris) Nomura Healthcare Co., Ltd. Akashi Branch Kyoto Branch Senri Branch Chofu Branch Koiwa Branch Shinagawa Branch Nomura Asset Management Deutschland KAG mbH (Frankfurt) Nomura Agri Planning & Advisory Co., Ltd. Performance Review & Data Section Nomura Bank (Luxembourg) S.A. Daito Branch Namba Branch Takarazuka Branch Denenchofu Branch Kokubunji Branch Shinbashi Branch Nomura Financial Products & Services, Inc. Nomura Nederland N.V. (Amsterdam) Nomura Institute of Estate Planning Gakuenmae Branch Nara Branch Takatsuki Branch Fuchu Branch Machida Branch Shinjuku Branch Nomura Saudi Arabia (Riyadh) Higashiosaka Branch Nishinomiya Branch Tennoji Branch Gotanda Branch Nakameguro Branch Shinjuku Nomura Nomura Bank (Switzerland) Ltd. (Zurich) Building Branch Himeji Branch Okamoto Branch Toyonaka Branch Hachioji Branch Nakano Branch Hirakata Branch Osaka Branch Tsukaguchi Branch Head Office Nerima Branch Shinjuku-eki Nishiguchi Branch Americas Asia ex-Japan Ibaraki Branch Otsu Branch Uehonmachi Branch Ikebukuro Branch Ogikubo Branch Tachikawa Branch Nomura International (Hong Kong) Ltd. Kawanishi Branch Private Banking Umeda Branch Ikebukuro Metropolitan Omori Branch Nomura Holding America Inc. (New York) Kyoto Office Plaza Branch Tamagawa Branch • Taipei Branch Office • Hanoi Representative Office Kishiwada Branch Wakayama Branch Private Banking • Washington, D.C. Office Tanashi Branch Nomura Asia Holding N.V. (Hong Kong) Kobe Branch Sakai Branch Jiyugaoka Branch Ginza Office Nomura Securities International, Inc. (New York) Nomura Securities (Hong Kong) Ltd. Kamata Branch Seijo Branch Tokyo Branch • Boston Office • Chicago Office • Colombia Representative Office • Manhattan Beach Office • San Francisco Office Nomura Asia Ltd. (Hong Kong) Nomura Asset Management Hong Kong Ltd. Chugoku Keio Shinjuku Branch Senju Branch Toranomon Branch • São Paulo Representative Office Kichijoji Branch Shibuya Branch Ueno Branch Nomura Australia Ltd. (Sydney and Melbourne) Nomura America Services, LLC (New York) Nomura Asset Management Australia Pty Ltd. (Sydney) Fukuyama Branch Matsue Branch Tokuyama Branch • New Jersey Office • Chicago Office Hiroshima Branch Okayama Branch Tottori Office Nomura Financial Advisory and Securities (India) Private Ltd. (Mumbai) Nomura America Mortgage Finance, LLC (New York) Nomura Asset Capital Corporation (New York) Nomura Fixed Income Securities Private Ltd. (Mumbai) Nomura Capital (India) Private Ltd. (Mumbai) Kurashiki Branch Shimonoseki Branch Yonago Branch Kanto Nomura Asset Depositor Company, LLC (New York) Nomura Services India Private Ltd. (Mumbai) Nomura Asset Management U.S.A., Inc. (New York) Nomura Structured Finance Services Private Ltd. (Mumbai) Shikoku Aeon Mall Funabashi Office Koshigaya Branch Tokorozawa Branch Nomura Corporate Funding Americas, LLC (New York) Kumagaya Branch Totsuka Branch Nomura Fin Services (India) Private Ltd. (Mumbai) Nomura Corporate Research And Asset Management Inc. (New York) Kochi Branch Takamatsu Branch Aobadai Branch PT Nomura Indonesia (Jakarta) Matsudo Branch Tsukuba Branch Nomura Credit & Capital, Inc. (New York) Nomura Securities Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. (Kuala Lumpur) Matsuyama Branch Tokushima Branch Atsugi Branch Mito Branch Tsurumi Branch Nomura Derivative Products Inc. (New York) Nomura Asset Management Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. (Kuala Lumpur) Chiba Branch Nomura Funds Research And Technologies America, Inc. (New York) Musashikosugi Branch Urawa Branch Nomura Global Alpha LLC (New York) Nomura Islamic Asset Management Sdn. Bhd. (Kuala Lumpur) Nomura Corporate Advisory (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Kyushu Fujisawa Branch Odawara Branch Utsunomiya Branch Nomura Global Financial Products Inc. (New York) Funabashi Branch Nomura Securities Philippines Inc. (Makati) Omiya Nishiguchi Branch Yokohama Nomura International Trust Company (New Jersey) Fukuoka Branch Kitakyushu Branch Oita Branch Hiratsuka Branch Nomura Singapore Ltd. Ota Branch Bashamichi Branch Nomura Investment Company (Bermuda) Ltd. Fukuoka Branch, Kumamoto Branch Saga Branch Nomura Securities Singapore Pte. Ltd. Ichikawa Branch Yokohama Branch Nomura Reinsurance Intermediary Inc. (New York) Amu Plaza Hakata Sagamihara Branch Nomura Investments (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Kurume Branch Sasebo Branch Kamakura Branch Nomura Securities (Bermuda) Ltd. Office Saitama Branch Yokosuka Branch Nomura Special Investments Singapore Pte. Ltd. Miyazaki Branch NWL Company, LLC (New York) Kagoshima Branch Kashiwa Branch Nomura Asset Management Singapore Ltd. Saitama Branch, The Capital Company Of America LLC (New York) Nagasaki Branch Kawagoe Branch Omiya Higashiguchi Office Nomura Trust Company (Singapore) Ltd. Nomura Financial Investment (Korea) Co., Ltd. (Seoul) Kawaguchi Branch Shinyurigaoka Branch Instinet Capital Nomura Securities Public Company Ltd. (Bangkok) Okinawa Kawasaki Branch Takasaki Branch Instinet Incorporated (New York) (Based in the Americas, Europe and Asia) Nomura Asia Holding N.V. (Amsterdam) Naha Branch Kofu Branch Tama Plaza Branch 80 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 81 Share Data / Credit Rating Corporate Data Share Data (As of March 31, 2016) Corporate Data (As of March 31, 2016) Company name Nomura Holdings, Inc. Common stock issued 3,822,562,601 shares Group CEO Koji Nagai Listing The common shares of Nomura Holdings, Inc. are listed on the Tokyo, Nagoya, Date of incorporation December 25, 1925 and Singapore stock exchanges. The shares are also listed on the NYSE in the Business description Investment and financial services form of American Depositary Shares (ADSs) evidenced by American Depositary Paid-in capital ¥594.5 billion Receipts (ADRs). Each ADS represents one share of common stock. Head office 1-9-1, Nihonbashi, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8645, Japan Securities code 8604 (Tokyo Stock Exchange) Group employees 28,865 NMR (New York Stock Exchange) Number of shareholders 415,706 (Unit shareholders: 393,674) Transfer agent and registrar Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Inquiries Corporate Agency Department: +81 (3) 5391-1900 Nomura Holdings, Inc. Depositary for American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) • Investor Relations The Bank of New York Mellon Depositary Receipts Division: +1 (866) 680-6825 Urbannet Otemachi Building, 2-2-2, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, http://www.adrbnymellon.com Tokyo 100-8130, Japan Ratio: 1 ADR = 1 ordinary share Tel. +81 (3) 5255-1000 (Main switchboard) Date of record for dividend payments Second quarter-end: September 30 ／ Year-end: March 31 • Corporate Citizenship Department Otemachi Nomura Building, 2-1-1, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8170, Japan Major shareholders (Top 10)* Component ratio of shareholders Tel. +81 (3) 5255-1000 (Main switchboard) (%) Name of shareholder Number of shares Ownership 100 e-mail: csr@jp.nomura.com owned (thousands) (%) State Street Bank and Trust Company 505223 246,648 6.8 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 135,640 3.8 80 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 124,589 3.5 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 9) 52,439 1.5 Editing Nomura Report 2016 60 State Street Bank West Client-Treaty 505234 52,055 1.4 Nomura has tried to accurately convey Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 7) 50,608 1.4 40 the connections between Nomura Group’s Performance Review & Data Section The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV 10 47,067 1.3 business activities and its CSR activities The Bank of New York Mellon as Depositary Bank for DR Holders 43,528 1.2 20 Hajime Ikeda Group Corporate Communications, Corporate Citizenship and Barclays Securities Japan Limited 42,000 1.2 Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 1) 39,075 1.1 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 * The Company has 213,040 thousand shares of treasury stock as of March 31, 2016, which is not (End of March) Nomura Group began publishing the Nomura Report, integrating its annual included in the major shareholders list above. ■ Financial institutions ■ Other legal entities report and Citizenship report, in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. We * Figures for “number of shares owned” are rounded down to the nearest thousand and figures for “ownership” are calculated excluding treasury stock. ■ Foreign legal entities ■ Individuals and others aim to express the relationships between our business activities, governance, and CSR activities to enable all our stakeholders, including clients, shareholders, suppliers, NGOs, and the communities, as well as employees, to understand Nomura Group’s economic and social value. Credit Rating (As of June 30, 2016) Nomura Group marked its 90th anniversary in December 2015. In this report, we have focused on how we will grow sustainably together with our Nomura Securities Nomura Holdings stakeholders over the next 10 years by presenting our corporate philosophy Long-term Short-term Long-term Short-term and vision and our strategy to increase our mediumto long-term corporate R&I A+ a-1 A+ a-1 value through various perspectives. JCR AA− — AA− — In creating this report, we have referred to the International Integrated Reporting Framework proposed by the International Integrated Reporting Moody's A3 P-2 Baa1 — Council, the GRI Guidelines (G4), and other guidelines and global integrated Standard & Poor's A− A-2 BBB+ A-2 reporting trends. In addition, some of our CSR data has been verified by an Fitch Ratings A− F1 A− F1 independent third-party organization to enhance reliability. This report and the Group’s website are intended to contribute to deeper dialogue with stakeholders. To this end, we have made an effort to enhance the content even further. 82 Nomura Report 2016 Nomura Report 2016 83 About the Cover Photo To visually express the title of this report, “The start of a new future” the cover photograph captures the stillness of the morning air as the sun rises behind our Nihonbashi Head Office building. The photograph evokes our determination to embark on a new future as we celebrate our 90th founding All electricity to print this anniversary and look back on 90 years in the This report was produced booklet was generated by securities business. using non VOC inks. green energy. (3,932 kWh) Printed in Japan
