VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 1. LEADERS’ STATEMENT 4 page CONTENT 2. WORK ENVIRONMENT Focus on human rights Employees 6 page 7 page 7 page Development of employee competences 10 page Engagement of young professionals 11 page Sports festival 12 page Employee trade union activities 13 page Trade union leaders’ feedback 3. COMMUNICATION WITH CUSTOMERS, SUPPLIERS AND BUSINESS 14 page PARTNERS. THE FIGHT AGAINST BRIBERY 4. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 16 page Sorting of the waste generated 17 page Cleaning the environment: tyre collection campaign 19 page Steps to reduce the greenhouse effect 19 page Reduction of particulate matter emission 20 page 5. EFFICIENT USE OF ENERGY 21 page 6. OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND FIRE SAFETY 23 page 2015 – The year of occupational safety and fire safety 24 page Ensuring compliance with the environmental protection and occupational safety requirements 28 page First aid measures 28 page Improvement of the working environment 28 page 7. RESPONSIBLE USE OF FOREST RESOURCES 30 page Sustainable use of forests – deeds for the future 31 page Assistance to those seeking responsible forest management 32 page Traditional forest restoration event 32 page 8. RESPONSIBILITY TO SOCIETY 34 page Participation in Klaipėda city public life 35 page Cooperation with Regseda, UAB 35 page Support 37 page 9. RECOGNITION 38 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 3 page LEADERS’ STATEMENT LEADERS’ STATEMENT One more year full of new achievements and implemented projects has imperceptibly passed by. We would like to thank all the teams that performed extremely complex tasks and dealt with uncommon problems throughout the year 2015. We are happy that we all worked together well with joined forces, conquered all our challenges and were able to adapt to new innovations. The fact that the year was marked by an exceptionally huge amount of achievements also makes us feel great. Thanks to our team, the year 2015 was a particularly successful year: our sales increased significantly and we achieved impressive results – sales reached EUR 240 million, which represents a 20% increase compared to 2014. The mastering of our new range of products and compSIGITAS PAULAUSKAS letion of orders in the shortest possible time during 2015 enabled KLAIPĖDOS MEDIEVAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB NA, UAB to produce and sell products for 87 million euro. At this point, the company is Chairman of the Board ready to handle an increase in orders of up to 130 million euro. The sales of Sakuona, UAB increased by 16% compared with 2014 and reached 51 million euro. Such a rapid jump in sales is primarily attributable to the ability to take full advantage of the production capacities and to satisfy the needs of our newly found customers. Focussing on the search for new potential customers and increasing sales is among our plans for 2016. The VMG Industries company operating in Belarus also achieved impressive results. Demonstrating the strength of their design capacity, the company’s production units achieved production volumes that were as much as 43% higher than in 2014 and totalled 77 million euro. Such an excellent result was achieved due to the joint teamwork and the systematic customer partnership. At the end of 2015, VMG Industry started implementing a process of change in its furniture range. In addition to the already existing products, the production of 37 new items was initiated. The company installed an additional production line for VIKTORAS ADOMAITIS manufacturing the new products. VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Director General We are confident that in 2015 we created a solid foundation for successful future growth, and that we will already start reaping the fruits of our labour in the coming year. We dedicated the year 2015 to fire safety and occupational safety. We will continue to be guided in the same directions. The active participation of the employees in the “Inform about Dangers” employee safety program showed that employee safety should continue to be the focus of our work, and we believe that each one of us knows that we will only be able to achieve the best results by working safely. Safety at work is an integral part of our work activities, and in any situation, the first thing to do is to think about one’s personal safety and the safety of our colleagues working beside us. VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB and the companies under its management are guided by the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which cover the areas of human rights, labour relations, environment protection and anti-corruption activities. The Social Responsibility Report provides a report of VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB and the companies under its management on the continued enhancements to our business strategy, culture and daily activities, taking into consideration the provisions set out by the United Nations Global Compact and its principles. We have also committed our selves to disseminating this information to interested parties. Our business fundamentals are excellent and competitive advantages are obvious. We believe in the energy and dedication of our team, and we are confident that the enthusiasm and involvement of the employees makes our Company stronger! VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 5 page WORK ENVIRONMENT FOCUS ON HUMAN RIGHTS EMPLOYEES WORK ENVIRONMENT VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB (hereinafter, the CompaThe number of employees in VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, ny or VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB) and the enterUAB and its enterprises increased by 4.4% throughout the year, and 3,334 people were employed within the group by prises under its management follow principles based on the end of 2015. In comparison with 2014, the number of non-discrimination on grounds on age, gender, race, reemployees engaged in production increased by 5%, and the ligion, origin and beliefs laid down by the Constitution of number of employees working in other groups decreased the RL and labour law. Equal opportunities and rights are as follows: the technical services group by 3%, the specialist ensured for all employees. In the implementation of legal group by 1.3%, and the manager group by 0.7%. This was labour relations, equality principles in respect of all persons caused by the increase in business activity volumes and established by national legislation and international agreethe need for new functions in the structural divisions of the ments are complied with. Company and its enterprises. The prohibition of discrimination and the procedure for According to information from the Company’s Personnel dealing with employee complaints are established by the Department, the general prevailing trend in the country is Business Ethics and local acts of the Company and its enreflected in the 18-25 year age group turnover rate, which is terprises. The business ethics policy of the Company and its greater than the employee turnover rate for any of the other age groups, since part of young people leave to choose furenterprises provide for the rules that apply to the employther studies or seek to try other professional fields abroad. ees of the Company and its enterprises. For instance, the number of employees in the 18-25 year age group of KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB decreased by 24%, which There were no instances or violations of the said provisions resulted in a situation where the staff was joined by employregarding discrimination in the workplace on the grounds ees of other age groups (26-50 year). of race, gender, religion, political beliefs, nationality, social origin or other reasons identified in Company and its enterpriThe strategy of VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB is to provide ses in 2015. work for every professional who has no lack of motivation to work. The Company and its enterprises do not tolerate labour exploitation of children under the age of 16. This is stated in The employee distribution as of December 2015 was: the Child Labour Prevention Regulations (Lith. Vaikų darbo prevencijos nuostatai) of VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Employee distribution at and its enterprises. It is also a fact that the Company and VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB its enterprises do not use the services of any suppliers who and the enterprises under its management employ persons younger than 15 years of age. Technical service employees 5% Managers VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB and its enterprises intro4,3% duced a remuneration system under which the staff is paid Technology Specialists employees 84% 6,7% for their work in accordance with the results achieved and the value created for the Company and the team. Such a pay method ensures that the strategic objectives and business management logic of the Company is reflected in the remuneration system. VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 7 page Employee distribution by age at Employee distribution by gender at Employee distribution by age at FLLC VMG Industry Sakuona, UAB KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB 50% 40% 37% 34% 39% 35% 31% 40% 65% 37% 37% 36% 30% Female 67% 25% 23% 30% 20% 22% 20% 16% 20% 20% 20% 15% 13% 8% 7% Male 10% 10% 35% 5% 0% 33% 0% 18-25 m. 26-35 m. 36-50 m. 51-65 m. 18-25 m. 26-35 m. 36-50 m. 51-65 m. 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Employee distribution by age at Employee distribution by age at Employee distribution by gender at Sakuona, UAB FLLC LogDrev FLLC VMG Industry 40% 36% 37% 50% 47% 35% 41% 36% 46% 30% 40% 25% 24% 25% 24% 33% Female 25% 46% 30% 20% 14% 15% 18% 15% 15% 20% 10% Male 54% 10% 5% 5% 5% 54% 0% 0% 18-25 m. 26-35 m. 36-50 m. 51-65 m. 18-25 m. 26-35 m. 36-50 m. 51-65 m. 42% 44% 46% 48% 50% 52% 54% 56% 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Employee distribution by age at Employee distribution by gender at VMG Technics, UAB KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB Employee distribution by gender at 50% FLLC LogDrev 42% 41% 37% 38% 40% Female 34% 38% Female 15% 30% 16% 20% 15% 12% 9% 10% Male 62% 10% Male 85% 62% 0% 84% 18-25 m. 26-35 m. 36-50 m. 51-65 m. 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Employee distribution by age at Employee distribution by gender at VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB VMG Technics,UAB 70% 61% 60% 3% Female 50% 4% 40% 33% 30% 27% 30% 21% 16% Male 97% 20% 8% 10% 4% 96% 0% 18-25 m. 26-35 m. 36-50 m. 51-65 m. 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 120% 2015 2014 2015 2014 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 8 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 9 page DEVELOPMENT OF EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT OF YOUNG COMPETENCES PROFESSIONALS One of the priority areas of the personnel management Through the devepolicy is employee education and training. lopment of its social partnership, the Our aim is that the employees of the Company’s enterpricompany continuously collaborates ses possess knowledge that corresponds to their qualificawith higher education. We have an already established procedure where the tion institutions of technology staff undergoes training following their empLithuania: Vilnius loyment, and after a predetermined term of work at the Gediminas Techenterprise, the employee knowledge in their field of work nical University, is assessed and a qualification granted. Thus, the employIn 2015, the Company joined an incentive called “What is it Kaunas University ees are given an opportunity to deepen their knowledge in for?!” (Lith. „Kam to reikia?!”) carried out under the auspices of Technology, LCC professional activity and to have a direct influence on their of the President of the RL, Dalia Grybauskaitė, during which International Uniemployees of the Company’s enterprises went to schools to salary. versity and other introduce their profession and career path. educational instituIn 2015, the following personal and functional competence tions. The exchange The facts show that young people still avoid choosing development training intended for the Company’s senior of knowledge, technology and operational methods is useprofessions in technical or engineering fields as, allegedly, and middle managers was scheduled and took place: Feedful and necessary for both sides. they are boring to study and dusty, and provide little pace for back Practice, Exercising of Influence (Lith. „Grįžtamojo ryšio In its dealings with creativity as well. the academic compraktika, įtakos darymas“), and a Stress Management semimunity, the Companar that attracted a particularly large amount of attention In order to dispel such attitudes at least a little, V. Narušis, DiThis year, reports were delivered by Prof. Alvydas Jokubainy provides assisfrom the employees. rector of VMG TECHNICS, UAB and A. Petrokas, Technical Sertance in the study tis, Prof. Rimvydas Petrauskas and the journalist and pubvice Manager, had a meeting with I and II-year students of process and writing The Leadership Forum, which has already become a good licist, Rimvydas Valatka. The prominent guests suggested Ąžuolynas Gymnasium. of final papers. tradition, took place on 6 November 2015. The event, which viewing the business from a moral, ethical and historical was held in the Lithuanian National Opera and Ballet Theatangle. The presentations evolved into involving discusThe colleagues described their profession selection path, its The regulations on sions. An exceptionally warm meeting also took place attractions, their successful careers and the particulars of their re in Vilnius, was attended by employees from all the Comtrainee admission with Kostas Smoriginas, one of the most prominent Lithwork. Most of the questions from the students were related to pany’s enterprises. Chairman of the Board S. Paulauskas that provide for the uanian theatre and film actors, who is also a director and the remuneration, career opportunities in Klaipėda City and and Director General V. Adomaitis presented information trainee admission the prospects awaiting representatives of this profession. about the development and prospects of the enterprises musician. We enjoyed beautiful music and pleasant social procedure were intended for the coming year. conversation about theatre, travels, success and failures. prepared in 2015. Every year, students of various educational institutions have traineeships in the Company and its enterprises. The most promising and motivated graduates are given every opportunity to plan and implement their career expectations in the Company and its enterprises in the future. Following the Klaipėda Municipality order, the study on The participation in student career fairs of various unithe youth situation in Klaipėda City was carried out during versities is ensured every year, where initial contacts with May-December 2015. It framed the essential challenges faced prospective specialists are established and consultations in Klaipėda related to the attraction of young people to study concerning traineeship or work are carried out. and work there. Of no less concern are issues related to the goal of establishing a community among the pupils and stuThere are many success stories featuring young people endents of Klaipėda, encouraging them to maintain their attachcountered at the career fairs who were later employed by ment to their hometown and inspiring their loyalty and desire the Company or its enterprises. to return and create the economic, social and cultural wellbeing of the city. The Company’s representatives also participated in the study and expressed their views and opinions. VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 11 page EMPLOYEE TRADE UNION ACTIVITIES EDVARDAS ŠALKAUSKAS The collective labour relations at VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB and its enterprises are based on the internaChairperson of the tional and the constitutional principle of freedom of assoŽemaitijos baldininkų ciation. The employees of the enterprises managed by the darbininkų sąjunga Company are granted the right to unite together in organisations that defend their interests. Two trade unions operate at KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB: the Žemaitijos baldininkų, darbininkų sąjunga (the Union of Samogitian Furniture I would like to emphasize that KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB is one Manufacturers and Workers) and the Klaipėdos apskriof the strongest companies in the Klaipėda region. It is very ties medienos darbininkų sąjunga (the Union of Klaipėda pleasant to see smiles on the faces of staff members, when County Timber Workers). visiting the production facilities. Over the past years, both the sanitary and hygiene conditions, as well as the facilities and the entire working environment have significantly improved. TRADE UNION LEADERS’ FEEDBACK There were no recorded violations during 2015. There is a great amount of social dialogue between the trade unions and the company. The collective agreement is working very well. It is visible that a lot has been invested in the ALVIDAS BALSKUS modernization of the technological processes, which greatly reduces the workload of the employees and helps to improve Chairperson of the the quality of work. Klaipėdos apskrities SPORTS FESTIVAL medienos darbininkų I am glad that your employees are sent on business trips and to your companies abroad where they have an opportunity to sąjunga develop their knowledge and skills. The annual sports festival of VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB was held in June 2015. The expectations of the ComI would further emphasize your company’s rapid modernizapany’s management – to enhance the cohesion of the emption as an exceptional feature in comparison with other comOver the past several years, the working conditions in the panies. loyee team and to encourage their interest in a healthy KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA company have improved significantlifestyle – were more than answered. The employees of the ly and it is noticeable that a great deal has been invested The positive psychological atmosphere, communication, Lithuanian and Belarusian companies competed in various in repairs of the premises and improvement of employee information exchange and feedback are among other notisports and creative contests. The ingenuity of the partiworking conditions. ceable features of the company. All of these things improve cipants in the creative contests was truly surprising. The the working climate. I see your company as very progressive winners of the sports and creative contests were awarded and forward-looking. Alvidas Balskus is pleased that the company employees prizes as champions of the events. are provided with free meals and that there are no constraints on the appeal of the trade unions. The employees have complete freedom to express their views. The civil and respectable communication of the management with the The professional woremployees is noticeable, as well as the fact that their views kers union at the FLLC are taken into consideration. VMG Industry operating in Belarus started “I think that the company is on the right track, as it imits activity in 2015. proves working conditions and values its greatest asset – its people” stated Alvidas Balskus. VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 12 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 13 page COMMUNICATION WITH CUSTOMERS, SUPPLIERS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS. THE FIGHT AGAINST BRIBERY COMMUNICATION WITH CUSTOMERS, SUPPLIERS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS. THE FIGHT AGAINST BRIBERY VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB and its enterprises comspectful communication and compliance with the followply with the laws and regulations regarding the prevention ing principles: of corruption. Any bribery related actions of its corporate employees are unacceptable under any circumstances. • To not engage in unfair, deceptive and/or misleadNone of the employees of the Company or its enterprises ing practices. may be directly or indirectly involved in matters related to • To always present thorough and complete inforoffers, promises to give, giving, encouragement to give or mation about the products or services provided by the acceptance of a bribe. Any funds or other benefits (other Company and its enterprises. than required by law) that are intended to influence or that • To not offer, promise or give anything to a customight reasonably affect the way a person carries out his/ mer or a supplier in order to gain an unfair advantage in her duties shall be considered a bribe. return. VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB and its enterprises value We hope that the suppliers and business partners of the their partnership with customers, suppliers and business Company and its enterprises will not act contrary to the partners. Their business ethics require honest actions, rebusiness ethics principles of the Company. VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 15 page ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION SORTING OF THE WASTE GENERATED Ever tighter legislation, the requirements of business partThe Company’s enterprises require their employees to sort ners, and growing public interest in the environmental out the waste and secondary raw materials that are geneperformance of VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB and its rated during the production processes or operations. Conenterprises are factors that cannot be ignored by the Comtainers for the sorting of secondary raw materials and propany. We are looking for ways to reduce the consumption duction waste are placed among the business premises of raw materials and energy, as well as to reduce waste maand production areas of the enterprises. nagement costs and improve working conditions. VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB and its enterprises carry out their Separate containers are environmental protection activities in accordance with remaintained for the collection quirements of legal acts and the IWAY standards of IKEA. of portable batteries and volThe Company and its enterprises adhere to the terms and taic cells that are collected conditions laid down by the environmental protection perboth at work and home. mits, constantly perform the monitoring of emissions into the atmosphere and discharges of wastewater. The control All the generated waste is of chemical materials and preparations used and the madelivered to companies that nagement of sorting out the waste generated is carried have licenses required for this out. The Company implements its own Environmental Proactivity. tection Policy. Employees who start working in the Company’s businesses are trained and become familiarized with the environmental protection requirements indicated in specially prepared educational materials concerning environmental protection and occupational safety. They are provided with information about the necessity of sorting waste in the workplace, and are also familiarised and trained to work with the chemicals that are used, stored and managed in the production processes. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION UAB „VAKARŲ VAKARŲ MEDIENOS MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, GRUPĖ“ UAB Report on Socialinės atsakomybės veiklos Corporate Social ataskaita už 2015 m. Responsibility 17 page 17 psl. The objective of VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB and its The amount of the secondary raw materials that were colenterprises is to maximize the sorting of industrial waste lected and transferred for recycling in 2015 increased in CLEANING THE ENVIRONMENT: STEPS TO REDUCE THE by separating the packaging waste from the total waste comparison with that of 2014. TYRE COLLECTION CAMPAIGN GREENHOUSE EFFECT amount, thus providing the opportunity to transfer the In 2015, KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB contributed to the imThe Company constantly looks for possibilities to repackaging waste for reuse. provement, conservation and sustainability of the environduce the greenhouse effect. In order to reduce the ment by organising a tyre collection campaign. In collabogreenhouse effect caused by gas emissions, bio-fuel is Quantities of secondary raw materials of Quantities of secondary raw materials of ration with the waste management companies, the tyres used for thermal power generation. The reduction in the Sakuona, UAB VMG Industry, UAB collected during the course of the campaign were trans0,020 amount of natural gas consumed causes a decrease in 0,006 ferred for processing during which such useful products as 0,005 CO2 emissions. The reduction in the amount of natu0,015 rubber pads, coverings for stadiums, tyre ash as one of the 0,004 ral gas consumed and CO2 emissions in 2015 as com0,003 0,010 components of cement, and others are produced. 0,002 pared to that of 2014 is presented in the graphs below: 0,001 0,005 We hope that the nice campaign and desire to contribute 0,000 t/year 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 0,000 to environmental management will catch on at VAKARŲ t/year 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 1 2 MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB and its enterprises. 2014 2015 2014 2015 Quantities of secondary raw materials of This activity was facilitated by the identification and visual Klaipėdos mediena, AB 20 representation of the waste types at the waste sorting sites. Staff trainings also contributed to it. 15 10 5 0 t/year 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 2014 2015 CO2 emissions at Gas consumption at KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB 5000 2500000 4000 2000000 3000 1500000 2000 nm3 1000000 Year t / y 1000 500000 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 C02 t / y 4636 4553 2308 Year Quantities 2493933 2448648 1146089 of gas used nm3/y VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 18 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 19 page REDUCTION OF PARTICULATE MATTER EMISSION Filters for the reduction of particulate matter and for the improvement of working conditions for the employees are installed in the Company and its enterprises. The Company’s enterprises have installed new ventilation systems with air filters designed to remove wood sawdust from Pollutant emissions at wood processing centres and work areas. The removed air KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB is purified in arm-type air treatment filters with a treatment efficiency of 99.5%. The purified air is returned to produc330 tion. This ensures saving of thermal energy and prevents 325 particulate matter from entering the atmosphere and the 320 production facilities. 315 310 305 2014 2015 329 314 Year t / y EFFICIENT USE OF ENERGY 21 page EFFICIENT USE OF ENERGY ▶ The modernization of lighting at KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB: In 2015, the Company’s enterprises were consistently wor300 old lighting fixtures with 400W metal halogen king on energy efficiency issues. The main trends in matlamps were exchanged with 200W fixtures with induction ters concerning more efficient power use were as follows: lamps. The resulting power saving is 60kW per hour, and the annual savings amounts to 480,000kWh. ▶ A reduction in compressed air consumption of up to 10% KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB engaged Rytvita, UAB to aid in Automated lighting control was installed. Economy: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY 15% reduction in electricity used for lighting. an assessment of the current situation regarding the use of compressed air in the enterprise: an audit on compressed ▶ An energy metering monitoring project is under impleAND FIRE SAFETY air use was carried out. The audit found that the air loss in mentation, and proposals for the implementation of the the enterprise amounted to 21%. The following loss reducproject have been submitted. The implementation of this tion measures were implemented: measure will allow the enterprise to save 5% of the total electricity it consumes. standard blow-off nozzles were installed to remove dust electric valves were installed to stop the flow of air ▶ Measures for more efficient use of thermal energy curin the inlet of a device when not in operation rently under implementation: automatization was carried out to so that the dust blow-off in a parts machining line would only take place at Devices were installed for the return of the air a certain default location in the parts machining line. treated by all arm-type air treatment filters to the shop premises. ▶ The modernization of arm-type air treatment filter management: Old wooden windows were replaced with new plastic windows in the older industrial buildings of In furniture production, when single station maKLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB. chines are not operating, exhaust fans are turned off. Three ventilation chambers were updated and Additional valves were installed in the exhaust fan upgraded at KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB. pipelines that combine several work centres so that the exhaust pipe is closed when a device is not in use. Automated indoor heat regulation controlled by a room temperature sensor was installed in the administrative Implementation of the above measures allowed an approxibuilding of KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB. mately 8% savings in the electricity used by the filters. The timber seasoning kilns at Sakuona, UAB and FLLC VMG Industry were upgraded and sealed. This allowed a possibility to save thermal energy in the amount of 1MW / hour. A 60-meter stretch of the old DN100 heating line of KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB was exchanged with a channelless underground heating line with new insulation that corresponds to modern standards. VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 23 page OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND FIRE SAFETY 2015 – THE YEAR OF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND FIRE SAFETY 2015 was announced as an occupational safety and fire safety year in the Company and its enterprises. A great deal of attention was focused on the securing of fire safety measures, as the main industry of the enterprises is wood processing. The following steps were performed: ▶ Implementation of preventive measures: An updated unified hot works performance instruction was prepared, which is applicable to all enterprises managed by the Company. Personnel responsible for fire safety during shifts were appointed and trained under the orders of the Directors of the enterprises. Greater attention was focused on dusty technological premises: cleaning and maintenance frequency schedules were drafted for them and the air ventilation systems in these areas were revised. Industrial vacuum cleaners were purchased for the cleaning of working places and machinery. The maintenance procedures of vehicles held by New fire extinguishers were upgraded and placed the enterprises was more tightly controlled. in proper locations at the enterprises. Procedures for technologies using flammable chemicals were revised and modified. ▶ Theoretical training of the staff on occupational safety and fire safety issues was conducted. ▶ Practical exercises were organized at the enterprises (evacuation of employees, the use of primary fire extinguishing equipment and the aid of the professional forces). VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 25 page made in 2015 in Lithuanian and Russian, intended for the newly hired employees of the enterprises. In this way, employees are familiarised with the following: The working environment General rules and procedures of occupational safety Actions to be taken in case of fire, fire-fighting systems, primary fire-fighting means and their use in case of emergency First aid procedures and instruments, as well as ▶ KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB and Sakuona, UAB were the actions to be taken in case of injuries equipped with stands containing information on occupational safety in order to provide the employees with Use of chemicals information about incidents, accidents and other disasters The basics of environmental protection and waste or emergencies in the enterprise, the country or the world. sorting. ▶ An auditorium (a classroom) was equipped for the training and qualification development of newly hired and The reporting system operating at the occupational safety existing employees at KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB in 2015. stands enables employees to fill in a relevant form, thus reporting about any dangerous areas, hazards, or the possibility of a dangerous event happening. Based on the report, the employees responsible shall attempt to remove or adjust any nonconformities as soon as possible, thus preventing potential disasters or accidents. Employees who have submitted the most valuable suggestions are rewarded following a proposal of the commission and an executive decision. ▶ A 20-minute film on occupational safety issues was VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 26 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 27 page ENSURING COMPLIANCE WITH THE ENIMPROVEMENT OF THE WORKING Following the installation of information transmission VIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND OCENVIRONMENT equipment (televisions, display panels, information boards) at the VMG Industry enterprise operating in Belarus, inforCUPATIONAL SAFETY REQUIREMENTS mation about smoking and alcohol consumption related damage to health is presented regularly. In 2015, the The industrial premises of KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB, nameemployees were provided with an opportunity to perform VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB and its enterprises carry ly, the furniture workshop, was equipped with an employa general thyroid ultrasound test (on the possible conseout the control of compliance with requirements of the ee recreation area where the staff has an opportunity to requences of the Chernobyl accident) free of charge at the environmental protection and occupational safety regulax, enjoy a cup of coffee or tea, watch television programs medical point of the enterprise. Taking into consideration lations. Internal audits are conducted once per quarter inor admire the aquarium population during work breaks. It the request of the employees, they were also vaccinated tended to assess the compliance with the existing internal is planned to equip Sakuona, UAB with a rest area in 2016. against influenza free of charge. procedures, the requirements established by legal acts of the State, the requirements of the customers, regulatory The occupational safety related inspections and certificadocumentation, etc. tion took place at the VMG Industries enterprise in 2015. The results of the internal audits are discussed with the employees of an audited enterprise and the Company’s management. Preventive or corrective action plans are drawn up and an assessment of the implementation and suitability of the measures is carried out. FIRST AID MEASURES Taking into consideration the statistics on cardiovascular diseases and the death rate, Sakuona, UAB and KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB purchased and installed automated external defibrillators in marked places accessible to all employees working in production facilities, which are intended In 2015, Sakuona, UAB implemented air humidification to save human life until the arrival of professional medical measures in its industrial premises. It helps to reduce the assistance. First aid medical trainings are conducted at the concentration of particulate matter and wood dust geneenterprises. The defibrillators are in line with the existing rated during the production process in the industrial professional medical equipment. premises. In following the requirements of legal acts and seeking the improvement of working conditions, as well as to ensure safety, KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB acquired a safe container for the storage of flammable chemicals. VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 28 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 29 page RESPONSIBLE USE OF FOREST RESOURCES RESPONSIBLE USE OF FOREST RESOURCES SUSTAINABLE USE OF FORESTS – DEEDS VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB has undertaken, on behalf FOR THE FUTURE of the groups under its management, to not be directly or indirectly involved in: The use of renewable natural resources, which includes timber, is becoming more and more important in the the illegal preparation of wood or illegal trade in world, now affected by the increase in climate change. wood or wood products However, the forest must be managed properly in order to ensure the preservation of this natural resource both in the violation of traditional or human rights in qualitative and quantitative terms for future generations. forestry activity Therefore, the responsible use of forest resources continues to be one of the cornerstones of VAKARŲ MEDIENOS the destruction of specially significant values in GRUPĖ, UAB philosophy. The straight-out implementation forestry activity of strict environmental protection requirements and the provisions of certification systems have long since become the significant conversion of forest areas into an integrated and continuously controlled activity area in plantations or non-forested property land the enterprises of the group. Therefore, it is not surprising the use of genetically modified organisms in that the implementation of the FSC® (Forest Stewardship forestry activity Council®) forest certification system recognized by wellknown environmental organizations was launched at the the violation of any of the main conventions of the wood processing-related enterprises of VAKARŲ MEDIENOS International Labour Organisation (ILO) as defined by the ILO GRUPĖ, UAB back in 2009. Currently, all enterprises of Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. the group engaged in wood products manufacturing (KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB (FSC-C018158), Sakuona, UAB In order to have a positive impact on forestry (FSC-C013423), FLLC VMG Industry (FSC-C118066) and activities, VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB is constantly FLLC LogDrev (FSC-C122721)) have FSC chain of custody increasing the amount of FSC-certified timber in its total raw certificates and some of them have already entered the material supply flow, and part of the enterprises will already second cycle of the FSC chain of custody certification, as be purchasing exclusively FSC-certified raw materials in such a certificate is only valid for five years. This certification 2016. Accordingly, the scale of the FSC certified products system ensures that during the production process, timber of sold by the enterprises of the group is constantly growing known origin obtained from responsibly managed forests is as well, and in 2015, it exceeded 406,000 m3. not mixed with timber obtained from controversial sources. VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 30 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 31 page processing industries and representatives of Sales of FSC® certified production (m3) wood processing and trade associations was initiated by VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB 500000 in 2015. During the meeting, the existing situa400000 tion was discussed and attempts were made to seek common ground, while at the same time, 300000 encouraging the certification process of the small forest owners. 200000 In order to ensure effective support in the 100000 implementation of forest management standards, at the end of 2015, VAKARŲ MEDIENOS 0 GRUPĖ, UAB started holding meetings with 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016* a forest owners, during which the certification * Scheduled costs were calculated for each owner individually, and the options regarding compensations, training and other assistance in the implementation ASSISTANCE TO THOSE SEEKING of the provisions of the standard were discussed. The work done so far is just the beginning of a long process, howeRESPONSIBLE FOREST MANAGEMENT ver, we believe that by ensuring equal partnership with both large and small forest owners, we will be able to reach a siA forest owner is a primary element in the timber supply tuation where the majority of the country’s forests are manchain, which is the starting point of any article that finally aged in an exemplary and discrete manner, thus ensuring reaches a supermarket shelf. Whether the forests are devascompliance with the changing functions of forests and the tated or vice versa, used effectively and wisely to ensure their needs of society. multiple roles and coherent regional development, depends on the owner’s operation. VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB applies strict requireTRADITIONAL FOREST ments not only for themselves but also for their suppliers. All wood-processing related enterprises are going to purRESTORATION EVENT chase exclusively FSC-certified raw materials starting from the second half of 2019. Since the requirements of FSC VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB, together with the country’s forest management standards include a major part of the foresters, has organized a forest planting campaign for the social, ecological and economic aspects of forest managesixth year in a row. The event is conducted each spring at ment, achieving a balance between them in relatively small the Kretinga Forest Enterprise governing the State forests. forest holdings is a complex task. Moreover, the situation The staff of the Kretinga Forest Enterprise is also involved is further complicated by the fact that some of the forest in the event. In 2015, as in previous years, a large number owners do not even have a basic knowledge of the forestry of the Company’s employees came to the Šernų forestry field, therefore, the certification burden for them would be district, where the foresters already had the trees prepared simply unbearable. In such cases, they would face difficulties for planting and the soil ploughed. Prior to the reforestation in timber realisation at a reasonable price and in ensuring work, the foresters gladly demonstrated how to plant a tree the economically viable forest management of their holcorrectly, so that it would naturalize and further successfully dings. However, in seeking to maintain cooperation with all grow. The saying “Well begun is half done” is not just a wood suppliers and understanding that even a small forest saying: a properly planted tree will naturalize faster, grow holding is an important part in the puzzle of an entire ecomore rapidly, be able to compete better with herbaceous system, VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB decided to make vegetation and will be more resistant to diseases and other it possible for each forest owner to have and responsibly biotic and abiotic factors. Once the instructions are given, we manage their forests, so that the forests would bring them start the work after which snacks, hot tea and a fire await us. joy and could be proudly assigned to their grandchildren. Although we all feel an easy fatigue after the work, everybody At the initial stage of the implementation of this long-term is in a great mood, the conversations never cease and the ambition, the education of the owners of private forests, protime to leave for home comes unnoticed. We bid goodbye to motion of cooperation and other measures were undertathe foresters and promise to meet again next year in another ken to help overcome the tasks posed by the FSC standards cutting area, but for the same purpose: to plant the forest. and allow them to compete on an equal footing with large We have no doubt that this nice reforestation tradition will forest companies. In addition, in order to expand the scale live on for many years ahead. of such activity, a meeting of the largest Lithuanian wood VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 32 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 33 page RESPONSIBILITY TO SOCIETY RESPONSIBILITY PARTICIPATION IN KLAIPĖDA COOPERATION WITH REGSEDA, UAB TO SOCIETY CITY PUBLIC LIFE JOLANTA KRISTINA BRAUKYLIENĖ ZIBALIENĖ KPA Administration Director of Regseda, UAB Director VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB is an active participant Regseda, UAB is a social enterprise of the disabled, where of the Klaipėda Industrialists Association (Lith. Klaipėmost of the staff is composed of visually impaired people. dos pramonininkų asociacija (KPA)). The leaders of the The company provides jobs for persons who have hearing, group’s enterprises actively participate in the work of nervous system, behaviour, movement and other disorders. the Council of the KPA, which makes decisions on issues that are important to businesses and the city, and activeOne of the major goals since the establishment of the enterly participate in the public life of Klaipėda City. prise has been to carry out activities that would ensure jobs for people who have lost professional and general working Being a regular patron of events, VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, capacity: people who are economically inactive and unable UAB provides support every year to the Jūros šventė (the Sea to compete on equal terms in the labour market, as well as to Festival), Klaipėda Castle Jazz Festival, the Neptūnas basketencourage their return to the labour market, promote their ball club, educational and health institutions, public orgasocial inclusion and reduce social exclusion. The enterprise nizations of persons with disabilities, and the Food Bank, as aims to support the employment of people, especially those well as cultural and artistic events. who find it difficult to adjust to labour market changes. The innovative approach of the managers of the Company’s enterprises to cooperation – “business-to-business” – Regseda, UAB even employs completely blind people, who enabled another member of the KPA, Regseda, UAB, a social can perfectly perform work such as gluing, folding, prepacenterprise, to break free from the threat of bankruptcy, not king of small parts, assembly, packaging, beading and so only giving dozens of city people with disabilities the opporon. The disabled employees perform work at the enterprise tunity to continue their work, but also filled their lives with that corresponds to their capacity, taking into consideration new meaning. their ability, education and work complexity. Most of the products of Regseda, UAB are manufactured according to VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB, among other things, contributes to the KPA initiatives: provided funds for the customer pre-orders, therefore, the enterprise carries out a publishing of the Klaipėdos pramonės ir verslo istorija flexible work organization policy, which allows it to provide (Klaipėda Industry and Business History) book, and presentthe workers with new additional knowledge and skills. ed a gift of high and lasting value to the city on the occasion of the Company’s 20th anniversary – a bronze composition The mission of Regseda, UAB is to ensure long-term coopecreated by the artist Klaudijus Pūdymas called Mergaitė su ration with customers based on the highest service stanpaukšteliu (A Girl with a Bird) that was placed in M. Mažvydas dards and a mutually beneficial partnership. alley. The KPA and leaders of the city highly value the responsibIt is very important to us that the needs and expectations le business policy of VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB and of our customers are satisfied. That is why our customers the companies under its management, which not only remain loyal to our enterprise starting from the very first creates added value for the Company, but also the city and years of cooperation. Working in line with our set objecthe whole country. VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 35 page tives and operating principles, we are happy about our sucused for a second time. The production of items from reSUPPORT cessful mutual work with VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB cycled materials causes less pollution to the environment, and its enterprises. and the increased use of secondary raw materials ensures greater savings of natural resources. VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB and its enterprises coopeVAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB is one of the first comrate with non-profit organizations and local communities. panies in the furniture industry who has established and We would like to thank VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB The company’s support for various organizations amouncontinues to develop a successful, long-term cooperative for many years of cooperation and hope to always live up ted to 319,000 euros in 2015. relationship with Regseda UAB. By strengthening its posito their expectations by producing items that meet the tion in the furniture industry market, Regseda, UAB strives highest requirements. In the summer, the population of Klaipėda and its environs to achieve its long-term and short-term objectives related enjoyed the Lithuanian Open Show Jumping Championto the improvement of the work and leisure environment ship in Dargužiai village (Klaipėda Region). The President of people who belong to the targeted disabled group, as of the Lithuanian Equestrian Association, G. Gutkauskas, well as to promote their integration not only into the laexpressed his gratitude to S. Paulauskas, the President of bour market but also into society. The socially responsible the Company’s Board of Directors, for the support and procompany VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB contributes to motion of equestrian sports. the implementation of these objectives as well. This company helps disabled persons remain in the labour market. Since 2002, when the cooperation with the enterprises of VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB: Sakuona, UAB and later FLLC VMG Industry (Belarus), began, the staff of Regseda, UAB has produced corrugated cardboard boxes and packs furniture fittings into them, performs intermediate cutting jobs, prepares packing angles for corrugated cardboard pallets, i.e., performs paper sheet cutting and bending line formation. Apart from this, many orders have been obtained from the enterprises mentioned above for the preparation of packaging fillers: the performance of forming and gluing work including cutting and folding lines. Persons with partial sight perform the gluing work of corrugated cardboard pallet legs. 86% of the persons Regseda, UAB employs have disabilities and most of them can only perform manual work. We are happy to be able, along with VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB and its enterprises, to contribute to a cleaner environment and its preservation for future generations. Support to the cultural and sports life of the country: assisFollowing the example of the Klaipėda region’s furniture tance in organization of the concert intended for the 50th manufacturers, Regseda, UAB has obtained an FSC certifianniversary of the Žuvėdra dancesport team in the Švytucation that links certified forests with consumers. Our comrio Arena in Klaipėda; support to the development of the pliance with the FSC Chain of Custody standard requiresports promotion program of the Ratuto dancesport club ments ensures that the end-user obtains products that are in Vilnius. We are also very proud to be the supporters as made of wood from responsibly managed forests. well as admirers of the Lithuanian State Symphony Orchestra and Klaipėda Neptūnas basketball team. Together with VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB, we pay a great deal of attention to recycling of the packaging. The paper packaging removed from the base paper rolls submitted by KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB is further cut according to the required format by workers belonging to our target group and returned to KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA, AB to use in the furniture production process: for overlays when forming stacks of items. Thus, the waste paper is purposefully VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 36 page VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 37 page RECOGNITION We are pleased that VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB achieved the highest score in the joint assessment table and became the winner of the Atsakingo verslo apdovanojimai 2015 (Responsible Business Awards 2015) contest organized by the Klaipėda Association of Industrialists (KPA). The companies that participated in the contest were assessed according to the employee incentive measures they had implemented, along with environmental protection performance development, activity programs of the students carrying out traineeships, participation in the life of the city and the support they provided. In 2015, the Minsk District Executive Committee awarded the VMG Industry company with the 2nd place award for high achievements in industrial production (in accordance with the socio-economic development competition results of the Mogilev district). RECOGNITION The Social Responsibility Report is published in the Lithuanian, English and Russian languages on the VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB website: http://www.mediena.lt and the United Nations Global Compact website: http://www.unglobacompact.org/ VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 39 page
