2015 Compact Gute Reise! We make it happen Contents 2 Foreword 4 Highlights 2015 8 Our mission statement 14 Our Group 22 Responsibility 28 Our program 32 Economic enhancement 34 Product quality and customer satisfaction 36 Economic efficiency 38 Growth and development in the Group 40 Ideas and innovation 42 Employees 44 Attractive and responsible employer 46 Occupational health and safety 48 Community 50 Value generation and engagement in the region 52 Noise abatement 56 Environment 58 Climate protection 60 Conservation of nature and resources 62 Key figures 2015 68 Imprint 2015 Compact About this Report 1 About this Report The “2015 Compact – Gute Reise! We make it Fraport complies with and supports the ten Where the statements made in this document happen” report informs our stakeholders and principles of the UN Global Compact, deverelate to the future rather than the past, these the interested public in brief form about the lops and executes measures to implement statements are based on a number of assumpeconomic development of Fraport Group and them, and contributes to their recognition, tions about future events and are subject to its objectives, activities, and progress relating even beyond the company’s own limits. This a number of uncertainties and other factors, to responsible corporate management. We publication, alongside the GRI report, is also many of which are beyond the control of publish additional information using the stanused as a progress report relating to the imFraport AG Frankfurt Airport Services Worlddard of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in plementation of the ten principles of the UN wide and which could have the effect that the a separate report in the core version of the GRI Global Compact in corporate management. actual results will differ materially from these G4 guidelines, including the industry-specific statements. These factors include, but are additional indicators for airport operators on Our reports are published annually in German not limited to, the competitive environment our website www.fraport.com/responsibility. and English, and cover the reporting period in deregulated markets, regulatory changes, of January 1 to December 31 of each year. the success of business operations, and a The selection of the report content is based The editorial deadline for this report was April substantial deterioration in basic economic on the regular exchange with our stakeholders 2016. The previous report was published on conditions in the markets in which Fraport AG and a comprehensive materiality analysis. In May 7, 2015. Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide and its this regard, we have defined important areas Group companies operate. Readers are cauof activity for Fraport and positioned them The information in “2015 Compact” covers all tioned not to rely to an inappropriately large in a materiality matrix according to their imGroup activities, products, and services and all extent on statements made about the future. portance for the stakeholders and the Group. companies that are consolidated according to As part of a program, Fraport has set objectives the regulations on financial reporting issued and performance figures as well as defined by the International Accounting Standards measures for achieving the objectives. Board on the relevant balance sheet date or have significant environmental effects within this framework. As it is by far the largest Group site, Frankfurt is the focus of our reporting. You can find detailed information on our data collection in the GRI Report. 2 Foreword 2015 Compact “We particularly want to thank the more than 23,000 employees of Fraport Group. Our success is due to their expertise and commitment.” Foreword Dear Readers, Fraport has developed very successfully in gers used the airport, which led in particular value. We also improved the Group result by recent years. The challenge that we have to to very high utilization during the summer 18 percent to 297 million Euros. face time and again is carrying this success months. Despite a slight drop of 2.6 percent forward for the long-term future. This also in the cargo tonnage, to around 2.1 million For us, ensuring long-term success means means questioning the path we have chosen metric tons, Frankfurt Airport is amongst the bearing equal responsibility, not only for our and our actions so far at regular intervals, and most important air freight handling facilities shareholders and employees, but also for consistently adapting to changing market in Europe. The site thus supported its systemthose who live near the airport. The theme developments in aviation. atically relevant role within the value chain in of active noise abatement and noise reducGermany, which, as an exporting nation, is tion continues to be a high priority, despite It is for this reason that last year we incorpodependent upon a competitive transit and the decision to expand. In both aspects, we rated our strategic direction, “Agenda 2015”, freight hub. have been recognized as of “leading interinto a new mission statement. We focused on national” importance. To continue to fulfill our targets and our business from the perspecWe continue to profitably contribute our this recognition in the future, we carried tive of our customers. The mission statement expertise in the successful operation of airout a trial operation of the ‘noise absence “Gute Reise! We make it happen” has replaced ports. For this reason, we signed concession model’ at Frankfurt Airport in 2015. Through the previous slogan “The Airport Managers”. agreements for 14 predominantly tourismthe targeted use of runways, we are able to Our processes and our infrastructure should oriented regional airports in Greece alongside afford the residents more quiet during day help our customers have a “good trip”. In our Greek partner Copelouzos Group in the and evening hours, depending on the weathdoing so, we want to meet the mobility past fiscal year. We are currently expecting to er and operating conditions. The reduced requirements of businesses and society, give assume airport operations in late 2016, thus noise level at various measurement points our partners a platform for implementing their expanding our international portfolio. around the airport prove the success of the business models, and help drive economic ‘noise absence model’. We are very aware of growth and job creation in the regions we In financial terms, the 2015 fiscal year saw our role in the socienty, and use it to shape serve, as well as being an attractive employer good development for Fraport. We were able future developments. and responsible partner. to improve all relevant key financial figures in comparison to the previous year, and continue This also includes our commitment to climate We are proud that the Frankfurt site has, for the positive development of previous years. protection. We aim to reduce CO2emissions at the first time in its history, surpassed the With EBITDA of almost 849 million Euros the Frankfurt site by 30 percent by 2020. Over 60 million passenger mark, with 61 million and EBIT amounting to around 521 million the past year, amongst other measures, we passengers, and 2.5 percent growth. On a Euros, both performance indicators were have renovated some energy-intensive techtotal of 63 days, more than 200,000 passenagain significantly up on the previous year’s nical systems and retrofitted street lighting 2015 Compact Foreword 3 with LED technology. Another project is the Group in the long term, we have launched varThis report provides you with information on gradual electrification of our vehicle fleet. The ious projects to maintain health and develop our new mission statement and many other activities leading to more electrical mobility careers. We are using targeted diversity manFraport services for our customers, as well as at Frankfurt Airport are summarized in our agement to draw together synergies from our our economic progress and social responsibiljoint project “E-PORT AN” with Lufthansa, varied employee base. We also aim to bring ity in 2015 – we hope you find it interesting the State of Hesse, and the “Rhine-Main elecmore women into management positions and thought-provoking! tromobility model region”. ­Our international and offer parents various options to create a sites are also working continuously on reducwork-life balance. ing their CO2emissions. We are committed to certifying all fully consolidated airports New trends require new business activities. via the industry program “Airport Carbon One example, which we adopted last year, is Michael Müller Dr. Stefan Schulte Accreditation” to at least Level 2 “Reduction”. digitization. Through new service offers and inExecutive Director Chairman of the Ljubljana Airport already achieved this objeccreased personalization, we want to make our Labor Relations Executive Board tive in 2015. passengers’ flight experiences more customized than ever before. We deliberately react We particularly want to thank the more than to changing customer needs in terms of infor23,000 employees of Fraport Group. Our mation, directions, service, and shopping – success is due to their expertise and comparticularly with regard to using mobile Anke Giesen Dr. Matthias Zieschang mitment. To keep it that way and, against devices. The most important innovations Executive Director Executive Director the background of demographic change, to also include introducing an online shopping Operations Controlling and Finance ensure that employees are committed to the platform for passengers in Frankfurt. 4 Highlights 2015 2015 Compact Highlights 2015 JAN MAR APR First scheduled flight worldwide of the Lima, for the seventh time the best airport Contract as Eintracht Frankfurt’s premium new A350 XWB in South America partner extended Since January 2015, Qatar Airways has been The Jorge Chavéz International Airport (LIM) Fraport AG has extended its sponsorship of using a new generation of energy-efficient, in the Peruvian capital Lima was selected by Eintracht Frankfurt and will remain a premium reduced-noise aircraft on its route between passengers for the seventh time in succession partner of the football club for another four Doha and Frankfurt. Compared with the and in total now eight times as the best airport years. With the 2015/2016 season the partnercurrent generation of twin-engine, long-haul in South America. The main reasons were the ship has been in place for 15 years. wide-body jets, the A350 XWB uses up to service quality, professional operations, pleas25 % less fuel and is significantly quieter. As ant atmosphere, and outstanding retail offers. far back as summer 2014, Fraport welcomed Involvement with FRAPORT SKYLINERS the test flight of the A350 XWB from Iqaluit in extended the Canadian Arctic to Frankfurt. The long-term involvement with the Frankfurt basketball team was extended ahead of time by several years. The top league team has been called FRAPORT SKYLINERS as of July 1, 2011. In addition to sponsoring the team’s name and the “Fraport Arena”, the cooperation also includes school and youth projects. 2015 Compact Highlights 2015 5 MAY JUN JUL Shareholders vote for a dividend Airport workplace continues Strong increase in passenger numbers at per share of €1.35 to grow Frankfurt Airport At the 14th Annual General Meeting, the On the reporting date December 31, 2014, July saw the largest number of passengers in shareholders discharged the Executive Board over 80,000 people – more than ever before the history of Frankfurt Airport at 6.2 million. with a high majority (99.85 %) and Super­ – were employed at the nearly 500 companies This exceeded July 2014 by 6.6 % and the visory Board (98.42 %) for the 2014 fiscal year. and institutions who took part in the most previous record month, August 2014, by They also agreed to the proposed dividend recent workplace and employee survey at around 130,000 passengers. On a total of per share of €1.35. The dividends for the 2014 the airport. The airport therefore underscores 17 days in the month, passenger numbers fiscal year therefore rose by 10 Euro cents per its position as the largest local workplace in were above the 200,000 mark. A new historic share. The last dividend increase dates back Germany. daily record was established on July 31, 2015 to the 2010 fiscal year. with 216,732 passengers. 6 Highlights 2015 2015 Compact AUG SEP OCT Frankfurt is best airport according to Fraport and LOT celebrate 50 years of Construction starts on T3: groundbreaking Deutsches Kundeninstitut Frankfurt – Warsaw ceremony with 400 employees Frankfurt leads the rankings as the best airport On September 7, 1965, exactly 50 years Over 400 employees from all Fraport AG dein Germany. It was given top grades in the ago, Polish airline LOT commenced schedpartments broke ground to launch the start sub-categories of flight offerings, quality of uled flights between Warsaw and Frankfurt. of construction for Terminal 3 on October 5, stay, and service. In terms of flight offerings, After the inaugural flight, the metropolis on 2015. They were supported in the symbolic it is Germany’s largest airport and unbeatable the Main quickly became one of the most act by Hesse Minister-President Volker Bouffier, as one of Europe’s leading airports: Frankfurt important destinations in LOT’s network. In Frankfurt am Main City Treasurer, Uwe Becker, is connected to the world with over 250 flight the current schedule, the Polish airline offers the complete Fraport Executive Board, and destinations and 88 airlines. The number three flights a day between the Polish capital Fraport AG Supervisory Board Chairman of international aircraft movements is also and Frankfurt. Karlheinz Weimar. unbeaten. Ljubljana awarded for reducing CO2 emissions The Fraport subsidiary that operates the Jože Pucnik International Airport reduced its CO₂ emissions in 2014 by 488 metric tons. This represents 11 % of the total carbon dioxide emissions generated by airport operations in 2012. Ljubljana was awarded Level 2 of the Airport Carbon Accreditation for this achievement. The aim is to have completely climate-neutral operation of the airport by 2020. 2015 Compact Highlights 2015 7 We make it happen NOV DEC Strategic partnership for Contracts signed for New mission statement introduced for the cargo handling 14 Greek airports Fraport Group On November 2, 2015, Fraport AG and WFS Fraport AG and its Greek partner, Copelouzos With the involvement of employees from all also formally completed the strategic partGroup, signed the concession agreements sections of Fraport AG and from Group comnership for cargo handling agreed in July. As to take over 14 Greek regional airports on panies, the Executive Board developed a new part of this agreement, Fraport AG sold a 51 % December 14, 2015. The concessions were mission statement for the Fraport Group in the share in its subsidiary Fraport Cargo Services each initially granted for a period of 40 years. past fiscal year and published it in December. GmbH (FCS) located at Frankfurt airport to After the planned closing in fall 2016, the Under the motto “Gute Reise! We make it WFS, the largest global independent air freight consortium, in which Fraport AG will hold happen”, we state the corporate objectives: handler. The joint objective is to increasingly the majority share, will pay the concession fee “Growth in Frankfurt and internationally”, establish FCS internationally, successfully deof €1,234 million. The consortium will then “service-oriented provider”, “competitive velop it further, and thus strengthen Frankfurt take over operation and management of the position through optimal cooperation”, as Europe’s largest cargo hub. 14 regional airports which also includes the “learning organization”, and “fairness and responsibility for further maintenance and acknowledgment”. Considered abstractly, development. these goals are represented by the overarching aim of “growth through progress”. Other components are covered by the corporate values defined under the umbrella term “trust”: “competence”, “reliability”, “openness”, “courage”, and “commitment”, and the corporate vision “Fraport – from Frankfurt to the World. We are Europe’s best airport operator and set standards worldwide.” 8 Our mission statement 2015 Compact Our mission statement Fraport has given itself a new corporate mission statement. The perspective has changed from that of the “Airport Manager” to the customer. Our processes and infrastructure are intended to help our customers have a “good trip”. This has been the guideline for our activity for some years and is now expressed in our new claim “Gute Reise! We make it happen”. Our mission statement 9 Meet the mobility requirements of businesses and society Be an attractive employer and responsible partner Give our partners a platform for implementing their business models Help drive economic growth and job creation in the regions we serve 10 Our mission statement 2015 Compact We make it happen A new mission statement for the Group Our task Over recent years, the “Agenda 2015” corpobusiness. And at our main site in Frankfurt, The new mission statement has created a rate strategy pointed the way for Fraport to the improvements particularly in service and clear paradigm shift. Instead of looking from meet the development needs in aviation and quality of stay ensured significantly improved the perspective of the “airport manager”, changes to the environmental conditions. We customer satisfaction. the focus has turned to the customer. Our intensively worked towards and successfully processes and our infrastructure should help implemented the fundamental areas of activity With the new mission statement, Agenda our customers have a “good trip”. Fraport has “Manage capital expenditure”, “Strengthen 2015 was transformed into a new strategy been working towards this switch for some profitability”, “Increase customer satisfacthat will be rolled out throughout the comyears and it is clearly expressed in the new mistion”, “Secure sustainability”, and “Utilize pany in 2016. It will take effect in all areas and sion statement. The company’s task has been growth potentials” as well as the associated is the guideline for future activity. In addition clearly formulated: We serve our customers objectives. For example, various expansion to the company’s purpose, it also describes by successfully operating airports worldwide projects in Frankfurt, such as Runway Norththe goals, values, and vision. The goals and providing relevant services. We meet west and the A-Plus extension to Terminal 1, are made manageable for the respective the prerequisites for international connecwere completed on time and on budget. segments and Group companies, enabling tivity, economic growth, and prosperity. The investment in the retail business of AMU appropriate strategies to be derived. The In doing so, we want to meet the mobility Holding at American airports in Pittsburgh, Executive Board and senior management requirements of businesses and society, give Boston, Baltimore, and Cleveland, the ophave taken on the responsibility for setting our partners a platform for implementing their eration of Ljubljana Airport in Slovenia, and and implementing the goals. In 2016, specific business models, and help drive economic finally investments in 14 Greek airports promeasures and key figures will be created for growth and job creation in the regions we vided opportunities for expanding external achieving the goals. serve, as well as being an attractive employer and responsible partner. Our values Trust Reliability Openness Courage Commitment Competence Core values 2015 Compact Our mission statement 11 Our vision Fraport – from Frankfurt to the World. We are Europe’s best airport operator and set standards worldwide. Values Vision The newly defined values are used as guide for “Fraport – from Frankfurt to the World. We the behavior of our employees and managers; are Europe’s best airport operator and set they are also the foundation on which the standards worldwide.” This is the new vision Fraport Group’s culture is built. Trust forms the for Fraport Group. It emphasizes the Comframework for the core values competence, pany’s close connection to its home site of reliability, openness, courage, and commitFrankfurt. The impetus for the international ment. activities starts from there. In Europe, Fraport measures itself against other airport operators. Fraport is committed to these core values. Globally, Fraport is successfully expanding its They should in future shape the way our network and setting standards in the operaemployees interact with partners, neighbors, tion of international airports along with the and customers. associated services. 12 Our mission statement 2015 Compact Five goals “Growth through progress” is the umbrella The existing strategic direction and ongoing that covers the Group’s five goals. Here, initiatives of the Group are therefore approgrowth emphasizes the quantitative direction, priately summarized under these new goals. i.e., growth as a management task, as an ecoThe goals will be made more specific with nomic dimension. In contrast, progress relates appropriate strategies in 2016. to the qualitative aspects and is aimed at continuous improvement, innovative strength, and development. “Growth through progress” is the umbrella that covers the Group’s five goals. The five goals are: We grow in Frankfurt and We are a service-oriented internationally. airport operator and focus our processes on our customers. Fraport will further ensure the appeal and As a service-oriented provider, Fraport success of the Frankfurt site. The next major focuses on its customers. Whether passengers, step in infrastructure development is the aviation companies, the cargo community, construction of Terminal 3. This will create concessionaires, tenants, or consulting custhe necessary capacity for traffic development tomers, they all receive the best service and in the coming years. The available expertise high quality. Fraport anticipates and fulfills the held and expanded by Fraport in Frankfurt is wishes of the customers whilst at the same also a guarantee for success when developing time ensuring economic efficiency. Product and expanding international Group comdevelopments, services, and other offerings panies. In order to support growth, Fraport are derived from this. The digitalization of will strengthen its leadership in innovation airport processes and services will play a and develop new business models that are special role here. customer-oriented. 2015 Compact Our mission statement 13 We act while keeping the We are a learning organiWe treat one another, entire company in view. zation developing in as well as our partners By optimally collaborattandem with the market. and neighbors, with ing within the Group, we fairness and respect. remain competitive and do business successfully. In the Group’s structure, the wide portfolio As a learning organization, Fraport relies on As a fair employer, Fraport supports respectful of services is intended to be used to achieve good entrepreneurship, economic efficiency, and open cooperation. The diversity of emthe common objectives. In Frankfurt, the and competitiveness. Risks and opportunities ployees is valued and seen as a benefit. Fraport inte­grated business model is a unique selling are recognized in good time; changes in the talks to customers and partners on an equal point. It should be managed competitively marketplace are anticipated. Innovations and footing. As a good neighbor, Fraport works and successfully in economic terms. In efficient new business ideas are supported. Our underclosely on managing the effects of airport cooperation and with a view to the whole, the standing of leadership is characterized by high operation on the region with the various complexity of the tasks and issues is mastered motivation, continuous development, and stakeholders and uses all of the technical and and the team and networking idea developed mutual trust. All employees make their conoperational options for noise abatement. further throughout the whole Group. tribution to the Company’s success. Fraport provides support and creates the framework for development and qualifications. Fraport responds to demographic change with targeted recruitment, retention management, and knowledge transfer. 14 Our Group 2015 Compact Our Group In Frankfurt Airport, Fraport operates one of the most important aviation hubs in Europe. Our success in airport management is based on many years of experience including in flight and terminal­operation, retail, infrastructure, and airport expansion. We also provide our expertise to our subsidiaries, investments, and joint ventures around the globe. Cooperation and collaboration with local teams and taking account of local market issues are two key factors that ensure our economic success. Our Group 15 Kalliopi Megalomidou, Senior Project Manager Global Natalie Schwalm, Vice President Airport Charges and Nuri Turhan, Terminal Duty Manager, Fraport IC Ictas, Investments and Management, Fraport AG Frankfurt Licensing, Fraport AG Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide, Antalya Airport Services Worldwide, Greece Frankfurt Sandra Ritter, Vice President Human Resources, Rocio Espinoza, Head of Communications, Matjaž Romšek, Head of Airport Management, Flughafen Hannover-Langenhagen GmbH, Hanover Lima Airport Partners S.R. L., Lima Aerodrom Ljubljana, d.d., Ljubljana Dragomir Georgiev, Deputy Airport Director, Fraport Twin Aleksey Zolotukhin, Head of Corporate IT Systems Zhang Sheng, Supervisor Human Resource Department, Star Airport Management AD, Varna/Burgas and Network Support, Northern Capital Gateway Xi’an Xianyang International Airport Co., Xi’an LLC, St. Petersburg Sites worldwide Boston Cleveland Pittsburgh Baltimore Delhi Dakar Lima St. Petersburg Hanover Frankfurt Ljubljana Xi’an Varna Burgas Kavala Thessaloniki Skiathos Corfu Aktio Mytilini, Lesbos Kefalonia Samos Mykonos Zakynthos Antalya Kos Rhodes Santorini The project to operate 14 Greek regional Chania, Crete airports has currently reached the stage of preparing for the operational phase. Fraport expects to take over airport operation at the end of 2016. 16 Our Group 2015 Compact From Frankfurt to the World The Fraport Group (hereinafter also referred ger and cargo airports in the world. In conairports on four continents through majority to as: Fraport) is among the leading global trast to time-limited concession models, the and minority investments. airport operators with Frankfurt Airport and Fraport Group parent company, Fraport AG its international portfolio of investments. Frankfur t Airpor t Ser vices Worldwide Alongside its Greek partner, Copelouzos The range of the Group includes all services (Fraport AG) wholly owns and operates Group, Fraport signed concession agreements of aviation and terminal operation as well as Frankfurt Airport with no time limits. With to operate 14 mainly tourist-oriented regional associated services. The further development over 10,500 employees, Fraport AG, which airports in Greece at the end of the last fiscal of airports into integrated mobility, event, and has been stock exchange-listed since 2001, year. We are currently expecting to take over real estate locations additionally represents is also the single biggest company of the airport operation at the end of 2016, thus a broad revenue and earnings basis for the Fraport Group, which has around 20,700 expanding our international portfolio. Group. employees. It directly or indirectly holds the shares in the Group companies and has its The Group’s key driver of revenue and earnings head office in Frankfurt am Main. In addition is Frankfurt Airport, one of the largest passento Frankfurt, Fraport is active in 13 other “The Supervisory Board involves itself intensively in the Group’s internationalization strategy. We have also supported the progress of the tender won back in 2014 by the consortium comprised of Fraport and Copelouzos Group for concessions at 14 Greek regional airports. During an extraordinary meeting on October 5, 2015, we approved the signing of the final concession agreements, which then took place on December 14, 2015. We are convinced that the Fraport management will continue to successfully and profitably contribute its expertise in the operation of airports.” Karlheinz Weimar Chairman of the Supervisory Board Fraport AG 2015 Compact Our Group 17 Shareholder structure as at December 31, 2015 1) in % 34.20 Free float 3.00 31.34 Legg Mason Inc. State of Hesse 3.00 20.01 BlackRock Inc. Stadtwerke Frankfurt am Main Holding GmbH 8.45 Deutsche Lufthansa AG 1) The relative ownership interests were adjusted to the current total number of shares as at December 31, 2015 and therefore may differ from the figures given at the time of reporting or from the respective shareholders’ own disclosure. Shares below 3 % are classified under “free float”. The Group companies consolidated under Executive Board is responsible for operational use of their discussion and voting rights at the IFRS recorded a revenue of €2,583.3 million management and leads the company. At the Annual General Meeting. The Annual General and EBITDA of €848.8 million during the past end of 2015, it comprised four members, Meeting takes place in the first six months of fiscal year. Including the other Group comDr. Stefan Schulte (Chairman), Anke Giesen each fiscal year and makes decisions on all panies, Fraport generated a Group result of (Operations), Michael Müller (HR Director), tasks assigned to it by law and the Group’s €297.0 million in 2015. Whereas the Frankfurt and Dr. Matthias Zieschang (Controlling and articles of association, such as appropriation site contributed around 63 % to the Group Finance). of profit, election and discharge of the Superresult, Fraport generated somewhat more visory Board, and discharge of the Executive than one third of the profit outside Frankfurt. The Supervisory Board appoints the Executive Board. Each share provides one voting right. Board and monitors its activity. It exists under German law and, as a result of the size of the Our business activities are presented in four Organization parent company, comprises 20 members who segments: “Aviation”, “Retail & Real Estate”, are appointed or elected by shareholders and “Ground Handling”, and “External Activities & Fraport AG is a public limited company uncompany employees in equal numbers. Services”. der German law – accordingly, the senior management and control are divided up As an additional decision-making and control between three independent bodies. The body, the shareholders of Fraport AG make Segment structure Fraport Aviation Retail & Real Estate Ground Handling External Activities & Services > Airside and Terminal Management, > Retail and Properties > Ground Services > Global Investments and Management Corporate Safety and Security > Information and > Airport Security Management Telecommunication > Integrated Facility Management > Airport Expansion South > Corporate Infrastructure Management Revenue: €927.3 million Revenue: €488.2 million Revenue: €673.1 million Revenue: €510.3 million EBITDA: €237.5 million EBITDA: €378.8 million EBITDA: €46.4 million EBITDA: €186.1 million EBIT: €116.3 million EBIT: €295.1 million EBIT: €6.0 million EBIT: €103.1 million Result contribution: > 90 % Frankfurt site > 90 % external business 18 Our Group 2015 Compact Governance and compliance breaches are processed by central case obliged to comply with the basic principles. management. Numerous communication The “Fraport-Policy” (which can be read at As a company operating at a global level, measures and a variety of on-site training www.fraport.com/responsibility) forms the Fraport bears national and international reas well as e-learning courses aim to ensure umbrella under which the Group’s commitsponsibility. Fraport understands compliance prevention. ments and subject-specific codes of conduct to be the management of business activities are summarized. in accordance with the relevant key laws and In the last few years, key elements of the internal guidelines. The issues of compliance CMS have been successively introduced into and values management are brought together the national and international subsidiaries. In Compliance with human rights in a values-based compliance management 2015, binding Group CMS guidelines were system (CMS). Thus, the preventive nature introduced and a Group-wide compliance Fraport respects the cultural, ethnic, social, of values management introduced in 2003 risk analysis was conducted. political, and legal diversity of all nations and enhances the overarching CMS. The comsocieties. As part of diversity management, mitment to compliance has been part of In terms of good corporate management, we consciously make the diversity of our employment contracts since 2005. Fraport has been committed for a long time employees part of our human resources to complying with internationally recogstrategy and organizational development. In addition to an internal confidant, Fraport nized standards of behavior as listed in the As the representative of the highest level introduced an electronic whistle-blower principles of the UN Global Compact, the in the organization, the Chairman of the system (BKMS® System) in 2009. An exterOECD Guidelines, and the ILO Core Labour Executive Board is responsible for human nal ombudsperson was appointed in 2011, Standards. In order to embed these rules rights issues in the Group. who in particular confidentially receives even more strongly in the company, Fraport and legally examines tips on serious legal published two codes of conduct at the violations. Suspected cases of compliance start of 2013; employees and suppliers are 2015 Compact Our Group 19 Fraport respects the basic right of freedom Significant factors for supplier selection inlabor and education, in addition to migration of association and the right to collective clude the principles for awarding orders based and tourism. bargaining agreement negotiations under on the Act against Restraints of Competition national agreements. Furthermore, we work of the Federal Republic of Germany. When Despite long-term growth forecasts, the shorttogether openly in a spirit of mutual trust tendering, Fraport AG generally guarantees term future of aviation markets continues to with democratically elected employee reprecompliance with national and international be marked by uncertainty. This is mainly due sentative bodies. In 2015, 99.6 % of Fraport laws and agreements. to political crises, the possible outbreak of Group employees were covered by collective epidemics, potential terrorist attacks, and the agreements. We expect our suppliers to comply with our economically uncertain positions of various Supplier Code of Conduct. It is a constituent national economies and airlines. The latter Wherever it can, Fraport supports the German element of all tenders and contracts. Suppliers continue to be negatively influenced by inFederal Police in pursuing and combating of product groups of a higher risk category tense competition, the rolling out of national international people trafficking at Frankfurt and those from higher-risk countries are taxes, such as the German aviation tax, and Airport, for example, by handing over raw subject to a special review. In 2015, we did labor disputes. Positive and negative effects video material in certain justified cases. Before not place any orders with companies from also arise from the appreciation and depreciany data are exchanged, the relevant data “countries of concern”. ation of currencies and from price fluctuations protection officers are asked to review the on commodity markets. data and approve the transfer. Furthermore, technical security systems are installed in Strategy These forecasts of long-term stable growth and cooperation with the German Federal Police the variable short-term context present strateand the German Customs Office. Compared with the previous year, no fungic challenges for Fraport, which the Executive damental changes were made to the Group Board has brought together in the “Agenda strategy in fiscal year 2015. Fraport continues 2015” Group strategy. Agenda 2015, which Procurement to gear its strategy towards the forecasted longcomprised the five elements “Manage capiterm development of the global aviation market tal expanditure”, “Strengthen profitability”, In 2015, Fraport’s parent company placed and its market trends. In this context, renowned “Increase customer satisfaction”, “Secure orders with a total volume of around aviation associations and aircraft manufac­ sustainability” and “Utilize growth potentials”, €749 million. Around 68 % of these were turers still anticipate stable long-term growth has been replaced in the past fiscal year by a placed with companies in the Frankfurt Rhineof the aviation market, based particularly new mission statement. The new mission stateMain region; however, as a sector contractor, on anticipated international economic growth ment incorporates Agenda 2015 into a new we are precluded from granting preference and an ever-expanding global middle class. strategy, which will be rolled out throughout to companies in our immediate vicinity or the Supporting effects stem from, among other the company from 2016 (see chapter entitled surrounding area. things, the continuing internationalization of “Our mission statement”, p. 8). 20 Our Group 2015 Compact Group airports (in which an investment of over 10 % is held) Frankfurt Ljubljana Lima Name Frankfurt Airport Name Ljubljana Jože Pucnik Name Aeropuerto Internacional Jorge Chávez Company Fraport AG International Airport Company Lima Airport Partners S.R. L. Type Group headquarters Company Aerodrom Ljubljana, d.d. Type Concession until at least 2031 Shares 100 % Type Group company Shares 70.01 % Employees 18,865 Shares 100 % Employees 479 Passengers 61,032,022 Employees 402 Passengers 17,112,536 Cargo (Freight + Mail) 2,076,734 t Passengers 1,438,304 t Cargo (Freight + Mail) 300,686 t Movements 468,153 Cargo (Freight + Mail) 10,140 Movements 166,388 Movements 32,893 St. Petersburg Hanover Xi’an Name Pulkovo Airport Name Hannover Langenhagen Airport Name Xi’an Xianyang International Airport Company Northern Capital Gateway LLC Company Flughafen HannoverCompany Xi’an Xianyang International Airport Co. Type Concession until 2040 Langenhagen GmbH Type Group company Shares 35,5 % Type Group company Shares 24.5 % Employees 4,052 Shares 30 % Employees 3,185 Passengers 13,499,755 Employees 665 Passengers 32,970,150 Cargo (Freight + Mail) n/a Passengers 5,452,669 Cargo (Freight + Mail) 211,591 t Movements 138,327 Cargo (Freight + Mail) 17,492 t Movements 266,807 Movements 75,695 2015 Compact Our Group 21 Burgas/Varna Antalya Name Burgas/Varna Airport Name Antalya Airport Company Fraport Twin Star Airport Company Fraport IC Ictas Management AD Type Concession until at least 2024 Type Concession until at least 2041 Shares 51 %/50 %* Shares 60 % Employees 490 Employees 902 Passengers 27,522,514 Passengers 3,759,014 Cargo (Freight + Mail) n/a Cargo (Freight + Mail) 13,388 t Movements 171,285 Movements 30,230 Greek regional airports (e.g. Thessaloniki) Worldwide, Fraport operates airports on four continents through majority and minority shareholdings, as well as under management contracts. As a full service provider, our portfolio includes airport operation and management, as well as consulting services for all airportrelated areas such as ground services and terminal, retail, and property management. Company tbd Type 40-year concession Shares min. 65 % Employees n/a Passengers approx. 23.4 million Cargo (Freight + Mail) n/a Movements n/a *51 % capital shares, 50 % dividend rights. 22 Our Group 2015 Compact Responsibility For us, acting sustainably means creating the naturally, this applies particularly to Frankfurt is paid to local residents affected by aircraft future responsibly. We understand sustainable Airport, one of the largest hubs in Europe. As noise at our sites and the over 80,000 emdevelopment to be a continuous process. the operator, Fraport AG has to reconcile very ployees (as at 2014) at Frankfurt Airport, We believe that the entrepreneurial scope different requirements. Germany’s largest workplace, including, in for action can only be ensured by consistent particular, Fraport employees, for whom we incorporation of non-economic aspects in For example, some of our stakeholders are are directly responsible. The Fraport Group management processes. focused on global challenges such as climate also maintains close contact with its main change, while for many of those living near customers – airline companies – to regularly The topic of sustainability or responsibility airports, aircraft noise is most important. exchange information on a range of issues and falls under the remit of the central section Other stakeholders are concerned with coordinate operational measures. “Corporate Development, Environment issues surrounding the Group’s financial value and Sustainability”, which is assigned to creation and its competitiveness, as well as We consider dialog to be an important tool the Chairman of the Executive Board. The maintaining and creating secure, attractive that we use to obtain recommendations for section brings together the strategically jobs. The issues raised with us are highly the company’s strategic alignment and advice relevant themes relating to responsible diverse and sometimes irreconcilable. on risk management. As a “learning organizacorporate management and initiates their tion”, we are also focused on advancements develop­ment. It is also in charge for enviWe can implement many suggestions, but in science and technology. ronmental management, and developing not all. Nevertheless, we firmly believe that the materiality matrix and the program. exchanging information contributes to Responsibility for reporting and managing mutual understanding and developing widely rankings and assessments lies with the accepted solutions. “Finance & Investor Relations” section. With its stakeholder dialog activities, Fraport addresses all of the company’s key­stakeholders Stakeholder dialogs in a targeted manner. These include passengers, business partners, analysts, owners, and Airports are of great public importance. They representatives from the community, politics, regularly give rise to sociopolitical debates; and the authorities. Special consideration 2015 Compact Our Group 23 Key stakeholder groups Local residents Authorities Airlines living near airports Politics Passengers Airport visitors Business partners Associations Community Value generation and Foundations engagement in the region Noise abatement Value creation Shareholders Product quality and customer satisfaction Responsible Economic efficiency corporate management Growth and Bank Environment at Fraport development in the Group representatives NGOs Climate protection Ideas and innovation Conservation of nature and resources Analysts Science Employees Attractive and responsible employer Occupational health Investors and safety Trade unions Employees Examples of stakeholder communications in 2015 External: Internal: >> Annual Report 2014 >> Staff meetings >> 2014 Compact >> Management conference >> Abridged Environmental Statement 2015 >> “Fraport World” employee newspaper >> Noise abatement reports >> Internal “Skynet” and “Galaxynet” >> Website: www.fraport.com >> “Fraport Barometer” employee survey >> Customer advisory board for passengers >> “Ask the Board” dialog with Executive Board members >> Air Cargo Community Frankfurt association >> Customer magazines “Aviation World” and “Retail World” >> Involvement in the Airport and Regional Forum (Forum Flughafen und Region) >> Information events for local residents living near airports >> Involvement with associations >> Talks with authorities 24 Our Group 2015 Compact Updating the materiality matrix recorded with targets and measurable per>> In terms of environmental aspects, the formance indicators. We have also changed previous area of activity “Climate and enThe systematic exchange of information with the following: vironmental protection” has been divided our internal and external stakeholders enables into “Conservation of nature and resources” us to develop perspectives for the strategic >> Basic requirements for companies and the and “Climate protection”. This highlights alignment of the company. As of 2010, we operation of airports are now integrated the significance of the global challenge of have used this to create a materiality matrix into Fraport’s standard processes and no climate change and counteractive energy that depicts the company’s future challenges. longer represent a significant challenge. efficiency measures for the airline industry. The matrix is reviewed annually to ensure it is However, they still form part of our princiup-to-date and, if necessary, adjusted. In the ples of responsible corporate management >> Dividing the area of activity “Economic course of aligning sustainability reporting (e.g. “Compliance and governance”, Enhancement” into “Economic efficiency” with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) “Safety and security”). and “Growth and development in the G4 guidelines, in 2015, the materiality matrix Group” allows performance in Frankfurt needed to be developed to focus it even >> The “Procurement” area of activity was also and international investments to be differmore on the central areas of activity for the no longer included in the new materiality entiated. company’s sustainability. matrix. All of the Sustainability Program’s targets, such as the introduction of the >> The area of activity “Ideas and innovation” To do this, the content of the materiality Fraport Supplier Code of Conduct, have was newly added. matrix was first reviewed in terms of the been implemented (as at 2015). requirements of the GRI’s G4 Guidelines and in consideration of benchmark results. >> Areas of activity regarding employees were Detailed results from the last management also reorganized: “Attractive and responsiand stakeholder survey from 2013 were also ble employer” now includes the previously considered, as well as the current extent to separate aspect “Diversity and equal opporwhich targets of the Sustainability Program’s tunity”. The topic of “Occupational health eleven areas of activity have been achieved. and safety” has been added as a new, sepThe aim of updating the areas of activity arate area of activity, in order to do justice was to concentrate on aspects that can be to its high relevance for airport operators. 2015 Compact Our Group 25 “In terms of responsible corporate management, Fraport has been committed for a long time to complying with internationally recognized standards of conduct. These include the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, to which we are expressly committed since 2007.” Dr. Stefan Schulte Chairman of the Executive Board Fraport AG 26 Our Group 2015 Compact Definitions of the areas of activity Product quality and customer satisOccupational health and safety: Mainfaction: Continual improvement of our taining and promoting employees’ physical services, reflected in the high customer and mental performance using appropriate satisfaction. Safeguarding the Frankfurt site’s occupational health and safety measures. hub function and maintaining the Group’s competitiveness. Value generation and engagement in the region: Positive contribution to the Economic efficiency: Income-related use economic development of the region. of current and future assets while protecting Non-profit involvement in the airport neighprofitability and liquidity. borhood and dialog with our stakeholders. Growth and development in the Group: Noise abatement: Improvement in the Growing, strengthening, and developing noise situation in neighboring residential the Group’s portfolio areas and reduction in the number of people affected by noise. Ideas and innovation: Development of new products or approaches that solve Climate protection: Increasing energy effia problem more efficiently or satisfy reciency, monitoring and reducing emissions quirements better than existing solutions of climate-relevant gases through airport and also provide a significant (additional) operation (e.g. CO2). benefit. Conservation of nature and resources: Attractive and responsible employer: Careful use of natural resources; minimizaSecuring jobs in the Group and ensuring tion of waste and air pollutant emissions a work environment characterized by and immissions through airport operation, diversity, equal opportunities, fairness, and and preservation and encouragement of respect. Creating good working conditions biodiversity on the airport site. and development opportunities to acquire, train, and retain motivated employees. Fraport’s management and representatives “product quality and customer satisfaction” ratings, with management considering it of our most important stakeholders (airline and “economic efficiency” to be the most more important. “Occupational health and companies, passengers, business partners, important areas of activity for Fraport’s sustainsafety”, on the other hand, was considered shareholders, analysts, employees, employee ability; “ideas and innovation” and “attractive more important by stakeholders. representatives, political bodies and authorand responsible employer” were also deemed ities, foundations, associations, scientific very important from both perspectives. Both The updated materiality matrix was approved bodies, NGOs, local residents living near the groups felt “noise abatement” and “value by the Executive Board. In its new form, the airport) confirmed the relevance of the generation and engagement in the region” matrix still reflects Fraport’s broad understandten newly defined areas of activity for the were of moderate to low importance and ing of good corporate management, which company’s sustainability in an online survey. “climate protection” and “conservation of is not simply restricted to environmental nature and resources” were also considered factors, but also encompasses economic and Both groups were also asked to prioritize the to be less important by both groups. community or social aspects. topics. This revealed a wide consensus on the weighting of the areas of activity between Conversely, the area of activity “growth and management and stakeholders: both consider development in the group” received varied 2015 Compact Our Group 27 Materiality matrix Economic Product quality and enhancement customer satisfaction Economic efficiency Growth and development in the Group Ideas and innovation Employees Attractive and responsible employer Occupational health and safety Community Value generation and engagement in the region Noise abatement Environment Climate protection Conservation of nature and resources Management Stakeholders High priority New program Our program regarding strategically importshown transparently. The agenda is reviewed and achieving the targets lies with the relevant ant topics for responsible corporate manageand updated annually. departments. You can find the complete proment is structured analogously to the areas gram on the following pages. of activity included in the materiality matrix. Its scope is essentially the Fraport Group, i.e., The update meant the previous agenda had all companies that are included in the scope We report key opportunities and risks in our to be revised. We have set concrete targets of consolidation as regards financial reporting. current Annual Report, available in the “Invesand defined the measures required to achieve In contrast to this, there are targets that, at the tor Relations” section at www.fraport.com. them. In comparison to last year, we aimed to current time, only apply to Group companies restrict targets to between two and three per or the parent company at the Frankfurt site. area of activity. Each target is measurable and This is identified in the program accordingly. recorded using at least one key performance For these targets, the aim is to gradually indicator (KPI). The KPIs enable the degree expand their scope to the whole Group. The to which targets have been achieved to be responsibility for implementing the measures 28 Program 2015 Compact Our program Area of activity Target Performance Target value indicator Product quality We want to maintain and Global satisfaction of ≥ 80 % improve our customers’ passengers and customer satisfaction. satisfaction Customer Service Index Better than previous year Airlines (2014: 76.1 %) Economic We want to maintain our Group result 2015: between around €265 and €285 million financial strength at a high 2016: at 2015 level or slightly better 1) efficiency level, despite future capital expenditure, and increase the ROFRA 2015: significant increase (2014: 9.2 %) company’s value in the long 2016: at approximately 2015 level or slight decrease 1) term. Net financial debt 2015: slight decrease (2014: €3,012.8 million) 2016: decrease by up to approximately 10 % 1) Free cash flow 2015: still significantly positive (2014: €246.8 million) 2016: once again significantly positive and approximately at 2015 level 1) Growth and We want to increase passenger Frankfurt passengers 2015: increase of between 2 % and 3 % numbers organically and 2016: increase of between approximately 1 % and 3 % development in optimize our portfolio. the Group Group passengers 2015: growth at Group sites, though St. Petersburg will be impacted by geopolitical tensions 2016: growth at Group sites, though sites in Antalya and St. Petersburg will be impacted by geopolitical tensions and have significantly poor prospects for 2016 Ideas and We want to promote and Benefit of implemented min. €300,000/year exploit the knowledge and ideas innovation skills of our employees. Attractive and We want to create good Employee satisfaction Greater than or equal to 3.0 2) working conditions and increase responsible employee satisfaction. employer­ We want to increase the numWomen in management 25 – 35 % ber of women in management positions­ positions. We want to offer good develTraining positions ≥ 110 opment opportunities to attract and retain motivated staff. 1) 2016 targets do not take into consideration any effects resulting from the conclusion of the transaction to operate the 14 Greek regional airports. Depending on the operational and financial development of the Group company located in Antalya, targets may also not be reached. 2) German school grade system. 3) Values excluding the Group companies Lima Airport Partners S.R.L. and Fraport Twin Star Airport Management AD, whose satisfaction ratings were not available by the editorial deadline. 2015 Barometer value determined by weighting according to number of participants per individual company 4) Despite intensive searching, five positions 2015 Compact Program 29 Term Scope Measures Status Target as at the end achievement of 2015 as at the end of 2015 2016 FRA site -“Great to have you here!” service initiative comprising around 80.0 % 100 individual measures and projects to improve services, ambiance, and hospitality (around half of these measures have already been implemented) 73.8 % 2016 FRA site -Customer workshops with airline representatives 2015 Group -Achievement of growth at Group sites €297.0 million 2016 (see area of activity “Growth and development in the Group”) -Focus on expansion of non-aviation business 2015 Group -Development of the Group portfolio through company acquisitions and 9.4 % 2016 sales of shares (see area of activity “Growth and development in the Group”) 2015 Group -Constant optimization of internal processes and structures €2,774.3 million 2016 -Use of opportunities in terms of Group financing -Continuous investment controlling 2015 Group €393.6 million 2016 2015 Frankfurt -Creation and maintenance of the infrastructure to achieve growth 2.5 % 2016 Frankfurt -Maintenance and further intensification of the customer focus -Active site marketing 2015 Group -Development of the Group portfolio through company acquisitions Decreases in 2016 Group and sales of shares Burgas, Antalya, -Constant optimization of internal processes and structures and St. Petersburg 2017 FRA site -Award of an ideas and innovation prize €545,000 -Topic-related action week to generate ideas on selected problems -Expansion of the internal communication platform -Implementation of training and qualification measures for involved parties 2017 Group 5) -Gradual expansion of performance-based salary components 2.85 3) -Running of workshops with employees, executives, and process experts to improve cooperation and information flow -Development of a shadowing program to improve employee integration in the field of airport security 2021 FRA site -Review and improve existing instruments and measures for women’s 29.4 % professional development in management positions: • Communication of the target in management training • Safeguarding of transparency in selection procedures with regard to the consideration of qualified and suitable women for management positions • Development of a structured process that enables women to qualify for management positions at all levels Group-wide 2018 FRA site -Varied range of training with one-year job guarantee 110 positions offered -Continuation of the vocational preparation program “Ready for Take-off” 105 positions occupied 4) 30 Program 2015 Compact Our program Area of activity Target Performance Target value indicator Occupational We want to continually reduce Work accidents per ≤ 30 work accidents. 1,000 employees health and safety Value generation We want to make a positive Value generation > €3 billion 1) and engagement contribution to the region’s eco(+20 % compared to 2014) nomic and social development. in the region Noise abatement We want to keep the number of Residents in ≤ 28,980/183,026 those affected by aircraft noise day protection zone 1/ under the figure stated in the night protection zone 3) capacity expansion plan 2) and improve noise levels for affected residents. We want to continually reduce Noise units/traffic units – the specific noise per (TU: one passenger or traffic unit. 100 kg of cargo) Climate We want to firmly incorporate Proportion of fully 100 % climate protection into Group consolidated airports in protection 4) airport operations and rigorously the Group with Airport develop related measures. Carbon Accreditation (level 2 or higher), weighted according to traffic units We want to reduce Fraport AG’s Absolute emissions 238,000 metric tons of CO2 CO2emissions at the FRA site. (total for scope 1 and 2) in metric tons of CO2 Relative emissions 2.6 kg CO2/TU (total for scope 1 and 2) in kilograms of CO2 / TU Conservation We want to perform our Proportion of fully 100 % services within the Group while consolidated, environof nature and never losing sight of environmentally relevant Group resources 4) mental concerns and continually companies with certified improve our environmental environmental manageperformance. ment systems (EMAS or ISO 14001), weighted according to revenue 1) Subject to maximum net financial debt of 4 – 6× EBIDTA 2) 701,000 aircraft movements. The plan scenario was also the basis of aircraft noise calculations to identify protected areas as per the German Aircraft Noise Act (Fluglärmgesetz) (night protection zone = 183,026 residents, day protection zone 1 = 28,980 residents) 3) Residents in the Leq contour, day = 60 dB(A)/contour of the envelope from NAT, night = 6 × 68 dB(A) Lmax and Leq, night = 50 dB(A) (daytime protection zone 1/night protection zone as per German Aircraft Noise Act) 4) Fraport’s full targets and measures regarding climate protection and the conservation of nature and resources can be found in the current Environmental Statement. Here, the “Group” scope comprises companies consolidated in the financial statements with a significant environmental impact. 2015 Compact Program 31 Term Scope Measures Status Target as at the end achievement of 2015 as at the end of 2015 2020 FRA site -Reduction of workplace-related risks through rigorous 27.84 implementation of the measures stated in the risk assessments -Enhancement of the prevention culture through targeted training measures and projects with executives -Rigorous development of the instruments of the occupational safety management system and their implementation in all Group companies -Implementation and development of load-reducing technical solutions for ground services 2020 Group -Operational and financial development of Group sites €2.74 billion -Capital expenditure in existing airports to meet the future transport requirements of the particular regions and markets -Development of the Group portfolio, e.g., through acquisitions Until full FRA site -Active noise abatement measures, such as targeted use of runways 3,000/72,462 capacity and routes to create noise breaks -Raising approach glide slope for Runway Northwest to 3.2 degrees -GBAS-based noise-reducing approach procedure -Passive noise abatement measures -Dialogue in Airport and Regional Forum (Forum Flughafen und Region) -Support for the study on the effects of noise carried out by the Environmental and Neighborhood Organization (Umweltund Nachbarschaftshaus) -Active information and communication Ongoing FRA site -Development and coordination of a procedure to establish noise units for The principles – continuous application to annual traffic and the traffic units of an assessment procedure have been established. 2020 Group -Maintenance of accreditation for FRA and LJU sites 78 % -Compiling of additional documentation for accreditation of LIM site 2020 Fraport AG 218,389 metric tons of CO2 -Improvement of energy efficiency in terms of running buildings and airport infrastructure 2020 Fraport AG -Increased use of electric vehicles and ground handling equipment 2.67 kg/TU 2020 Group -Assessment of Group companies in terms of their environmental relevance 96 % -Expansion of environmental management systems in Group companies that are environmentally relevant based on their portfolio 32 Economic enhancement 2015 Compact Economic enhancement We consider “economic enhancement” to mean the continuous increase of our company’s value and the safeguarding and improvement of profitability while maintaining a financial balance. The goal of economic enhancement is to achieve profitable growth and the long-term generation of a positive value added in all business areas. As such, we manage the Group’s development according to the principles of value management. The key figure for this is the Fraport value added.* We use retained earnings as the basis for future capital expenditure and to further increase the company’s value. * Fraport value added indicates the difference between EBIT and capital costs (= Fraport assets × cost of capital rate). As of the beginning of fiscal year 2015, pre-tax results and the carrying amounts of associates have been added to EBIT and Fraport assets. In this way, Fraport takes account of both consolidated Group companies and companies accounted for using the equity method in value management. Economic enhancement 33 Performance of Fraport shares 05/26/2015: Annual General Meeting 2015 and dividend payment 04/15/2015: Decision to build Terminal 3 03/16/2015: Ad hoc notice of the 01/01/2015: increase in the proposed dividend for €48.04 fiscal year 2014 100 % 05/07/2015: Publication of quarterly figures for Q1 2015 08/06/2015: Publication of half-year figures for 2015 10/29/2015: Ad hoc notification on the withdrawal of the application to increase airport charges 12/31/2015: €58.94 123 % 11/05/2015: Publication of the nine-month report for 2015 General downward trend in the markets, primarily due to uncertainties surrounding China’s economic performance and the depreciation of the Chinese currency. 34 Economic enhancement 2015 Compact Product quality and customer satisfaction Continual improvement of our services, reflected in our high customer satisfaction. Safeguarding the Frankfurt site’s hub function and maintaining the Group’s competitiveness. Digital airport The customer is our main focus. We consider focused on integrating relevant information, forwarders, handlers, and authorities are passengers, airlines and the freight community such as travel and waiting times, with the connected to the system. This has simplified to be our main customers. We want to win range of restaurants and shopping opportuinterfaces and improved processes. A further them over with attractive offers and the best nities on offer. advantage is the ability to report goods service. Fraport AG’s sites are an optimal enshipments in advance. Others involved in vironment for tenants. We cooperate closely As part of the digital transformation, the the process are informed in advance of which with the authorities, especially in terms of airport’s website (www.frankfurt-airport.de) goods will arrive where, enabling them to security. We consider the satisfaction of our and the FRA app were overhauled. A sigplan accordingly. customers to be a key measure of our success. nificant milestone was the development of In 2015, passengers at our Frankfurt site once an online shopping platform, on which all again confirmed their satisfaction with us, with stores at Frankfurt Airport will be representSatisfied customers as a result of the global satisfaction at 80 %. This means we ed. Passengers can reserve products online “Great to have you here!” service initiative have reached our ambitious target (≥ 80 % up to 24 hours in advance and pick them up global satisfaction) for the fourth year in a row. from the relevant store on their flight date. In With the “Great to have you here!” service future, it will be possible to pay online and initiative launched in 2010, passenger satisfacAs in the two previous years, in 2015, Frankhave orders delivered to the gate, special tion at Frankfurt Airport in terms of quality and furt Airport was awarded the title “Service collection points, or a chosen address. On service has increased over the last five years Champion” in the rankings of market research top of this, shoppers will be rewarded for from 70 % to 80 %. As part of five sub-initiacompany ServiceValue and the ‘Die Welt’ each purchase – both online and offline – tives, directions and signposting, ambiance newspaper. Among the almost 2,000 comthanks to the “Frankfurt Airport Rewards” and comfort in the terminal, and the range panies and organizations rated, FRA once reward program. A digital membership card of relaxation, professional, and entertainagain achieved a gold medal position and is is directly integrated into the new FRA app. ment options on offer were all significantly also once again the industry leader among Users receive one reward point for every euro improved. In 2015, the bus station in front German airports, with more than 8 million they spend and can exchange these directly, of Terminal 1 was restructured, exterior areas passengers a year. for example, into rewards such as coupons for decorated with graffiti, and new green areas further purchases, Fraport AG services, or for created in the immediate vicinity. The TermiFrankfurt was also named “Germany’s best parking in terminal parking lots. nal itself features art projects, “silent chairs” airport in 2015”. In the comparison of the offering a quiet place to sit, and two specially ten largest German airports carried out by furnished yoga rooms. the German Customer Institute (Deutsches Networked cargo data Kundeninstitut – DKI) and Wirtschaftswoche Even employees who are not in daily contact magazine, Frankfurt Airport was found to offer Frankfurt Airport is the largest cargo airport in with passengers contribute to better service. the best service, best passenger experience Europe. Fraport also relies on the advantages In the year under review, over 300 of them and, with over 300 destinations served, the of digitalization in this key business area. were trained as “service ambassadors”. most destinations. With the introduction of the “Frankfurt AIR@ Whether they are on their way to terminals Link” cargo community system, the airport or staying in the terminal after finishing work, has made a huge step towards digitalizing they are always available to talk to passengers Order online and pick up in store its processes. The data platform, the largest and will gladly provide assistance. Also new is in the world terms of its scope, allows users the sign translator integrated into the FRA app, In 2015, Fraport reacted to changing passento exchange relevant shipment and personal which allows users to take a picture of signage ger and visitor information requirements with data, such as flight numbers, driver names, and have it translated into Mandarin, Japanese, its comprehensive digitalization campaign and number plates, as well as safety and cusKorean, Arabic, Spanish, and Russian. launched at Frankfurt Airport. This mainly toms statistics between companies. Freight 2015 Compact Economic enhancement 35 Interactive Airport Desk Using the large touchscreen of the “Interactive Airport Desk (I-AID)” recently on show in Pier A-Plus and a boarding card scan function, air passengers can find their way to gate lounges, restaurants, and stores. The test phase is primarily being used to assess acceptance and use. We plan to add a double-digit number of additional I-AID touch screens in the coming year. A focus on airline customers Our Customer Service Center offers our complex processes for our customers, for introduction in 2014, over 200 pieces of equipairline customers a direct point of contact for example, the shortening of turnaround times ment have been outfitted. The new system has operational problems and a source of advance for B74F cargo aircraft. With streamlined increased availability and significantly optimized information for building works or operational processes and shorter routes due to better the fleet. The aim for 2016 is to link the system changes. Fraport also advises airlines on their positioning, we were able to shorten average to flight information services, so that aircraft strategic planning in relation to the FRA hub. aircraft ground times. and their individual status are shown on the Together with airlines, we celebrate the opendigital airport map. Trials have already proven ing of new routes or the introduction of new A new IT system for ground services enables opsuccessful. Furthermore, other equipment types aircraft, such as the first landing of the world’s timized ground support equipment (GSE) fleet such as container loaders, belt loaders, and first Airbus A320neo from Lufthansa. We also monitoring. Pallet loaders and ground power passenger stairways have been equipped with support airlines with an incentive program units have been fully equipped with telemetry modules, meaning that soon over 500 pieces for increasing passenger numbers and aircraft data modules. These send operational hours, of equipment will be included in the system. noise reductions. operational and maintenance status data, as well as fault notifications and location information via As part of various “lean management” projGPS to operations management. All equipment ects, we endeavor to simplify and shorten is shown on a digital airport map. As of its 36 Economic enhancement 2015 Compact Economic efficiency Income-related use of the current and future assets whilst protecting profitability and liquidity. Result in € million Outlook: At or slightly above the 235.7 251.8 297.0 level of 2015 2013 2014 2015 2016 Group result rose again significantly After an increase of €16 million to just under to €3.62, was particularly due to a higher passengers, the investments recorded a €252 million in fiscal year 2014, Fraport once number of intercontinental passengers who decrease in their result which had a negative again increased its Group result in the past usually spend more during their stay in the effect on the consolidated income statement fiscal year. At €297 million, the 2015 Group airport than passengers traveling within of around €11 million. Positively affected by result significantly exceeded the previous Europe. The relative weakness of the Euro, dynamic traffic growth, the Group company year’s figure by approximately €45 million or which made it cheaper for many customers in Xi’an contributed around €2 million more just over 18 %. The particular reasons for the to shop in Frankfurt using foreign currency, to the Group result in 2015. large increase were positive traffic developalso made a positive contribution. ments in Frankfurt and Lima and the first-time In connection with the expected traffic growth full-year consolidation of Group companies in Frankfurt, Ljubljana, Lima, Varna, Burgas, AMU Holdings Inc. and Ljubljana. The two Good result in Lima Hanover, and Xi’an for the 2016 fiscal year, Group companies were purchased during the Executive Board expects a 2016 Group the 2014 fiscal year and generated a positive Among the international sites, the Group result that is at or slightly above the level of the contribution for a complete fiscal year for the company in Lima in particular improved its 2015 fiscal year. The Executive Board expects first time in 2015. result. In addition to the traffic growth at the negative effects on net income in particular site, positive effects also resulted from the due to the tense political situation between The increases in airport charges and in intranslation of the company’s revenue, which Russia and Turkey that is principally negatively frastructure charges in Frankfurt in particular is recognized in US$, into the Group currenaffecting the Antalya and St. Petersburg sites. also had the effect of increasing the result in cy, the Euro. In total, this Group company the past fiscal year. The spending behavior generated an increase in its result of over For detailed information on the development of passengers at the Frankfurt terminals also €14 million or +44 %. In contrast, the investof the result over the past fiscal year and the improved. This positive development, which ments in Antalya, Varna, and Burgas recorded outlook for 2016, please refer to the “Results of can be seen in an increase in the key figure a negative performance. Particularly due operations” and “Business outlook” chapters “net retail revenue per passenger” from €3.43 to the decline in the number of Russian in the 2015 annual report. 2015 Compact Economic enhancement 37 Positive free cash flow leads to a reduction that will further reduce net financial debt over in the “ROFRA”, the return on Fraport assets, in Group debt the course of the year. In connection with which has stood at 9.4 % over the past fiscal the planned completion of the transaction year and exceeded the pre-tax cost of capital Over the past fiscal year, Fraport Group to operate 14 Greek regional airports under rate by 0.8 percentage points. generated operating cash flow of around a concession – depending on the time when €652 million. Compared with the 2014 fiscal the transaction is concluded – there may also With regard to the company’s business fields, year, this was equivalent to an increase of be an increase in net financial debt in the the Group segments Retail & Real Estate and €146.0 million or close to 29 %. The main 2016 fiscal year. External Activities & Services recorded a reason for the increase was the rise in EBITDA sustained high ROFRA of 15.6 % and 13.8 %, from €790 million to just under €849 million, respectively, in 2015, whereas the Aviation and a decrease in interest payments. After ROFRA of 9.4 % signals added value and Ground Handling segments did not earn deducting capital expenditure in Frankfurt their capital costs over the past fiscal year with and the airport investments – taking account To permanently increase the company’s value, a ROFRA of 4.7 % and 1.2 %, respectively. of dividend inflows from Group investments – Fraport draws parallels between the developthe company still had free cash flow of almost ment of the results of operations and the asset The development of the value added in the €394 million. These funds were mainly used and financial position. In this context, Fraport Group in 2016 is affected, on the one hand, in 2015 to service the dividend payment for calculates the ratio of the recorded operating by the positive outlook for Group EBIT and, the 2014 fiscal year (just under €125 million) result before interest and taxes, EBIT, to the on the other hand, by expectations of a deand to repay financial debt. capital that is used to generate the result cline in the result for the Antalya joint venture (value-oriented management principle). Since company. Depending on the development In total, Fraport reduced its net financial the last fiscal year, this calculation also includes in Antalya, the Executive Board expects value debt over the past year from €3.01 billion to companies in which Fraport has a joint investadded of approximately the level of the 2015 €2.77 billion. Relative to the relevant sharement or which are managed as associates. fiscal year or up to around €30 million below holders’ equity (excluding the minority interthat level. A constant to declining level is also ests and the amount planned for dividends), In the past fiscal year, assets totaling €6.07 billion expected for the ROFRA. In the event that the this means that leverage (a gearing ratio) is (“Fraport assets”) were balanced by an adGreek transaction is completed by the end below 84 %. Compared with the previous justed EBIT of around €569 million. Using a of 2016, the Executive Board also expects an year, this is a decrease of around 14 percentpre-tax cost of capital rate (WACC) for Fraport increase in Group capital costs and therefore age points. This was 3.3 times EBITDA, the of 8.6 %, in 2015 there were ongoing capital a negative effect on the value added or ROFRA operating result before interest, taxes, decosts to achieve the adjusted EBIT of approxof up to approximately €20 million. preciation, and amortization (in the previous imately €522 million. The excess EBIT value year net financial debt was 3.8 times EBITDA). of just under €47 million means that Fraport You can also find selected key financial figures once again earned its capital costs in the past on p. 62 ff. of this report. For the 2016 fiscal year, the Executive Board fiscal year and “added value” Group-wide. expects a sustained positive free cash flow This economic enhancement is also visible ROFRA 20 % Value-creating section 15.6 % 13.8 % 9.4 % 10 % 4.7 % Value-destroying section 1.2 % 0% Group Aviation Retail & Real Estate Ground Handling External Activities & Services 38 Economic enhancement 2015 Compact Growth and development in the Group Growing, strengthening and developing the Group’s portfolio Passenger development in Frankfurt Traffic share / changes over previous year Western Europe Domestic Eastern Europe Far East 39 % / +1 % 12 % / +6 % 8 % / +8 % 12 % / 0 % North America 14 % / +4 % Frankfurt Airport Middle East Africa 6 % / +1 % 5 % / +4 % Continental Latin America 59 % / +2 % 5 % / +5 % Intercontinental 41 % / +2 % Record passenger numbers in spite of strikes The Fraport Group’s development was mostly Towards the end of the current 2016 fiscal Thessaloniki, Aktio and Kavala as well as the positive over the past fiscal year. The new year, we plan to complete the transaction island airports of Chania on Crete, Kefalonia, Group companies Aerodrom Ljubljana and to take over 14 Greek regional airports. We Kerkyra on Corfu, Kos, Mykonos, Mytilini on AMU Holdings Inc., acquired in 2014, parwill then operate the mainly tourist-orientLesbos, Rhodes, Samos, Santorini, Skiathos ticularly contributed to this since they made ed airports jointly with our Greek partner, and Zakynthos. The stated Greek airports their first full-year contributions to the Group. Copelouzos Group, for a term of 40 years. In recorded total passenger numbers of around The very good financial results of the two addition to the existing Group portfolio, in 23.4 million in 2015, which will lead to a investments emphasized the success of our future the consortium, under our managesignificant expansion of the Group. acquisitions. ment, will operate the mainland airports in 2015 Compact Economic enhancement 39 Record passenger numbers at the number of take-offs and landings would With around 13.5 million travelers, St. PetersFrankfurt Airport have risen by one percent. In contrast, the burg Airport reported a 5.4 % fall compared maximum take-off weights rose significantly with 2014. Whilst international traffic reduced With over 61.0 million passengers, the and reached a new record of just over significantly by 21.8 %, domestic traffic rose highest passenger numbers were recorded 29.5 million metric tons (+2.0 %). by 10.4 %. in the history of Frankfurt Airport during the past fiscal year. The previous year’s numbers, Approximately 5.5 million passengers reprewhich was also a record year, were therefore Mixed development at sented a 3.0 % increase for the Hanover site in exceeded by around 1.5 million passengers international sites the 2015 fiscal year. Tourist traffic in particular or 2.5 %. The record was achieved in spite of has developed positively. a number of flights canceled due to strikes. Ljubljana Airport in Slovenia, which was operExcluding strikes and weather-related cancelated for the first full year by Fraport, recorded a There is sustained dynamic development at lations, even higher growth of 3.8 % to around noticeable 10.0 % increase in passenger numXi’an Airport. The passenger numbers there 61.8 million passengers would have been bers, some 1.4 million in the 2015 fiscal year. grew by 13.0 % in 2015 to nearly 33.0 million possible over the past year. While more passengers traveled on flights pas­sengers. High-volume domestic air traffic into and from Belgrade and Zurich Airports, creased by 12.5 % to approximately 31.3 million With regard to the individual traffic flows, there was a drop in passenger numbers on passengers. International traffic grew by intercontinental traffic recorded high growth connections to and from Moscow. 23.9 % to almost 1.7 million passengers. momentum with a 2.5 % growth rate in 2015. The main driver of growth was Asian Passenger numbers at the Lima site developed Delhi airport recorded around 46.0 million traffic; all high-volume markets in the Far East over the past fiscal year just as strongly as in passengers in the reporting period and thereshowed significant growth, in some cases previous years. With around 17.1 million pasfore a significant 15.7 % increase compared double-digit. In the Near East quantitative sengers, an increase of 9.2 % was achieved, with the previous year. Indian domestic traffic growth was mainly sustained by the United which was also a new record. Domestic traffic continues to show strong growth at 21.6 %. Arab Emirates. However, African traffic saw grew by 11.8 %. This was more than internaInternational passenger numbers increased by an increasing reduction. European traffic tional traffic, which increased by 6.2 %. Cargo 3.9 %. Cargo volumes again showed a sharp (excluding Germany) achieved 2.3 % growth throughput was around 301,000 metric tons. rise (+11.8 %). in 2015. Domestic traffic saw the most dynamic This figure was slightly below the previous growth at 3.0 %. Thus, German domestic trafyear’s level (– 0.6 %). fic profited in particular from the base effects Forecast from the previous year. The Bulgarian airports in Varna and Burgas transported around 3.8 million passengers in For the Frankfurt site, in a demanding enCargo volume fell by 2.6 % in 2015 to around 2015, a decrease of 4.1 %. While the number vironment – due amongst other factors to 2.1 million metric tons. The development was of passengers at the Burgas site decreased, geopolitical tensions – we forecast further characterized by the weakness in world trade mainly due to fewer travelers from Russia and growth in traffic numbers in a range between and economic problems in certain emerging Germany, by 6.7 % to approximately 2.4 mil1 % and 3 % for the 2016 fiscal year. Mixed and industrial countries. In particular, China’s lion, passenger numbers in Varna stagnated development is expected for the airports air freight imports and exports came under at just under 1.4 million (+0.8 %). outside Frankfurt. The investments in Lima increasing pressure during the year and and Xi’an in particular should show consisfinished the past year in the negative range. Around 27.5 million passengers were recordtently high momentum, whereas Antalya and ed traveling through Antalya Airport in the St. Petersburg Airports are suffering signifiAs a result of the cancellations due to strikes 2015 fiscal year, signaling a decrease of 1.6 %. cantly from the political crisis between Turkey and the ongoing trend of using larger airA significant increase in passenger numbers and Russia, Antalya in particular following the craft, aircraft movements stagnated in 2015. for Turkish domestic traffic of 14.2 % to just recent terrorist attacks in Turkey. For Ljubljana With around 468,000 take-offs and landings, over 6.3 million was countered by a fall in the and Hanover we continue to expect significant movements in Frankfurt were 0.2 % below number of international passengers of 5.5 % to growth rates. Varna and Burgas should develop the previous year’s level. Excluding flight around 21.2 million. The cause of the decrease slightly above the 2015 level. cancellations due to poor weather and strikes, was primarily fewer travelers from Russia. 40 Economic enhancement 2015 Compact Ideas and innovation Development of new products or approaches that solve a problem more efficiently or satisfy requirements better than existing solutions and also provide a significant (additional) benefit. Innovations as a key to competitiveness At Fraport, supporting innovation is embedon a daily basis and are familiar with the proForward) initiative organized by the Frankfurt ded in both the corporate objectives and the cesses. The biggest potential for change lies Innovation Center. Alongside the company management principles. The practical impledormant within the employees themselves. benjamin GmbH, which is also represented in mentation presents management and emAn established event in this regard is the anthe House of Logistics and Mobility (HOLM) ployees of our company with big challenges nual “Ideas Day” when the most committed at Frankfurt Airport, Fraport is simulating a because, for us, innovation is not an end in submitters and assessors are honored by the new internal infrastructure technology, “Fluid itself. The aim is rather to meet a wide range Executive Board. In total, 807 ideas were subLogistics”, in a two-year project and validating of both customer and business management mitted in the year under review and 67 ideas it for later application. requirements through the introduction of new were implemented. The economic benefits technology and the ongoing improvement of for Fraport were improved by a factor of three Fraport has been working with the “House of complex processes. in comparison with the previous year. This Logistics and Mobility” since its foundation is due to such measures as looking for ideas in 2009. The platform for interdisciplinary Flexibility plays a key role. Markets are now on strategically relevant subjects and current and cross-industry cooperation between changing faster and the technical innovations issues in competitions and activity weeks that business, science, politics, and civil society are a key feature of the aviation industry; the automatically have an increased chance of in the Frankfurt suburb Gateway Gardens is importance of these continues to increase in being implemented. located right next to the airport. The focus all operational areas. As a service company, is on coordinated cooperation with other Fraport does not conduct research and develcompanies and regional academic institutions. opment in the narrowest sense, but has set up Creative cooperation The aim is to support innovative logistics two areas to fully exploit all of the potential: projects and technical developments and to The company’s own idea management pools In innovation management, Fraport networks further increase the appeal of the Frankfurt the creativity of the employees, whereas in a targeted way with companies in its own site. Fraport also benefits from the academic innovation management develops targeted value chain and with “best practice” comparesearch at Frankfurt University of Applied projects with external partners. nies in other industries. Initial projects were Sciences, which is located at HOLM. Jointly successfully initiated with start-ups – especialdefined problems are discussed on site at ly from the Rhine-Main area. Creative concepts Frankfurt Airport and supported by Fraport. Benefits tripled for addressing passengers by digital means These include numerous academic theses. have been developed with candylabs GmbH, The best ideas often come from the people which is located in Frankfurt. The cooperation who are involved in the company’s business was established via the f/forward (Frankfurt 2015 Compact Economic enhancement 41 Good idea: spare parts without extras If aircraft cannot park directly at the terminals but are instead held in “apron areas”, passengers are transported to them using buses. Constant use wears out the motors on the bus doors particularly quickly. Replacement motors could only be acquired from the manufacturer with the associated drives. Four employees from the “Integrated Facility Management” section had a good idea in this context. As the drives are rarely defective, Marc Weinberg, Steffen Planitz, and Marcel Hotz (from left) looked for another supplier who can provide a motor without a drive. This significantly reduced the costs of the spare part and installation also takes substantially less time. 42 Employees 2015 Compact Employees Against the background of growing challenges, such as international competition in the aviation industry and the expectations of our passengers and airlines combined with an ongoing focus on the result, the aim is to support the personal, specialist, social and, methodological abilities of our employees. In this way, we can ensure the high quality of our services and also secure long-term, attractive jobs. Employees 43 20,720 Employees in the Group* 2.85 Average customer satisfaction rating in the Group** * Annual average number of employees excluding apprentices and employees on leave pursuant to IFRS. ** Grade system from 1 (best) to 6 (worst). Value excluding the Group companies Lima Airport Partners S.R.L. and Fraport Twin Star Airport Management AD, whose satisfaction ratings were not available by the editorial deadline. 29.4 % Women in management positions at the Frankfurt site 27.8 Accidents at the Frankfurt site per 1,000 employees 321 Apprentices in the Group 44 Employees 2015 Compact Attractive and responsible employer Securing jobs in the Group and ensuring a working environment that is characterized by diversity, equal opportunities, fairness, and respect. Creating good working conditions and development opportunities to acquire, train, and retain committed employees. Diversity and expertise Well-trained employees are required in a speis to integrate young unemployed men aged diversity management we therefore promote cialized field such as managing and operating between 18 and 24 into the world of work. the building of mixed, diverse teams in a taran airport. We therefore provide a wide range These young people undergo a two-year geted way, amongst other efforts. Ensuring of ongoing training opportunities for our qualification program with us in ground hanequal opportunities for different groups of employees. One of these is the course “Active dling services. Since the start of the project, employees is essential for this. As far back as participation – aging at work” for employees 231 participants have been transferred to a 2007, we became involved with the “Diversity over 50 in which they deal in depth with their permanent employment contract. Our seccharter” – a company initiative to promote physical, mental, and psychological fitness ond project in this area, “Ready for take-off”, diversity in companies and institutions. This from a career perspective. which was created in 2012, aimed to prepare involves recognizing and valuing diversity as in an eight-month training program up to well as including it in the corporate culture. 14 young people per year who did not yet In-house training of specialists fulfill the requirements for direct entry to an The nationalities, cultures, and languages of apprenticeship. If personally and technically the people we encounter every day in the To source specialists, Fraport also relies on suitable, the successful participants will then airport are also diverse. In addition to pasthe company’s own young employees. We start a technical apprenticeship. Over the sengers from around the world, the airport is offer apprenticeships in 19 commercial and first three years, this was the case for 28 out also a very attractive workplace for people of technical areas, such as IT, mechatronics, and of 40 people. various nationalities. At the end of 2015, 1,700 facility cleaning services. There are also eight out of 11,401 employees of the Fraport parent dual-study courses, including industrial encompany did not have a German passport. gineering and aviation management. Fraport Advantage of diversity The largest share are Turkish (1,007), followed guarantees each apprentice a job for one year. by Italian (138), Greek (89), and Spanish (81) Our apprentices regularly obtain the best The international nature of our business has employees*. They are distributed throughout marks at the exams of the Frankfurt Chamber meant that daily life at Fraport has always the company’s entire organization. of Commerce. The percentage who do not been characterized by diversity. We see the finish remains extremely low. To open up different cultural backgrounds, experiences, better opportunities for unemployed young and language skills of our employees as an people, we initiated the “Youth Mobile” opportunity to respond flexibly and creatively * The figures refer to employees with a foreign passport. program in 1999 with the support of the to the changing requirements in international No data is collected on employees with a migration German Federal Employment Agency. The aim markets and to benefit from them. With our background who have a German passport. 2015 Compact Employees 45 Constantly improve employee satisfaction With the Fraport Barometer, we use an online survey to collect such information as employee satisfaction within the Group. In 2015, the grade improved to 2.85** (2014: 2.89; index value using German school grade system). Fraport aims to constantly improve employee satisfaction. Both company-wide activities and department-specific initiatives and the evaluation of these aim to contribute to this. The average grade for employee satisfaction in the parent company was significantly better in the past fiscal year at 2.78 than in the previous year (2014: 3.14). The results improved for all key issues, where satisfaction with the “technical ability of managers” was the highest. The response rate was 60 % and therefore slightly higher than the previous year’s figure of 59 %. In terms of diversity management, at the the parental leave period and family services i.e., an office with toys, nappy changing facilFrankfurt site Fraport is particularly focusing to advice on home care. As far as possible, our ities, and a child’s bed. This gives parents the on encouraging women into management employees can arrange flexible working hours. option of providing the childcare themselves positions. By 2021 we want to increase the Approximately 310 employees sometimes directly in the workplace. As part of an audit share at Frankfurt site to between 25 and 35 %, work from home (2014: 250). We also proby the Hertie Foundation’s “berufundfamilie differentiated by business, service, and central vide support for families in the organization GmbH”, our family-friendly efforts for our sections. Specific training is aimed at this obof childcare. Near the airport, Fraport has a employees have already received multiple jective, such as our mentoring program and quota for crèche and nursery places held for awards. seminars for female specialists and managers. employees’ children. Through our cooperation with “Fluggi-Land”, a childcare institution initiated by Fraport in 2003 and set up jointly Combine parenting and work flexibly with Lufthansa, we give employees access, if required, to low-cost and flexible childcare We offer our employees comprehensive sup365 days a year from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. For ** Value excluding the Group companies Lima Airport Partners S.R.L. and Fraport Twin Star Airport Management port and options to create a balance between short-term emergencies, we established a AD, whose satisfaction values were not available by the work and family. This ranges from assistance at parent-child office at the Frankfurt site in 2015, editorial deadline. 46 Employees 2015 Compact Occupational health and safety Maintaining and encouraging employees’ physical and mental performance using appropriate occupational health and safety measures. Investing in health Maintaining the long-term health, perforon such matters as vegetarian and vegan In order to achieve this objective, and in parmance, and therefore the productivity of our foods, and tasted prepared dishes. ticular to lower the accident figures in areas employees is now more than ever the focus heavily related to operations, a number of of our HR management when faced with the activities took place in the year under review. changing age structure within the Group. Exoskeleton helps with lifting For example, in the ground services section Through our preventive occupational health a particular focus was placed on better inteand safety management, we contribute to Loading and unloading aircraft places a lot gration of employees who work for Fraport via maintaining the performance of our employof strain on the body. We therefore plan to employment agencies. In support of incident ees and prevent health risks arising at work. soon provide our operational employees with prevention, events on occupational safety, ergonomic lifting aids in the form of exoskelsensitization and accident analysis discussions, The increasing requirements for efficiency etons. They form a stable outer covering for and training courses including additional and flexibility as well as physically demandthe body and reduce the pressure when lifting training for safety officers took place, and eming activities in operational areas can be and carrying heavy loads. The pilot project ployees provided by employment agencies burdens that have to be dealt with at an early will start in 2016. were also involved. stage. The rising average age of employees represents an additional challenge. Our emThe measures paid off: The rate per 1,000 ployees are regularly informed about healthy Accidents reduced employees at Fraport parent company fell measures and behaviors, as well as how to significantly from 26.7 in the previous year to set up their workstations ergonomically. To Fraport ensures high occupational safety 20.7 in 2015. The total number of workplace protect their health, our prevention program standards. Comprehensive measures are accidents including commuting and sports ranges from regular occupational health required, for example, when handling hazaccidents was 680 and therefore a noticeable checks to tailor-made offerings. ardous materials, in ground services handling 62 fewer than the previous year’s figure of processes, in maintenance, in internal trans742. Due to thorough prevention work there The aim of the “Fraport is/eats healthy” port and traffic, and during infrastructure were fewer accidents particularly in ground nutrition campaign that started at the end of construction activities. The aim is to reduce handling services and airport security. The 2015 is to achieve a healthier lifestyle. In a comthe number of notifiable work accidents in rate per 1,000 employees was 27.8 for the prehensive initial event with preparatory workthe Group per 1,000 employees to below Group at the FRA site. shops and complemented by specialist pre30 at the Frankfurt site in 2020 and for it to sentations, employees obtained information continue to reduce. 2015 Compact Employees 47 Training on the apron After a six-month test phase, in which both the functionality of the “fitness mobile” in daily work and the direct effects on employee absence were observed, Fraport converted a light truck into a mobile training center in 2015. The vehicle is equipped with training devices to strengthen stomach and back muscles and support spine flexibility. Fraport thus enables employees to strengthen their muscles selectively on the apron, close to their workstations, and during working hours. A team of qualified trainers supports the exercises. Even in the test phase, absence times due to musculoskeletal problems were reduced, especially in the quarter immediately following the test phase. In addition, the new offer also aimed to bring about a long-term change in behavior by the employees in favor of their health. 48 Community 2015 Compact Community Fraport is internationally one of the leading companies in the airport business and, with Frankfurt Airport, operates one of the world’s most important aviation hubs. Over 80,000 people are employed at a total of around 500 companies and institutions, and 21,000 of these alone work for Fraport. As an active partner for the region, we support sports, social, and cultural clubs and institutions. In addition, Fraport has always been committed to contributing to reducing aircraft noise pollution. We are continuously attempting to reduce noise pollution through active and passive noise abatement measures. Community 49 FrankfurtRheinMain metropolitan region Wiesbaden Mainz 5.5 million people in the metropolitan area benefit from Frankfurt Airport Worms Gießen Fulda Butzbach Bad Homburg Hanau Frankfurt Frankfurt Airport Aschaffenburg Darmstadt Michelstadt 50 Community 2015 Compact Value generation and engagement in the region Positive contribution to the economic development of the region. Non-profit involvement in the airport neighborhood and dialog with our stakeholders. Globally active, regionally linked Airports are important business locations attractive as a cargo transfer location. Around Committed to the region and contribute directly and indirectly to ecohalf the annual figure of over 2 million metric nomic and social value generation. Frankfurt tons of cargo is transported in the “belly” At the Frankfurt site, Fraport feels particularly Airport, for example, with more than 80,000 of passenger planes. Shippers of cargo use committed to the Rhine-Main region. We are employees and around 500 companies, is the the large range of connections at Frankfurt committed to the business location and the largest regional place of work in Germany. Airport to transport their goods quickly to metropolitan area. These activities include Additional employment effects are also their destination. FRA therefore also ranks participation in the economic initiative created in companies that are appointed by among the world’s most important sites “Wirtschaftsinitiative FrankfurtRheinMain”, Fraport for the maintenance and expansion for air freight and is number one in Europe. in which 150 companies are involved. As a of airport infrastructures. The approximately This benefits the export-oriented German co-founder, Fraport has been active in it as 5.5 million people who live in the metropoleconomy, which needs the connection to of 1996 and provides the executive manageitan area around the airport also benefit from other markets. ment. The initiative works towards making this. They not only benefit from having a short the metropolitan area more attractive at the journey to fly away on holiday or on business economic, scientific, and cultural level, thus trips, many of them also work in a company Contribution to economic development positioning it in the best possible way comthat benefits from a place of business in close pared to competitor locations. One result of proximity to the airport. In addition to Frankfurt, the group members the collaboration is the House of Logistics around our international sites also benefit and Mobility (HOLM) center of excellence at In total, around 38 million inhabitants live in from social value generation. The company’s its site at the airport. This economic initiative the catchment area of Frankfurt Airport within direct value generation includes payments for is also a project partner for the further dea radius of approximately 200 kilometers. The personnel, capital expenditure, tax, interest, velopment of the RhineMain Regional Park, central location and high demand mean that and dividends to its shareholders. In the past the largest project sponsored by the Fraport more international and intercontinental desfiscal year, the Group’s direct value generation Environmental Fund. tinations can be reached from here than from totaled more than €2.7 billion. Consumption many other airports around the world. The by our employees and the companies based at In addition to our commitment to the busihub function plays a key role here: More than the airport and their value creation indirectly ness location, in line with our motto “Active half of passengers change planes in Frankfurt. contribute to the positive economic developfor the Region”, we are known for our comThe hub function also makes the airport ment of the respective regions. munity, cultural and social engagement. Employees at Frankfurt Airport 1980 – 2014 31,800 53,300 62,500 71,000 78,000 80,400 1980 1990 2000 2010 2012 2014 2015 Compact Community 51 Our value added in € million Company performance 1,026.7 Employees 193.2 Other operating expenses 131.3 Creditors 295.3 131.1 Capital expenditure 2,737.8 Shareholders 610.4 77.2 State Cost of materials 272.6 Retention of profits For example, we support regional children’s was established in July 1999. With income Frankfurt and its surroundings on foot or and youth projects, initiatives for people with from its foundation assets of €6.1 million, it by bicycle. The RhineMain Regional Park is a migration background, minorities, and the primarily supports projects, institutions, and funded by resources from the environmental socially disadvantaged. Fraport is particularly facilities that improve the training prospects fund which Fraport has used to support nature active where clubs and voluntary organizaand employability of young people in the and environmental conservation projects, tions depend on aid to carry out their work. Rhine-Main region. Further funds are used to research, and environmental education projThe so-called “Neighborhood Framework” create new and retain existing training places ects as of 1997. Since the environmental fund forms the geographic borders for our funding and to equip training centers. In 2015, the was established, more than 900 projects have activities. We supported more than 1,600 Foundation approved a total of €574,000 for been funded with a total of almost €36 million. projects of different clubs and associations 38 projects. with donations or sponsorship involvement amounting to a total of €5.2 million in 2015. Another foundation was established in 1986 #Refugeeswelcome: Fraport helps on the initiative of the Chairman of the ExecuIn the Rhine-Main region, Fraport is one of tive Board at that time, Erich Becker, under the The number of refugees seeking asylum in the largest supporters of sport; our involvename of “Frankfurt Main Airport Foundation”, Germany is high. The refugee topic is one of ment extends both amateur and professional and in 2004 it was renamed in his honor as the dominant themes of political and socioposport. Well-known names include FRAPORT the “Erich Becker Foundation”. The purpose litical discussion. Fraport has therefore decidSKYLINERS and Eintracht Frankfurt. At both of the foundation is to support science and ed to set an example of solidarity with people associations, in addition to the national research on the topics of aviation, mobility, seeking protection. The aim is both to make its league teams we also support young talent, and logistics. The stable income from the own contribution and to support employees and projects for the motor skill development endowed capital of €1.5 million is used by the who are already active. The activities are bunand social integration of children. In the fields foundation to finance undergraduate, master’s dled under the motto “#Refugeeswelcome: of culture and education, Fraport is involved and doctoral theses, post-doctoral research, Fraport helps”. In various towns and cities in in, among other things, the Rheingau Music and other projects. Funds of more than the neighborhood of the airport, Fraport is Festival and the Weilburger Schlosskonzerte €3 million have been approved for this as supporting the provision of accommodation series of concerts. We also maintain long-term of 1988. and donates money for technical equipment partnerships with Frankfurt cultural institutions and for the care of refugees. Employees who the Städel Museum, Schirn Kunsthalle, and With the sponsorship of RhineMain Regional volunteer in the field of refugee aid were each Liebieghaus sculpture collection. Park, Fraport is making a contribution to creable to apply for a donation of €1,000 for their ating a recreation and adventure area in the association. In total, Fraport made donations middle of a metropolitan area. One by one of €80,000 available for this particular purpose Foundations and environmental funds over a number of years, a network of paths in the reporting year. has been created that connects landscapes, Regional training projects have been supporthistorical gardens, monuments of industrial ed from company funds as of 1980. In order to culture, and parks with each other and thus place these activities on a permanently secure increases the region’s recreational value. In financial basis, the “ProRegion Foundation” this local recreation area, visitors can explore 52 Community 2015 Compact Noise abatement Improvement in the noise situation in neighboring residential areas and reduction in the number of people affected by noise. Breakdown of aircraft movements by runway and operating direction (2015 summer flight plan) 25R 07L 31,9 % (27,5 %) 25C 15,5 % (16,2 %) 24,5 % (24,1 %) 8,9 % (7,0 %) Runway Northwest = 25R/07L Runway Center = 25C/07C 18 West Runway South = 25L/07R 56,6 % (57,5 %) Take-off Runway West = 18 West 07C 07R 25L Takeoffs 17,4 % (17,9 %) 0,2 % (0,2 %) 1,4 % (0,3 %) Landings 0,2 % (0,5 %) 16,0 % (18,2 %) 27,5 % (30,4 %) N SS 14 SS 15 Many routes to the goal Civil aviation makes global mobility possible, approval process for the expansion of the Satellite navigation for new represents the fulfillment of a wide variety of airport on the basis of a traffic forecast. This noise-reducing approach procedures transport needs, and is fundamental for the is to be achieved in particular through active economy nationally and globally. However, noise abatement measures. In active noise With the inauguration of the “Ground-Based airports that are near metropolitan areas also abatement, the noise is reduced directly at the Augmentation System” (GBAS) navigation mean a burden for many local residents. source or through noise-reducing operating system in 2014, Frankfurt Airport was the first concepts and flight methods. Passive noise international air traffic hub in Europe to enable At our main site, Frankfurt, this area of tenabatement is targeted toward reducing noise satellite-supported precision approaches. sion is becoming particularly significant. at the location where the noise pollution is Together with our project partners, Deutsche Fraport acknowledges its responsibility for experienced. We are active beyond the legal Flugsicherung (DFS) and Lufthansa, we expect tens of thousands of jobs there, as well as the requirements in financing noise abatement an important contribution to more efficiency economic significance of its largest airport construction measures. and further noise-reducing approach procefor Germany as an exporting country and dures from GBAS. An important aim is the for the prosperity of the Rhine-Main region We want to measure how successful we are development of GBAS-based approaches with on the one hand and for the noise pollution with our noise abatement measures even 3.2 degree approach angles for all runways. for residents living in the region around the more transparently in future. To do this, These have until now only been possible on airport on the other. we will develop a procedure that enables Runway Northwest. From March 2017, we monitoring of specific noise development want to test steeper approaches on the two Our aim is to remain below the noise pollution per traffic unit (one passenger or 100 kg of other runways as well. In addition, up to 49 level calculated and assessed in the planning cargo). different approach routes to our three runways 2015 Compact Community 53 50 years of the Aircraft Noise Commission in Frankfurt On October 3, 1966, the body was convened for the first time, at that time still without legal obligation. Such advisory committees for airports have been required as of 1971. Communities around the airport, representatives of the air traffic industry, and associations of aircraft noise opponents belong to them. Two airlines, Condor and Lufthansa, are also part of the committee. Fraport is also a member. Together, the members work out proposals for the further reduction of aircraft noise pollution in the area around the airport. can be supported from just one station with landings on Runway South in the evening Noise abatement for 86,000 households GBAS. This also opens up new possibilities for from 10 to 11 p.m. However, the exclusive easing the burden on residential areas. use of this runway means that Neu-Isenberg Measures for passive noise abatement have and southern Offenbach are more heavily the aim of reducing the noise level inside affected. Nevertheless, the night-time quiet buildings through construction measures. At “Noise break” concept successfully period was also extended beyond the core the Frankfurt site, Fraport has comprehensive tested period of 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. here by Runway legal obligations toward around 86,000 South not being used for landings between households. Their entitlement is defined via Noise break model 4, which is recommended 5 and 6 a.m. Morning approaches are then a noise protection area set by the Hesse state for trial by the Frankfurt Aircraft Noise Combrought in via Runway Northwest and Runway government in accordance with the strictest mission (FLK, Frankfurter Fluglärmkommission) Center. The testing of noise break model 4 is Aircraft Noise Act regulations. We fulfill these and Forum Airport and Region (FFR, Forum to be continued until April 2016. The existing entitlements to their full extent. In addition, Flughafen und Region), has been tested in opmonitoring results confirm the “noise break” together with the Hesse state government we erating direction west, i.e., the airport’s main concept and suggest adopting it in regional set up a regional fund of €265 to €270 million, operating direction, as of April 23, 2015. This operations. which will finance the more far-reaching means that individual runways are not used measures. Statutory services for passive noise early in the morning and late in the evening. In operating direction east, the “DROps” Early abatement and the services of the regional Frankfurt is the first major international airport Morning (“Dedicated Runway Operations”) fund are only provided on application. In orthat uses a night-time operating restriction procedure has been back in use as of October der to support local residents in determining side by side with a runway use concept that 2015. It was temporarily suspended in contheir rights and to assist with applications, extends the night-time quiet period in the nection with the introduction of noise break Fraport provides an extensive range of inforapproach corridors by one hour. model 4. This procedure also follows the apmation and services on the Group website proach of locally creating times with reduced www.fraport.com/schallschutz. Southern Frankfurt and the north of Offennoise pollution in low traffic periods through bach in particular benefit from bundling alternating the use of runways. 54 Community 2015 Compact Health risks lower than assumed Effects of noise are subjective aircraft noise, increased blood pressure and resulting diseases – was thus not confirmed. On behalf of Gemeinnützige Umwelthaus The first module looks at potential noise polGmbH (UNH) in Kelsterbach, a subsidiary of lution and the associated reduction in quality Scientists also investigated sleep quality in the the state of Hesse, experts investigated the of life. The results show that the quality of life Rhine-Main region – and did so both subjecimpact of traffic noise in the period from April of people in the Rhine-Main region is high tively on the basis of surveys and objectively 2011 to October 2015. The NORAH (“Noiseoverall, in fact in some cases higher than the through medical examinations. It was found Related Annoyance, Cognition, and Health”) national average and initially independent of that sleep quality was high overall and com­ study was financed by the state of Hesse, the aircraft noise level. However, the study parable with unaffected areas. The introduction the local authorities, Deutsche Lufthansa, participants feel they are strongly affected by of the nighttime flight ban led to a significant UNH and Fraport AG. aircraft noise. This feeling of being affected is, easing of the impact in night-time hours. Howhowever, only influenced to a small extent by ever, this module also discovered that personal In addition to investigating the impact of road, the noise level and thus the number of aircraft attitude can have an impact: For example, the rail, and aircraft noise on the population, the movements. Instead, subjective factors, such scientists proved that a negative attitude to air influence that changes in aircraft operation at as expectations of the future noise situation, traffic leads to a reduction in the deep sleep Frankfurt Airport in fall 2011 had on the local confidence in those responsible for noise, or phase and thus a reduction in sleep quality. population’s health and quality of life was the assessed usefulness of air traffic, play a role. also investigated. At that time, the nighttime Children’s quality of life was the subject of flight ban from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. was also The second module was about health risks the third module. The results were already introduced. that may be linked to traffic noise. The study published in the past year and showed that results showed overall that the health risks the health-related quality of life of children It was found that the health risks as a result from aircraft noise are very low. Compared and the well-being of children and parents of aircraft noise are lower than previously to other modes of transport (road, rail) and are high at all sites investigated. Aircraft noise assumed. The study was unable to confirm also in comparison to earlier studies, by far has no impact on the formation of “precursor the starting hypothesis of a connection the smallest increases in health risks were from skills” that are necessary for learning to read. between aircraft noise and a health risk aircraft noise. A central research hypothesis could thus also through increased blood pressure, moreover not be confirmed here. But a comparably no significant connection between exposure Furthermore, there was no connection besmall influence on reading achievement is to aircraft noise and heart attack or stroke risk tween blood pressure and aircraft noise, not measurable. Other factors, however, such as was found for the group of people investieven in the areas more strongly affected by airthe number of children’s books in the parents’ gated as a whole. The health of the airport’s craft noise. Nor did the study find an increase household has a significantly stronger impact. local residents is therefore not significantly in the risk of strokes or an increase in heart impaired by air traffic in general. These new rate as a result of aircraft noise. In addition, It was not possible to take into account in the results, which partially differ from previous it generally found no significant connection study the fact that Fraport has further develstudies, are particularly verifiable due to the between aircraft noise and heart attack risk oped and expanded active and passive noise high scientific standards of the study, which either. Overall, the central research hypothesis abatement together with its partners since the included extensive quality controls. of the study – a cause-effect chain between commencement of data collection in 2011. 2015 Compact Community 55 NORAH The aim of the NORAH study was to obtain as extensive a scientifically validated description as possible of the impact of noise from air, rail, and road traffic on the health and quality of life of the resident population affected. 56 Environment 2015 Compact Environment Operating an airport and air traffic have an impact on the environment. Fraport acknowledges its responsibility for taking the environmental challenges arising from it appropriately into account. Our activities focus on targeting the conservation of the climate and nature, and the careful use of resources. Environment 57 2.1% Scope 1 (own consumption by Fraport parent company) CO2footprint Frankfurt Airport 86.9 % Scope 3 (third parties at the airport including air traffic in the landing and take-off cycle) 11.0 % Scope 2 (external procurement of energy by Fraport parent company) 1.67 million metric tons 58 Environment 2015 Compact Climate protection Increasing energy efficiency, monitoring and reducing emissions of climate-relevant gases through airport operation (e.g. CO2). Climate protection (voluntary) commitment Climate protection is a key challenge of our as the Renewable Energies Act and the by three points to 98 out of 100 points in the time. This is because the emission of CO2 Energy Saving Act. Voluntary reduction tarclimate disclosure scoring in 2015 compared and other greenhouse gases in electricity gets by German companies make an importto the previous year. The scoring reflects the generation, transport, and industrial producant contribution to implementing national completeness of the reporting and is thus an tion makes a decisive contribution to global policy. Fraport has also committed to do this. indicator of the usability of the data. At the warming. In 2015, delegates from 195 counsame time it is a reflection of a company’s tries met for the global climate conference in The International Energy Agency attributes transparency in climate change matters. Paris and agreed the first climate agreement approximately 2 % of CO2 emissions caused by to be binding for all the world’s countries. It humans globally to civil aviation. In contrast Airport Carbon Accreditation, a program will come into force in 2020 and has the aim of to airlines, airport operation only represents to whose development Fraport made a key stopping global warming at 1.5 degrees Cela very small proportion of this. contribution, has developed into the global sius compared to the end of the 19th century, standard for CO2 reporting and management but at minimum limiting it to less than two at airports in just six years. The program was degrees Celsius. From 2050, net emissions are CO2reporting improved singled out as exemplary for other industries to be reduced to zero, i.e., an equilibrium is at the Paris conference. Close collaboration to be reached between the emission of greenAs of 2006, Fraport has taken part in the for the future was agreed between ACI (Airhouse gases and their capture – for example Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the leadports Council International) and the UNFCCC through forests or technical means. ing global climate reporting initiative of the (United Nations Framework Convention on financial economy that analyzes companies Climate Change). The UNFCCC will in future Unlike the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in and their strategies with respect to climate be represented with a seat on the program’s 2020, the agreement does not stipulate any change and CO2 reporting. Fraport improved advisory board. binding targets for CO2 reduction for individual states. Instead, 186 countries submitted voluntary commitments to climate protection. According to the agreement, these selfimposed targets are to be reviewed and tightened every five years. Developed countries are responsible for submitting quantifiable commitments for CO2 reduction, while the other countries are at least encouraged to do so. In addition, the old developed countries are to provide $100 billion per year from 2020 in order to safeguard regions threatened by climate change and reform their energy supply. Germany strongly supported the climate agreement, but has also already focused on the increasing use of renewable energies and an increase in energy efficiency. The German government’s aim is to reduce German CO2 emissions by 40 % by 2020 and by as much as 80 % to 95 % by 2050 compared to the level of 1990. In order to achieve this, the government has enacted several laws, such 2015 Compact Environment 59 CO2footprint Fraport parent company CO2footprint 64.5 % Electricity consumption (scope 2) 2.1 % Scope 1 (own consumption 14.7 % by Fraport parent company) District heating consumption (scope 2) 13.6 % Operation of vehicles 218,389 and equipment (scope 1) 11.0 % metric tons Scope 2 (external procurement 5.6 % 1.67 of energy by Fraport parent company) –8.3 % District cooling consumption (scope 2) in comparison million to 2014 1.6 % metric tons Other (scope 1): Operation of grid replacement facilities (0.4 %) –2.4 % Operation of fire drill facilities (0.1 %) Operation of combustion facilities (1.1 %) in comparison to 2014 86.9 % Scope 3 (third parties at the airport including air traffic in the landing and take-off cycle) Fraport AG has decided to certify all fully conIn addition to fleet management and the eneraircraft handling. There is to be more testing solidated airports in accordance with Airport gy-efficient planning of new buildings, energy of alternative drive technologies. Up to 20 Carbon Accreditation. The intention is to management in existing terminals, buildings, different vehicles are used in aircraft handling. achieve at least Level 2 – “Reduction”. For this, and facilities is our greatest lever in respect of As the first step, E-PORT AN consolidates elecairport operators must demonstrate effective CO2 savings. To reach the target, it is crucial tric vehicles already available and integrates CO2 management and CO2 reduction. The to increase energy efficiency in operations – electrically operated new developments into next steps are then Level 3 – “Optimization” approximately 86 % of Fraport AG’s CO 2 the handling process. CO 2 emissions and and Level 4 – “Neutrality”. We already reached emissions are created in these areas. In 2015, noise are decreasing as a result, which in Level 3 at the Frankfurt site in 2012. Ljubljana for example, we optimized two ventilation sysaddition to the environmental footprint also Airport reached Level 2 in the reporting year tems in Terminal 1, thereby saving 1,750,000 improves working conditions on the apron. In as a result of appropriate measures. kWh of electricity and 537 metric tons of CO2. addition, the impact of the large-scale use of Converting the street lighting on the access electric vehicles on the airport’s power grid roads to Terminal 1 to LED technology saves are observed. 30 % less CO2 by 2020 another 121,000 kWh or around 52 metric tons of CO2 a year. In 2015, Fraport and its partners opened the For our largest site in Frankfurt, we have set first “Green Gate” at Frankfurt Airport. From ourselves detailed targets for CO2 reduction. now on, passengers at Gate A15 can read We want to reduce the CO2 emissions that A15 becomes the “Green Gate” about the numerous projects on the subject of Fraport AG itself is responsible for at the e-mobility. The activities are presented using Frankfurt site by 30 % per passenger or per “E-PORT AN” is a joint initiative by Fraport, models and information boards, and include 100 kg of cargo by 2020 in comparison to Lufthansa, the state of Hesse and “Rhinesolar-powered passenger stairways, electric 2005 levels. Our second target corresponds to Main Model Electro-Mobility Region”. The conveyor belt vehicles, hybrid aircraft tractors this: Absolute CO2 emissions are not to exceed aim of the various projects bundled under its and electric pallet trucks. 238,000 metric tons in 2020. umbrella is the reduction of CO2 emissions in 60 Environment 2015 Compact Conservation of nature and resources Careful use of natural resources; minimization of waste and air pollutant emissions through airport operation, and preservation and encouragement of biodiversity on the airport site. Conserving natural resources As transport hubs, airports are sites where Even after expanding via Runway Northpermanent grassland is a high-quality habitat resources are used intensively. It is our aim west, Frankfurt Airport is one of the most which is home to rare and endangered anto organize this so that resources are used as compact major airports in the world with an imal and plant species. Where possible we sparingly as possible. We consider ourselves area of around 22 square kilometers. Of this expand green spaces. For example, several responsible for protecting the environment terrain, approximately half is unpaved. The environmental green roofs are planned for at our sites. We also expect our suppliers and largest continuous open area is in the area the new buildings in CargoCity South. service providers to do the same, and this is of the runways. This extensively maintained therefore included in our Code of Conduct for suppliers that has been in force for the Frankfurt site as of 2013 and Group-wide as of 2014. In Frankfurt, a detailed record was made of the local flora and fauna as part of the zoning plan for the expansion of the airport in 2005. In Biotope management against bird strike addition, we have been carrying out intensive environmental monitoring around the airport Collisions with large birds or flocks of birds are a particular source of danger for aircraft. as of 2010. As around 90 % of bird strikes take place close to airports, airport operators are obliged to minimize this risk. Unlike at other international airports, in Frankfurt we do not focus on driving birds away, but on special biotope management. For example, the site has been made unattractive for typical bird strike species, such as geese, with particularly high growing grasses. Hatching and rest opportunities for such species are minimized or avoided. This particularly benefits a large number of smaller bird species such as the skylark, which do not represent a danger for flight operation. The bird strike rate based on verified reports by pilots has been at between 2 and a maximum of 3.5 cases per 10,000 aircraft movements in Frankfurt for the past 13 years. 2015 Compact Environment 61 In close proximity to the airport and further wells or with treated water from the River waste-to-energy plants. The hazardous waste afield, as part of the mitigation and coherMain. We use the raw water in sprinkler sysproduced is collected separately and, as far as ence measures in the zoning plan for the tems, toilet, and for irrigation of green areas. possible, subjected to a recycling or recovery expansion, a total area of 2,312 hectares was The raw water supply in CargoCity South procedure. Where there are no recycling or upgraded for nature protection. High-quality is being expanded across the board. In the recovery options, the waste is disposed of in habitats such as deciduous forests, orchards, north, Terminal 2 is supplied with raw water, a suitable incineration plant or in a physicowetlands, and low-nutrient habitats are and Terminal 1 and the neighboring office chemical treatment plant. In 2015, Fraport being developed. The compensation for building are 70 % connected. Full supply is disposed of 21,490 metric tons of waste at the construction of the new Terminal 3 is planned by 2016. In the past 15 years, raw waFrankfurt Airport. The proportion of hazardous already included in this extensive package of ter as a percentage of Frankfurt Airport’s total waste was approximately 7.4 %. The recycling measures. In addition, we support projects for consumption has increased to around 20 %. and recovery rate stayed at a very high level preserving ecosystems and biodiversity in the at around 89 %. Rhine-Main area with funds from the Fraport Dirty water from toilet facilities, restaurants, Environmental Fund. aircraft toilets, and aircraft washes from the northern part of the airport is treated in Air quality at city level city treatment plants. We operate our own Rainwater for flushing toilets treatment plant in the southern area. The Air pollutants arise at airports primarily in rainwater from the apron, from de-icing areas, connection with flight operation, but apron Operating an airport requires a lot of water roads, and roofs flows through various security and vehicle traffic also lead to the emission and, at the same time, produces a large quanfacilities and filter systems and is then chanof pollutants into the air. At Frankfurt Airport tity of waste water. When dealing with the neled into local bodies of water or seepage we have been continuously monitoring emislegally protected resource of water, Fraport facilities. The agents used to de-ice aircraft sions of pollutants as of 2002 at up to five air takes all aspects of modern water manageand the operating areas in Frankfurt are readily measurement sites. The measurement results ment into account. This includes managing biodegradable and meet strict environmental prove that air quality on the airport site has consumption and quality control of the water requirements. remained at city level since the commencethat enters the ecosystem. ment of monitoring. The use of electrically powered apron vehicles also contributes to We use water sparingly at Frankfurt Airport and Avoid waste, recycle, and recover energy the reduction of emissions on the apron. employ, among other things, water-saving techniques in sanitary facilities and recycling The principle of Fraport’s waste management systems in vehicle washing facilities. In addiis to recycle or recover energy from unavoidtion, where possible we use raw water instead able waste as far as possible. In Frankfurt, of drinking water. To do this, we collect rainnon-hazardous waste is, for example, hanwater in CargoCity South and Terminal 2 and dled in sorting and recycling facilities, or supplement it from our own groundwater the energy from it is thermally recovered in 62 Key figures 2015 2015 Compact Key figures 2015 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at December 31, 2015 Assets € million December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Non-current assets Goodwill 41.7 41.7 Investments in airport operating projects 500.9 479.2 Other intangible assets 161.2 157.1 Property, plant, and equipment 6,045.4 6,127.7 Investment property 74.5 63.0 Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method 237.6 216.9 Other financial assets 659.2 773.3 Other receivables and financial assets 167.0 181.1 Income tax receivables 5.4 10.2 Deferred tax assets 33.4 31.1 7,926.3 8,081.3 Current assets Inventories 42.8 43.7 Trade accounts receivable 154.0 174.7 Other receivables and financial assets 310.8 297.6 Income tax receivables 7.4 7.7 Cash and cash equivalents 406.0 401.1 921.0 924.8 Non-current assets held for sale 7.1 921.0 931.9 Total 8,847.3 9,013.2 2015 Compact Key figures 2015 63 Liabilities and equity € million December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Shareholders’ equity Issued capital 923.1 922.7 Capital reserve 594.3 592.3 Revenue reserves 1,919.9 1,706.1 Equity attributable to shareholders of Fraport AG 3,437.3 3,221.1 Non-controlling interests 74.4 64.9 3,511.7 3,286.0 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities 3,273.8 3,874.3 Trade accounts payable 42.5 47.1 Other liabilities 447.7 497.5 Deferred tax liabilities 172.2 158.7 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 30.7 33.7 Provisions for taxes on income 62.1 68.8 Other provisions 201.6 228.0 4,230.6 4,908.1 Current liabilities Financial liabilities 543.6 318.1 Trade accounts payable 143.1 134.5 Other liabilities 129.4 123.7 Provisions for taxes on income 56.0 14.7 Other provisions 232.9 223.8 1,105.0 814.8 Liabilities in the context of non-current assets held for sale 0.0 4.3 1,105.0 819.1 Total 8,847.3 9,013.2 64 Key figures 2015 2015 Compact Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows € million 2015 2014 Profit attributable to shareholders of Fraport AG 276.5 234.7 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 20.5 17.1 Adjustments for Taxes on income 136.8 122.9 Depreciation and amortization 328.3 307.3 Interest result 125.6 141.1 Gains/losses from disposal of non-current assets –2.8 0.7 Other 5.8 0.7 Fair value changes of companies accounted for using the equity method –37.6 –43.5 Changes in inventories 0.9 –1.1 Changes in accounts receivable and financial assets 12.3 4.6 Changes in liabilities –15.3 –52.0 Changes in provisions –6.3 –10.0 Operating activities 844.7 722.5 Financial activities Interest paid –131.3 –148.7 Interest received 16.0 18.4 Taxes on income paid –77.2 –86.0 Cash flow from operating activities 652.2 506.2 Investments in airport operating projects –16.1 –12.7 Capital expenditure for other intangible assets –15.7 –7.7 Capital expenditure for property, plant, and equipment –247.1 –251.7 Investment property –10.2 –19.1 Capital expenditure in companies accounted for using the equity method –2.0 0.0 Sale of consolidated subsidiaries 9.7 0.0 Acquisition of fully consolidated subsidiaries 0.0 –271.1 Dividends from companies accounted for using the equity method 32.5 31.8 Revenue from disposal of non-current assets 4.6 6.7 Cash flow used in investing activities without investments in cash deposits and securities –244.3 –523.8 Financial investments in securities and promissory note loans –312.8 –555.5 Revenue from disposal of securities and promissory note loans 441.4 664.2 Decrease of time deposits with a term of more than three months 58.0 122.4 Cash flow used in investing activities –57.7 –292.7 Dividends paid to shareholders of Fraport AG –124.6 –115.3 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests –8.9 –5.3 Capital increase 2.4 2.5 Acquisition of non-controlling interests –4.2 0.0 Cash inflow from long-term financial liabilities 125.0 400.0 Repayment of long-term financial liabilities –561.1 –460.0 Changes in short-term financial liabilities 29.6 –6.4 Cash flow used in financing activities –541.8 –184.5 Change in cash and cash equivalents 52.7 29.0 Cash and cash equivalents as at January 1 167.8 131.2 Foreign currency translation effects on cash and cash equivalents 10.2 7.6 Cash and cash equivalents as at December 31 230.7 167.8 2015 Compact Key figures 2015 65 Consolidated Income Statement € million 2015 2014 Revenue 2,598.9 2,394.6 Change in work-in-process 0.5 0.6 Other internal work capitalized 29.9 28.3 Other operating income 49.8 42.5 Total revenue 2,679.1 2,466.0 Cost of materials –610.4 –533.3 Personnel expenses –1,026.7 –970.4 Depreciation and amortization –328.3 –307.3 Other operating expenses –193.2 –172.2 Operating result 520.5 482.8 Interest income 30.6 35.6 Interest expenses –156.2 –176.7 Result from companies accounted for using the equity method 37.6 43.5 Other financial result 1.3 –10.5 Financial result –86.7 –108.1 Result from ordinary operations 433.8 374.7 Taxes on income –136.8 –122.9 Group result 297.0 251.8 thereof profit attributable to non-controlling interests 20.5 17.1 thereof profit attributable to shareholders of Fraport AG 276.5 234.7 Earnings per € 10 share in € basic 3.00 2.54 diluted 2.99 2.54 EBIT ( = Operating result) 520.5 482.8 EBITDA ( = EBIT + Depreciation and amortization) 848.8 790.1 66 Key figures 2015 2015 Compact Non-financial performance indicators (see 2015 Annual Report) Unit Scope 2015 2014 Global satisfaction % Frankfurt 80 80 Punctuality rate % Frankfurt 80.3 81.1 Baggage connectivity % Frankfurt 98.8 98.6 Equipment availability rate % Frankfurt 98.9 97.8 Employee satisfaction* Group 2.85 2.89 Total number of work accidents Group 1,475 1,473 Work accidents per 1,000 employees Group 27.0 28.8 * Values excluding the Group companies Lima Airport Partners S.R.L. and Fraport Twin Star Airport Management AD, whose satisfaction ratings were not available by the editorial deadline. Key good corporate management figures Value creation Unit Scope 2015 2014 Global satisfaction of passengers % FRA site 80 80 Customer Service Index Airlines % FRA site 73.8 76.1 Group result € million Group 297.0 251.8 ROFRA % Group 9.4 9.2 Net financial debt € million Group 2,774.3 3,012.8 Free cash flow € million Group 393.6 246.8 Frankfurt passengers Million Frankfurt 61.04 59.57 Benefit of implemented ideas € FRA site 545,000 n/a Employees Unit Scope 2015 2014 Employees* Group Total 21,475 22,031 Men 16,269 16,815 Women 5,206 5,216 Average age Years Group 42.8 42.4 Employee satisfaction** Group 2.85 2.89 Women in management positions As % of managers Group 29.3 30.0 Women in management positions As % of managers FRA site 29.4 n/a Number of employees leaving and new employees among Turnover permanent staff Group 4,483 4,824 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements As % of employees Group 99.6 99 Training days Days per employee Group 3.80 3.04 Places on training courses FRA site 309 342 Work accidents per 1,000 employees Group 27.0 28.8 Work accidents per 1,000 employees FRA site 27.84 n/a As percentage of relevant jobs Percentage of persons with severe disabilities (all employees) Group 7.9 7.7 * Reported as per the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (employee figures incl. temporary staff, apprentices, and employees on leave as of December 31). ** Values excluding the Group companies Lima Airport Partners S.R.L. and Fraport Twin Star Airport Management AD, whose satisfaction ratings were not available by the editorial deadline. 2015 Compact Key figures 2015 67 Community Unit Scope 2015 2014 Value generation Group Total € million 2,737.8 2,455.3 Employees € million 1,026.7 970.4 Creditors € million 131.3 148.7 Shareholders € million 131.1 123.1 State € million 77.2 86.0 Retention of profits € million 272.6 130.4 Cost of materials € million 610.4 533.3 Capital expenditure € million 295.3 291.2 Other operating expenses € million 193.2 172.2 Residents in day protection zone 1/night protection zone FRA site 3,000/72,462 n/a Environment Unit Scope 2015 2014 Absolute CO2 emissions Metric tons of CO2 Fraport AG 218,389 238,222 kg CO2 per Relative CO2 emissions traffic unit Fraport AG 2.67 2.95 Energy consumption TJ Group 3,112.0 2,997.9 Proportion of fully consolidated group members with an environmental management system % Group 96 n/a Proportion of fully consolidated airports with Airport Carbon Accreditation % Group 78 n/a Total water consumption Group Million m³ 1.781 1.795 Liters per traffic unit 16.6 17.3 Waste water Group Million m³ 2.678 2.541 Liters per traffic unit 25.0 24.5 Waste 1,000 metric tons Group 28.66 29.11 Number per 10,000 Bird strikes aircraft movements Frankfurt 2.48 2.96 You can find many other key figures in our GRI Report at www.fraport.de/verantwortung. 68 Imprint 2015 Compact Imprint Editor Fraport AG Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide 60547 Frankfurt am Main Germany Phone: +49 (0) 1806 3724636 1) Website: www.fraport.de Investor Relations Contact Stefan J. Rüter Head of Finance and Investor Relations Phone: +49 (0) 69 690-74840 Fax: +49 (0) 69 690-74843 Website: www.meet-ir.de E-mail: investor.relations@fraport.de Concept and Design heureka GmbH, Essen Photography Michael Gernhuber, Essen Photo archive, Fraport AG Printing WOESTE DRUCK + VERLAG GmbH & Co KG, Essen-Kettwig Publication Date May 2016 Editorial Deadline April 2016 1) 20 cents (€) per call from a German landline; maximum of 60 cents (€) per call from a German cell phone.
