6655 Blvd. Pierre Bertrand, Office 240 Quebec City, QC, G2K 1M1, Canada Phone: +1-888-548-4344 www.osf-global.com UNCG – Communication on Progress 23 February 2016 To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that OSF Global Services reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to further advance and support those principles within our sphere of influence. We are further committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-today operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Alin Dorobantu COO OSF Global Services OSF GLOBAL SERVICES supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption, and we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations. We undertake to voluntarily promote the 10 Universal Principles that are structured on four basic pillars: Human Rights, Labor Standards, the Environment and the Fight Against Corruption. These principles, integrated into the company strategy, can be listed in the following way: © 2016 OSF Global Services. All Rights Reserved. Pg. 1 6655 Blvd. Pierre Bertrand, Office 240 Quebec City, QC, G2K 1M1, Canada Phone: +1-888-548-4344 www.osf-global.com 1. OSF Global Services, within our areas of influence, supports and respects the protection of internationally recognized basic human rights. We are committed to develop an organizational culture which implements a policy of support for internationally recognized human rights and seeks to avoid complicity in human rights abuses. 2. OSF Global Services makes sure that it is not involved in any way in the infringement of human rights. 3. OSF Global Services supports freedom of association and recognizes the right to collective negotiation. 4. OSF Global Services supports the elimination of all forms of forced labor or labor carried out under duress. 5. OSF Global Services supports the eradication of child labor. 6. OSF Global Services supports the abolition of work and employment discrimination policies. 7. OSF Global Services maintains a preventative focus that favors the environment. 8. OSF Global Services encourages the initiatives that promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. OSF Global Services favors the development and promotion of technology that is respectful to the environment. 10. OSF Global Services works against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Next are detailed the four UNCG areas: Human Rights ASSESSMENT, POLICY AN D GOALS Our company is respecting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights through our internal regulation document, named Code of conduct, that is available to all our employees and that is respected by them without any exception. In our suppliers and customer selection we take in account the adherence of our partners to Global Compact principles and we do not have business collaborations with organizations that do not respect the human rights. Our company is respecting the human rights of employees by offering all requested benefits imposed by national laws and other regulations. © 2016 OSF Global Services. All Rights Reserved. Pg. 2 6655 Blvd. Pierre Bertrand, Office 240 Quebec City, QC, G2K 1M1, Canada Phone: +1-888-548-4344 www.osf-global.com For the upcoming year we intend to have the same attitude in respecting the human rights without exception, wherever we expand our business to other countries. The respect of human rights is stated in our company policy. IMPLEMENTATION Any new employee of OSF Global Services receives in his first day of work all the documents that he should read, implement and respect during his employment in OSF Global services related to human rights. Our employees are yearly trained about our policies and regulations that include the human rights policies by the department of quality from our organization. Each regional office of our company has an employees’ representative, and this person has the responsibility to implement and continuous support the human rights policies implementation. Each human rights violations can be communicated to our quality department, through email, by any of our employees or partners. Both the Company policy and the Code of conduct documents are published to our employees, so that they can access it any time and from any location of our organization. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCO MES All our internal documents that refer to Human rights are yearly reviewed by the senior management at quality department initiative. Incidents related to this topic must be resolved by our legal department in collaboration with human resources, quality and senior management. We perform internal audits during which we control the correspondence between our policies and procedures and the actual implementations at all company levels. Until now, our company did not faced any incidents of Human Rights violations. Labour ASSESSMENT, POLICY A ND GOALS OSF Global Services is respecting the labour rights of employees through internal regulations Code of conduct document and through Quality Manual of our company. © 2016 OSF Global Services. All Rights Reserved. Pg. 3 6655 Blvd. Pierre Bertrand, Office 240 Quebec City, QC, G2K 1M1, Canada Phone: +1-888-548-4344 www.osf-global.com Also, we respect all national and international laws that refers to labour rights, in each of our subsidiarie. In the Code of Conduct document we clearly specify the employees’ rights and responsibilities, their compensations and benefits in term of labour. All these documents are available to our employees, implemented and respected by all of them. We have stated that we do not operate with partners that do not respect the labor rights of their employees, in any geographical area of our business. For the next year, the same principles will be respected in any new location where we will operate. IMPLEMENTATION Our employees are yearly trained about our policies and regulations that include the labor rights policies by the department of quality from our organization. Each regional office of our company has an employees’ representative, and this person has the responsibility to implement and continuous support the labor rights policies implementation. Each employee can communicate labor rights violation to our human resources department. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCO MES Until now, no incident related to labor have been encountered by our company. We perform internal audits during which we control the correspondence between our policies and procedures and the actual implementations through the entire company. Incidents related to this topic are be resolved by our legal department in collaboration with human resources, quality and senior management. External controls are performed by national control organism and no incidents related to labor rights were identified. Environment ASSESSMENT, POLICY A ND GOALS OSF Global Services is respecting the environment through its policies that clearly states that we are responsible to reduce as much as possible the usage of electric energy, usage of paper, and other resources that affect environment. Also we have implemented policies about PC and PC components recycle actions when needed by signing contracts with organizations that take care of environment protection in terms of hardware usage and re-usage. © 2016 OSF Global Services. All Rights Reserved. Pg. 4 6655 Blvd. Pierre Bertrand, Office 240 Quebec City, QC, G2K 1M1, Canada Phone: +1-888-548-4344 www.osf-global.com IMPLEMENTATION We buy and use paper materials made of recycled paper. We make economy in electric power and water resources. We train yearly our employees about policies and procedures that refers to environmental protection through quality department. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCO MES Until now, our company did not faced any incidents of Environment issues. Because we are performing business in IT services we do not use packing, or distribution channels, the most used resource being the electrical energy. All our internal documents that refer to Environment protection are yearly reviewed by the senior management at quality department initiative. Incidents related to this topic must be are by our legal department in collaboration with human resources, infrastructure, quality and senior management. We perform internal audits during which we control the correspondence between our policies and procedures and the actual implementations. External controls are performed by national control organism and no incidents related to environment protection were identified. Anti-Corruption ASSESSMENT, POLICY A ND GOALS We respect UN Convention Against Corruption and we stated zero tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion in our company policy. In the upcoming year we will continue improving our internal policies and regulations in terms of corruption and bribery. IMPLEMENTATION Each employee can communicate violation in terms of corruption, bribery and extortion to our quality department. Our employees are yearly trained about our policies and regulations by the department of quality from our organization. If an incident appears in terms of corruption the human resources and quality departments, together with the senior management take the imposed actions, specified in the Code of conduct, Company Quality Manual. © 2016 OSF Global Services. All Rights Reserved. Pg. 5 6655 Blvd. Pierre Bertrand, Office 240 Quebec City, QC, G2K 1M1, Canada Phone: +1-888-548-4344 www.osf-global.com MEASUREMENT OF OUTCO MES Until now, our company did not faced any incidents of corruption issues. All our internal documents that refer to corruption are yearly reviewed by the senior management at quality department initiative. © 2016 OSF Global Services. All Rights Reserved. Pg. 6
