Corporate Social Responsibility Report CSR CSR Reprot Activity Report 2016 2016 ■ Contents Overview of Unicharm Group .......................... 3 Along with Our Employees ............................ 46 View Concerning Human Resources Editorial Policy/Contents ................................. 4 and Respect for Human Rights..................................... 46 Personnel Utilization and Training ................................ 50 Respect for Diversity .................................................... 51 Message from the President ........................... 5 Industrial Health and Safety ......................................... 53 Unicharm Group's CSR ................................... 8 Along with the Society ................................... 54 Our Attitude toward Social Contributions .................... 54 Feature Topic 1 : Making Contributions to Society Making Life Better for People Living in Asia through Our Core Business .......................................... 55 by Reducing the Burdens of Daily Life .......... 12 Community-based Social Contribution Activities (Japan) .......................... 56 Feature Topic 2 : Community-based Social Contribution Activities (Overseas) ..................... 57 Responding to a Super-Aging Society ........... 17 Feature Topic 3 : Along with Our Business Partners ................. 59 Environmentally Friendly Manufacturing........ 22 Approach to Materials Procurement ............................ 59 Promoting CSR Procurement ...................................... 59 Continuing to Provide Reconstruction Support Initiatives to Improve Quality ........................................ 60 to the Disaster-affected Areas from the Great East Japan Earthquake ................................. 26 Along with Shareholders and Investors ......... 61 Along with Our Customers ............................ 29 Management ................................................. 62 Communicating with Customers .................................. 29 Insight Research, R&D, and Marketing ........................ 33 Corporate Governance ................................................. 62 Quality Management .................................................... 34 Compliance .................................................................. 63 Risk Management ........................................................ 63 Along with the Global Environment ............... 36 Third Party Assurance Report ....................... 65 Promotion Framework for Environmental Activities ..... 36 Environmental Impact and Environmental Goals.......... 38 List of contents .............................................. 66 Environmental Initiatives through Our Products .......... 39 Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming .......................... 40 List of Awards and Commendations Received Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Impacts ............... 43 in Fiscal 2015 ................................................ 66 Initiatives for Biodiversity ............................................. 43 GRI Guidelines Comparison Table ................ 67 Cover: “Sea, Sand and Flowers” by Tetsuya Koja Tetsuya Koja was diagnosed with schizophrenia in senior high school. After being treated in hospital he returned to his studies. His illness prompted him to start going to church and he became a Christian. We are a supporter of art created by people After leaving senior high school, he changed jobs frequently, working with disabilities. as a construction worker for seven months, a carpenter for one year, a horticultural worker (ornamental plant cultivation company) for six Paralym Art aims to help artists with disabilities become years, financially independent by supporting their business a linen laundry worker for three and a half years, and an employee at a activities. chain of dry cleaning shops for five years and nine months. He then attended a vocational support center for about two years. unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Overview of Unicharm Group Overview of Unicharm Group Company profile Primary Consolidated Subsidiaries and Affiliate Corporate Name Unicharm Corporation Japan Unicharm Product Co., Ltd. Date of Establishment February 10, 1961 Unicharm Kokko Nonwoven Co., Ltd. Cosmotec Corporation Capital 15,992 million yen Unicharm Mölnlycke K.K. (as of December 31, 2015) Overseas United Charm Co., Ltd. (Taiwan) Number of 620,834,319 Uni-Charm (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Shares Issued (as of December 31, 2015) LG Unicharm Co., Ltd. (Korea) Head Office Sumitomo Fudosan Mita Twin Bldg. West Wing, PT Uni-Charm Indonesia (Indonesia) 3-5-27 Mita, Minato-ku, Uni.Charm Mölnlycke B.V. (Netherlands) Tokyo, Japan Unicharm Consumer Products (China) Co., Ltd. Registered Company 182 Shimobun, Kinsei-cho, Shikokuchuo-City, Unicharm Consumer Products (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. Ehime, Japan Unicharm Gulf Hygienic Industries Ltd. (Saudi Arabia) Office Unicharm India Private Ltd. (India) Number of employees 15,498 (on a consolidated basis as of Unicharm Australasia Pty Ltd. (Australia) December 31, 2015) Diana Unicharm Joint Stock Company Vietnam Listed Exchange First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange The Hartz Mountain Corporation (United States) Business Lines Manufacture and sales of: Other 31 companies (as of December 31, 2015) Baby and child care products Feminine care products Health care products Clean & fresh products Pet care products URL http://www.unicharm.co.jp/ http://www.unicharm.co.jp/english/ Production and Sales Areas Unicharm has a business presence in more than 80 countries Netherlands around the world. Korea Russia China Myanmar Japan United States India Egypt Taiwan Thailand Philippines Vietnam Saudi Arabia Malaysia Singapore ■ Sales Areas Brazil Indonesia Australia Production and Sales Bases Sales Bases * As of December, 2015 Main Business Indicators ■ Consolidated net sales ■ Consolidated operating income ■ Number of group employees （Unit：100 million yen）） 8,000 7,387 （Unit：100 million yen） （Unit：Person） 7,000 800 799 16,000 15,498 5,994 13,901 6,000 5,536 700 672 14,000 2,838 613 12,795 Other 4,957 594 2,289 4,537 600 12,000 5,000 519 10,855 2,027 4,283 10,287 3,459 500 10,000 2,120 4,000 2,064 3,563 2,606 Oversea 400 8,000 2,009 8,618 9,686 3,000 7,774 300 6,000 5,196 5,726 Asia 2,000 200 4,000 2,536 2,850 2,275 2,352 1,000 1,973 2,000 Japan 100 2,994 2,994 3,027 3,009 2,974 Japan 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 ※ 2015 （FY） 2011 2012 2013 2014 ※ 2015 （FY） 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 （FY） * FY2014 was an irregular nine-month period due to a change in the company’s fiscal year 3 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Editorial Policy / Contents Editorial Policy / Contents Unicharm has made available a digest version of this report in PDF format, which primarily discusses material matters, while Unicharm's website contains every item reported on. Editorial Policy In preparation for the “CSR Activity Report 2016” This document has been prepared as Unicharm Group's Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report. This report reaffirms that our CSR is the fulfillment of our corporate philosophy “NOLA & DOLA”*, and presents how we practice CSR through our business activities. This year, we stipulated key CSR themes for Unicharm and reorganized our promotional structure. Furthermore, as for our global report, we refer to the UN Global Compact, ISO26000 and GRI Guidelines throughout the whole report. We will continue to accommodate the requests of our stakeholders to the greatest extent possible. Therefore, we ask that you go through our “Integrated Report 2016” as well as the newly published update summary, and provide whatever any frank opinions and comments you may have. * NOLA&DOLA: “Necessity of Life with Activities & Dreams of Life with Activities”. From newborn infants to the elderly, Unicharm aims to provide people with products that provide physical and psychological support through gentle care so that they may be free of their burdens to fulfill their dreams. Contents ■ Areas Covered Business operations, CSR vision, activity goals, organizational structure, business performance, accounting data, etc. This report presents details of results for FY2015 as well as the latest information for the early part of FY2016. ■ Organizations Unicharm Group companies are shown on a consolidated basis. Details of companies mentioned in the environmental activity report can be found on the Unicharm website. ■ Intended Audience All Unicharm stakeholders inclusive of customers, employees, business partners, shareholders, and society in general. ■ Period January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 (including some activities prior to and after the above period, as well as future targets) ■ Reference Guidelines • GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4 • 2012 Environmental Reporting Guidelines of the Ministry of the Environment • ISO26000 ■ Date of issue May, 2016. Next date of issue: May 2017 ■ Available at • CSR on the Unicharm website ■ Role of this activity report This activity report focuses on topics of concern that the company would like to particularly share with its readers and stakeholders in this year's edition. Please refer to our website for the full report. 4 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Message from the President Message from the President Record net sales and operating income in real terms In fiscal 2015, ended December 31, 2015, Unicharm reported net sales of ¥738.7 billion and operating income of ¥79.9 billion, marking the 14th straight year of record sales and the ninth successive year of record operating income in real terms. We also continued to grow our nonwoven fabric and absorbent material products business, with our global share reaching 10% in fiscal 2015 on the back of efforts to capture over one third of the market in Asia. However, profitability deteriorated due to a range of factors. In Indonesia, Thailand, Brazil and other emerging markets, we faced worsening macroeconomic conditions and weakening local currencies, which led to foreign currency translation losses and higher costs for imported raw materials. We also increased spending on marketing to address rapid changes in sales channels and rising demand for Japanese-made products in China. For fiscal 2016, ending December 31, 2016, we will push ahead with initiatives to improve profitability and do our part to raise living standards by rolling out products tailored to local markets, particularly in Asian emerging economies with good prospects for growth. Our goal is to achieve consolidated net sales of ¥1 trillion in fiscal 2018. Progress toward goals in our ninth Medium-Term Management Plan and G20 Plan We see the potential for continued strong growth in target business fields worldwide in both advanced and emerging markets. Supported by these conditions, we aim to accelerate the globalization of our business to drive rapid growth. This objective is incorporated into our ninth Medium-Term Management Plan and our long-term vision, the G20 Plan, both released in April 2014. Under the G20 Plan, we are targeting consolidated net sales of ¥1.6 trillion, average annual sales growth of 15%, an operating margin of 15% and ROE of 15% by fiscal 2020. We plan to achieve those targets by extending our sales areas and developing new product categories in emerging markets, while also expanding our high-margin businesses, strengthening Unicharm brands to reduce our dependence on pricing, and growing e-commerce operations. We also aim to lift margins by improving productivity, mainly in manufacturing processes, and increase asset efficiency by adjusting inventory levels and automating and standardizing production processes. As a stepping stone toward our targets in the G20 Plan, we are aiming for record consolidated net sales of ¥777 billion and record operating income of ¥87 billion in fiscal 2016. We will continue to strengthen strategy implementation in our core business areas and regions in order to attain these management targets. 5 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Message from the President Building a stronger more global business structure We are striving to make our business more global by giving overseas subsidiaries more power. To support this approach, we need people who understand Unicharm's DNA and corporate culture and who can develop and implement new strategies. We are actively sending our best people, who often have over 20 years of experience working for Unicharm, to overseas business sites to ensure our corporate DNA takes root. We are also reinforcing corporate governance to meet the expectations of all our stakeholders in Japan and overseas from a global perspective. We have already made progress in this area, such as introducing an executive officer system to separate management oversight and executive functions, and we adopted a “company with audit and supervisory committee” governance structure on May 1, 2015 following revisions to the Companies Act. Moreover, we have built a committee-based system to select candidates for senior management positions and determine pay levels (nomination committee and remuneration committee). More than half of the members that sit on these committees are outside directors. This has strengthened oversight of the executive functions of the Board of Directors and brought outside directors into the management process to increase transparency and efficiency. Committed to stable returns for shareholders At Unicharm, one of our top priorities is to return an appropriate level of profits to shareholders, which is also important from the standpoint of capital efficiency. We are committed to paying stable returns while at the same time strengthening the Company to boost earnings and actively investing in our business to drive growth. For fiscal 2015, ended December 31, 2015, we paid a year-end dividend of ¥7.40 per share, the same amount as our initial dividend forecast. In fiscal 2016, in accordance with our shareholder return policy, we will put priority on business investment to deliver sustained growth, while continuing to pay a stable and sustained dividend in line with mediumto long-term growth in consolidated earnings. Where necessary, we also intend to increase the total shareholder return ratio by conducting share buybacks on a flexible basis. We plan to pay a full-year dividend of ¥16.00 per share for fiscal 2016. 6 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Message from the President Building a symbiotic relationship with society People aged 65 and older now account for a quarter of Japan's population. This aging of Japanese society is projected to continue. To support each other in our rapidly aging world, we need to build close-knit societies based on multi-generational communities that were common in the past, where people of all ages can live with humanity and mutual respect. We believe this will become increasingly important as societies age. To make this vision a reality, we have to create new value and constantly evolve in order to offer new products and services that contribute to the creation of a symbiotic society. Specifically, we will help people free themselves from social restraints so that they can take on new challenges in their lives, create products that enhance daily freedoms, protect time and lifestyles that contribute to our humanity, and empower people of all generations to realize their hopes and dreams and experience more fulfilling lives. In Asia, where societies are projected to age at an even faster pace than in Japan, we plan to extend our Japanese care model across the region, leveraging our experience in the world's most rapidly aging society to create symbiotic societies worldwide. At Unicharm, our vision is to help people worldwide lead richer lives by offering a wide range of products for babies through to the elderly that make life easier by supporting the mind and the body. This is an integral part of our corporate philosophy, NOLA & DOLA (Necessity of Life with Activities & Dreams of Life with Activities), and is embodied by our current product range: baby care products such as disposable diapers, feminine care products such as sanitary napkins and tampons, adult incontinence products for nursing care, cleaning products such as disposable mop wipes, wet wipes, contoured face masks, and pet care products. All the products we supply play a vital role in making everyday life cleaner and more hygienic. Our mission is to provide these products to people worldwide to help enhance their quality of life. As part of efforts to develop our business globally, we declared our support for the United Nations Global Compact in 2006 and have been adhering to its principles ever since. At Unicharm, we are committed to more than just supporting customers through our business activities. We are striving to realize sustained growth in corporate value by promoting sound business management that delivers value to all the stakeholders who support us: our shareholders, business partners, employees and society as a whole. March 2016 Takahisa Takahara 7 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Unicharm Group's CSR Unicharm Group's CSR Integrating CSR with our businesses Unicharm's corporate philosophy is “NOLA & DOLA.” Our concept of NOLA & DOLA: Necessities of Life with Activities & Dreams of Life with Activities, contains our hope that “from newborn infants to the elderly, Unicharm aims to provide people with products that provide physical and psychological support through gentle care so that they may be free of their burdens to fulfill their dreams.” Our CSR is embodied by our commitment to achieve this aspiration through our business activities and to help resolve social issues in the process. In order to make this aspiration even more effective, Unicharm has established Primary CSR Themes and Major Indicators (KPI). ■ Unicharm Group's Value Creation Process 8 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Unicharm Group's CSR 9 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Unicharm Group's CSR Unicharm is working hard to create top-of-the-line products and services by further refining its own processing and molding technologies for non-woven and absorbing materials in an effort to contribute to the resolution of social issues and creation of value for society through our business activities. Our business activities give back to society through the realization of more sanitary lifestyles in developing countries through our products and the creation of employment opportunities for women in the community. Additionally, in Japan which is transforming into a super aging society, we actively supply mild incontinence pads for men to live as they like and products that encourage independent bathroom use for healthy life expectancy. In this capacity, we Eiji Ishikawa serve an important role in helping to deliver solutions to the many issues facing General Manager, CSR and Global R&D Divisions society. Director, Managing Executive In terms of the Environment, delivering solutions through our core businesses Officer embodies Unicharm's CSR. We are expanding our lineup of environmentally Unicharm Corporation friendly products to reduce greenhouse gases as well as contributing to a Representative Director and President sustainable society as a responsible manufacturer of disposable diapers by Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. establishing a recycling system for used disposable diapers. Going forward, we will continue to promote corporate activities supported by all stakeholders that balance growth with discipline. 10 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Unicharm Group's CSR CSR promotional structure Established cross-organizational CSR structure Unicharm has established a structure to implement and promote smooth CSR activities in order to meet our stakeholders' expectations. Our “CSR Committee” is a cross-organizational structure for the support of CSR, chaired by our president. The committee meets four times a year to discuss and share information about CSR-related activities, which in turn is utilized in management. Reference framework for Unicharm's CSR strategy At Unicharm, we operate our global business activities in awareness of the voices of our stakeholders and by referring to various international guidelines. We support the ten principles of the “UN Global Compact,” and have participated in the compact since May 2006. Relationship with stakeholders Unicharm pledges to undertake honest and trustworthy corporate activities toward its customers, shareholders, business partners and society under its “Beliefs and Pledges” and Corporate Principles of Action, and encourages two-way communication with its stakeholders by providing a wide range of dialogue opportunities. 11 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Feature Topic 1 : Making Life Better for People Living in Asia by Reducing the Burdens of Daily Life Feature Topic 1 : Making Life Better for People Living in Asia by Reducing the Burdens of Daily Life As a manufacturer of sanitary pads, Unicharm has tirelessly pursued turning women's experience of “discomfort” into “comfort.” Utilizing the know-how developed in our business in Japan, we are now deploying products and services in the emerging markets in Asia through actively supporting women who live in the region. We aim to make a contribution unique to Unicharm for helping women shine and extending their areas of influence. Background Improving women's lives and increasing social participation Issues surrounding Asian women such as education and work In the Middle East, North Africa and South Asia, there are regions where women's opportunities to receive an education and to work are greatly limited due to cultural factors. There are also some countries and regions where woman's activities during her menstruation are limited because of superstitious beliefs. It is vital that we tackle these issues one by one to improve women's lives and to encourage participation in social life. Unicharm has been manufacturing and selling menstruation pads and disposable diapers in Asian countries since the 1990s. In the process, we educate them on correct knowledge of menstruation and actively employ women from the local region or country. Through this and other efforts we make, we contribute to the advancement of women in society. Contributing to solutions for international social issues Women's independence and ability to actively participate in society are important not only from the perspective of achieving gender equality, but also to counter poverty and advance economic conditions. Increasing women's awareness of hygiene also has the added effect of improving the living environment and health of families and encouraging better child-rearing practices. Unicharm's efforts which include menstrual education and job assistance are activities that contribute to resolving international issues such as health, welfare, economics, poverty and humane work which we will continue promoting. Our activities Progress of “first menstruation education” in India The program has spread across many areas over three years Since 2013 in India, Unicharm has been promoting an educational program on the mechanism and appropriate care of the menstrual cycle called “Managing Menstruation: My Pride.” This program aims to help schoolgirls feel comfortable while staying sanitary during their menstrual cycle and stay active and confident. Word of the program has spread from school to school across the region and by 2015, we had deployed this program in Delhi and Mumbai. We educated over 40,000 schoolgirls in this three-year period. 12 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Feature Topic 1 : Making Life Better for People Living in Asia by Reducing the Burdens of Daily Life Responses from the schools We improve the program by receiving feedback from the schools after implementing it. The schoolgirls who participated provided us with positive feedbacks such as “I learned why periods are important and how I can stay sanitary during my menstruation” and “I was happy to learn how to use a sanitary pad.” The teachers praised us highly by saying, “The student's superstitious beliefs and misunderstandings were corrected and they learned actual facts about menstruation” and “This was a very meaningful workshop that fulfilled an important social need.” Encouraging understandings about the menstrual cycle through “Sofy Partner” In India, to spread understanding on the menstrual cycle, we are carrying out the project entitled, “Sofy Sahyogi(partner) Project” referring to the brand name of our feminine product. Through this, we teach women about the menstrual cycle and its appropriate self-care in their daily lives. This project also contributes to creating an environment where women can purchase sanitary pads when they need them. This project, which originally sprung out of a northern Indian village, has already contributed to the improvement of many women's lives and is scheduled to expand into surrounding regions. Deepening the activities through collaboration with local government and organizations Local NGOs, NPOs, and businesses have praised Unicharm's efforts in India. Our efforts have also been introduced through the media and in events related to CSR. By actively engaging media outlets about our activities and collaborating with local organizations, we aim for further and deeper integration into the region. First menstruation education expanding into Indonesia and Myanmar Unicharm is involved in first menstruation education in Indonesia as well. In the curriculum, we incorporate videos and games that promote correct understandings of menstruation and resolve the schoolgirls' questions and concerns. The first menses is an important experience for girls entering adolescence, First menstruation education in Indonesia marking the changes they are going through in both their minds and bodies. Though offering knowledge and information that can help them out through this time of drastic transition, Unicharm continues to offer support to young women growing into adulthood throughout the world. 13 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Feature Topic 1 : Making Life Better for People Living in Asia by Reducing the Burdens of Daily Life ⃝ Voices of schoolgirls and teachers who participated (Indonesia) A schoolgirl I was interested to learn so much about menstruation. I came to understand what is good to do and what was not. A teacher Students need to learn about the change in their own minds and bodies and about general sexuality. Having acquired correct knowledge of the menstrual cycle, they should now be able to manage their menstrual Textbooks on first menstruation education cycles more comfortably. This was an important lesson for women. In July 2015, with assistance from the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and Japanese Organization for International Cooperation in Family Planning (JOICFP), we began planning for a roll-out of education about first menstruation in Myanmar. We have begun preparations to begin educating schoolgirls in Myanmar beginning in 2016 by developing teaching materials for the program and running special seminars for leaders on how to effectively utilize these educational materials in collaboration with the Myanmar Health Ministry. In collaboration with the local government and stakeholders of the NGO, we will promote a society where women can shine. Workshop for developing teaching Developed materials materials Efforts to promote using disposable diapers in India For plenty of sleep that is indispensable for babies Sound sleep is indispensable for the baby's healthy development. Unicharm has begun promoting using disposable diapers at night time, “Namaste Poko Chan Event” in India where disposable diapers are still uncommon. At the events, we clearly explain the importance of creating an environment where the baby can sleep well. We also explain the importance of preparing a sanitary environment for child-rearing and show how to use a disposable diaper. Through these efforts, we contribute to improving the domestic environment of homes with babies. Event participants said encouraging words such as, “I normally only use disposables during trips, but now, I am going to start using them more often.” 14 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Feature Topic 1 : Making Life Better for People Living in Asia by Reducing the Burdens of Daily Life Job assistance through a woman's only factory in Saudi Arabia In Saudi Arabia, cultural beliefs disallow women to spend time in a room with a man who is not a family member or to talk to them. Women are not prohibited from working, but employment that allows women to work without any contact with men is extremely limited. In 2012, Unicharm built a women's only factory and created an operation where women could work without any contact with men, offering Saudi Arabian women to work. Various progress was seen in the production sites in 2015, the year that marked the third year from the beginning of factory operations. We expanded the operation lines in response to a growing number of employees. In addition, astute plant management was conducted by the female leaders, which significantly improved the per person productivity as a result of improved work efficiency. We also strive to foster this new female workforce in Saudi Arabia by conducting a two-week special seminar for new hires on the topics of safety, quality and productivity. ⃝ Voices from families of the employees at the women-only factory plant Shaha Al-Shammari's Family We were able to concentrate on our studies because our mother worked at Unicharm's women-only factory and supported us. We are grateful to Unicharm and we also hope that we are soon able to support our mother through our hard work. Nora Al-Enazi's Family Our daughter has been able to economically support us through her job at Unicharm. We feel reassured because the plant is mindful of her safety. We are now able to live without insecurities. 15 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Feature Topic 1 : Making Life Better for People Living in Asia by Reducing the Burdens of Daily Life Gently supporting underweight babies Protection of small babies is the mission of Unicharm The birth rate of underweight babies (2500 grams and under) has been increasing in recent years. In accordance with the idea of on-site clinical practice that it is important to keep the stress level of underweight infants to a minimum in order to support their growth and development, Unicharm developed a new technology that allows carers to change the baby's diapers without changing the baby's position. The result was “Moony Airfit®,” the diaper for underweight infants released for sale in November 2014 for Japanese hospitals and birth centers. A year after its release, the diaper has been garnering positive reviews for its unique product design that has considered the reality of the medical contexts. Most notable praises are: “You can change the diaper while maintaining the Positioning Posture (which is a bent position similar to the fetal position)” (87%*) and “there are perforations” (93%*) that make diaper changes in this bent position possible. We are currently spreading our reach in information offering activities in the medical field through participating in various academic conferences and cosponsoring seminars within conferences. The diaper fits three-dimensionally following Perforations make it possible to change the the Positioning Posture diaper while maintaining the Positioning Posture Photos of conference participations Mamy Poko—Diapers released in Taiwan for underweight babies Diapers made especially for underweight babies are being rolled out outside Japan as well. In Taiwan, it gently supported an extremely immature infant boy born the lightest ever known. This boy was born at 339 grams after only 24 weeks of pregnancy, but was happily discharged after growing into a healthy 2,200 grams boy thanks to the latest medical technology and his own strong life force after a six-month stay in the ICU. The director of the hospital said, “The disposable diaper especially designed for underweight infants protected the baby well and made it easier to care for him. I was moved. It is the mother's right hand.” Going forward, we will continue to support the healthy growth of babies who were born small in the world. *From: Questionnaire to Midwives Using Moony Airfit®, The 60th Academic Conference on Japan's Newborn Developmental Medical Board, October 2015 16 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Feature Topic 2 : Responding to a Super-Aging Society Feature Topic 2 : Responding to a Super-Aging Society Unicharm's never-changing goal is to realize “normalization”a society in which everyone can live their own life in their own way, for as long as possible. We want to help elderly people to live independently and have a rich social life in this ever-increasing super-aging society. This is what motivates us every day to engage in making products and creating proposals for better continence care. Background Lengthening the healthy life expectancy is indispensable to a super-aging society Interest in “healthy life expectancy” keeps growing in ■ Gap between “life expectancy” and Japan, the world's most aged society and nation with the “healthy life expectancy” (2010) highest average life expectancy. However, the expected years remaining to live without restrictions caused by health-related problems called “healthy life expectancy” is nine years shorter for men and thirteen years shorter for women compared to the life expectancy of the average Japanese person. Having entered the super-aging society, it is vital to find out how people can extend their healthy life expectancy for enjoying a fulfilling life longer. Data from Annual Health, Labour and Welfare Report 2013-2014 Continence care is the key to lengthening the healthy life expectancy It is crucial to intervene early to various symptoms of aging (geriatric syndrome) to lengthen the healthy life expectancy. Along with declines in physical and mental functioning, continence-related issues can be seen as one of the representative geriatric syndromes. Many people with continence issues tend to have experience bad sleep quality and avoidance of going out or eating and drinking. This is a situation where the three basic principles of health, “sleep,” “exercise,” and “food” are threatened, while also largely impacting the mental side by feeling, “I am not confident of my own health.” How to manage continence care is a key part of lengthening the healthy life expectancy. ■ Troubles caused by issues related to continence (multiple answers allowed) I wake up in the middle of the night to go to the bathroom / 45.3 Effects on the quality I can't sleep well of sleep I go to the bathroom frequently 38.1 Problems when going out 24.3 Effects on short (Looking for a bathroom is burdensome, outings Can't enjoy travelling or short outings) I do not want my friends or acquaintances 10.1 to become aware of it I started drinking less beverages 8.1 Effects on eating and (both alcoholic and non-alcoholic) drinking I do not want my family to notice 6.6 Research by Unicharm (March 2015) 17 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Feature Topic 2 : Responding to a Super-Aging Society ⃝ Opinions from external experts Early intervention through self-care is important as soon as you notice symptoms Geriatric symptoms such as incontinence that occur with age can happen to anyone. If you notice yourself losing control over your bladder, it is important that you start addressing that immediately instead of seeing it as an exceptional condition. Addressing the issue early increases the possibility that you can push off the worsening of the condition for another three to five years. It is extremely important that you make a habit of securing “good sleep,” “physical activity,” and “eating well” as well as “appropriate continence care” to live each day Institute for Gerontology, J. F. actively and full of energy. Oberlin University (Graduate School Professor) Dr. Takao Suzuki Our activities Proposing “continence care” through “Lifree” Deploying “continence care” with three concepts Unicharm has offered products and services that encourage independence in bathroom behavior through the Lifree brand because we want you to be able to live as you want for as long as you can. To spread early self-care, we left the past framework of “care diapers” in 2015. We now offer the concept of “continence care” to a wide range of population starting with lighter degree issues including urine leakage. We now deploy products dividing into the three foundations of mild, moderate, and severe, depending on the bodily condition and lifestyle. To address “continence care” without reservations While early intervention is extremely important with continence care, about half of the people do not use care products, viewing it as “not yet for me.” We addressed this issue and have made it easier for those who have felt resistant to using “care diapers” by proposing a more positive image of a healthy lifestyle by rephrasing care products, “continence care.” Studies have shown that those who have practiced appropriate continence care tend to be more affirmative about their social life and have a higher rate of daily life satisfaction regardless of ■ Satisfaction toward daily life their continence trouble frequency. We look forward to continue to lengthening the healthy life expectancy and contributing to increase the QOL of elderly people through educating about continence care. Robust information transmission through the website At Lifree's website, we publish various contents for appropriate continence care under the slogan, “Supporting the healthy life expectancy.” As a website traversing the Lifree brand from mild to severe, we offer care products suiting each condition as well as rich information including testimonials from users and advice from experts to lengthen healthy life expectancy. 18 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Feature Topic 2 : Responding to a Super-Aging Society Lifree official website http://www.unicharm.co.jp/lifree/ Proposing “continence self-management” alongside experts Today, 1 in 4 people of 50 years old or older have experienced trouble with continence*. We propose “continence self-management” alongside experts to actively support a more comfortable life for more people. With “continence self-management”, we introduce specific steps to implement when you actually experience inconvenience around continence such as: (1) know and assess your condition; (2) train your pelvic floor muscles; (3) care for yourself appropriately and consult a doctor as needed. * From a survey of the current living conditions of people troubled by continence issues conducted by Unicharm (April 17, 2015 News release) Confirm the category of continence trouble with the “continence self-check sheet” and “continence recording” You can check the category of continence trouble you are experiencing with the “continence self-check sheet.” We recommend understanding the reasons and conditions that differ by category to aid in the first step of appropriate care. “Continence recording” where you can record the time and quantity of your urination and bowel movement is also effective in managing your troubles with continence. We recommend these alongside experts as tools to reference when consulting with your doctor. After knowing your type, introduce appropriate strengthening exercises and methods We also have introduced online* appropriate strengthening exercises and methods of care such as “pelvic floor training” that you can easily do at home, under the supervision of experts after knowing your type. You can expect to prevent or improve continence-related troubles such as urine leakage and anal incontinence by strengthening your pelvic floor muscles with daily exercising. *http://www.unicharm.co.jp/charmnap/training/training/index.html Spreading information with “continence care navi” by Continence Care Research Center At Unicharm's Continence Care Research Center, certified professionals including care workers, registered nurses, and health workers have continued to research over a long time how to better address continence care through verifying care products and researching the current conditions at facilities and hospitals around Japan. We share fruits of this research and information on how to encourage getting out of bed or independent egestion with elderly Continence Care Navi: http://www.carenavi.jp/ people and caretakers through the website “continence care navi.” At “continence care navi”, we introduce actual efforts made at caretaking facilities and are making an effort to educate people about continence care that emphasizes the reduction in number of diaper changes and rehabilitation. 19 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Feature Topic 2 : Responding to a Super-Aging Society ■ Specific efforts made at caretaking facilities “Obtain good quality sleep for the users by reducing the number of diaper changes and improving skin care” Shin-ai Houonkai assisted living facility for the elderly: Shin'ai no sono (located at Kiyose City, Tokyo) http://www.carenavi.jp/researchdata/vol6.html “Strengthening at-home elderly health through engaging with care focused on rehabilitation within everyday life” Koujukai assisted living facility for the elderly: Ichii no mori (located at Akishima City, Tokyo) http://www.carenavi.jp/researchdata/vol5.html Seminar on “Caring for urine leakage and continence” at the local level To respond to the wishes of elderly people to stay as they are even in their old age, Unicharm continues working on preading correct knowledge on continence care and caring in general to lengthen healthy life expectancy. By collaborating on a regional level, we set the theme by target audience and aim to educate the importance of caretaking prevention through relaying deeper knowledge of urine leakage prevention and how to use diapers. ■ Seminar on “Caring for urine leakage and continence” by Continence Care Research Center General elderly population For at-home care For caretaking and Target audience: specialists and family nursing students caretakers (of vocational schools) Caretaking prevention continence care continence care Theme: (preventing urine leakage) Number of presentations 41 22 13 We introduce prevention We introduce how to We teach from the and improvement, and lessen the burden of basics of the role and finally, how to best continence care which is knowledge of the experts live with urine leakage a large issue in at-home in the context of elderly under the theme, assisted care through continence care for the “Preventing and selfintroducing appropriate future experts of medicine care of urine leakage,” ways of choosing and and elderly care who will which is important to care using (or putting on) become caretakers for the prevention. diapers. elderly. Educational content Scenes from the day Scenes from the day Scenes from the day Teaching material Teaching material Introductory booklet for onsite lectures 20 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Feature Topic 2 : Responding to a Super-Aging Society ⃝ “Caretaking Seminar” held in Fukuroi City, Shizuoka Lecturers from our Continence Care Research Center held a caretaking seminar for the “Fukuroi City Caretakers' Hohoemi-kai” composed of a coalition of at-home caretakers and groups within Fukuroi City. The theme was “How to choose disposable diapers and how to use them.” We described the structure of disposable diapers and the mechanism of leakage to explain how to use them correctly, leading to making outings possible and to live a positive life. Participants appreciated it as evidenced by voices such as, “I didn't think the placement of diapers would make such a difference” and “I didn't know there were so many different types of diapers.” Voice of participants I learned important tricks for using the pads properly I have been caring for my husband for two years now. He is 81 years old and is certified as level 1 of needing long-term care. If I give him rehabilitation underpants and urinary pads, he uses them on his own, but perhaps because the pad is not on exactly right, urine seems to leak a bit. I learned some important tricks in using the pads correctly in today's seminar. I also didn't realize how many kinds of pads there were. I am looking forward to relaying all of this to my husband as soon as I get home today. Participant: Ms. Mitsuko Takahashi From the contact person of Fukuroi City Council of Social Welfare It was great to have been able to hold this seminar. The study session on caretaking technique held today began when I consulted Unicharm about holding the “Caretaking Seminar” they had held at near-by Kakegawa City. I learned about this when reading Unicharm's CSR report. I often am consulted about local welfare related issues as a representative of the City Council of Social Welfare. There are many people who are troubled in isolation concerning caretaking so I make sure to organize bus trips and occasions for socializing to provide some relief in collaboration with the local caretakers' groups. We also hold study sessions about techniques on caretaking. There are many things about how to choose and put on People who supported the diapers that people feel they know, but actually do not know well so I am glad we were able operation to hold this seminar. The lecture's words, “Like glasses, you can enjoy life if you choose the Ms. Yoko Mishina, right ones and use them correctly” left an impression. Fukuroi City Council of Social Welfare Voice of the contact person The manufacturer's responsibility is to communicate the correct usage At Unicharm, we set themes for each target audience and hold caretaking seminars. This time at Fukuroi City, we held a caretaking seminar on the two themes of how to put on disposal diapers and caring for urine leakage. In the past, people would come to seminars like this after beginning caretaking, but it seems that these days people come participate before running into issues, perhaps because of a heightened awareness towards health. Whenever I hear from participants who are already engaged in at-home caretaking that they learned to put on the diapers correctly for the first time or that they didn't know there were so many different kind of disposable diapers after the caretaking seminar, I strongly Speaker: Hiromi Hayashi feel responsible to work harder to disseminate correct usage as the manufacturer. Certified Caretaker, ConYou can go out and live positively if you correctly use disposable diapers and urine care tinence Care Research goods. The ideal is to not use diapers, but to use only underwear and urine care goods on Center a normal basis and rely on disposable diapers only on special occasions. Unicharm Co., Ltd. I would like to continue strengthening support for people in regional communities by holding more seminars across Japan. 21 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Feature Topic 3 : Environmentally Friendly Manufacturing Feature Topic 3 : Environmentally Friendly Manufacturing As a manufacturer of consumable products, we aim to contribute to a sustainable society through business activities that balance environmental conservation and economic growth by deepening our understanding of the environmental issues surrounding our society. As a part of this, we developed the first technology to extract high-grade recyclable pulp from used disposable diapers. We aim to build a recycling-oriented model that is environmentally friendly while maintaining the safety vital to sanitation products. Background to engaging with recyclable pulp Increase in the amount of production and disposition of diapers There are two kinds of disposable diapers: for babies and for adults, including those used for the elderly. In recent years, the amount of disposed adult diaper has increased as a direct function of the growing population of the elderly and, by extension, their production. Further, the cost to dispose of these used diapers and the CO2 emissions released by burning them have also increased. *Research by Unicharm Forest and water resources to be used effectively The high-quality pulp which becomes disposable diapers comes from trees. Increased pulp use requires using more of the resources, making it likely we will run out of it in the near future. We also use much water in the process of manufacturing pulp, which comes from making wood chips out of cut wood. We need to reduce our use of water at a time like this when water shortage has become a world-wide concern. ■ Making paper from wood 22 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Feature Topic 3 : Environmentally Friendly Manufacturing Our activities About the recycling system we developed Solving the problem of quality of recycled pulp Most used diapers are disposed of by burning. Plastic and low-quality pulp are taken out of some of used diapers and recycled. The plastic has been reused as RPF (refuse-derived fuel), but when reusing low-quality pulp as a part of disposable diapers, we were always faced with the danger of contamination from the fungi contained in the waste. We also continued to face the issue of how to treat absorptive polymer (SAP) included in diapers that always caused clogging in the recycling facilities. Extracting sanitary high-grade pulp through our unique ozone treatment process In the new recycling system we developed, we treat the low-quality pulp with our unique ozone process after extracting it from used disposable diapers. This has made it possible to break down SAP into water and carbon dioxide by oxidization and recycling it as high-grade pulp that is as sanitary and safe as virgin pulp. ■ A cyclic model for disposable diapers: The ideal recycling system 23 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Feature Topic 3 : Environmentally Friendly Manufacturing Proving sanitary safety and environmental friendliness A sanitation and safety assessment showed no fecal bacteria (mainly coliform) in pulp treated with ozone. It also showed below detection level amounts of protein concentration, which is used as an indicator of waste derived from humans. An environmental load assessment confirmed that the new life cycle reduced the effects of greenhouse gases by 31% compared to disposable by burning. ■ Assessing the sanitation safety of recycling diapers ■ Number of bacteria on first occurrence Towards establishing a new recycling system Recycling used disposable diapers is a bigger challenge that allows a diaper manufacturer like us to contribute to improving the global environment by reducing waste and CO2 emissions and encouraging cyclic use of natural resources. At the present, we are in negotiations with local government units and trash collection providers on how to collect used diapers to establish this recycling system. It is also crucial to have consumers understand what we are doing in order for recycled diapers to be used widely in society. We are in the midst of establishing the system through educational activities by, for instance, exhibiting at Eco-Products 2015 in December and introducing the recycling system of used diapers. ⃝ Opinions from external specialists Professor Norihiro Itsubo, Tokyo City University Unicharm's proposed diaper recycling system encourages the cyclical use of disposable diapers—which will only increase in need—as a high value-added material instead of relying on disposing of it through burning them. Through a series of assessments, we have learned that this system allows us to reduce CO2 emissions level as well as enable us to use plastic—a source of high energy—as a source of heat after collecting high-quality pulp as ingredients for paper. Unicharm's proposal of a new business model that aids in resolving issues of waste and climate change which will only worsen in the near future, amidst the increasing aging society is highly commendable. Hideaki Hanaki, Ph.D., Professor and Director of Research Center for Infection Control, Kitasato University Recycling used disposable diapers will become a large issue for all local governments in the near future while infections caused by incomplete sanitation processes are implicated in such an endeavor. However, our research has shown that this danger could be avoided. Refining this technology to actualize recycling will help in further improving our environment from the local to the national level then to the global scale. We look forward to a development that strengthens ties between the industry, government, and academic institutions. 24 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Feature Topic 3 : Environmentally Friendly Manufacturing ⃝ From the developers We feel we are able to contribute to improving the global environment as a manufacturer of consumable goods through establishing a recycling system of used disposable diapers. At the same time, we have come to see a good possibility for the effective use of natural resources and reduction of CO2 emissions. We feel a great sense of worthwhileness to contribute to a very real social issue amidst the projection that disposable diaper use will further increase both domestically and internationally. We will continue to promote the used diapers recycling system with all of our stakeholders, seeing it as a social contribution unique to Unicharm that fulfills both social and economic values. Takayoshi Konishi, Mitsuhiro Wada, Product Development CSR Division Department Unicharm, Co., Ltd. Global R&D Devision Unicharm, Co., Ltd. 25 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Continuing to Provide Reconstruction Support to the Disaster-affected Areas from the Great East Japan Earthquake Continuing to Provide Reconstruction Support to the Disaster-affected Areas from the Great East Japan Earthquake Unicharm once again extends its heartfelt sympathies to those affected by the earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan on March 11, 2011. We sincerely hope for a speedy recovery from this unprecedented disaster. Since immediately after the earthquake, Unicharm has delivered supplies and continually used the Matching Fund, set up to receive charitable donations from employees, to provide relief support. Through these activities, we will continue to deepen our interaction with local residents and make contributions to local communities. Continuing with our Matching Fund combing disaster relief support with electricity conservation Our Matching Fund established to provide disaster relief assistance and our Super Cool Biz and Warm Biz employee dress codes to promote electricity conservation are now in their sixth year. The Matching Fund provides a matching donation for the price of our original polo shirt, badge and jacket bought by employees, with the proceeds having so far been used to purchase a total of 143 urine-suction robots called “Humany” for hospitals and healthcare facilities in the disaster-stricken area. These robots are being used on the front lines of nursing care to help improve the quality of life (QOL) of users. In October 2015, Unicharm received a letter of thanks at a social welfare conference held in Aizu-Wakamatsu City for its donations of Humany. In FY2015, in addition to our original polo shirts and pullovers, salmon leather ID card cases crafted by residents of Wakatake Gakuen, a facility assisting people with disabilities in Miyako City, Iwate Prefecture, which also received donations of Humany, were made eligible for the Matching Fund. An employee of Wakatake Gakuen had the following to say about Unicharm. “We create salmon leather crafts using salmon caught locally right here in Miyako. The drop in the salmon catch caused by the earthquake and tsunami has been of great concern to us. For this reason, Unicharm’s decision to continue purchasing our products has helped to increase the motivation to work among facility users and demonstrates its unwavering commitment to helping the affected areas. This is something I am very thankful for.” Going forward, we stand fully committed to continuing our support for the disaster-stricken areas and carrying out electricity conservation efforts together with our employees. Salmon leather goods made at Wakatake Work taking place Gakuen Urine-suction robots called “Humany” 26 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Continuing to Provide Reconstruction Support to the Disaster-affected Areas from the Great East Japan Earthquake ⃝ Comments from facility staff member who used Humany More active daily life thanks to improved sleep at night We used the donated Humany for a female resident in her 70s with serious mental impairments. Before this, we would assist the women to go to the bathroom during the day and at night she would wear disposable adult diapers. However, her frequent urination necessitated that her adult diaper be changed three times in one night, once before bed, once during the night, and once in the morning. Therefore, she had a difficult time getting a good night sleep and she would often doze off during the day a result. Once we started using Humany, we no longer had to change her adult diaper during the night or wake her up during out nightly rounds to check on her adult diaper. Now she is able to get enough sleep and no longer dozes off during the day. I feel she is much more active and attentive during the day as a result. Humany has also helped to reduce the workload of staff providing nursing care here, which is a great help. Next, we plan on using Humany for a male resident in his 70s with serious disabilities. If we are able to use it tactfully, I’m sure that he, too, will be able to get a better nights rest. I feel that giving an added option for excretion care is a very helpful and beneficial to people with disabilities. Senshinkai Daini Takamatsuen (Kesennuma City, Miyagi Prefecture) Main initiatives following the earthquake and tsunami 27 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Continuing to Provide Reconstruction Support to the Disaster-affected Areas from the Great East Japan Earthquake 28 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with Our Customers > Communicating with Customers Along with Our Customers Communicating with Customers Initiatives of the Customer Service Center At the Customer Service Center, our fundamental goal is to improve customer satisfaction by responding to the valuable feedback we receive from our customers in a prompt, fair and sincere manner. In FY2015, the Customer Service Center received approximately 47,000 calls. The feedback we received was in turn shared widely with related departments inside the company and used to help improve our products and services. In July 2006, Unicharm made a declaration of self-conformity with ISO 10002 international standard Customer Complaints Correspondence Management System, and is extending it to our customer service centers in China, Taiwan, Thailand, Indonesia, Australia, India and other countries. Following Unicharm China and Taiwan, Unicharm Thailand and Indonesia declared their self-conformity with ISO 10002 in October 2013 and March 2014, respectively, as part of our efforts to improve customer satisfaction across the Unicharm Group. Initiatives of the Customer Service Center We conduct employee training at the Customer Service Center to reinforce quality and strengthen customer oriented approaches. In FY2015, we held a training session for each plant in Japan in which actual recordings of interactions with customers was used as a learning tool. We will continue to enhance our customer oriented approach on a company-wide level and supply products that truly satisfy our customers. Training for plant employees organized by the Customer Service Center ■ Main initiatives of the Customer Service Center Main initiatives Contents 1. Responder training We organize training programs to enhance our specialist knowledge, including sessions led by external instructors and other informative workshops, in order to improve the quality of our response. 2. Reflection in products We share customer feedback with related departments in a timely manner through weekly and monthly report. This feedback is used to improve existing products and develop new products, in order to provide customers with products that are safe and convenient. 3. Information Customer feedback is shared internally in real-time using our centralized customer information management dissemination system, or the SMILE system. Report meetings with business departments and product package confirmation meetings (Communication Guarantee Meeting) are also held to ensure feedback is utilized to improve products from a customer standpoint. 4. Customer Service The R&D and Manufacturing departments organize training sessions for new employees and others who Center training wish to participate in order to reinforce their focus on the customer and quality. In FY2015, 972 employees took part in these training sessions. 5. Strengthen The initiatives of our customer service centers located around the world are being shared to help improve collaboration with customer satisfaction across the entire Unicharm Group, including its overseas subsidiaries. This information overseas customer is also being used to improve our response skills based on ISO10002 complaint response MS and to step up service centers interoffice collaboration. 29 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with Our Customers > Communicating with Customers ■ Unicharm Complaint Response Policy (1) Customer feedback will be centrally managed by the Company's customer service centers and addressed in a fair and impartial manner in accordance with the QMS (ISO9001) complaint response process manual and ISO10002 complaint response process documentation. Information concerning defects in a product or service will be reported to the President & CEO and steps will be taken immediately to remedy the problem. (2) In the case customer feedback must be redressed, related departments will work together to immediately rectify the situation and prevent future reoccurrences in accordance with the QMS (ISO9001) redress and preventive measure procedure manual. (3) We will strive to reflect the valuable feedback of customers in future products and services. We will take customer feedback seriously and exert our best efforts so that each department works together to ensure that customers are satisfied. ⃝ Examples of customer feedback reflected in our products Feedback about a request to use slip prevention tape on the urine absorption pad used for “Lifree Zurezunianshin (Slip-free Easy-feeling) for Disposable Pant-type Diapers Urine Absorbing Pad Nighttime Super” We received customer feedback about adding slip prevention tape on the urine absorption pad used for “Lifree Zurezunianshin (Slip-free Easy-feeling) for Disposable Pant-type Diapers Urine Absorbing Pad Nighttime Super” In response, we launched a new product called “Lifree Zurezunianshin (Slip-free Easy-feeling) for Disposable Pant-type Diapers Urine Absorbing Pad Nighttime Super” in April 2015 that features slip prevention tape. Feedback about a request for the release of Sofy Hadaomoi Ultra Thin Slim Nighttime 360 We received customer feedback urging the launch of Sofy Hadaomoi Ultra Thin Slim Nighttime 360 because 330 was too short and 400 was too long. In response, we launched the new 360 version in October 2015. Activities of overseas customer service centers Thailand Customer Service Center declared its self conformity to the standards of ISO 10002 for complaint correspondence management systems in October 2013. After this declaration, Unicharm's customer service center in Japan audited the customer service center in Thailand to check its system operations and verified that it handles complaints in a manner closely in tune with customers. In addition, in advance of the new launch of tampons in Vietnam, the CSR Division worked with the Quality Control Dept. of Unicharm Products and the Customer Service Center to hold a workshop for production, marketing and customer service departments in order to share knowledge about the products and how to respond to customer inquiries. Audit of Thailand Customer Workshop for production in Service Center Vietnam 30 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with Our Customers > Communicating with Customers Letters of thanks from customers Lifree Ultra Thin Underwear-like Pant-Type Diaper This thin underwear-like pull-up type pants are really great because they feel more like underwear and aren't overly hot during hot days like recently, and their thin design really helps out since I have a physical disability and my hipline stands out when wearing pants. Moony Air Fit Newborn I wrote Unicharm about offering a small disposable diaper for newborns at a more affordable price, and I was really happy to learn that my feedback had become a reality. These diapers work great and they are priced right. Communication with customers using various media As a specialized manufacturer, Unicharm provides information on continence care, first menstruation, and parenting to customers within Japan. In March 2012, a Facebook page for Moony was established to provide a platform for new moms to communicate with one another. In conjunction with “Baby Town,” which boasts approximately 700,000 members, this social media page disseminates parenting information to customers. In April 2013, we revamped our educational website for first menstruation called “First Body Navi”and added additional content. In addition, we have developed corporate websites for overseas locations aimed at strengthening online communication with customers both in Japan and abroad. Provision of information on continence care for the elderly Mild Incontinence Navi provides information for females experiencing urinary issues such as due to pregnancy and delivery or increased frequency of urination or incontinence caused by age. Information including self care methods and consultation with specialists are provided in collaboration with specialists of female urology, as well as obstetrics and gynecology. Continence Care Navi provides expert advice, research reports, information on cases and treatment options for troubles related to urination and defecation for the elderly, as well as resources and tips on nursing care, with the hope of improving the quality of nursing care for both the elderly population and their caregivers. In addition, the site offers an encyclopedia on adult diapers and tips on how to choose and use adult diapers. 31 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with Our Customers > Communicating with Customers First menstruation education First Body Navi offers young girls and their guardians information on how the female body works and how to deal with menstruation as well as how to choose female hygiene products to help foster a positive first experience with menstruation. Information on the site can be downloaded in a PDF version, enabling use as teaching material at school. Supporting childrearing mothers Baby Town and Pre-Mama Town are created in collaboration with childrearing related companies in support of childrearing mothers and their babies through offering a platform for searching, asking for, and exchanging information related to pregnancy, child delivery, and child care in accordance with their child's stage of development. Moreover, some 80,000 people have “liked” the interactive communication with mothers posted on the Moony Facebook page. Strengthening information provision to customers overseas As Unicharm's popularity grows in international markets, we strive to enhance our customer service for our worldwide customers through improving information sharing on our products and company using the Internet. First Body Navi Pre-Mama Town Baby Town Moony on Facebook Mild Incontinence Care Navi Continence Care Navi Unicharm Human Care Myanmar website Vietnam website 32 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with Our Customers > Insight Research, R&D, and Marketing Insight Research, R&D, and Marketing Three-pronged approach involving insight research, R&D, and marketing We practice a model of manufacturing that closely reflects customer needs by adhering to the motto “Maintain our No.1 position through continued and dedicated service” ingrained in our DNA. We thoroughly observe the lifestyle and consumption style of consumers and pursue the true needs that exist in their subconscious. We are committed to developing products that exceed customer expectations by leveraging our customer-oriented creativity. In order to promote a more extensive global reach, we are developing products localized to meet the needs of each region and market. While Unicharm products are considered daily necessities, there are some countries where Monitoring survey paper diapers are regarded as a luxury or consumers are not accustomed to using paper diapers throughout the day. Taking each country's customs and needs into consideration, we are creating unprecedented new value in our products that balances function with cost, making these products more accessible to all. We aim to continue developing products that suit the local needs of each region by combining the forces of insight research, research and development, and marketing. Cooperation between R&D and engineering Using an organizational structure consisting of research, development, and engineering (R&D&E), Unicharm promotes research and development in an interdepartmental approach that encompasses five businesses. These departments engage in various types of basic research on an ongoing basis while the new technologies and materials they develop continuously provide improvements for existing products and create completely new ones as well. In addition, we have set up research centers in key geographic areas, creating an infrastructure capable of developing products that truly meet local needs. Product testing 33 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with Our Customers > Quality Management Quality Management Unicharm's view of quality assurance and framework To promote quality management at Unicharm, we have aligned our quality policy with our Medium-Term Management Plan and undertake internal and external audits to confirm the conformity and effectiveness of our systems. We continually strive to improve these by putting in place corrective and preventative measures. All of our business offices in Japan and overseas have acquired ISO 9001. Based on this standard, we have implemented a quality management system (QMS) throughout our supply chain. In 2014, following changes in regulations, Indonesia and Thailand obtained ISO 13485 certification for medical device quality management systems, in addition to ISO 9001. Product safety efforts Unicharm implements measures against chemical substances that can affect people's health and ecosystems. For products that come into direct contact with the skin, we carry out checks according to our Basic Quality Management Regulations throughout all processes, from product development to facilities development, materials purchasing and product sales, to ensure that customers can use these products with peace of mind. For materials procurement, we have established guidelines for preventing the use of chemical substances that can harm people's health or ecosystems, and a dedicated department has been assigned to conduct testing with regards to the hazardous of these substances and compliance with laws and regulations. The Safety Assessment Committee operates as a gate check, conducting risk assessments that take into account various usage formats and disposal methods. In addition, we use materials that are confirmed as safe and conduct product testing based on actual usage conditions. Currently, we do not conduct animal testing for safety verification purposes. This also includes instances where we outsource such work to other outside parties. We do not plan on using animal testing in the future, either. However, this promise excludes rare cases where we must fulfill our accountability in terms of safety to society or when required to do so by the government of third countries. Global safety activities We have had a safety-check framework in place in each country since April 2007, which is being implemented by our local subsidiaries primarily in China, Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and Indonesia. Once every year we hold a conference for all persons in charge of safety and once every quarter we hold a similar teleconference for all employees to share the latest information on safety. Individual meetings are also held on safety on an irregular basis. In addition, we visit our suppliers, testing partners and government institutions in each country to step up communication in order to deliver safe and reliable products to our customers through a joint effort. It was jointly determined with suppliers and other relevant parties from each country that the explosion that occurred in Tianjin in FY2015 did not have any effect on materials or products procured. 34 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with Our Customers > Quality Management Initiative at Unicharm products As an initiative for quality assurance, Unicharm Products is implementing improvements based on information from consumers relevant to defective products or poor services, and for factory-wide improvements using UTMSS.* This system is used for goals such as visual control and standardization and for continual improvement in productivity and quality so that we can continue to provide consumers with products of consistent and high quality. We are also disseminating our framework to overseas subsidiaries and assisting with the implementation of best practices by way of a mother plant system between factories in Japan and those overseas. At overseas plants, Japan ASEAN UTMSS instructors developed local instructors who in 2015 taught about UTMSS improvement methodology locally, completing work in Thailand and Indonesia. In particular, in Indonesia where there are a large number of female workers on the production floor, female instructors who were trained in FY2014 focused on developing female improvement team members. As a result, advancements were made in UTMSS improvement activities and the team received an excellence award at the company-wide UTMSS conference, held semiannually. *UTMSS: Unicharm Total Management Strategic System ■ Indonesia ASEAN UTMSS improvement study group Initiative for appropriate product labeling Unicharm has continued to maintain its track record of zero product labeling issues since 2010. Product packaging and advertisements are also checked to make sure they comply with related laws such as the Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Act, Act against Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading Representations, Act on the Promotion of Sorted Garbage Collection and Recycling of Containers and Packaging, as well as industry standards laid out by the Japan Hygiene Products Industry Association and other groups and our own proprietary in-house standards. Checks are also carried out to ensure that Communication Guarantee Meeting customers are not mislead or caused to misuse products. We also set up a Communication Guarantee Meeting which effectively functions to verify and evaluate the scientific basis for product labeling during the product design stage as well as to collaborate across the Group to achieve the most adequate and precise labeling possible. 35 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with the Global Environment > Promotion Framework for Environmental Activities Along with the Global Environment Promotion Framework for Environmental Activities Our attitude toward the environment Most of Unicharm's products are consumables essential to a clean and healthy lifestyle, which closely relates to the global environment through our use of resources and emission of waste. As we have expanded our operations globally centered on Asia in order to provide better products to consumers around the world, our role and responsibility for reducing our environmental impact has also increased with each passing year. All of our employees are committed to environmental activities following the Basic Environmental Policy and the Environmental Action Guidelines developed based on our corporate philosophical framework (Unicharm Ideals, “Beliefs and Pledges” and Corporate Principles of Action). We carefully monitor the impact our business activities have on the environment, and we are promoting initiatives to reduce our environmental impacts and improve our economic efficiency aimed at achieving a sustainable society. Promotion framework for environmental activities The Unicharm Group's environmental activities are considered to be an important part of its quality assurance program as we deal largely with consumer products. The Group's environmental activities have been implemented primarily by the Global Quality Assurance Department under the responsibility of the CQO* led by the CSR Committee chaired by the Group's President. In FY 2015 we established our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Division by merging our Global Quality Assurance and CSR Departments, in order to further promote environmental activities. While aiming to integrate ISO14001 and ISO9001, each Group company seeks further improvement by employing the PDCA cycle in carrying out gate control and KPI management as a part of day-to-day business processes. *CQO : Chief Quality Officer ■ Environmental Management Structure 36 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with the Global Environment > Promotion Framework for Environmental Activities Environmental management in conformance with ISO 14001 In order to improve our environmental performance, Unicharm has introduced ISO 14001. We have been promoting continuous improvement in accordance with EMS (Environmental Management System) activities in FY2015. ■ ISO14001 Certification at the Unicharm Group Business site Initial Certification Date Certificated by Unicharm and Unicharm Products October 17, 1997 JQA Unicharm Kokko Nonwoven February 15, 2002 JQA Thailand Factory November 14, 2003 JQA Taiwan Factory December 1, 2003 SGS Mie Factory, Unicharm Pet Care Company September 3, 2004 JQA Itami Office, Unicharm Pet Care Company March 4, 2005 JQA Uni Care June 3, 2005 JQA Shanghai Factory January 29, 2008 ZDHY Indonesia No.1 and No.2 Plants April 19, 2011 URS LG Unicharm and Factory July 11, 2011 KSA Tianjin Factory May 7, 2015 ZDHY Jiangsu Factory December 15, 2015 ZDHY Environmental audits for risk management and enhancing performance Unicharm conducts three types of environmental audits in order to eliminate environmental risks and enhance environmental performance. These include target-focused audits such as: (1) periodic audits in conformance with ISO 14001-compliant environmental management systems; (2) onsite confirmations at industrial waste processing partners; and (3) confirmation of compliance with laws and regulations. In addition, operational audits performed by the Management Auditing Department confirm the status of waste treatment at sales offices that are not covered by an environmental management system. 37 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with the Global Environment > Environmental Impact and Environmental Goals Environmental Impact and Environmental Goals Monitoring the environmental impact of products during the entire lifecycle As a manufacturer of consumer products, Unicharm uses resources in various aspects of its business activities. As a responsible manufacturer that utilizes resources, we engage in efforts to improve the environment at every stage of the supply chain through all of our business activities, from the procurement of materials to manufacturing, transport, and disposal of products after use. 38 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with the Global Environment > Environmental Impact and Environmental Goals Environmental Activity Themes and Goals Environmental Initiatives through Our Products Unicharm has set a target ratio for environmentally friendly ■ System for environmentally friendly products products as part of its measures to promote the development of environmentally friendly products.. Products with improved environmental performance are defined as environmentally friendly products based on an evaluation of whether environmental impacts are successfully reduced within the life cycle from the baseline figures of FY2005. For FY2015, we set a goal of 70% environmentally friendly products* and achieved this goal by reaching 72%. In FY2016, we will work to further ■ An example of Eco Charming products increase this percentage. Starting in FY2013, we began regularly confirming the eco-friendliness of products under development during each stage of the process, beginning with the design. Additionally, Eco Charming products are a further evolved version of environmentally friendly products defined as top tier products that help contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. As of today, a total of 58 items fulfill this definition and have come to bear this label. *Percentage within personal care products sold in Japan excluding OEM items ■ Example Sanitary Product Sofy Ultra-Sound-Sleep Best-Fit Slim, a newly released product from the Sofy Ultra-Sound-Sleep brand of nighttime sanitary napkins, features two-thirds the thickness of the ordinary Sofy Ultra-Sound-Sleep Guard. This means the product weighs 84.0% of conventional products and as a result CO2 emissions from manufacturing and distribution processes are 82.4% of usual. Sofy Ultra-Sound-Sleep Best-Fit Slim 39 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with the Global Environment > Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming Energy conservation activities at our production sites Unicharm's production sites hold 6 energy conservation meetings each year, in order to achieve our energy conservation goal of a 1% reduction in CO2 emissions from the previous year. Personnel in charge of energy conservation at each production site join the meeting to consider various measures through a number of discussions and case studies. We, as a group, strive to achieve our energy conservation goal by employing the PDCA cycle, such as sharing information at meetings, implementing measures at each production site, and reporting the performance outcomes. Initiatives to lower CO2 emissions through the supply chain The Unicharm Group (in Japan) estimated its CO2 emissions according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol*, the standard for calculating greenhouse gases (GHG) most widely used in the world today. The GHG Protocol includes the 15 items of indirect CO2 emissions in the newly released scope 3, in addition to scope 1 (direct emissions from owned or controlled sources) and scope 2 (indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy). The results of calculations following this standard indicate that 40% of Unicharm's emissions are from materials procurement and 29% from the disposal of products after use. Going forward, based on these results, we will continue to work toward reducing CO2 emissions of purchased materials through the greater use of environmentally friendly products and reducing CO2 emissions at the time of disposal after product use. * In 1998, the GHG Protocol Initiative was established as a meeting for developing standards of calculating and reporting GHG primarily by the World Resources Institute (WRI), an environmental NGO based in the United States, and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, comprising 200 multinational corporations. In 2001, version one of the GHG Protocol was established and since then this approach to GHG calculation has become a worldwide standard. 40 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with the Global Environment > Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming ■ CO2 emission trends by scope Scope Category Emissions (thousand t-CO2) Scope1 32 Scope2 135 Scope3 1 Purchased goods and services 523 2 Capital goods 178 3 Fueland energy-related activities 3 4 Upstream transportation and distribution 33 5 Waste generated in operations 1 6 Business travel (not calculated) 7 Employee commuting 1 8 Upstream leased assets 2 9 Downstream transportation and distribution (not applicable) 10 Post-processing of sold products (not applicable) 11 Use of sold products (not applicable) 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products 376 13 Downstream leased assets (not applicable) 14 Franchises (not applicable) 15 Investments (not applicable) Scope 3 Total 1,118 Scope 1, 2 and 3 total: 1,285 Evaluated by CDP Japan 500 for disclosure of climate change information Unicharm cooperates with a survey of 500 companies selected for their inclusion in the FTSE Japan Index as part of its efforts to address CDP* climate change. In FY2015, Unicharm received a disclosure score (disclosure level) of 96 out of 100 and a performance class (activity level) of B. This indicates that the PDCA cycle for climate change is functioning at a high level to address the Unicharm Group's overall efforts. Unicharm was also recognized for moving forward with information disclosures to shareholders. Going forward, Unicharm will continue to carry out activities that are even more mindful of climate change. * Carbon Disclosure Project: An international NGO that works to realize a sustainable society by conducting global surveys on the environment and by disclosing information. Commendation of initiatives aimed at establishing a low-carbon society The Low-Carbon Cup is a program for commending activities of various organizations for preventing global warming in an attempt to build a low-carbon society for the next generation. The program shares know-how and information about excellent initiatives taking place across Japan and fosters cooperation and motivation for further activities. The year 2015 marked the sixth year of the program. As a partner that advocates for the initiatives of the Low-Carbon Cup, Unicharm established the Unicharm Eco Charming Award for Excellence to be presented to companies or organizations. There were 38 organization finalists for the Low-Carbon Cup 2016. Based on the results of screenings of their presentations, the Chiba University Environmental ISO Student Council was awarded the Unicharm Eco Charming Award for Excellence for its activities to operate an environmental management system for the university led by students. 41 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with the Global Environment > Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming [China] Participating in the Shanghai Emissions Trading System to help prevent global warming A trial emissions trading system was launched in Shanghai under China's environmental protection plan aimed at realizing a low-carbon society. Uni-Charm Consumer Products (China) Co., Ltd. (UCCP), our local subsidiary in China, participated in the trial carbon trading scheme along with 191 other companies as a member of society working toward the goal of a low-carbon society. UCCP, as a participating company of the trial emissions trading exchange, actively rolled out related efforts in response to the government's call for unification. Specifically, the company proactively took part in training on reducing CO2 emissions, cooperated with carbon emission inspections carried out by the government and is further enhancing its activity level. In FY2015, CO2 emissions were reduced by 31,000 tons and sold. [Thailand] Initiatives to reduce waste at production site Unicharm Thailand, an overseas subsidiary of Unicharm Corporation, installed facilities to crush and separate irregular products from the production process, with more than 90% of the waste generated at the site being recycled for use in absorbent materials for pets, etc. [Japan] Hosted booth at the Eco-Products 2015 Eco-Products is Japan's largest environmental exhibition held at Tokyo Big Site in December 2015 for which Unicharm hosted a booth for 10 consecutive years. In 2015, the Unicharm booth focused on our recycling system for used disposable diapers*. We welcomed a large number of event goers, including officials from local governments and many other stakeholders and we are proud to be able to have them deepen their understanding about Unicharm's initiatives for the environment. * Please see Feature Topic 3 for additional details about our recycling system for used disposable diapers. 42 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with the Global Environment > Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Impacts Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Impacts Unicharm's management of chemical substances Unicharm has established measures to control its use of chemical substances that are harmful not only to people, but ecosystems as well. We have established guidelines for preventing the use of chemical substances that are harmful to people or ecosystems in the materials procurement stage and a dedicated department investigates the chemicals we use in terms of hazards and legal compliance. We have established a gate function during the development stage and conduct risk assessments that take into account the various usage conditions and disposable methods not only in Japan, but overseas as well. Initiatives for Biodiversity Initiatives for Biodiversity Given the rising risk of climate change in recent years, Unicharm is working to mitigate its environmental impacts and conserve the environment aimed at the establishment of a sustainable society. At the same time, Unicharm is implementing efforts to manage its supply chain with an eye on biodiversity. Unicharm is working toward the goal of purchasing only sustainable raw materials or recycled paper for the paper and pulp used in its absorption products by the year 2020. In 2015, Unicharm formulated and began implementation of the Forest-derived Raw Materials Procurement Guidelines. We also completed the changeover in raw materials for pulp and tissue used in absorption products for the Japan market to certified materials, such as 100% FSC®/PEFC or materials for which the origin is certified. 43 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with the Global Environment > Initiatives for Biodiversity Forest-derived Raw Materials Procurement Guidelines Introduction Recognizing the seriousness of the environmental issues that have emerged in recent years, including the impact of global warming and loss of biodiversity, etc., Unicharm Corporation aims to realize procurement of sustainable raw materials. Being fully aware that our business operations are dependent on natural resources, we support procurement models that do not involve destruction of forests. Strategy With climate change related risk having risen significantly in recent years, besides striving to reduce the burden placed on the environment, and to safeguard the environment, Unicharm is also making a serious effort to promote supply chain management that takes biodiversity into account, in line with the goal of building a sustainable society. To this end, Unicharm is working to safeguard natural resources through the company's Basic Environmental Policy*1 and CSR procurement guidelines*2, and is seeking to protect biodiversity through the formulation of the company's Forest-derived Raw Materials Procurement Guidelines. *1 Basic Environmental Policy: As a company that engages in the manufacture and sale of disposable products, we recognize the extent of our responsibility to the environment. Through our corporate activities we strive to create environmentally friendly products so that we may in the future pass on a beautiful earth to future generations. We are committed to providing goods and services that bring comfort, excitement, and joy to people throughout the world and we are determined to realize the sustainable development of a society that achieves a balance between environmental conservation and economic growth. *CSR procurement guidelines (extracts relating specifically to environmental matters): (1) Value corporations who understand the importance of, and promote environmental conservation in purchasing activities. (2) Emphasize environmentally friendly raw materials in purchasing activities in an effort to achieve a recyclingoriented society. Objectives By 2020, Unicharm aims to be using raw materials that take the needs of sustainability into account, and recycled materials, for the paper and pulp used in the company's absorbent products. When using virgin pulp (as opposed to waste paper or recycled pulp), Unicharm will collaborate with suppliers to fully verify that no damage is caused to forest resources. More specifically, Unicharm will check that all virgin pulp purchased is certified by reputable third parties such as the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC) or the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes (PEFC), or else has a certificate of origin confirming that it does not derive from High Conservation Value Forests (HCVF). Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) activities, and is striving to promote the utilization of sustainable forest resources. 44 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with the Global Environment > Initiatives for Biodiversity Action Guideline 1. Giving priority to the use of waste paper, recycled pulp, and mill broke (paper trimmings and scrap generated during the paper manufacturing process). 2. Prioritizing the use of forest resources certified by reputable third parties such as the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) or the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes (PEFC). 3. In the case of forest resources for which third-party certification is not available, certificates of origin, tags etc. are used to verify that the resources in question are not logged from High Conservation Value Forests (HCVF); Unicharm strives to promote the creation of supply chains which ensure that: (In regard to environmental issues): There is a guarantee that no damage is caused to forests; (In regard to social issues): The human rights of workers and indigenous residents are protected; (In regard to compliance): Local laws and regulations are respected and complied with. Terms FSC Forest Stewardship Council https://jp.fsc.org/jp-jp PEFC Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes http://www.pefcasia.org/japan/ HCVF High Conservaiton Value Forests http://www.wwf.or.jp/activities/2009/09/701514.htm JBIB Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity http://jbib.org/ http://www.wwf.or.jp/activities/2009/09/701514.htm Initiatives of the Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) Unicharm is an advocate of the approach taken by the Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB)*, chaired by Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. and has participated as a network member since 2009. Starting in FY2015, Unicharm has participated in the JBIB's various research bodies as an official member in an effort to engage and collaborate with stakeholders in the field of biodiversity conservation. * http://jbib.org/ 45 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with Our Employees > View Concerning Human Resources and Respect for Human Rights Along with Our Employees View Concerning Human Resources and Respect for Human Rights Human Resource Philosophy At Unicharm we value the autonomy of each and every individual, based on Unicharm's “Beliefs and Pledges” and Corporate Principles of Action. We endeavor to provide fair opportunities for our employees to find fulfillment in their work and to create a corporate culture that fosters the development of confidence and pride. 46 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with Our Employees > View Concerning Human Resources and Respect for Human Rights ■ Human resources data ( ① : Total group, ② : Group companies in Japan, ⑪ ⑬ employees on the payroll of Unicharm or Unicharm Products, Others: employees on the payroll of Unicharm) Index Unit FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Employment ① Number of employees (consolidated) Persons 12,795 13,901 15,498 ② Number of employees (Japan) Persons 2,994 2,994 2,974 Asia(excluding Japan) Persons 7,774 8,618 9,686 Other Persons 2,027 2,289 2,838 ③ Average age of employees Age 40.7 40.6 40.9 ④ Employees turnover rate (Excluding retirement at the % 1.7 1.2 2.1 mandatory age, promotion to board member, and transfer within the group) Diversity, ⑤ Percentage of female employees % 16.7 17.2 17.4 Equal Opportunity and Occupational ⑥ Percentage of female management staff % 4.9 4.8 4.7 Safety and Health ⑦ Employment rate of persons with disabilities (annual % 1.8 2.1 1.9 average) ⑧ Rehiring rate of retired employees % 79 83 76 ⑨ Health check-up rate % 100 100 100 ⑩ Employee turnover rate for pregnancy or childcare % 0 0 0 ⑪ Use of childcare leave system Total number of Persons 55 55 61 men and women ⑫ Use of family-care leave system Total number of Persons 3 0 1 men and women ⑬ Use of shortened work hours Total number of Persons 46 39 39 system for childcare men and women ⑭ Use of flextime system for Total number of Persons 58 57 68 personal lifestyle support men and women *1 As of March 31, FY2013; as of December 31, FY2014 and subsequent years *2 ⑪ – ⑬ ; permanent and contract employees. Others permanent employees. *3; ④ Employee turnover rate = Number of terminated employees (except for retirement at mandatory retirement age, promotion to board members or transfer within the group) / Number of employees at the end of each fiscal year (March 31 or December 31) *4 ⑥ Percentage of female management staff = Number of female management staff / Total number of management staff *5 ⑧ Rehiring rate of retired employees = Number of rehired employees /Number of retired employees (at mandatory retirement age) Our view of human rights As the “Unicharm Group Action Guidelines” clearly state, in order to achieve our “Pledge to Associates” we will never discriminate against people based on race, religion, gender, family background, disability, or any other factors; that we will not tolerate child labor or forced labor; that we will never engage in acts of sexual harassment or power harassment; and that we will undertake comprehensive safety and health management in the workplace. 47 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with Our Employees > View Concerning Human Resources and Respect for Human Rights SAPS methodology: Emphasis on respect for people and a sense of accomplishment The purpose of the SAPS methodology, which has been in operation at Unicharm since 2004, is to make our employees utilize their precious time more effectively and spend their life with happiness by focusing their time and activities on high-priority (value-added) issues. In order to make that happen, we get together as a company-wide group to work on and implement the 6 key essentials of the SAPS methodology based on which we aim at respecting the independence of individuals having diverse values and bringing out each other's capability so that we can share the joy of growth of the organization as a whole. Through SAPS methodology, we proceed toward the realization of “wealth in three aspects”: “aspiration,” “economy,” and “mind and body.” ■ Six essentials of SAPS methodology 1 Respect for people 2 Emphasis on a sense of accomplishment 3 Emphasis on time competitiveness (Time-based management) 4 Knowledge management 5 Emphasis on curiosity and entrepreneurship 6 Mentality change Employee survey We conducted “employee surveys” twice a year at all group companies in Japan and overseas, in order to verify employees' satisfaction/fulfillment and sense of accomplishment. This sequential surveying enables us to implement various measures in management and human resources, and also encourages employees and organizational operations to be more proactive. 48 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with Our Employees > View Concerning Human Resources and Respect for Human Rights Global expansion of management with resonance The President's Award Unicharm established the “President’s Award” which may be awarded to any employee, both Japan and overseas to recognize any individual or team that has achieved outstanding results through promoting SAPS methodology based on our philosophy of management with resonance. In a presentation that is broadcasted to about 60 locations worldwide via video-conference, honorees share their successful result for the year with more than 2,000 employees. The “President’s Award” is more than an employee awards program and works systemically and broadly to promote leadership development through providing opportunities to simulate good practices and encourage both presenters and participants to learn from each other. In 2015, two teams received the Gold Prize for the Group Award. In addition, an employee was also presented with a Gold Prize for the Individual Award, too, for the very first time. ⃝ The President's Award 2015, Winner of “Gold Prize for the Group Award and the Individuals Award” Taiwan I'm very happy to have been recognized with the Gold Prize. However, I'm never satisfied with “now,” so I'll be working to boost my performance still further in the future. I plan on working closely with my team members in an effort to differentiate Unicharm from others players and overcome even greater hurdles that stand in front of us. Shao-yi Yang Institutional Development Dept. Sales Division United Charm Co., Ltd. (Taiwan) India I'm very thankful to my colleagues in India. Without them, I would not have been able to receive this Gold Prize, which is one level up from the Silver I won the previous time. I look forward to clearing all of UC India's targets and contributing to the realization of the ninth Medium-Term Management Plan. Ishwar Mehra Rajasthan / Haryana Traditional Trade Team Unicharm India Sales Division Taiwan I'm really happy, but also very surprised, to be recognized with the Gold Prize for Individuals. I'm very thankful to my colleagues who were there to guide and support me. I plan to devote myself further in the future toward achieving even greater results. Yijiun Kuo Marketing Strategy Dept. Marketing Division United Charm Co., Ltd.(Taiwan) 49 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with Our Employees > Personnel Utilization and Training Personnel Utilization and Training Expansion of education and training programs We have a skills-enhancing program that consists of understanding our SAPS methodology and practical skills improvement. ■ Our distinctive training programs (excerpt) Title Summary Training for (1) Transitioning from student life to working life (rewiring) new employees (2) Deepening employees understanding of the “3 DNAs”of Unicharm (3) First-hand experience and understanding of the three aspects of actual work sites (manufacture, purchase and use) and recognizing and persisting in developing a “consumer-oriented mindset.” (4) Understanding the SAPS methodology (5) Experiencing the importance of working as an organization (team selling), and understanding Unicharm's persistent emphasis on “target oriented” and “target achievement” approaches (6) Creating your own “10-year career vision and plan” Training at all levels, Training is carried out for people in keeping with their respective levels, ages and roles. All training ages and roles is based on understanding our SAPS methodology and improving practical skills, providing opportunities and places to enhance the ability to think and take action. SAPS Trainer's CAMP An upskilling program of knowledge and technology for “leaders/educators” in order to practice and spread “SAPS methodology” for “management with resonance.” Unicharm Spirits Masters A workshop program for veteran employees in their early fifties to develop action plans by utilizing their accumulated insights and skills in order to demonstrate their powers of execution and foster younger employees. Overseas Business Trip By accompanying senior members on overseas business trips, participants have the opportunity to Accompanying Program observe and learn about the thoughts and actions of senior management members. Ten-year career vision Provides employees with the tools and a system for designing and developing individualized 10and plan year career plans, and for completing their own action plans. The tools can also be used for communication with management, in order to support each employee in achieving her/his own goals. Workplace Exchange A cooperative training program established by several companies for the purpose of allowing Workshop participants to enhance their own skills and improve their own issues & weaknesses. Interaction with participants from other companies is expected to provide all participants with inspiration and insights that may not be available within a single workplace. Training program for This training program helps employees prepare for their post-overseas transfer and develop their employees posted overseas mindset so they can rapidly assume their duties in the new environment and achieve results. 50 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with Our Employees > Respect for Diversity Respect for Diversity Various support systems We are committed to always improving our work environment so that each and every employee can work to the best of their abilities. ■ Various support systems to respect diversity System Eligible people Summary Birth Support Leave Program Employees who undergoing fertility Leave for advanced fertility treatment (up to 1 year) treatment Shortened work hours system For employees who have a child/children up Working hours can be shortened to 5 hours a day for childcare to the third year of elementary school Nursing-care leave For employees who have family member(s) By application, up to 5 days leave/year is available in need of continuous nursing care for for one family member, up to 10 days leave/year more than 2 weeks as a result of injury, for 2 or more family members who require nursingsicknesses, or physical or mental disorders. care. Career Recovery System Former Unicharm employees who worked They are eligible for re-employment within a fivefor more than 3 years and resigned from year period (from time of resignation), provided that employment for various reasons such as both the former employee and the company reach a marriage, pregnancy, childbirth, childrearing, certain agreement. nursing-care, or accompanying spouses on business transfers. Civic duties leave Employees who are selected as citizenThe required number of days leave to appear in judges court as a citizen-judge is available by application. Bone marrow donors leave Employees who wish to donate their bone Up to 7 business days leave per 1 donation of bone marrow marrow available by application, for the procedures required for donation to a patient in the working country (except for donor registration). Employment of people with disabilities We aim to proactively employ personnel with disabilities who are well motivated and provide them with a workplace where they are also able to fully exercise their abilities and promote their desire to grow. More than anything else, we expect proper outcomes from employees with disabilities by setting appropriate goals in accordance with their respective abilities and desires and promote a corporate cultural environment free of barriers in all respects for enjoying the feeling of accomplishment as a team. 51 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with Our Employees > Respect for Diversity Initiatives for balancing work and childcare Aiming to create an environment that supports both childcare and work, our childcare leave program allows employees to take up to two years of childcare leave. Childcare leave taken before and after pregnancy is treated as paid vacation, while employees with accumulated paid vacation days at the start of their childcare leave can use up to 15 of these days to receive their normal pay and help reduce their burden from birth and childcare. Additionally, we also brief male employees whose wife has had a baby and their supervisors on our childcare leave programs and structure to encourage them to take leave, with the results of these efforts monitored. In 2015, we earned the right to use the Platinum Kurumin logo mark as a company with excellent child care support practices. With this certification as further motivation, we will continue to take further steps toward creating a secure workplace for employees free of worry. Hiring of pregnant women Unicharm newly implemented the Fresh-Mom Recruitment program for hiring new female graduates from FY2015. Women who have expressed an interest in working for Unicharm but are hesitant to accept because they are pregnant or unsure can take part in the Fresh-Mom Recruitment program to delay joining the company up until the age of 30. Unicharm Family Plant Visit Days Unicharm holds Family Visit Days at all of our plants both in Japan and overseas, to welcome the families of employees for a tour of the plant. We received comments from participants, such as “I was impressed by how quickly production of the various products was completed,” as well as from employees, such as “I was happy to show my family my working site.” Shikoku Factory Shizuoka Factory Fukushima Factory Charming Voice (Suggestion System) The Charming Voice suggestion system is a mechanism that allows any employee to have their voice heard by management at any time. Since its start in FY2011, Charming Voice has been one way for us to realize “management with resonance” by utilizing the wisdom, enthusiasm and hopes of front-line people. It serves as an opportunity to promote communication with top management through suggestions to improve quality, service, efficiency and costtrimming, and leads to the development of self-reliant employees. Dialogue between labor and management We place a great deal of value on mutual trust between labor and management, and hold regular monthly discussions between the company and labor union. Depending on the details of these discussions, we also hold irregular meetings in addition to monthly meetings. In FY2015, we held talks about reducing overtime work, employee benefit programs, and health management measures, among other issues, and continued with efforts to foster workplaces that are employee-friendly and provide motivation to employees. 52 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with Our Employees > Industrial Health and Safety Industrial Health and Safety Company-wide safety conventions We hold company-wide safety conventions as part of our efforts to ensure employee safety. The 13th convention was held in 2015 at the Central Plant, Shikoku factory, Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. Mr. Ishikawa, president of Unicharm Products Co., Ltd., presented the company's wish for the safety of all employees is embodied in the “Sazareishi monument” to all the factories. The 13th company-wide safety convention,Unicharm Products, Co., Ltd. Health and Safety Committee Unicharm's “Health and Safety Committee” consists of industrial doctors and elected commissioners from the company and the labor union. The Committee implements various activities once a month, including activities related to improving the working environment and preventing work related accidents. As ways of well-modulated working, we also promote no-overtime days that are held monthly in order to reduce overtime work by 10% compared to last year and reduced working hours that are achieved by creating and monitoring weekly work plans with priority ranking of assignments. Promoting employee health To ensure a high level of productivity both physically and mentally, we proactively carried out health checkups for employees and 100% of employees had received one which resulted in FY2015. To shift health management practices from treatment to prevention oriented, we initiated a health management training session for employees in their 30s to convey the importance of changing lifestyle habits from an early stage and being more health conscious. Furthermore, on January 1,2016, we completely banned smoking across the A seminar of the lifestyle modification entire company. program We also introduced an employee support program by which our employees and their families can consult with external counselors about their worries and troubles, in order to facilitate their realization of fulfilling and healthy lives without worries. 53 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with the Society > Our Attitude toward Social Contributions Along with the Society Our Attitude toward Social Contributions Our attitude toward social contributions Unicharm believes that its business activities have a highly positive impact on society. We feel a strong sense of pride and joy in providing comfort, emotion and pleasure to people not only in Japan, but also in Asia and other parts of the world. Through our involvement in a variety of social contribution activities directly related to our business, we are working to become a company that makes contributions to the countries in which we operate and one that is welcomed and trusted by people in these locales. 54 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with the Society > Making Contributions to Society through Our Core Business Making Contributions to Society through Our Core Business Continuous participation on Pink Ribbon activities in Japan and overseas Pink Ribbon activities help to raise awareness around the world about the early detection, early diagnosis and early treatment of breast cancer. Unicharm assists with these activities in Japan, China and Taiwan. Employees of United Charm Co., Ltd. (Taiwan) and their families, representing 80 individuals, have participated every year in the annual Pink Ribbon Walk held in Taipei for four consecutive years. Every participant takes great pride in the fact that the company is a sponsor of Pink Ribbon activities in support of breast cancer prevention. In Japan, Unicharm is now in its eighth year of supporting Pink Ribbon activities. A total of 52 employees took part in the Pink Ribbon Smile Walk Tokyo Event held in October 2015. Participants agreed that walking from Roppongi to the Omotesando and Harajuku area allowed them to have people from various age groups learn about the event. Also, Unicharm organized the Sofy Pink Ribbon Quiz Fund once again in 2015. The quiz was created for participants to learn about the importance of regular screenings for preventing breast cancer, with donations made to relevant organizations based on the number of people taking the quiz. ■ Pink Ribbon activities in Asia 日日Japan本本 Pink Ribbon Smile Walk Tokyo Pink Ribbon limited edition product Sofy Sofy Pink Ribbon Quiz Fund Body Fit 日日Taiwan本 Pink Ribbon Walk 55 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with the Society > Community-based Social Contribution Activities (Japan) Community-based Social Contribution Activities (Japan) Shizuoka Factory participated in spring time nationwide traffic safety campaign The Shizuoka Factory participated in a traffic safety campaign along the road near the premises where elementary school students walk to school in order to foster understanding of proper traffic rules and etiquette among elementary school students as part of a spring time nationwide traffic safety campaign. This year the campaign focused on the theme of preventing traffic accidents involving children and seniors, providing instructions to children to ensure they follow traffic rules and walk to school safely. We have taken part in this initiative since 2004 as part of our contribution activities for local communities. Sponsored project to provide paper diapers to the City of Shikokuchuo Shikokuchuo City is considered to be one of Japan's largest paper producing areas. Unicharm is helping to sponsor local initiatives to assist children here as part of a public-private partnership initiated by the city government. Through this initiative, families in the city raising a child below the age of one receive a childcare support voucher they can use to redeem for MamyPoko and Moony products Childcare support voucher free of charge. Unicharm actively supports the city's efforts to promote the local production and local consumption of paper products as a means to easing the burden placed on families and encouraging the healthy development of children. Participated Childcare Festa 2015 in Shikokuchuo City Unicharm Products and Unicharm Kokko Nonwoven participated in “Childcare Festa”, a child raising festival held by the city of Shikokuchuo in October 2015. In keeping with the festival's slogan, “The Best Place to Raise a Child in Shikoku,” this event provides an opportunity for parents and children to interact with one another and to promote a good childcare environment. Two companies operated a miniature steam locomotive and distributed pamphlets about the Pink Ribbon Campaign and breast cancer awareness. 56 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with the Society > Community-based Social Contribution Activities (Overseas) Community-based Social Contribution Activities (Overseas) [South Korea] Donated MamyPoko disposable diapers for low birth-weight infants In October 2015, we donated MamyPoko disposable diapers for low birthweight infants to hospitals through a partnership with Areumdaun Foundation, South Korea's first civic-led public interest foundation. The foundation setup the Low Birth-Weight Infant Support Secretariat, which works on providing aid to defray treatment costs for babies born with a low birth weight. The disposable diapers were given to four hospitals in Seoul where they are being used by the intensive care units for newborn babies. Head of the foundation, Park, said, “This was the foundation's first-ever donation of disposable diapers. I believe these diapers for low birth-weight infants benefited the babies and mothers alike.” [Vietnam] Provided products to communities hit by torrential rains Unicharm worked with the local people's committee to donate sanitary napkins, disposable diapers and other Unicharm products to people living in Cam Pha City, which was seriously damaged by persistent torrential rains from the beginning of August 2015. A woman whose home was flooded during the rains said, “We lost everything and had to rebuild our home. I am very grateful for receiving assistance in the form of daily essentials.” [Indonesia] Visit to a foster home Our orphanage visits in Indonesia are now in their twelfth year. These visits were initiated in order to interact with babies and children who require social assistance. In conjunction with the anniversary of our local subsidiary in Indonesia, 70 employees visited two separate orphanages in August 2015 where they met with 150 children. The employees presented monetary donations and Unicharm products. 57 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with the Society > Community-based Social Contribution Activities (Overseas) [Taiwan] Carried out social contribution activities in commemoration of the company's 30th anniversary in Taiwan In commemoration of Unicharm's 30th anniversary in Taiwan, the final Friday in November has been designated “Public Interest Day” in an effort to get the entire company in Taiwan involved in social contribution activities. On the first Public Welfare Day, employees paid a visit to seven facilities providing care and assistance to seniors or people with disabilities. Employees took part in volunteer activities that included helping prepare meals, clean around the facility, as well as accompanying residents on walks and shopping. [China] Ongoing continence-support presentation for students We have held lectures and practical hands-on learning sessions at the Old Age Service Management Department of Shaanxi Labor College every year since 2012. Senior Researcher Funatsu from the Unicharm Continence Care Research Center served as the instructor for the lecture and practical learning session on continence care. During these opportunities, Funatsu talked about what is needed by caregivers in order to improve the quality of life of patients and their families as well as how to care and assess the individual issues of incontinence, constipation, skincare and independent continence support. During the hands-on learning session, Funatsu showed students how to select and use disposable adult diapers. The theme of the presentation focused on rehabilitation aimed at independence and how to utilize disposable diapers as part of a support regimen for independent continence. 58 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with Our Business Partners >Approach to Materials Procurement Along with Our Business Partners Approach to Materials Procurement Approach to Materials Procurement We strive to foster fair and equitable partnerships with all business partners and share Unicharm's philosophy, specific activities, and requests for cooperation regarding safety and the environment through close-knit collaboration. At our overseas locations, we are working to roll out best practices from Japan given more rigorous changes in awareness and regulations on safety and the environment. We are also gathering information through our business activities closely rooted in the local market and promoting materials procurement closely in tune with the local market as well. Our goal is business relationships that fulfill the quality, functionality, safety, environmental and service requirements of product lines in overseas markets. In addition to promoting procurement activities with a particular emphasis on crisis management, going forward, we aim to establish a sound understanding and dissemination of Unicharm's stance toward procurement and view on compliance with laws and social imperatives and extending due consideration to human rights and labor when we commence trading with new overseas partners. We also call for the cooperation of existing partners in environmental and ethical areas. Promoting CSR Procurement Promoting CSR Procurement We established CSR procurement guidelines and implemented them in 2009. The guidelines incorporate provisions relating to applicable laws, human rights, industrial relations, environment, and product safety, such as “the abolition of child labor,” “the elimination of discrimination,” and “the promotion of measures against global warming,” as stated in the U.N. Global Compact. Up until now we have carried out briefings in China, Thailand, Indonesia, Taiwan and South Korea in an effort to share our CSR Procurement Guidelines with all business partners in these countries as well as in Japan. In 2015, we newly established and implemented guidelines on the procurement of forest-derived materials as part of our commitment to reinforce initiatives for realizing a more sustainable society. Through the Quality Briefing Session and other venues, we share the importance of CSR procurement, issues and detailed initiatives while continually asking for cooperation to ensure CSR is practiced across the entire supply chain. 59 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with Our Business Partners >Initiatives to Improve Quality Initiatives to Improve Quality Initiatives to Improve Quality In November 2014, the 11th Quality Policy Briefing Session was held for suppliers of Unicharm Products in Japan in order to explain Unicharm's efforts to improve materials quality, including management policies, business results, the most recent status of materials quality, and important initiatives and issues as well as direction of quality improvement inclusive of safety and reduction of environmental impacts. In 2015, we initiated activities to share our approach to quality with individual business partners and activities to exchange views on quality improvement initiatives in close coordination. In 2015, we visited around 30% of our business partners. Over the next three years we Quality Policy Briefing Session in Japan will carry out similar activities at the remaining 70% of our business partners in order to promote further efforts to improve quality. Additionally, the 3rd Quality Policy Briefing Session was held in China in September 2014. As with our efforts in Japan, we are working on quality improvements together with our local suppliers. Quality Policy Briefing Session in China 60 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Along with Shareholders and Investors Along with Shareholders and Investors Our basic policy on profit returns to our shareholders The “Beliefs and Pledges” and Corporate Principles of Action outlined ■ Dividend payout amounts in the Unicharm Group’s Action Guidelines constitute our pledge to our shareholders. Our Corporate Principles of Action clearly state that, “We will strive to manage the company in a way that will maintain a level of growth corresponding to our shareholders' confidence, and that will enable us to distribute industry-leading returns to shareholders.” Based on our Corporate Principles of Action, we ensure stable and continuous return on investment, as well as improvement of our business performance. Our basic guidelines for return on investment are to implement stable and continuous returns while also investing in our own midand long-term business expansion. We distributed 7.4 yen per share (after the share split) in the fiscal year ending in December 2015 and have achieved dividend increase for 14 consecutive fiscal years. Additionally, we have bought back some 5.48 million shares worth approximately 13 billion yen in an effort to enhance the total return of shareholders. We will continuously view shareholder return as an important management agenda and will strive to realize the distribution of industry-leading returns with continuous improvement of our business performance. Information disclosure for our investors We opened investor relations pages on our websites to post disclosure information including brief notes on the settlement of accounts and financial statements. At the same time, we post English translations of important information on our English site to disclose information for overseas investors. Starting in FY2015, Unicharm's integrated report was published on this website in order to introduce useful information about the company to investors in a concise and easy-to-understand manner. This initiative was highly recognized by the Universal Design Communication Association with an award for ease of understanding at the UCDA Awards 2015. We also position result briefings and overseas IR tours as important venues for dialogue among company executives and our investors, and strive to improve the disclosure of information in order to help investors to better understand our business activities. Takahisa Takahara, the president of the company, visited the corporate investors in North America on this year’s overseas IR tour, where he made an appeal for our future growth by directly referencing the security of our stable profits in domestic business in Japan and detailing Unicharm’s mid-to long-term global growth potential. Furthermore, we continue to organize individual meetings for institutional investors and securities analysts to foster greater communication. Information for investors Results briefing Overseas IR tours on our website Listed in the SRI Index Unicharm is included in the major international SRI (Socially Responsible Investment) indexes “FTSE4Good Index Series” and “Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI)”. (as of December 31, 2015) FTSE4Good Index Morningstar Socially ReSeries sponsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) 61 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Management > Corporate Governance Management Corporate Governance Unicharm strives to pursue proper corporate management through the Unicharm Ideals. We aim to secure the support and trust of society by delivering sustainable growth and long-term corporate value through business activities based on close cooperation between management and executive divisions, and by working closely and appropriately with all our stakeholders. In 1999, we introduced an executive officer system to separate management oversight and executive functions, and in May 2015 we moved to a “company with audit and supervisory committee” governance structure to meet the expectations of all our stakeholders in Japan and overseas from a global perspective. This new system has strengthened oversight of the executive functions of the Board of Directors and brought outside directors into the management process to increase transparency and efficiency. Under this structure, members of the independent Audit and Supervisory Committee have voting rights on the Board of Directors and the committee actively uses the Company's internal control system to carry out audit. This has strengthened audit and oversight of management by external people, helping to create a corporate culture and climate spirit based on compliance, appropriate collaborative relationships with stakeholders and sound business ethics. All this underpins our fundamental stance on corporate governance as a global company: conduct business activities balanced between growth and discipline. Our internal control system The Unicharm Group formulated its Basic Policy for Establishing an Internal Control System in accordance with the Companies Act and established an Internal Control Committee to respond to the Internal Control and Reporting System (JSOX) of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. The Internal Control Committee conducts an annual reassessment of risks for each company in the Unicharm Group, reviews target countries for J-SOX assessment and revises the scope of business processes requiring evaluation. At the same time, the committee works to improve the reliability of financial reporting by promoting the establishment and operation of an internal control system and effective assessments. We are making ongoing improvements to this internal control system from a global perspective by taking into account regulatory developments in countries overseas where the Group operates. ■ Corporate Governance System (as of March 31, 2016) 62 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Management > Compliance Compliance Our attitude towards compliance Our management policy is expressed in the Unicharm Ideals, which state: “we strive to pursue proper corporate management principles which combine corporate growth, associate well-being and the fulfillment of our social responsibilities.” Initiatives to raise compliance awareness Unicharm has created a booklet called The Unicharm Way, which includes the Group's Code of Conduct and other important compliance documents. The booklet forms the basis of our compliance system and is designed to remind all directors and employees to hold themselves to the highest ethical standards and comply with all rules and regulations. We also run regular training programs to raise awareness of compliance among directors and employees and educate them about specific laws and regulations relevant to their respective work duties. As part of these efforts, we make sure our personnel understand that bribing public officials and making facilitating payments are banned and emphasize the importance of upholding antitrust laws. In Japan, Group employees can consult on compliance issues by phoning our Ring Ring Employee Hotline. In fiscal 2015, we received 16 requests for advice. We also operate similar hotlines in China and Thailand. In addition to the Ring Ring Employee Hotline, an internal whistle-blowing hotline called the Compliance Hotline has been available to employees since April 2014 to support compliance management. Risk Management Rigorous information security To ensure rigorous information security, the Unicharm Group has set out information security principles and procedures, such as the Information Security Policy and the Information Management Security Rules. We also have Personal Information Protection Rules in place to safeguard personal information provided by our customers, and we strictly manage this information and take precautions to prevent information leaks. To ensure these rules are strictly observed and to prevent information leaks, Unicharm has established an Information Security Committee, which develops Groupwide information management security initiatives and carries out employee education and ongoing monitoring. In fiscal 2015, we ran five courses about information security through our e-learning portal. Through the courses, participants confirmed security procedures that they are required to follow. One day every month is also earmarked as an information management day, when we highlight a different security topic each month to remind employees about the risk of specific information leaks. Protecting intellectual property In 2015, we reorganized the Legal & Intellectual Property Group and renamed it the Intellectual Property Division to strengthen the Group's intellectual property functions. This is part of our wider goal of building a powerful competitive advantage in differentiating ourselves from others over the medium and long term. The Intellectual Property Division centralizes the management of the Group's intellectual property assets and formulates and executes intellectual property strategies linked to Unicharm's business and development strategies. Based on our patent application strategy, we have been protecting and using our business and product development results as intellectual property. Strengthening international patent applications as part of our global expansion also puts Unicharm into 111th place for international patent applications in 2014, a high ranking in global terms (based on WIPO data). In order to raise the quality of our patent applications, we use the Japan Patent Office's Collective 63 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Management > Risk Management Examination for IP Portfolio Supporting Business Strategy and we have signed up as the first user worldwide of the ASEAN Patent Examination Cooperation (ASPEC) program. By actively applying for patents at an early stage in Japan and overseas, we are enhancing our ability to build a portfolio of intellectual property such as patents, utility models, designs and trademarks. Unicharm has applied for and secured trademarks that protect the Group's brands in more than 160 countries around the world, and we are also protecting our rights to proprietary packaging. In 2015, we also secured the rights to the “unicharm” and “Moony” moving trademarks under the Japan Patent Office's system for new types of trademarks. Unicharm was the first company in the disposal diaper sector to apply for trademarks under this new system. Unicharm also takes a firm stance on protecting its intellectual property, including filing lawsuits against infringements or unauthorized use. Our business and product development divisions cooperate closely with overseas subsidiaries and work with local governments to eliminate unauthorized and counterfeit products in Japan and overseas such as Asia, ASEAN, the Middle East and Africa. Unicharm is committed to cultivating a corporate culture that promotes the respect and protection of intellectual property rights of Unicharm and other companies, as articulated in the Unicharm Action Guidelines, by conducting employee training through a combination of on-the-job training, off-the-job training and e-learning to ensure that employees in Japan and overseas are fully aware of how to handle intellectual property rights. As part of our public activities, we seek to provide advice on and influence international policy with respect to intellectual property by actively exchanging opinions with patent offices in Japan, Asia and the ASEAN area. Business Continuity Plan (BCP*) Unicharm has been strengthening risk management since fiscal 2005. Our BCP Manual describes steps to ensure the safety of our employees and their families, deliver Unicharm products that are necessities for daily living to people in disasteraffected areas, as well as to those people who require them as soon as possible, and recover important corporate operations of Unicharm, particularly head office functions. We are working to further enhance workplace safety through various initiatives. Specifically, we conduct e-learning sessions for all employees to raise awareness and encourage proactive responses, and we require all employees to carry a disaster response pocket manual for immediate reference during an emergency. We have also put systems in place that allow us to contact employees using smartphones, which they must carry at all times. This helps us to confirm their safety and maintain business continuity during emergencies. Crisis response pocket In addition, we conduct disaster training drills at each business site, hold basic survival manual courses and provide training that is tailored to the function of each division. We also hold a BCP training exercise called 3/11 Comprehensive Company-Wide Drill to help us prepare for a major earthquake directly underneath Tokyo or a large-scale interconnected earthquake involving the Tokai, Tonankai and Nankai plates. We carry out first response drills with an emphasis on confirming employee safety and the capabilities of disaster response headquarters, including checking the safety of all Unicharm employees in Japan. Collectively, these ongoing education and training initiatives are designed to reinforce our ability to respond to earthquakes, new strains of influenza and other emergencies. Since fiscal 2014, we have conducted crisis communication activities for different situations depending on the type of emergency, based on the premise of disclosing information to minimize damage. This includes conducting training with each internal division based on different pre-selected crisis situations, allowing us to confirm the effectiveness of our crisis response manuals on an ongoing basis. Going forward, we will strengthen our global risk management capabilities to prepare for civil unrest, terrorism and other incidents to ensure we are prepared to handle any unforeseen events. *BCP: Plan for the continued operation and rapid recovery of core business activities after an emergency Crisis response training Training exercise at the Shizuoka Factory 64 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > Third Party Assurance Report Third Party Assurance Report We obtained third party assurance of Unicharm's CSR Activity Report 2016. The details are found below. 65 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 CSR > List of contents List of contents List of Awards and Commendations Received in Fiscal 2015 List of recognition from third parties we received in 2015 are listed below. 66 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines This cross-referencing table shows how the content of the 2016 CSR Report corresponds to the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, and also shows where individual items are located within the company’s website. GRI Items GRI Index Page to Refer GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as Message from the President CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Unicharm Group’s CSR ＞ Integrating CSR with our businesses Feature Topic 1 Feature Topic 2 Feature Topic 3 【Securities Report】Risks associated with businesses Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization 【PDF】Overview of the Unicharm Group > Company Profile G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 【Integrated Report】Strategy and Progress G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 【PDF】Overview of the Unicharm Group > Company Profile G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of 【PDF】Overview of the Unicharm Group > Production and Sales Areas countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 【PDF】Overview of the Unicharm Group > Company Profile G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types 【PDF】Overview of the Unicharm Group > Production and Sales Areas of customers and beneficiaries) 【Integrated Report】Strategy and Progress G4-9 ・Scale of the organization 【PDF】Overview of the Unicharm Group > Main business indicators G4-10 ・ Total number of employees by employment contract and gender 【PDF】Overview of the Unicharm Group > Main business indicators ・ Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender ・ Total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender Along with Our Employees ＞ View concerning human resources and ・ Total workforce by region and gender respect for human rights ＞ Human resources data ・ Whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors ・ Any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries) COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the Management > Risk Management ＞ Business Continuity Plan (BCP*) organization 【Securities Report】Current status of the internal control system > Risk management rules, and other related systems G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, Unicharm Group’s CSR > Reference framework for Unicharm’s CSR or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses strategy G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or Along with the Global Environment > Initiatives for biodiversity international advocacy organizations in which the organization: ・ Holds a position on the governance body ・ Participates in projects or committees ・ Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues ・ Views membership as strategic Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 ・ All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements Editorial Policy/Contents ＞ Contents ＞ Organizations or equivalent documents ・ Whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial 【Securities Report】 Description of business, Status of affiliate companies statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report G4-19 All the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content Unicharm Group’s CSR ＞ Integrating CSR with our businesses Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Unicharm Group’s CSR ＞ Relationship with stakeholders G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Unicharm Group’s CSR ＞ Relationship with stakeholders G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Unicharm Group’s CSR ＞ Relationship with stakeholders engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided Editorial Policy/Contents ＞ Contents ＞ Period G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Editorial Policy/Contents ＞ Contents ＞ Date of issue G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) Editorial Policy/Contents ＞ Contents ＞ Next date of issue G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Download reports ＞ For more information about our CSR activities, please contact: GRI CONTENT INDEX G4-32 ･ ‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen Editorial Policy/Contents ＞ Contents ＞ Reference guidelines ･ GRI Content Index for the chosen option ･ Reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured 67 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 GRI Items GRI Index Page to Refer ASSURANCE G4-33 ･ Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Third Party Assurance Report assurance for the report ･ If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, scope and basis of any external assurance provided ･ Relationship between the organization and the assurance providers ･ Whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report Governance GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE AND COMPOSITION G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the Management > Corporate Governance highest governance body 【Integrated Report】Corporate Governance 【Securities Report】Corporate Governance G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social Unicharm Group’s CSR ＞ CSR promotional structure topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees G4-36 Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or Unicharm Group’s CSR ＞ CSR promotional structure positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Management ＞ Corporate Governance 【Integrated Report】Corporate Governance 【Securities Report】Corporate Governance G4-39 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive Management ＞ Corporate Governance officer HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’S ROLE IN SETTING PURPOSE, VALUES, AND STRATEGY G4-42 Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, Unicharm Group’s CSR ＞ Integrating CSR with our businesses, CSR approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission promotional structure statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental Management ＞ Corporate Governance and social impacts HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’S COMPETENCIES AND PERFORMANCE EVALUATION G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s Unicharm Group’s CSR ＞ CSR promotional structure collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’S ROLE IN RISK MANAGEMENT G4-45 ･ Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of Unicharm Group’s CSR ＞ CSR promotional structure economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities ･ Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-46 ･ Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the Unicharm Group’s CSR ＞ CSR promotional structure organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics G4-47 ･ Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, Unicharm Group’s CSR ＞ CSR promotional structure environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’S ROLE IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING G4-48 ･ Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the Unicharm Group’s CSR ＞ CSR promotional structure organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’S ROLE IN EVALUATING ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE G4-49 ･ Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance Unicharm Group’s CSR ＞ CSR promotional structure body G4-50 ･ Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to Unicharm Group’s CSR ＞ CSR promotional structure the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them REMUNERATION AND INCENTIVES G4-51 Rremuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior 【Securities Report】Current status of the internal control system > executives Directors’ remuneration, etc. G4-52 Process for determining remuneration 【Securities Report】Policy regarding the amount of Directors’ remuneration and the method of calculation used to determine said remuneration Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as Unicharm Group’s CSR ＞ Integrating CSR with our businesses ＞ Unicharm codes of conduct and codes of ethics Group’s value creation process Management ＞ Compliance ＞ Our attitude towards compliance G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful Management ＞ Compliance ＞ Initiatives for increasing compliance behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or awareness advice lines G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or Management ＞ Compliance ＞ Initiatives to raise compliance awareness unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines 68 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 GRI Items GRI Index Page to Refer SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GENERIC DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH G4-DMA a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Unicharm Group’s CSR ＞ Integrating CSR with our businesses ＞ Unicharm Aspect material Group’s value creation process b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: Unicharm Group’s CSR ＞ Relationship with stakeholders ･The mechanism for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach ･The results of the evaluation of the management approach ･Any related adjustments to the management approach CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Aspect: Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 【Integrated Report】Financial statements 【Securities Report】Financial conditions G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations 【Securities Report】Retirement benefits related CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Aspect: Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Along with the Global Environment ＞ Environmental impact and environmental goals ＞ Monitoring the environmental impact of products during the entire lifecycle Aspect: Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Along with the Global Environment ＞ Environmental impact and environmental goals ＞ Monitoring the environmental impact of products during the entire lifecycle Along with the Global Environment ＞ Activity results for FY2015 ＞ Addressing global warming and energy saving measures G4-EN5 Energy intensity Along with the Global Environment ＞ Activity results for FY2015 ＞ Addressing global warming and energy saving measures G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Along with the Global Environment ＞ Activity results for FY2015 ＞ Addressing global warming and energy saving measures G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Along with the Global Environment ＞ Environmental initiatives through our products Aspect: Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Along with the Global Environment ＞ Activity results for FY2015 ＞ Reducing water usage Aspect: Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Along with the Global Environment ＞ Initiative to prevent global warming G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Along with the Global Environment ＞ Initiative to prevent global warming G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Along with the Global Environment ＞ Initiative to prevent global warming G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Along with the Global Environment ＞ Activity results for FY2015 ＞ Addressing global warming and energy saving measures G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Along with the Global Environment ＞ Activity results for FY2015 ＞ Addressing global warming and energy saving measures G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Along with the Global Environment ＞ Activity results for FY2015 ＞ Initiatives to reduce the use of hazardous chemicals G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Along with the Global Environment ＞ Activity results for FY2015 ＞ Initiatives to reduce the use of hazardous chemicals Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Along with the Global Environment ＞ Activity results for FY2015 ＞ Initiatives to reduce the use of hazardous chemicals G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Along with the Global Environment > Environmental impact and environmental goals > Monitoring the environmental impact of products during the entire lifecycle G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and Along with the Global Environment ＞ Activity results for FY2015 ＞ related habitats significantly affected by the organization’s discharges of Initiatives to reduce the use of hazardous chemicals water and runoff Aspect: Products and Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and Along with the Global Environment ＞ Environmental initiatives through our services products G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed Along with the Global Environment ＞ Environmental initiatives through our by category products Aspect: Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods Along with the Global Environment ＞ Environmental impact and and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of environmental goals ＞ Monitoring the environmental impact of products the workforce during the entire lifecycle 69 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016 GRI Items GRI Index Page to Refer CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Aspect: Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age Along with Our Employees ＞ View concerning human resources and respect group, gender, and region for human rights ＞ Human resources data G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Along with Our Employees ＞ View concerning human resources and respect for human rights ＞ Human resources data Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management– Along with Our Employees ＞ View concerning human resources and respect worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on for human rights ＞ Human resources data > Health & safety of employees occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Along with Our Employees ＞ View concerning human resources and respect absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by for human rights ＞ Human resources data gender G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Along with Our Employees ＞ Respect for Diversity ＞ Dialogue between labor and management Aspect: Training and Education G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the Along with Our Employees ＞ Personnel utilization and training ＞ Our continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career distinctive training programs (excerpt) endings Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per 【PDF】Overview of the Unicharm Group > Main business indicators employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Along with Our Employees ＞ View concerning human resources and respect for human rights ＞ Human resources data SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of Along with Our Employees ＞ Respect for Diversity ＞ Dialogue between association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, labor and management and measures taken to support these rights Aspect: Child Labor G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of Along with Our Employees ＞ View concerning human resources and respect child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of for human rights ＞ Our view of human rights child labor Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of Along with Our Employees ＞ View concerning human resources and respect forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of for human rights ＞ Our view of human rights all forms of forced or compulsory labor Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria Along with Our Business Partners ＞ CSR procurement guidelines SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on Along with Our Business Partners ＞ CSR procurement guidelines GRI Items society GRI Index Page to Refer SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Aspect: Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and Along with Our Customers ＞ Quality Management safety impacts are assessed for improvement Along with the Global Environment ＞ Initiatives to reduce environmental impacts ＞ Unicharm’s management of chemical substances G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Along with Our Customers ＞ Quality Management codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Along with the Global Environment ＞ Initiatives to reduce environmental impacts ＞ Unicharm’s management of chemical substances Aspect: Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s Along with the Global Environment ＞ Environmental initiatives through our procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage products of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Along with Our Customers ＞ Quality Management ＞ Initiative for codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of appropriate product labeling outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Along with Our Customers ＞ Communicating with customers Aspect: Marketing Communications G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Along with Our Customers ＞ Communicating with customers ＞ codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, Communication with customers using various media and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer Company Top > Privacy policy privacy and losses of customer data 70 unicharm CSR Activity report 2016
