COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS YEAR 2015 STATEMENT BY MANAGING DIRECTOR Ghana Oil Company recorded a good performance during the year under review The company continued to support the Global Compact principles and acknowledges the importance of good cooperate governance and therefore committed to the principles and implementation of same. In the year under review, Goil continued its Potable Water Supply Project by mechanized boreholes to deprived areas in communities Goil was one of the lead sponsors of the first ever International Marathon in Ghana which was organized throughout all the 10 regions and climaxed in Accra as the Millennium Marathon. The National Beach Soccer team received support for its achievement in the last world championship contest The company intensified efforts in empowering its workforce relating to the handling of the business through training and attendance of seminars, workshops and conferences. As Goil we believe that operating safely is essential to delivering products to our customers. There were improvement in Housekeeping, Quality of Products and outlook of stations resulting in customers making Goil their preferred brand The company continued to advocate a smoke-free working environment and a healthy lifestyle, through periodic health walk and health talk organized for all employees. Employees were being sensitized about the need for periodic medical screening for early detection of potential harmful condition The principles of the Global Compact remains integral part of the company’s business, GOIL looks forward to maintain an open and productive dialogue in the years ahead 1 Global Compact Action Taken Principle 1:Business The company has a documented code of business principles to guide all should support employees and business partners in the discharge of their duties. and respect the protection of The code sets the standard of professionalism and integrity required internationally for business operations proclaimed human rights; HIV/AIDS WORKPLACE PROGRAM: The company as a tradition does not discriminate or tolerate any form of discrimination against any employee or job applicants on any grounds, including HIV status. The company however recognizes that there are circumstances unique to HIV infection, although it is the policy of management that HIV infection and AIDS should be treated like any other serious condition or illness that may affect employees The company’s policies on HIV and AIDS sensitization program for employees are done at least twice a year. Confidentiality and nondisclosure code of practice on the protection of workers’ personal data are still in place Workplace health and safety: The company continues to renew its Health Insurance policy with GLICO LIFE INSURANCE to cater for the health care of employees and their dependants. Employees are also registered on the National Health Insurance Scheme Health walk and health talks are organized for staff on a quarterly basis 2 2. And make sure GOIL continued to support and respect the protection of that they are not internationally proclaimed human rights complicit in human rights abuses. Goil ensures that all is stakeholders, employees, suppliers, contractors and transporters observe the International Human Rights and Norms within their areas of operation including Child Labour All these third parties agents are scrutinized and monitored every six (6) months to ensure that they comply with these policies 3. Business should The company is committed to ensuring that the right to organize uphold the freedom and Collective bargaining allows those workers to find a common of association and the effective voice. It offers employees with an essential framework for engaging recognition of the with management on their rights to receive fair wages, sufficient right to collective bargaining. benefits without fear of intimidation or reprisal in accordance with the national law. Management meet all staff at least every quarter at staff durbars to discuss general matters including business performance , welfare, health, safety, among other happenings in the company during the durbar. The freedom of association serves as an important instrument for the workers to achieve better working conditions. 4: The elimination The company policy clearly defines that Labour is freely given and of all forms of employees are allowed to leave in accordance with the company’s forced and compulsory labour. rules and regulations This enforcement is translated into the activities of our dealers, contractors and suppliers by ensuring that they do not engage any of their staff into forced or compulsory labour The company therefore makes available employment contracts to all 3 employees stating the terms and conditions of service, the voluntary nature of employment, the freedom to leave (including the appropriate procedures) and any penalties that may be associated with a departure or cessation of work 5: The effective As stated in our mission statement : abolition of child Our services provision will be on “Professionally trained, high labour. quality, motivated workforce , working as a team in an environment , which recognizes and reward performance , innovation and creativity and provides for personal growth and development. As a company we do not engage children less than 18 years in our employment as our work involves chemicals which may be hazardous if not handled with all the safety measures in place. We work in partnership with our third party agents not to engage the employment of children less than 18 years 4 6.And the As a company, we do not discriminate on the grounds of gender, elimination of sexual orientation, marital or civil partner status, gender discrimination in respect of reassignment, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, employment and religion or belief, disability or age. Currently, we have a physically occupation challenges: challenged employee in the company The company guards against discrimination arising out of work related activities which include recruitment, remuneration, hours of work, maternity protection, job assignments, performance assessment and advancement, training opportunities and occupational health and safety . 5 7:Business should The company takes into consideration Risk Assessment in all its support a operations,. Notably is when a new fuel stations are being precautionary approach to constructed. environmental In so doing hazard identification, hazard characterization, appraisal challenge: of exposure and risk characterization are analyzed. These analyses determine the likelihood of harm and the acceptable level of risk that it may involve. This helps the company, the public and the community at large to prevent any possible harm and provide better information to all these stakeholders. The therefore continues to be guided by the code of conduct or practice forits operations and products that confirms commitment to care for health and the environment The company is a member of the oil marketing companies where collaborative efforts to share knowledge and deal with issues, centred around high levels of uncertainty 6 8.Undertake Engaging with the community continued to play a central role in the initiatives to company’s business. promote greater environmental Our flagship community project was the construction of ten (10) responsibility boreholes in the following areas: Atechem-Bogosu (Wassa DistrictWestern Region), Amanfrom and Pano (Akyem NorthEastern Region), Detieso, Anyaso and Dangyaso ( Bosome FrehoAshanti Region) Kabonwuli,Kofinyi, Kpassa (Nkwanta North – Volta Region). It is significant to note that the company has been providing a minimum of ten (10) boreholes every year since 2013 to deprived communities 7 9. and encourage the development The company through its environmental management policy ensures and diffusion of considerable reduction in gaseous and effluent emissions. environmentally friendly The company ensures that its use of environmentally friendly technology. cleaner processed fuels reduces emissions and pollution Our continual partnership with a technology company (Bidi Group) offers technology on the efficiency of the usage of fuels (Diesel XP and Super XP) sold by the company. These products promote engine efficiency. We make information available to stakeholders that illustrates the environmental performance and benefits of using Goil products 8 10:Business should The company believes in full disclosure in its operations and work against corruption therefore adopts standard accounting practices (IFRS in all forms, including principles ) and ensure good internal controls to facilitate the extortion and bribery reliability of the financial statement The company upholds the importance of good governance by investing in a well structured Internal Audit Department. The department has an independent appraisal function which encompasses the examination and evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of the company’s systems of internal controls. The company is committed by ensuring that anti-corruption practices , standards, and procedures are communicated to all employees and business partners. 9
