MT Højgaard Group CSR Report 2015 MT HØJGAARD GROUP A business priority 3 Policy and efforts 4 Business behaviour 4 Anti-corruption 4 Anti-competitive behaviour 6 Compliance 6 Product and certification schemes 6 Human rights 7 Investment 7 Non-discrimination 8 Freedom of association and collective bargaining agreements 8 Forced and child labour 8 Risk of forced or mandatory labour 9 Screening of suppliers for human rights violations 9 The workplace and industrial relations 9 Employment 9 Health and safety at work 10 Training and education 11 Diversity and equal opportunity 12 Environment 13 Energy 13 Waste by type and disposal method 16 Compliance 18 Product and certification schemes 18 GRI Index 20 About the MT Højgaard Group 22 Appendix 27 2 MT HØJGAARD GROUP A business priority G4-1 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] We support the UN Global Compact's Ten Principles Based on our vision to be the most productivitywhich we decided to sign in 2015. By signing the UN enhancing group in the construction and civil works Global Compact's Ten Principles, we have confirmed our industry, we are very committed to sharing the responsicommitment to acting ethically in terms of integrity, bility to ensure a sustainable development. To us susfairness and social responsibility in the performance of tainability is not only about caring but also a business our activities. priority and a challenge which we have decided to activeWe are now for the second year running publishing an ly take up. independent CSR report. With this report, we fulfil our In 2015, one of the Group's focus points has been to statutory CSR reporting obligation and elaborate on our ensure the safety of our employees and subsuppliers at policies, efforts and targets within specific CSR areas. the construction sites. We believe that making safety a We will always aspire to improve what and where immanagerial task and planning health and safety at work provements can be made and in this report you can read in cooperation with the employees in the early stages about our efforts and progress and about how we incorand throughout the projects are initiatives which create porate the Global Compact principles. value. We expect our efforts to result in fewer occupational accidents in the years to come. Our efforts are based on humans and their relations and on the footprint we leave on the surrounding community. Within the last twelve months, our efforts to cut down on We are therefore very interested in establishing a diaour energy consumption have shown results, one of the logue and getting feedback letting us know where we can reasons being our focus on driving patterns and behavdo even better. iour as well as our renewal of the car fleet. In 2015, we have implemented a new anti-corruption policy. Not because we have experienced any instances Torben Biilmann of corruption, but because we have a duty to act in a President & CEO professional and fair manner and to show integrity in all of our business activities. The policy forms the basis for constructive discussions contributing to further professionalising our employees, subcontractors and systems, and this work will continue in 2016. As a responsible player holding a key position in the construction industry, we have decided to focus our CSR efforts on five strategic indicators. Within these areas, we will focus on and give priority to the efforts resulting in the greatest beneficial effects:  Business behaviour  Human rights  The workplace and industrial relations  Environment  Guidance and reporting 3 MT HØJGAARD GROUP Policy and efforts The Group defines corporate social responsibility on the Business behaviour basis of the common understanding of CSR as financial, The Group undertakes to act professionally, fair and with social and environmental responsibility. integrity in all operations and relations wherever the The Group's CSR policies, guidelines and reporting apply Group works. The Group values the importance of honest to all employees of the Group, including the MT Højgaard and ethical behaviour. company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries Enemærke & Petersen, Lindpro, Scandi Byg and Ajos. The Group also Anti-corruption holds equity interests in Greenland Contractors (67%) The Group distances itself from all forms of corruption, and Seth (60%). The CSR strategy and policies apply including bribery, blackmail and facilitation payments. throughout the Group. However, the 2015 reporting The Group's corporate social responsibility policy incorpoapplies only to the MT Højgaard company and whollyrates Global Compact's Ten Principles, including antiowned subsidiaries. corruption standards. The policy also includes rules proMoreover, the individual Group companies have adopted hibiting facilitation payments and rules on gifts. independent CSR policies which have been prepared to fit The Group helps preventing and distances itself from all their markets, strategies and organisations. They may forms of corruption and actively promotes all antifor instance cover social projects or local donations. As corruption activities performed by others – in relation to the group companies differ greatly in size and structure, public authorities as well as private stakeholders. they work independently with the CSR aspects based on what makes sense to the individual company. However, The Group regularly updates the procedures providing all CSR activities fall within the framework of the Group's the framework for its own transactions as well as for the overall CSR policies and related guidelines. transactions of agents and suppliers with representatives of public authorities, political parties and attached perThe Group wishes to further develop its corporate social sons and organisations. responsibility efforts as a natural, important and integral element of its operations and activities. Group Management ensures that internal controls and audit procedures as well as other processes also interThe Group continuously ensures that its procedures and cept any indications of corruption. These controls and processes support the CSR policies and that all CSR procedures are in the form of sample checks of projects, policies and guidelines are integrated in internal systems. contracts and systems. The checks comprise financial, All employees and suppliers will receive information operating and technical matters. about the Group's commitment to and guidelines on the Before the Group enters into business relations, transacarea. tions or projects with a value of more than DKK 50 milBelow, we review the Group's policies and efforts within lion, the managers responsible must perform a due dilithe strategic indicators. Under each strategic indicator, gence review on: the Group's policies and approach and subsequently its  the country in which the project or activity is to be efforts on the area will be reported. performed if the Group has not recently had activities The reporting builds on the Global Initiative Reporting in that country (GRI) guidelines which represent an internationally  potential business partners in countries where corrupacknowledged reporting system. The report has been tion is an assumed risk prepared in accordance with the G4 'Core' application level.  the proposed project or business transaction for the purpose of identifying and assessing the corruption All indicators contain an assessment of the extent to risk, if any which the Performance Indicator is answered in the light of the GRI definition. A distinction is made between a A new due diligence review must be performed during response in depth , i.e. the level of detail of the data, the project period so as to allow changes and new inforand in width , i.e. how much of the Group is covered by mation to be assessed. data. The Group finds it important that managers and employIn the Appendix at the end of this report, additional ees know the rules and follow the procedures which can information is provided about the various Performance curb corruption. This is why information, dilemma and Indicators, e.g. data and supporting figures. management training on the threat posed by corruption are a continuous priority and relevant employee groups receive training. 4 MT HØJGAARD GROUP SO3 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] SO4 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] Assessment of risks related to corruption Training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Reporting for 2015 Reporting for 2015 The Group's new anti-corruption policy was approved and In 2015, the Group has assessed the business entities in implemented in Q3 2015. the Maldives, Qatar and Vietnam, for risks as these entities operate in countries which the Group deems as highThe employees in Qatar, the Maldives and Vietnam rerisk countries with respect to corruption. ceived training in 2015 on the Group's anti-corruption policy. The risk analysis includes an assessment of the nature of the entity's work, contact with public as well as private Also specific divisions which are deemed to be potentially operators and of the level of transparency existing in exposed to corruption have received training, e.g. proconnection with contract formation. curement, IT and sales. The risk of the individual areas in relation to corruption The Group's anti-corruption policy has been communihas been assessed and no material risks have been cated to the entire Group via internal communication identified in relation to corruption. channels. It is clear, however, that the Group is facing certain risks Targets 2016 as a result of its representation in high-risk countries and  100% of the Group's salaries employees must receive that certain functions are generally more exposed to anti-corruption training corruption than others. These are, however, not deemed Reporting level significant, but actions have been taken which are deThe reporting level for this indicator is 100% in depth scribed in more detail under SO4. and in width. Targets 2016  100% of the countries in which the Group operates must be assessed for risks related to corruption in SO5 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] 2016 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions tak A due diligence review must be performed in relation en to 100% of projects with a contract sum above DKK 50 Reporting for 2015 million and sample checks must be performed of proThe Group has had one confirmed incident of corruption jects with a contract sum below DKK 50 million in 2015. The economic value of this specific incident was Initiatives in 2016 small and involved one former employee. The former  Preparation of a generic framework for risk analysis. employee was reported to the police as a result of interThe objective is an analysis which determines the risk nal suspicion. However, the police have not yet stated levels of corruption in the individual countries as well whether they will prosecute the employee. Once the as their effects, i.e. the risk of an incident and its efpolice investigation is complete, an internal evaluation fects on a scale of 1 to 5 must be performed in order to determine the motives underlying the incident and how it could even take place  Preparation of framework for due diligence procedure. so that the necessary precautionary measures can be The procedure is to be an integral part of the Group's taken. risk assessment before the conclusion of projects with a value above DKK 50 million (Tender and Contract The Group has not terminated any contracts because of Board). One of the purposes of the due diligence probreach of corruption rules. cedure is to determine the history of customers and The Group has not completed any legal proceedings on business partners in relation to corruption cases, their corruption against the Group or employees of the Group connection to public contracting entities and the in 2015. Group, their financial position and CSR obligations Targets 2016 Reporting level  Zero cases of corruption in the Group in 2016 The reporting level for this indicator is 100% in depth and in width. Reporting level The reporting level for this indicator is 100% in depth and in width. 5 MT HØJGAARD GROUP Anti-competitive behaviour SO8 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] The Group wishes to compete on fair and equal terms Non-compliance with environmental laws and rules and will not engage in unfair and illegal activities such as price fixing which causes market distortion and impedes Reporting for 2015 free competition. Consequently, it is important to the In 2015, the Group has received 28 immediate improveGroup to comply with all laws and regulations and to ment notices and two prohibitions but no fines. The limit errors, omissions and improper conduct which may Group has complained about four immediate improvebe contrary to laws and regulations. ment notices of which two complaints were successful. One complaint was unsuccessful and one is still pending. The objective is to capture and retain markets and customers by operating the Group in free competition with The MT Højgaard company has received nine immediate others, i.e. by offering services on competitive terms and improvement notices, one prohibition and no fines. The complying with the competition rules in force from time target of zero fines and no more than ten immediate to time. Consequently, all executives receive courses in improvement notices for this company has thus been applicable legislation and competition rules, and the rules reached. are subsequently reviewed on a regular basis. A major part of the immediate improvement notices received by the Group concern the failure to secure against falls and lack of attention to the layout of the SO7 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] construction site and the planning of the work (See ApAnti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and mopendix). nopoly practices Targets 2016 Reporting for 2015  Maintain zero fines No charges have been brought against the Group for  Reduce the number of prohibitions from two to zero anti-competitive behaviour in 2015. and the number of immediate improvement notices Targets 2016 from 28 to 20 at the same level of activity as in 2015  Zero charges against the Group for anti-competitive Initiatives in 2016 behaviour in 2016  Constant management focus at all levels, health and Reporting level safety at work is to be a top priority The reporting level for this indicator is 100% in depth  Focus on the layout of construction sites, including and in width. orderly and tidy conditions  Focus on scaffolding work and that there is no risk of fall Compliance It is important to the Group to comply with all laws and  Focus on the use of anti-fall equipment regulations in its operations. The Group thus continuousReporting level ly strives to limit errors, omissions and improper conduct The reporting level for this indicator is 100% in depth which may be contrary to laws and regulations. and in width. Consequently, the Group finds it only natural to report on sanctions and fines received in the course of the year where the authorities have assessed that the Group has Product and certification schemes not complied with laws and regulations, e.g. in connecIt is important to the Group to have satisfied customers, tion with construction site supervision. This applies including clients and users of the buildings and infrawhether or not non-compliance is due to errors or omisstructure projects delivered by the Group. For that reasions and regardless of how serious they are. son, the Group conducts annual customer satisfaction The sanctions typically relate to unacceptable health and surveys. Various significant parameters, including pricesafety conditions at construction sites of the Group (e.g. quality correlation, are measured, and the outcome of inadequate fencing) which can, in most cases, be corthese surveys is used actively to strengthen the Group's rected immediately. business. The Group is convinced that large building and civil engineering projects which constitute the majority of the project portfolio may affect the local surroundings, including neighbours and passers-by. In addition to general inconvenience, noise from construction work may 6 MT HØJGAARD GROUP also have an adverse impact on health, especially in case The surveys are conducted midway as well as on compleof exposure for long periods of time. tion of the project and are directed at the customer. It is inevitable that certain construction work is noisy, causes vibrations, etc. Together with clients, advisers, local authorities, subcontractors and neighbours, the Human rights Group strives to organise the construction process with The Group's corporate social responsibility policy incorpoutmost consideration to the surroundings and on the rates Global Compact's Ten Principles on human rights in terms which fall within the Group's control. This means the organisation as well as the activities. It does so by that the Group involves and informs stakeholders, in requiring the Group as well as suppliers and other busiparticular neighbours, who are to live with the noise and ness partners to protect human rights. other potential inconvenience during the process. PR5 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] Investment The Group does not tolerate human rights violations. In Customer satisfaction order to contribute to the protection of human rights in Reporting for 2015 projects in which the Group is involved, all projects with In 2015, the companies MT Højgaard and Enemærke & a value above DKK 50 million are systematically Petersen achieved an overall customer satisfaction score screened using a specific check list which screens primarof 74 out of 100. By comparison, the score was 73 in ily for risks but also for human rights. 2014. The purpose is to ensure that the client's CSR requireThe Group also focuses on customer loyalty which is an ments are handled and covered in the project organisaindication of customers' future behaviour. In 2015, custion and that the requirements can be extended to subtomer loyalty fell from a score of 72 to 70. suppliers. In addition, the purpose is to ensure that the contracts do not contain clauses which are contrary to The response rate was 62% in 2015 against 60% the human rights and that compliance with human rights and year before. The target of 75% was thus not achieved. other CSR-related issues are actively considered. Targets 2016  Customer satisfaction score of 76 HR1 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX]  Customer loyalty score of 76 Significant investment agreements and contracts Initiatives in 2016 with human rights  Customer satisfaction survey is introduced throughout the Group Reporting 2015 In 2015, 100% of all projects with a value above DKK 50  Start-up workshops on all projects with a value above million were screened, which means that the target for DKK 100 million and projects with key customers 2015 of a 50% screening rate was achieved.  Midway surveys on all projects lasting longer than six In addition, projects with a value below DKK 50 million months are screened if deemed relevant for legal or HR purposes Reporting level in connection with a review of the project. No statistics The reporting level for this indicator is 100% in depth are kept of how many other projects the Group screens and 50% in width. during the year. Delimitation and method The Group has had no investment agreements in 2015. However, the 2015 reporting applies only to the MT Targets 2016 Højgaard company and Enemærke & Petersen.  100% of all contracts with a value above DKK 50 milAll building and civil engineering projects with a value of lion have been screened for human rights violations more than DKK 2 million are included in the customer  100% of all investment agreements with a value above satisfaction surveys, and they are conducted in Denmark DKK 25 million have been screened for human rights and on international markets in Danish as well as Engviolations lish. Initiatives in 2016 The surveys are conducted on-line with 20 questions to  The screening of contracts is extended concurrently be answered on a scale of 10 which will be converted to with increasing client requirements and initiatives and scores of 1 to 100 in the data processing (See Appendix). requirements for back-to-back agreements 7 MT HØJGAARD GROUP  The Group is considering buying a system which can The Group is committed to and has a constructive and screen subsuppliers efficient collaboration with trade unions and other workers' representatives.  The Group demands back-to-back agreements with subsuppliers The Group complies with all relevant collective bargaining agreements in countries where the Group is doing Reporting level business. The Group also requires subcontractors to The reporting level for this indicator is 100% in width comply with all relevant collective bargaining agreements and in depth. and to provide documentation for compliance. Delimitation and method The Group continuously monitors compliance with collecAll potential projects with a value of more than DKK 50 tive bargaining agreements at the construction sites and million are evaluated by the Group's Tender and Contract requires subcontractors to rectify any breaches of collecBoard. In that connection, the projects are currently tive bargaining agreements. Any non-compliance will being screened to determine the client's opinion of CSRlead to termination of the relationship. To ensure complirelated subjects, including human rights and human ance with the collective bargaining agreements, the rights clauses. Group has also prepared a practical guidance to all conThe Group considers the purchase of fixed assets or struction sites on control of the Group's subcontractors. companies of a value exceeding DKK 25 million as an When the Group uses foreign subcontractors on a proinvestment object. ject, the subcontractor agreement must include a special condition that they are to comply with current legislation on registration in the Register of Foreign Service ProvidNon-discrimination ers (RUT). The Group does not tolerate discrimination in any form. All supervisors in the Group are obliged to complete an But the Group is also aware that discrimination may in-house supervisor training course. During the training occur covertly and not necessarily be brought to the course, our supervisors learn about the terms of the Group's attention. industry's collective bargaining agreements to enable them to ensure that they are being complied with at the sites – both by us and by our subcontractors. In cases of HR3 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] doubt, the supervisor may contact Group HR or the ConDiscrimination and corrective actions taken federation of Danish Industry (DI), if relevant. Reporting 2015 The Group will not be reporting on freedom of association No reported incidents of bullying, harassment or discrimand collective bargaining agreements under HR4 until in ination in the Group. 2016. However, in G4-11, the percentage share of the Group's employees covered by a collective bargaining Targets 2016 agreement is reported now and the screening of new  Zero incidents of discrimination suppliers described in HR10 also includes collective barInitiatives in 2016 gaining agreements and freedom of association.  Zero tolerance campaign targeted at the managers, a policy to prevent bullying will for example be launched Reporting level Forced and child labour The reporting level for this indicator is 100% in depth The Group does not tolerate forced labour or child labour and 50% in width. in its own companies or at subsuppliers. Delimitation and method In Denmark, the risk of forced labour is low compared to Local workers working on foreign projects and employees other countries, but it may occur, for instance when of the Lindpro subsidiary Arssarnit are not including in migrant workers are to deposit identity papers with the the reporting. employer, thus restricting their right to free movement. On the other hand, the risk may be greater in other parts of the world where the Group is doing business. Freedom of association and collective barThe Group's screening of new suppliers described in gaining agreements HR10 includes a screening of all new subsuppliers for The freedom of association and the right of all employees child labour. The Group will not be reporting on child of the Group to collective bargaining are a quite fundalabour and forced labour under HR5 until in 2016. mental principle which is respected and valued by the Group. 8 MT HØJGAARD GROUP Risk of forced or mandatory labour Delimitation and method The Group does not tolerate forced or mandatory labour The reporting for 2015 only applies to the MT Højgaard in its own companies or at subsuppliers. company. Forced or mandatory labour is rare in Denmark where The screening applies to all new suppliers with a purthe major part of the Group's activities take place. On chasing volume above DKK 1 million and who are geothe other hand, the risk may be greater in other parts of graphically located outside Europe. This applies in relathe world where the Group is doing business. tion to the reporting for 2015 as well as the targets for 2016. The Group's screening of new suppliers described in HR10 includes a screening of all new subsuppliers for forced or mandatory labour. The Group will not be reporting on forced or mandatory labour under HR6 until in The workplace and industrial relations 2016. As a leading building and civil engineering company in Denmark, the Group has influence on several affairs relating widely to the labour market. This also applies – Screening of suppliers for human rights viobut to a lesser degree – in other countries where the lations Group is delivering construction and infrastructure proThe Group is committed to making sure that the internajects. tional human rights are respected by business partners The influence and responsibility are more specifically and suppliers. Consequently, the Group focusses on new linked to the many different jobs which the Group cresuppliers' compliance with this requirement and on preates, in particular at construction sites. With thousands venting potential breaches of the principles. of employees in a variety of companies, industrial relaThe Group will only contract with direct contractual parttions are a key focus area. ners/suppliers who observe the law in countries where they do business and who support and respect the internationally acknowledged human rights principles. Employment The Group believes that the highest risk of human rights The workers are a vital resource, and it is therefore violation exists in countries outside Europe and, as a important to focus on the workers who join and leave the result, the Group screens all new suppliers outside Eucompany. At the same time, it is expensive to hire new rope in connection with contracts with a value of more employees, and the Group is constantly thinking of ways than DKK 1 million. to retain its skilled employees. The Group retains employees by focusing on job satisfaction and motivation, and this is the reason why the Group has decided to also HR10 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] report figures from the employee satisfaction survey. Screening of new suppliers using human rights As it is important to the Group to secure qualified labour criteria for future projects, the Group wishes to contribute to securing the labour force of tomorrow. Consequently, the Reporting 2015 Group offers office apprenticeships and apprenticeships In 2015, 78% of the MT Højgaard company's new suppliwithin different trades and engineering and construction ers were screened for human rights, which means that traineeships for statutory trainee periods. In addition, the target of 60% in 2015 was achieved. the MT Højgaard company has its own rotation proThe screenings showed that all screened companies lived gramme which provides newly qualified engineers and up to the human rights. constructors with the opportunity to try out various parts of the industry in the first years of their permanent emTargets 2016 ployment.  100% of the Group's new suppliers are screened for human rights Initiatives in 2016 LA1 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX]  Analysis and risk assessment of the Group's suppliers New employee hires and employee turnover in Europe Reporting 2015  Revision of the Code of Conduct for suppliers and In 2015, total employee turnover for salaried employees incorporation thereof in the Group's model contracts in the Group was 22%. Reporting level In the period from 2014 to 2015, the MT Højgaard comThe reporting level for this indicator is 100% in depth pany has seen a reduction in employee turnover of and 50% in width. 9 MT HØJGAARD GROUP 11.5% for the salaried employees, which means that the relation to the number of projects which the Group is targeted reduction of 10% in 2015 was reached (28.7% working on. in 2014 and 25.4% by the end of 2015). Training posts are defined as apprentices, interns and In 2015, the Group has increased its focus on gaining trainees in trades at the construction sites and clerical traction with existing and future employees as well as jobs in administrative functions. strengthening its managerial competencies. The indicator does not include employees employed The target for 2015 was to raise employee job satisfacabroad under a local contract and employees employed tion to a score of 73 from 68, which was achieved in the with Lindpro's subsidiary Arssarnit. 2015 survey. In 2015, the Group had 6.5% employed in training posts. This was an increase from 6.1% in 2014. This means Health and safety at work that the Group has not yet reached its target of 7% The Group insists that it must be safe to go to work and training posts. The Group will continue its efforts to it thus systematically works to improve security at the increase this figure. In certain parts of the business, construction sites. The vision is zero accidents. however, there are not sufficient hourly workers to train The vision means that everyone from top management more apprentices. to hourly workers is mutually obliged to work construcTargets 2016 tively and openly to prevent every accident in all project  Reduction of 10% in the total employee turnover for phases. The Group makes a targeted effort to create a salaried employees in the Group. This means a develsafety culture where everyone takes responsibility for a opment in employee turnover from 22% to a minimum safe working environment and takes care of themselves of 20% and others.  A score of 74 in a mini employee satisfaction survey The Group's top management undertakes through leadamong the salaried employees. The Group's long-term ership to anchor a high degree of safety culture throughtarget is still a score of 76 out the entire Group and to ensure that the Group's working environment is constantly improved and is a  7% of the employees are employed in training posts priority regardless of the work carried out by the Group. Initiatives in 2016 The Group is certified under the international occupa Intensify Employer Branding project tional health and safety standard DS/OHAS 18001:2008.  Strengthen cooperation with the educational instituThis means that the Group focuses its efforts on increastions, including business academies and universities ing the employees' working environment awareness every day.  Participate in the works panel of the Confederation of Danish Industry (DI) for operation apprenticeships  Establish mentoring schemes for apprentices in selectLA6 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] ed parts of the Group Health and safety at work Reporting level Reporting 2015 The reporting level for this indicator is 100% in depth 2015 was characterised by more accidents than 2014. In and 50% in width. 2014, the Group had 82 accidents resulting in absence Delimitation and method from work and in 2015 the number of such accidents was The employee turnover for 2015 is reported for salaried 110, resulting in an accident frequency rate of 17.6. That employees. This group also includes fixed-term employis above the target of a maximum of 15. The Group had ments such as trainees, interns, student assistants, no fatal accidents in 2015. The accident frequency rate is short-term/project workers and consultants, who are all still below industry average. employed under contracts of a typical duration of six months to a maximum of two years. Not all Group companies are able in the reporting to distinguish between salaried employees under permanent and casual employment, respectively, and, as a result, the reporting is currently made for all salaried employees of the Group. The target for 2016 applies exclusively to salaried employees as the number of hourly workers varies across the year, with respect to seasonal work as well as in 10 MT HØJGAARD GROUP Overall figures for the Group  Focus on attitude and conduct. All must take responsibility for themselves and each other 2014 2015  Focus on the layout of construction sites, including Accident frequency rate (number of 14.9 17.6 railing and fencing accidents per one million working hours)  Focus on the use of anti-fall equipment Occupational accidents resulting in 82 110 Reporting level absence from work The reporting level for this indicator is 100% in depth Working days lost 765 941 and in width. Absenteeism rate in connection with 1 1.1 Delimitation and method occupational accidents As the Group is not responsible for the health and safety at subcontractors and as it is very resource-intensive to In 2015, the accident frequency rate for salaried emobtain survey results from subcontractors such results ployees was 1.9 in Denmark, whereas the figure abroad have not been included in the reporting for now. was 31.7 and a total of 2.3. The accident frequency rate for hourly workers in Denmark was 35.2, whereas the figure abroad was 0.9 and a total of 25.6. CRE6 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] Internationally recognized health and safety manThe major part of the Group's occupational accidents are agement systems deemed to be owing to lack of attention to the layout of construction sites, e.g. no railing or poor and untidy Reporting 2015 access roads as well as the failure to schedule the project 99% of the salaried employees and 96% of the hourly (See Appendix). workers worked in accordance with the DS/OHSAS 18001:2008 occupational health and safety standard. In the last two years, the MT Højgaard company has focused its efforts on making the working environment a The ones not working in accordance with the standard first priority. Nevertheless, 2015 saw a small increase in were employed in E&P Service, which is not certified. As the number of accidents. As a result of recent years' a result, the Group could not reach the target for 2015 of efforts, the MT Højgaard company's frequency has be100% working in accordance with the standard. come significantly lower in comparison with the rest of It is expected that E&P Service will be combined with the Group. E&P at the beginning of 2016 after which they will be The Group did not sufficiently focus on the working enviincluded under the certificate. ronment in the first six months of 2015, which resulted Targets 2016 in an increase in the number of accidents compared to  100% of the employees are working in accordance 2014. As a result of this increase, a whole day was arwith the DS/OHSAS 18001:2008 occupational health ranged in the second half of 2015 where the managers and safety standard from all of the Group companies met under the heading 'safety culture' and where a zero accidents vision was Reporting level launched. As a last item on the agenda, all managers The reporting level for this indicator is 100% in depth pledge to focus their efforts on fulfilling the zero acciand in width. dents vision. The focus on leadership will be a top prioriDelimitation and method ty on the working environment agenda also in 2016. Independent suppliers do not work under our health and To this end, the Group has strengthened its knowledge safety certificate and consequently they have not been sharing and given a higher priority to the working enviincluded in the reporting. ronment efforts in all of the companies. Training and education In 2015, the Group recorded 144 near-miss incidents. In Training is an investment in the future, and therefore, the MT Højgaard company, another 547 observations the Group constantly directs many resources at skills were recorded, which was wide off the target of between development. 250 and 300 observations for the company. The Group's need for relevant vocational expertise and Targets 2016 competent employees also implies focus on further train Reduce the total accident frequency rate to a maxiing at all employee levels. mum of 15 The Group has its own in-house project management Initiatives in 2016 training programme. The purpose of the training pro Constant management focus at all levels, health and gramme is to train contract managers, project managers, safety at work is to be a top priority 11 MT HØJGAARD GROUP project directors and production managers in the methbetter solutions – as well as a better working environods and tools used by the Group in the management of ment. the projects. One of the focus areas is that women must be equal to men in the recruitment for executive positions, in their career development and in connection with absence due LA9 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] to maternity leave. Hours of training per employee Reporting 2015 LA12 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] In 2015, the average hours of training per employee in the Group was 15.7. The target for 2015 of 10 hours per Composition of boards of directions broken down employee only applied to the MT Højgaard company, by gender and managerial responsibility which target was achieved by 20.3 hours. This was a Reporting 2015 result of: In 2015, the share of women managers in the Group was  the Group having selected managers for an in-house 13%. management development programme The target to increase the share of women managers  23 employees with the MT Højgaard company starting from 18% to 20% in the MT Højgaard company in 2015 the in-house BIM Coordinator Programme was achieved with an increase to 20%. This has been achieved, among other things, through management  all new employees of the MT Højgaard company comfocus on the area and by ensuring that female candidates pleting an extensive introductory course in connection are always included in the recruitment, provided there with their employment are qualified candidates. Targets 2016 Women managers  Twelve hours of training per employee in the Group % WOMEN MANAGERS WOMEN BOARD Initiatives in 2016 MEMBERS  Implementation of a training policy within the companies where no such policy has yet been implemented Ajos 0 0 Enemærke & Petersen 13 33  VDC training and strategic management training Lindpro 6 0 Reporting level The MT Højgaard com20 17 The reporting level for this indicator is 50% in depth and pany in width. Scandi Byg 27 33 Delimitation and method Group 13 The reporting of hours of training in 2015 is for a number of the companies based on a manual count of the number of known course days which are then translated into In 2015, the share of women sitting on the board of hours. directors of the MT Højgaard company was 17%, which lives up to the target of at least 17%. The reporting does not include employees employed abroad under a local contract and employees employed Targets 2016 with Lindpro's subsidiary Arssarnit. Women managers as at 31 December 2016 % WOMEN MANAGERS WOMEN BOARD MEMBERS Diversity and equal opportunity Ajos 1 The Group does not tolerate discrimination. This also Enemærke & Petersen 10 33* applies to working conditions and employment terms and Lindpro 6 0** women in management. The MT Højgaard com21 33 The Group does not consider gender, race, religion, etc. pany when employing, training or promoting employees. Scandi Byg 28 The Group actively works for equal opportunity, respect Group 15*** of diversities and promotion of a more equal distribution *The board of directors of Enemærke & Petersen is composed of three between men and women at all levels. members elected at the general meeting; the target is thus maintained. **The target for the next general meeting in 2020 is that 17% of the memThe Group is convinced that diversity contributes to a bers elected at the general meeting of Lindpro are women. greater understanding of customers' needs – and thus 12 MT HØJGAARD GROUP *** The long-term target is to have the same gender distribution of managers EN3 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] as the total employee population. Energy consumption Direct energy consumption Initiatives in 2016  Equal opportunity policy is implemented in the compaIn 2015, the Group's direct energy consumption was nies where this is not yet so 133,656 GJ and gave rise to 9,718 tons of CO2equivalents. The Group companies are diversified and  Training schemes for women are initiated their consumption therefore differs substantially in relaReporting level tion to both type and volume. The reporting level for this indicator is 100% in depth Statement of direct energy consumption and 50% in width. GJ THE MT THE MT GROUP Delimitation and method HØJGAARD HØJGAARD Local workers working on foreign projects and employees COMPANY COMPANY 2014 2015 of the Lindpro subsidiary Arssarnit are not including in the reporting. Fuel purchased Environment Petrol 1,639 279 566 The Group actively seeks to care for the environment Diesel 85,098 45,200 104,185 and the climate. The structure of buildings, choice of Heating 4,313 2,270 3,756 building materials, the construction process, waste disoil posal and the operation of the finished building have a Mileage in considerable impact on the environment and the climate. the service The Group works on reducing the impact on the enviof the comronment and the climate in the building processes at the pany using construction sites and the day-to-day operation in genprivate cars eral, e.g. in connection with the workers' transport and Petrol 8,092 5,399 12,122 at offices and other localities. Diesel 2,877 2,077 4,665 The Group seeks to develop the relevant competences by Heating constantly training its employees to carry out the asOil 0 0 470 signments in an environmentally safe manner. Natural 5,730 2,730 7,892 gas Energy Having considerable activities – at construction sites and Total direct 107,750 57,965 133,656 with transport – the Performance Indicator is relevant to energy conthe Group's environmental and climate impact in relation sumption to scarce energy resources and CO2 emissions. Tons of CO2 7,848 4,225 9,718 equivalent The Group complies with all energy laws. The Group uses energy at the construction sites, for The direct energy consumption comes 100% from nontransport of the employees and a minor part for heating renewable energy sources. purposes. It is only possible to document a development from 2014 The direct energy consumption includes fuels such as to 2015 for the MT Højgaard company as this is the first petrol, diesel, heating oil and natural gas which are all year the direct energy consumption has been stated at a non-renewable energy sources, or biofuel which is a group level. renewable energy source. The period showed a significant drop in the petrol conThe Group's direct energy consumption is primarily fuel sumption, one of the reasons being that a fewer temposupplies for construction sites and for vehicles. The fuel rarily leased petrol cars were used, e.g. replacement cars consumption consists of non-renewable energy sources, in connection with accidents. primarily diesel. A significant drop in petrol consumption was seen as The indirect energy consumption – power and district well. Diesel in bulk supplies for construction sites was heating consumption – also contributes to the consumpreduced by nearly 50% and diesel consumption for tion of non-renewable energy sources and to greenhouse leased cars fell by around 30%. The fuel consumption for gas emissions depending on the impact of the primary source. 13 MT HØJGAARD GROUP the driving of private cars in the service of the company Total indirect energy consumption from offices (GJ) also showed an average fall of 32% compared to 2014. THE MT THE MT GROUP 2015 Throughout 2014 and 2015, the MT Højgaard company HØJGAARD HØJGAARD increased its focus on driving patterns and behaviour. In COMPANY COMPANY 2014 2015 addition, recent years' focus on the requirement for energy efficiency of the company's car fleet has an effect Electricity 7,793 7,437 15,265 on all new leased cars, which impacted on consumption. District heating 1,545 2,479 9,202 Immobilizers have gradually been installed in a large Total 9,339 9,915 24,467 number of the Group's operational cars which had a significant effect on the energy consumption of the cars. As the Group already in 2014 reported the indirect enerMoreover, the period saw an average reduction in the gy consumption for the MT Højgaard company, the denumber of manpower hours of 12%, which means that velopment can be assessed. less driving must be expected to have taken place. Increased use of on-line meetings and the sharing of cars From 2014 to 2015, the MT Højgaard company saw an may also have contributed to the saving. increase in the district heating consumption. The increase corresponded to the fall in natural gas as two The fuel consumption at construction sites and driving locations changed from natural gas to district heating in patters also depend on the number of building and civil the reporting period. engineering projects just like the geographical location of especially the major building projects in the reporting Relative consumption period have an effect. For example, in 2015, the compaThe Group's total energy consumption (direct and indiny had a major construction site on the site adjoining the rect energy consumption) is seen relative to revenue and head office. activity. Another explanation is that a substantial number of Relative consumption operational cars were transferred from the MT Højgaard company to Enemærke & Petersen. The annual fuel THE MT THE MT GROUP 2015 consumption of the cars is recorded at the company with HØJGAARD HØJGAARD which they are registered at the end of the reporting COMPANY COMPANY 2014 2015 period. In addition, the MT Højgaard company closed its offices in Tønder, the effect of which is seen in 2015. The Total energy conclosure of the office not only reduced the consumption of sumption relative to fuel but various obsolete equipment in energy terms was revenue (GJ/million also disposed of in that connection. kroner) 33.5* 24.4 26.2 The significant drop in the diesel consumption was thus Total direct energy owing to direct efforts and to a number of structural consumption relative changes. to manpower hours in total (GJ/1,000 hrs) 47 28 26 In line with the initiatives for 2015, electric cars became *The MT Højgaard company's figures have previously by mistake been seen available for leasing. relative to the Group's revenue instead of the company's revenue. This mistake has been corrected. That is why the figures do not correspond to the The 50% reduction in the consumption of natural gas ones reported in last year's report. The target figures have been adjusted was due to two locations in 2015 changing to district accordingly. heating, which is an indirect energy source. The direct consumption of energy in connection with The sharp fall in the MT Højgaard company's consumpoperations abroad was recorded for one location only, tion of diesel can be seen not only from the development the Maldives. This will be followed up and recording will in the total energy consumption but also from the direct be initiated for the Group's other foreign activities in energy consumption. 2016. Average kilometres per litre Indirect energy consumption The statement covers the Group's leased vehicles, exThe Group's indirect energy consumption for 2015 was cluding those of Enemærke & Petersen. 24,467 GJ. The Group companies are diversified and their consumption therefore differs substantially. 14 MT HØJGAARD GROUP Average kilometres per litre, leased vehicles iour and the number of kilometres driven are naturally of material importance to the fuel consumption. The Group 2011 11.7 will therefore continue to focus on increased use of on2012 12 line meetings, sharing cars to meetings/conferences, 2013 14.4 taking the train when travelling between different parts 2014* 14.5 of the country, etc. This will have an effect on both the energy consumption of company cars and the energy 2015 * 15.8 consumption of private cars used in the service of the *The figures are subject to uncertainty. Not only will new cars need to be company. refuelled a couple of times in order for the figures to be reliable but another factor is that around 20% of the users do not always enter the correct Behaviour as regards the use of machinery and equipmileage when refuelling. ment is also of material importance to the fuel consumption. The MT Højgaard company will consequently focus The number of kilometres per litre of fuel depends on the on analysing, describing and communicating better use theoretical consumption of the car and driving behaviour. behaviour to reduce the fuel consumption at construction The recorded improvement was only a little better than sites without reducing efficiency and productivity. the improved energy consumption of the cars' from the In 2016, the Group will achieve the following: manufacturers' side. The average (theoretical) for new registered cars is currently around one kilometre per litre  That employees having a company car will be offered a better per year. special driving course on a test track The target of 17 kilometres per litre was ambitious and  That we begin to record direct energy consumption in was not achieved. Apart from the increased requirements the MT Højgaard company’s operations abroad to the theoretical consumption of the cars, driving be That we focus on behaviour as regards the use of haviour, as mentioned, also has a major effect on the machinery and equipment consumption. The Group's initiative with offering special driving courses on a test track to employees having a Indirect energy consumption company car was not implemented. Attempts will be The Group will examine the possibilities of increasing the made to implement this initiative in 2016. consumption from renewable indirect energy sources, There is a small variation in the average kilometres per e.g. power from wind turbines. litre reached by the individual companies. For example, In 2016, the Group will begin to record the indirect enerLindpro reached more than 16 kilometres per litre. gy consumption in the MT Højgaard company's operaTargets 2016 tions abroad.  Total energy consumption for the Group relative to Reporting level revenue: 24 GJ/million kroner The reporting level for this indicator is 100% in depth  Total direct energy consumption relative to manpower and 50% in width. hours in total: 25 GJ/1,000 hrs in 2016 Delimitation and method  Average kilometres per litre, leased vehicles: 17 kiloThe reporting of direct and indirect energy consumption metres per litre for 2015 applies to the Danish activities. However, the statement of kilometre per litre does not include Ene All machinery and equipment owned by the Group mærke & Petersen. must comply with the European emission standards with Emission Stage II or higher whereas leased maSee the Appendix for more details on the method apchinery and equipment must comply with Emission plied. Stage III or higher  The Group strives to ensure that all new company cars CRE1 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] live up to a theoretical energy efficiency of at least 21.5 kilometres per litre Building energy intensity Initiatives in 2016 Reporting 2015 Direct energy consumption In 2015, the energy intensity of the Group's buildings was 0.53 GJ per m2 and 22.3 GJ per office worker. The fuel consumption consists only of non-renewable energy sources. The possibilities of using renewable energy sources, e.g. biodiesel, are still being looked into. As mentioned, requirements have been made for the theoretical consumption of cars but also driving behav15 MT HØJGAARD GROUP Building energy intensity In 2015, the Group has set up a team of its own energy specialist with the aim of identifying relevant energy THE MT THE MT HØJGAARD HØJGAARD savings, including the possibilities and ideas for affecting GROUP 2015 COMPANY COMPAbehaviour in a more energy-conscious direction. 2014 NY2015 Targets 2016 Energy consump The building energy intensity is to be improved by 5% tion (power and 32,830 14,941 12,655 compared to 2015 heating) (GJ)  The energy intensity in GJ per m2 is to be improved by Total heated area 2% by the end of 2016 62,462 28,966 22,791 (m2) Initiatives in 2016 Number of salaried  Recording will be initiated at the MT Højgaard compaemployees at the 1,469 854 848 ny’s offices abroad offices (heated areas)  The results of the mandatory energy audit of the Group's buildings are examined and relevant initiatives Building energy are implemented intensity (GJ/m2) (2015 calculated as 0.53 0.52 0.56 Reporting level double six-month The reporting level for this indicator is 100% in depth consumption) and 50% in width. Delimitation and method Building energy In 2015, the Group's reporting will include the energy intensity (GJ/office 22.3 17.5 14.9 intensity of the Group's offices in Denmark. In 2014, the workers) Group's reporting only included the MT Højgaard company and, as a result, only comparative figures are stated here. The targets for 2015 only related to the MT Højgaard See the Appendix for more details on the method apcompany. The building energy intensity improved by 7% plied. whereas it dropped 17% per office worker. The target for 2015 was an average between the two reporting methods, and in overall terms the target of a 5% reduction is Waste by type and disposal method deemed to have been reached. The construction industry produces substantial amounts In 2015, the offices of the MT Højgaard company were of waste from concreting and excavation works, demolianalysed to identify the possibilities of reducing the tion (including renovation) and new buildings. The Group typically generates waste for recycling, incineration, energy consumption. The analysis showed that relevant landfill or mixed/non-categorised waste. initiatives had already been taken at the offices owned by the MT Højgaard company, e.g. changing from natural Construction waste has different impacts on the envigas to district heating and adjustment and tune-up of ronment depending on volume, type, handling and disventilation and heating systems. posal method. The results of the mandatory energy audit for major The Group may reduce the impact of waste on the envicompanies, which must have been completed by the end ronment by paying more attention to what is discarded of March 2016, are expected to be available at the beand by ensuring that the waste generated has less imginning of 2016. pact on the environment, e.g. through better waste In 2015, the energy consumption of the various offices sorting and more recycling of bricks and insulation matevaried a lot – especially the heating consumption. Even rials and by pro-actively avoiding hazardous building materials. though much can be explained by the age and state of repair of the buildings, the Group should and will take a Landfill is the most serious of the waste categories, and closer look at the figures to understand the reason bethe Group will focus on limiting landfill waste by cohind the high consumption figures and reduce consumpoperating with materials manufacturers and waste retion where it is highest. In this connection, the results of ceivers on the recycling of e.g. mineral wool waste. the mandatory energy audit in 2016 will be a help. By continually reporting on waste by volume and type, The Group expects significantly improved energy intensiwe can better exploit building materials and reduce the ty for the Group's head office once the new domicile is Group's overall environmental impact. ready for use in August 2016. 16 MT HØJGAARD GROUP EN23 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] of waste from the MT Højgaard company for recycling increased from 53% to 56%, which, however, was not Waste by type and disposal method sufficient to reach the target for 2015 of 60%. The Reporting 2015 Group's total amount of waste for recycling was 48%, In 2015, the total volume of waste from the Group was which lengthens the distance to the target even further. 14,321 tons. Waste volumes were produced in the cateThe effect of the planned campaign and the cooperation gories recycling/reuse, incineration, landfill, mixed and with waste receivers to ensure increased recycling is non-categorised waste as well as soil from construction expected to show impact during the course of 2016. sites. The possibilities for increasing the volume of recycled In 2014, the Group only reported waste for the MT mineral wool waste have been explored. Several of the Højgaard company. The total volume of waste from the waste receivers are in the process of ensuring that they MT Højgaard company rose from 2014 to 2015. This was can submit mineral wool waste for recycling instead of due to the company's increased building activity, more landfill. 20% of the Group's mineral wool waste was building projects generating waste, e.g. renovations, and submitted for recycling. The target of at least 25% for that the sites have become better at using the waste 2015 was thus not achieved. 92% of Scandi Byg's minerreceivers with which the Group has entered into cooperaal wool waste was submitted for recycling. It is expected tion agreements. that the above-mentioned in-house campaign and increased focus on recycling will increase waste recycling Percentage waste throughout the Group. THE MT THE MT HØJGAARD HØJGAARD GROUP On an overall basis, the Group has reduced the number COMPANY COMPANY % OF of waste disposal partners. The objective is to create a WASTE/KG % OF % OF TOTAL better overview of the volumes and types of waste. TOTAL TOTAL 2015* Agreements have been concluded with a handful of na2014* 2015* tional waste receivers and also a small number of local Recycling (incl. rereceivers in each region. The agreements include statis53 56 48 use) tics which can meet the requirements to our CSR reportIncineration (or use ing. 27 28 26 as fuel) Contact has been established with a receiver of used Landfill (incl. in deep bricks. The buildings must be rather old in order for the 6 5 14 wells) bricks to be cleaned. The Group has not in the period Mixed waste 6 6 11 renovated buildings with tiles which have been in a state allowing recycling. Other (non7 4 2 categorised) Targets 2016 Hazardous waste as  The submitted volume of unsorted waste must be less a percentage of 2.2 2.1 19.1** than 4% total, excl. soil  At least 25% of the mineral wool waste must be sub*excl. soil mitted for recycling. The percentage may increase in **In one project, the Group has removed surface contaminated elements the coming years as hazardous waste. The surfaces of the elements are sandblasting and the major part thereof has thus subsequently ended up as harmless waste for  Increase the share of recycling to at least 60% recycling. If this is included in the calculation, the share of hazardous waste is as low as 3.8%. Initiatives in 2016  Launch of campaign for waste sorting at construction sites Mixed waste amounted to 11%, which is above the target for 2015 of 2%. Only Lindpro achieved the target for  Ensuring use of the waste disposal companies with a share of mixed waste of only 1.6%. which the Group has entered into cooperation agreements In the first quarter of 2016, the Group plans to launch a campaign at the construction sites to increase focus on  Useful tiles (from buildings built before 1950) dismanwaste sorting and awareness of the possibilities of recytled for reuse cling and reuse. Not only does it help to protect the  Initiating systematic assessment, first of all of the MT environment, it is also financially sound to increase sortHøjgaard company's building projects in order to asing. sess whether they involve future (known) waste probThe target for recycling has been fixed on the basis of lems the MT Højgaard company's prior experience. The share 17 MT HØJGAARD GROUP  Initiating an assessment of the waste situation in the Certification, rating and labelling schemes may be volunGroup's projects abroad in order to determine targets tary or compulsory. and initiatives All projects of the Group meet as a minimum the reReporting level quirements applicable, e.g. the Danish Building RegulaThe reporting level for this indicator is 50% in depth and tion setting high standards for energy consumption and in width. indoor climate in relation to the surroundings. Delimitation and method Consequently, the Group has chosen to report on the The 2015 reporting includes all of the Group's activities number of voluntary schemes which the Group's projects in Denmark, but not abroad. In 2014, only the activities meet. The Group has focused on the sustainability certifiof the MT Højgaard company were reported. cations for buildings. See the Appendix for more details on the method apThe number of certifications largely depends on whether plied. the customer sees a need for certification, including third party control. In terms of sustainability, by far the majority of the buildings erected by the Group are at level with the certified buildings or even better even though no Compliance certification or other ratings have been applied for in It is important to the Group to comply with all laws and respect of the buildings. Thus, the number of certificaregulations. The Group continuously strives to limit ertions cannot be taken as an expression of the sustainarors, omissions and improper conduct which may be bility quality of the Group's construction projects, but contrary to laws and regulations. merely of how many clients have chosen to apply for Consequently, the Group finds it only natural to report on certification of their buildings. sanctions and fines received in the course of the year. This applies whether or not non-compliance is due to errors or omissions and regardless of how serious they CRE8 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] are. Sustainability certification, rating and labelling schemes for buildings EN29 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] Reporting 2015 The MT Højgaard company is currently seeking to obtain Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with envia BREEAM NOR rating of three of its buildings. It was ronmental laws and regulations expected that the buildings would have been certified in Reporting 2015 the autumn of 2015, but the process is still not complete. In 2015, the Group has not received any fines or sancMoreover, efforts are being made to have the Group's tions for non-compliance with environmental laws and new headquarters in Søborg receive a DGNB Preregulations and has not been involved in any cases reCertificate in Gold, see the DGNB scoring and rating ferred for dispute resolution. system. Targets 2016 Enemærke & Petersen has not erected any certified  Zero fines and sanctions buildings in 2015. Initiatives in 2016 In order to ensure that the Group continuously has em Initiate recording of the Group's foreign activities ployees who are qualified to carry out assignments with Reporting level certification, the Group continuously trains such specialThe reporting level for this indicator is 100% in depth ists. In 2015, two employees completed the DGNB conand 50% in width. sultancy training course. Also, another employee completed the BREEAM consultancy training course. Delimitation and method The reporting only relates to the Group's Danish activiTargets 2016 ties in 2015.  In future, the Group will report on the number of projects for which the Group's contracting entities have issued sustainability certifications as well as building projects for which sustainability certifications are isProduct and certification schemes sued The certification, rating and labelling schemes provide an easy and speedy process for third parties to check  The Group's contracting entities will maintain their whether the requirements of the schemes have been competence to continue delivering buildings which can met. be certified according to one of the three leading certification schemes DGNB, BREEAM and LEED 18 MT HØJGAARD GROUP Reporting level The reporting level for this indicator is 100% in depth and in width. Delimitation and method The Group has decided to only look at the most recognized voluntary sustainability certifications. i.e. DGNB, LEED and BREEAM 19 MT HØJGAARD GROUP GRI Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE UNGC REPORTING WIDTH DEPTH G4-1 Preface by President and CEO Torben Biilmann 3 G4-3 Name of the organisation 22 G4-4 Primary brands 22 G4-5 Location of the organisation's headquarters 22 G4-6 Countries where the organisation operates 22 G4-7 Ownership 22 G4-8 Markets served 22 G4-9 Scale of organisation 22 G4-10 Employees 23 6 G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements 23 3 G4-12 The organisation's supply chain 23 G4-13 Changes during the reporting period 23 G4-14 Risk management 23 G4-15 Economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives 23 G4-16 Memberships of associations and advocacy organisations 23 G4-17 Entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements 22 G4-18 Process for defining the GRI report content 23 G4-19 Aspects identified 23 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organisation 24 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organisation 24 G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous GRI reports 23 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 23 G4-24 Stakeholder groups 24 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 24 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 24 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engage25 ment G4-28 Reporting period 25 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 25 G4-30 Reporting cycle 25 G4-31 Contact point 25 G4-32 GRI Content Index 25 G4-33 Assurance 25 G4-34 Governance structure 25 G4-56 Values, standards and principles 25 10 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE UNGC REPORTING WIDTH DEPTH BUSINESS BEHAVIOUR 4 10 SO3 Assessment of risks related to corruption 5 10 SO4 Training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 5 10 SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 5 10 SO7 Anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices 6 SO8 Non-compliance with laws and regulations 6 20 MT HØJGAARD GROUP SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE UNGC REPORTING PR5 Customer satisfaction 7, 24 HUMAN RIGHTS 7 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 HR1 Significant investment agreements and contracts with human rights 7 1, 2 HR3 Discrimination and corrective actions taken 8 1, 6 HR10 Screening of new suppliers using human rights criteria 9 1, 2 THE WORKPLACE AND INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS 9 5, 6 LA1 New employee hires and employee turnover 9 LA6 Health and safety at work 10 6 CRE6 Internationally recognized health and safety management systems 11 LA9 Hours of training per employee 12 6 LA12 Composition of boards of directions broken down by gender and managerial 12 responsibility ENVIRONMENT 12 EN3 Energy consumption 13 7, 8 CRE1 Building energy intensity 15 7, 8 EN23 Waste by type and disposal method 17 7, 8 EN29 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regula18 tions CRE8 Sustainability certification, rating and labelling schemes for buildings 18 9 T Data detail complete Data detail partially Data detail inadequate h complete e d a t a d e t a i l i s i n a d e q u a t e 21 MT HØJGAARD GROUP About the MT Højgaard Group G4-17 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] G4-8 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] The responses cover the MT Højgaard company and the The Group works on selected markets geographically four wholly-owned companies Ajos, Enemærke & Peand in terms of skills. The Group serves both public and tersen, Lindpro and Scandi Byg. The partly-owned subprivate customers. sidiaries Greenland Contractors and Seth are not includDenmark ed unless otherwise stated.  Construction  Civil works G4-3 G4-4 G4-7 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] The MT Højgaard Group is owned by the two listed com Hiring out of machinery and equipment and advise on panies Højgaard Holding A/S (54%) and Monberg & site layout Thorsen A/S (46%).  Electrical installations The MT Højgaard Group consists of:  Pre-fabricated modular buildings  The MT Højgaard company delivering infrastructure, The Faroe Islands building and renovation projects and which is also the Group's parent company  Construction  Ajos hiring out machinery and equipment and advising  Civil works on site layout Greenland  Enemærke & Petersen delivering renovation and new  Construction building projects  Civil works  Lindpro delivering electrical installations and service  Electrical installations  Scandi Byg manufacturing and erecting pre-fabricated modular buildings Iceland The Group also includes two partly-owned companies  Construction which are not covered by this report for 2015:  Civil works  Greenland Contractors (67%) which is responsible for The Maldives and Qatar the daily operations and maintenance of Thule Air Base until the end of September 2015  Construction  Seth (60%) delivering hydraulic engineering projects Norway in Portugal and Africa  Civil works  Pre-fabricated modular buildings G4-5 G4-6 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] The Group's headquarters are located at: Sweden Knud Højgaards Vej 9, 2860 Søborg, Denmark.  Steel bridges As at 31 December 2015, the Group has employees at The Group's Vietnam Office provides assistance with permanent offices in: design projects to Design & Engineering in Denmark.  Denmark G4-9 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX]  The Faroe Islands  The Group is organised into the MT Højgaard company  Greenland having nine business areas, four wholly-owned subsidiaries and two partly-owned subsidiaries  Iceland  The Group is primarily a project organisation  The Maldives  Norway Key figures DKK MILLION 2013 2014 2015  Qatar Revenue 7,464 6,979 6,531  Vietnam EBIT 105 207 352 Equity 1,181 822 999 22 MT HØJGAARD GROUP G4-10 G4-11 [XXX] [XXX]  Copenhagen Urban Network  The Group employs 3,341 people  The Danish Building Society  41% of the employees are salaried employees and  The Dialogue Forum of the Danish Building and Proper59% of the employees are hourly workers ty Agency  99% of the employees work in Denmark and 1% work  Copenhagen Capacity / MIPIM outside Denmark. This figure does not include locally employed workers  DAC & Build  88% of the employees are men and 12% of the em DBU Club100 ployees are women  The Confederation of Danish Industry (DI) (several  62% of the Group's employees are covered by collecgroups and committees) tive bargaining agreements  Erhverv Aarhus  Business Network 9220 (Aalborg) G4-12 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX]  The Danish Association of Sustainable Cities and Buildings (FBBB) Supply chain  The Danish Forum for Hospital Technology and ArchiCOUNTRY DKK PERCENTNUMBER PERtecture (FSTA) MILLION AGE CENTAGE  Gate21 ARoS Art Club Denmark 3,894 91 6,152 92 Other Nordic coun73 2 179 3  Green Building Council Denmark tries  The Danish Society of Engineers (IDA) (the Danish Other EU member 126 3 150 2 Concrete Association and IDA HVAC) states  JUC Social Housing Rest of the world 202 5 205 3  Lyngbygaard Golf Total 4,295 100 6,686 100  Moesgaard Museum G4-13 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX]  Network Denmark During the reporting period, there have been no signifi Nordic Road Forum cant changes in the organisation's size, structure, ownership or supply chain.  Norwegian-Danish Chamber of Commerce (NDCC)  Norwegian Green Building Council G4-14 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX]  Renovation on the agenda Read about the Group's risk management in the 2015  Team Rynkeby Annual Report, page 18.  Tivoli Business Club  Water in Urban Areas innovation network G4-15 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] Economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes G4-18 G4-19 G4-22 G4-23 or which it endorses: Based on the Group's strategic framework, the CSR Task  UN Global Compact, 2015 Group began ranking CSR subjects affecting the Group's internal and external stakeholders in order of priority.  Signed a charter for corporate social responsibility in The management then put the GRI subjects in order of the property, building and civil engineering industry in priority – the indicators separately and subsequently Denmark, 2014 collectively. At the same time, a stakeholder analysis was conducted to help identify the subjects which the Group's stakeholders considered relevant. As a result, 18 G4-16 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] indicators were selected. The Group holds memberships of associations and advocates regional, national and international organisations The Group has identified the following subjects during its such as: work on the report:  Business Faxe  Anti-corruption 23 MT HØJGAARD GROUP  Health and safety at work among key customers. The purpose was to establish how the Group can improve the co-operation with key  Employment customers in future  Forced and child labour If the Group's work has consequences for e.g. neigh Compliance bours or residents, the Group will also hold dialogue meetings at which the stakeholders can obtain infor Energy mation on any project, ask questions and make sug Freedom of association and collective bargaining gestions agreements  The investors are interested in the Group being oper Non-discrimination ated sensibly and delivering good results. Dialogue with investors takes place at investor meetings  Investment  The subcontractors are interested in the projects run Anti-competitive behaviour ning to plan as regards time and economy. Communi Supply chain and human rights cation with the subcontractors takes place e.g. through contracts and at meetings, but also informally at the  Diversity and equal opportunity sites in connection with the daily work  Product and certification schemes  The business partners may e.g. be consulting engi Waste water and waste neers, architects and suppliers. Dialogue with business partners primarily takes place at meetings. The Group  Training and education is currently working on changing the existing coThe Group has not changed its previous reporting. operation model to allow the Group to enter the cooperation about the projects at an earlier stage and to However, the Group has supplemented its LA12 reporting increasingly share information about the project with under the heading 'Diversity and equal opportunity'. We the business partners have previously reported on this area under HR3.  The authorities are regulating the markets operated by the Group, making demands on us and following up on G4-20 G4-21 [XXX] [XXX] the Group's compliance with legislation. For example, G4-24 G4-25 G4-26 PR5 legislation on health and safety at work, noise, the enThe Group's stakeholder groups consist of organisations, vironment and the use of foreign labour groups of persons or persons who may reasonably be expected to be substantially affected by the Group's  The society in general is interested in the Group delivactivities and whose activities may conversely reasonably ering good results, contributing to training of potential be expected to affect the Group's ability to carry on and existing employees, complying with legislation, business. maintaining jobs and paying taxes Below are listed the most important stakeholders identi The local community is interested in the work being fied by the Group: conducted in compliance with environmental laws and regulations, in a way that does not cause noise or in The owners are interested in the Group delivering good convenience and that the Group employs local staff or results and being operated sensibly. Dialogue with the uses local subcontractors. Dialogue with the local owners goes through the board of directors community takes place at dialogue meetings, through  The employees want an attractive workplace with a information to neighbours and consultation processes good working environment, exciting challenges and  The media's interest in the Group covers the individual adequate earnings. The Group has a strategy providing projects, e.g. in the local community or as an icon, and the overall framework. Together with his or her supethe overall performance of the Group. The Group rior, the individual employee decides how to carry out meets the media with openness and proactively, based his or her duties within the strategic framework, and on a wish to create a trustworthy and transparent imthe superior and the employee jointly set performance age targets for the employee In connection with the CSR work, the Group conducted a  The customers are interested in having their project stakeholder analysis at the beginning of 2014. The analcompleted at a reasonable price, time and quality. The ysis was based on 21 semi-structure qualitative in-depth Group conducts customer satisfaction surveys (see interviews with representatives of the selected stakePR5), the outcome of which the Group uses actively to holders. The interviews have consisted of various general strengthen its business. By the end of 2013/start of questions answered by all stakeholders and various 2014, the Group also conducted a stakeholder analysis questions targeted to the interests of the stakeholders 24 MT HØJGAARD GROUP such as the environment or human rights. The interviews Stine Sølgaard, Communications Consultant, +45 2270 were anonymous and conducted by an external consult9160, stsd@mth.dk. ant. G4-33 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] G4-27 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] The CSR Report has not been externally assured. InforThe stakeholder survey resulted in the disclosure of mation for compliance with the requirements set out in various tendencies: section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act has been externally assured. Apprentices Due to the Group's size, the Group is to take on more responsibility, e.g. in relation to offering apprenticeships G4-34 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] and internships. The opinions on whether this responsiThe Group's highest governance body is the board of bility should be taken on through social clauses, complidirectors – also when it comes to decision-making on ance with collective bargaining agreements or voluntary economic, environmental and social impacts. agreements where the Group shows its interest and commitment to taking on social responsibility are dividThe board of directors and the audit committee appointed. ed by the board of directors are responsible specifically for the Group's economic reporting, risk management, Apprenticeships are a key focus area of the Group. In Code of Conduct, etc. 2015, the Group had 6.4% apprentices and interns. The Group wishes to raise this percentage to 7%. Group Management is responsible for the operational management of the Group. Under Group Management, a Foreign labour number of employees have been employed and commitThe Group is to observe Danish rules and make sure that tees appointed to be responsible for the relevant areas. its subcontractors do the same. This subject receives attention because of the risk of unfair competition and The Group has a Tender and Contract Board which resocial dumping when using cheap and, by Danish standviews all projects with a value above DKK 50 million ards, underpaid foreign labour. before they are taken on by the Group. The purpose is to ensure that the projects are profitable. More sustainability and CSR – not less In future it becomes increasingly important to behave in With respect to the management of Group CSR, the CSR a responsible way as regards sustainability. Corporate Board consists of the President & CEO, CFO and Director social responsibility is expected to become an integral of Corporate Communication. The Director of Corporate part of the activities of construction companies. Communication has overall responsibility for CSR, whereas the responsibility for operating the different This is in line with the Group's wishes, which has resulted subareas lies locally with the employees and divisions in an actual CSR organisation, increased focus and surresponsible for the relevant areas. veys. Read more about Corporate Governance at More documentation and reporting mth.com/corporategovernance2015 Several stakeholders expect an increase in the expectations to the Group being able to substantiate its CSR behaviour. The surrounding world will look at the Group's G4-56 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] ability to meet expectations. Group Management sees a great potential in increasing productivity in the industry and that calls for a change in the traditional approach to a building and civil engineerG4-28 G4-29 G4-30 G4-31 ing process. G4-32 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] The Group is reporting annually in connection with the Better use of the technology, increased openness in the presentation of its financial statements. customer-engineer relationship as well as improved cooperation throughout the value chain between archiThe CSR reporting period runs from 1 January to 31 tects, consultants, engineers and suppliers are some of December 2015 unless otherwise stated. The last report the prerequisites for realising this potential. was published on 26 February 2015. The strategy framework In 2015, the Group reports in accordance with the Global The strategy framework of the Group contains a number Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guideof targets and strategic focus areas with the intention of lines G4 at a CORE level. preparing the Group for meeting these prerequisites and The GRI Index is available on page 20. becoming the catalyst for industry changes. The Group's CSR contact is: 25 MT HØJGAARD GROUP The starting point is a vision about being ”the most productivity-enhancing group in the construction and civil works industry”. The financial requirements reflect the Group's valuecreation and financial stability and they are sought achieved using a number of supplementary targets as an underlying basis. Financial targets TARGETS 2014 2015 Operating margin At least 5% 3% 5.4% excluding special items Cash flow from Positive DKK 428 DKK -53 operations (CFFO) million million The Group's overall financial target of an operating margin excluding special items of 5% was reached in 2015. However, the Group did not succeed in generating a positive cash flow from operations (CFFO) due to delayed project start-ups on new orders and a temporarily increasing working capital. The financial targets are supported by supplementary business-orientated targets. Supplementary targets TARGETS 2014 2015 Customer satisfac>76 74* 73* tion Revenue from >60% 54% 46% key customers Employee satis>76 71** 73 faction Accidents <15 14.9 17.6 * Only the companies MT Højgaard and Enemærke & Petersen which collectively represent around 70% of the Group **Only the MT Højgaard company which represents around 50% of the Group For more information about the strategy, please see the consolidated annual report for 2015 page 6. 26 MT HØJGAARD GROUP Appendix Below you will find the historical data accounted for in LA1 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] the report. New employee hires and employees leaving employment HOURLY SALARIED TOTAL WORKERS EMPLOYEES SO8 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] New employee hires 953 360 1,313 An immediate enforcement notice concerns serious occupational health and safety conditions at the workplace New employee hires 178 49 227 which must be rectified immediately. The condition can leaving employment be rectified using temporary measures until a permanent again in 2015 solution can be implemented. Total number of em749 302 1,051 ployees leaving emProhibition against continuing work is given if there is ployment imminent and significant danger to the health and safety of employees or others. A prohibition entails that the work is to stop immediately and that it may not be reNew employee hires and employees leaving employment sumed until it can be carried out safely. broken down by age (hourly workers) In 2015, the Group received immediate enforcement <30 YEARS 30-50 YEARS >50 YEARS notices and prohibitions within the following areas: New employee hires 352 411 190  Twelve immediate enforcement notices and two prohiNew employee hires 70 64 44 bitions requiring the Group to secure against the risk leaving employment of falls again in 2015  Eight immediate enforcement notices requiring the Total number of em703 880 454 Group to secure the work space layout ployees leaving employment  Six immediate enforcement notice requiring the Group to ensure the planning of the work New employee hires and employees leaving employment  One immediate enforcement notice requiring the broken down by age (salaried employees) Group to protect the employees against health hazards through the use protective and safety equipment <30 YEARS 30-50 YEARS >50 YEARS  One immediate enforcement notice requiring the New employee hires 117 186 57 Group to ensure necessary and correct instructions to New employee hires 29 14 6 the employees leaving employment again in 2015 Total number of em287 428 246 Immediate improvement notices broken down by ployees leaving emcompany ployment COMPANY PROHIBITIONS IMMEDIATE IMPROVEMENT NOTICES New employee hires and employees leaving employment broken down by gender (hourly workers) Ajos 0 4 WOMEN MEN Enemærke & Petersen 1 11 Lindpro 0 4 New employee hires 30 1,210 Scandi Byg 0 0 New employee hires leaving em13 165 ployment again in 2015 The MT Højgaard company 1 9 Total number of employees leaving 207 1,929 The Group 2 28 employment PR5 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] Interpretation of satisfaction scores 80-100 Very high satisfaction 70-79 High satisfaction 60-69 Medium satisfaction 50-59 Low satisfaction Under 50 Very low satisfaction 27 MT HØJGAARD GROUP New employee hires and employees leaving emAccidents and absence broken down by staff categoployment broken down by gender (salaried employry and region ees) HOURLY WORKERS DENMARK OTHER TOTAL WOMEN MEN 2015 COUNTRIES 2015 New employee hires 92 268 Accident frequency 35.2 0.9 25.6 New employee hires leaving em11 38 rate ployment again in 2015 Occupational accidents 104 1 105 Total number of employees leaving 154 508 resulting in absence employment from work Working days lost 919 4 923 New employee hires and employees leaving emAbsenteeism rate in 2.3 0.03 1.7 ployment broken down by geography (hourly workers) connection with occupational accidents DENMARK OTHER COUNTRIES Hazardous incidents 144 0 144 (near-miss incidents) New employee hires 1,238 21 Occupational accidents 167 1 168 New employee hires leaving em172 6 not resulting in abployment again in 2015 sence from work Total number of employees leav1,980 28 ing employment New employee hires and employees leaving emAccidents and absence broken down by hourly workployment broken down by geography (salaried emers and salaried employees ployees) DENMARK 2015 OTHER COUNTRIES 2015 DENMARK OTHER COUNTRIES WomMen WomMen New employee hires 345 14 en en New employee hires leaving em45 4 Number of salaried 360 961 7 38 ployment again in 2015 employees Total number of employees leav629 33 Number of hourly 43 1913 0 368* ing employment workers **Accident frequency 21.1 1.7 rate per one million New employee hires and employees leaving the MT working hours (salaHøjgaard company (salaried employees) ried employees + 2014 2015 hourly workers) New employee hires 228 247 **Absenteeism rate, 1.4 0.05 New employee hires leaving em56 41 including salaried ployment again in 2015 employees in connection with occupational Total number of employees leav244 222 accidents ing employment *Incl. local hourly workers who are included in the accident frequency rate ** Accident frequency rate and absenteeism rate cannot be broken down on LA6 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] women and men Accidents broken down by company COMPANY 2014 2015 Ajos 0 4 Enemærke & Petersen 33 43 Lindpro 30 30 Scandi Byg 9 18 The MT Højgaard company 10 15 The Group 82 110 28 MT HØJGAARD GROUP Type and circumstance for the 110 accidents Only fuel consumption at Danish localities and construction sites is included. TYPE OF INJURY CIRCUMSTANCE NUMBER Driving private cars in the service of the company Injury to soft tisFall from same/or low lev8 The calculated fuel consumption for the driving of private sue (blow and el/bumped into/hit by cars in the service of the company is included in the fuel bruise marks) consumption. Wound Stepped on or other contact 26 The translation of kilometres into energy consumption is with sharp objects based on an estimate of the cars' average age and data Displacement of Excess strain on body and 5 about consumption by kilometre and type of fuel from joints organs (lifts)/Trapped or Statistics Denmark. Also, the figures have been corrected caught in machine parts for the difference between theoretical and actual conSprain/dislocation/ Fall from same/or low lev45 sumption based on data from Concito. strain el/bumped into/hit by Oil and natural gas for heating Closed fracture Trapped or caught in machine 6 parts or the like Fall from At the beginning of 2015, 14 of the Group's localities same/or low level/ were heated with natural gas. During the course of the year, two localities, both within the MT Højgaard compaOpen fracture Bumped into/hit by 2 ny, changed to district heating. The consumption is inCerebral concusDriving etc. in company 3 cluded primarily on the basis of actual statements of sion and internal time/bumped into/hit by consumption. If no such data have been available, the injuries consumption has been included on the basis of estimated IntoxicaContact with noxious chemi3 consumption according to on-account bills. The reporting tion/cauterization cals period may be staggered to the effect that it covers the Electric shock Contact with electric voltage 1 individual localities from Q4 or from the turn of the year, Other Fall from low level/trapping 11 but always a 12-month period. injury/bumped into/hit by In the statement of power and heating consumption, only Danish localities are included. LA12 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] The natural gas at a few small localities is not paid acManagers broken down by gender cording to consumption, but as part of the rent. It is not WOMEN MEN possible to obtain statements of the consumption. It is assessed that it means very little in the overall picture. Manager salaried em42 269 ployee Indirect energy consumption Manager not salaried 314 699 The statements of power and district heating consumpemployee tion at the Group's localities are based on actual metre Manager hourly paid 0 3 readings, statements on invoices from suppliers or information about consumption on the suppliers' websites. Manager not hourly paid 33 1,753 In 2014, most suppliers provided semi-annual statements. This was changed to quarterly statements in EN3 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] 2015, and the reporting period has thus been offset by a The statement of the direct energy consumption covers quarter compared to the period included in the 2014 fuel, oil and natural gas, including estimated energy reporting. consumption of private cars used in the service of the company, whereas the indirect energy consumption The consumption of electricity at the construction sites is covers district heating and electricity. not included in the reporting. This delimitation has been chosen because the consumption of electricity at the Fuel individual construction sites sometimes is paid for by the The fuel suppliers provide documentation quarterly with client and sometimes by the Group. However, in the a certain delay, and therefore the reporting of fuel covers spring of 2015, the MT Højgaard company began recordQ4 2014 and Q1 to Q3 2015. ing the consumption of electricity and heating at the construction sites for use in connection with the assessThe fuel consumption for taxi driving, flights and train ment of the individual projects in order to be able to rides is not included. The fuel consumption for the emintroduce improved measures. ployees' driving to and from work is not included either. 29 MT HØJGAARD GROUP CRE1 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] predominantly involve new buildings or civil works. InStatements from the individual companies of the offices' stead the percentage distribution is compared. use of natural gas and oil for heating, district heating and electricity from suppliers have been used. Square metres (heated area) and the number of office workers have been stated by the individual companies. The energy consumption for buildings includes consumption for heating of the offices as well as electricity consumption. No correction has been made in relation to climatic differences from one year to the other. EN23 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] Waste THE MT THE MT HØJGAARD HØJGAARD WASTE/KG GROUP 2015 COMPANY COMPANY 2014 2015 Recycling 1,506,024 2,250,559 6,778,230 (incl. reuse) Incineration (or use as 768,386 1,131,066 3,615,377 fuel) Landfill (incl. 167,280 197,910 1,893,690 in deep wells) Mixed waste 167,850 240,720 1,523,779 Other (non196,893 169,620 210,359 categorised) Soil removed from one of MT 49,000 87,440 299,760 Højgaard's construction sites Total waste 2,885,493 4,077,315 14,321,195 Total waste, 2,836,493 3,989,875 14,021,435 excl. soil Hazardous 61,643 84,290 2,671,270 waste The period primarily includes statements from the waste receivers with which the Group has entered into cooperation agreements and which also handle the main part. Local waste receives are only to a lesser degree used on some construction sites. A consolidation is currently taking place in which process the Group is working to limit the number of waste receivers and to dispose of the waste to the receivers with which it has entered into a cooperation agreement. It makes no sense to relate the waste volumes to revenue as one year there may be renovation projects generating a lot of waste, and in another year, projects may 30 MT HØJGAARD GROUP 31 MT HØJGAARD GROUP MT Højgaard A/S Knud Højgaards Vej 9 DK – 2860 Søborg +45 7012 2400 mail@mth.dk CVR No. 12562233 mth.com 32
