United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Raya Holding 2015 2015 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 1 CHAIRMAN STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 2015 It is our great pleasure to re-affirm our continuous support to UN Global Compact and its principles for the tenth year. At Raya, we are committed to be a responsible leader in facing the adverse economic conditions and precarious business environment. We strive to create a corporate culture that promotes sustainability and long-term value to our key stakeholders; employees, customers, investors, business partners and the community in which we operate in operate. Considering our core values “Respect for People, Customer Focus, Teamwork and Excellence” in all our business practices and decision-making processes, we have ambitious goals in growth using a triple bottom line approach. We aspire to constantly innovate new management approaches and adopt new technologies not just in pursuing our business goals but also in addressing social needs. We are strong advocate for disruptive ways of doing business not just in creating and exploiting new business opportunities but also in addressing social issues and creating positive social impact. In 2015, part of our commitment to social development, we have made several social investment initiatives addressing a chronic social issue in Egypt such as Education. We have collaborated with different non-governmental agencies specialized in educational projects and supported projects which have impacted the life of more than 4,500 children. Keen to capitalize our company’ s resources and core strengths in promoting social change, we always want to engage our employees in these social initiatives creating a sense of shared value and purpose in serving our society. Believing that social change comes from within, we are not just working on creating employee engagement through corporate volunteerism but also through an enabling environment where our female and male employees would equally strive and feel aspired. In coming years, we are working on promoting a corporate culture that will equally attract, develop and empower talents and employees complying with UNGC’s Women’s Empowerment Principles; signaling for our commitment in advancing Women in the ICT sector. We are well aware that today’s businesses need to play a pivotal role in promoting Sustainability Development Goals (SDG’s) and Raya as UN Global Compact active participant is committed to contribute to these goals and be a local SDGs pioneer through its continued efforts in education, g ender equality, fostering innovation and economic growth. Medhat Khalil Chairman & CEO, Raya Holding 2015 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS Chairman Statement of Continued Support in 2015......................................................................2 Introduction ....................................................................................................................................3 United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principles ...........................................................4 United Nations Global Compact Labor Standards Principles .......................................................6 United Nations Global Compact Environment Principles ...........................................................11 United Nations Global Compact Anticorruption Principles .........................................................12 2015 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 3 INTRODUCTION Reporting to the UN Global Compact This Communication on Progress accounts for Raya Holding activities during 2015 and its intended plans to be a sustainable business, having a proactive approach to change and ensuring long-term profitability .This report is a stepping stone in our efforts to deliver a sustainability report in 2016. The Communication on Progress captures our contribution as a committed signatory to the UN Global Compact and its 10 universally accepted 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and its approach to corporate sustainability. We are constantly making efforts in doing business responsibly and profitably creating value to our key stakeholders, shareholders, employees, customers and business partners and society in a sustainable manner. Raya Holding is an active participant in the UN Global Compact since 2005 and is constantly providing the support to the local UN Global Compact Network Egypt. 2015 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 4 Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our “Respect for People”Safety Policy. The goal of this policy is provide safe and healthy work place and Raya Holding is committed to protecting working environment to employees, human rights; which is reflected in how we contractors, customers and visitors; having treat our employees, deal with our a proactive management approach to issues suppliers and how we strive to make related to health and safety. Additionally, sustainable impact in the communities we there is a Committee for Health and Safety operate in. “Respect for People” is one chaired by the Company’s Chairman formed Raya’s core values; being a vital principle by members representing different business we adhere to as a company. This lines and departments who is responsible commitment is embedded in our Code of for overseeing health and safety issues and Business Conduct (COBC). demands. Protecting Our People and Other In line with the efforts to promote a Stakeholders corporate culture where health and safety considered in daily business operations, Health and Safety awareness and training sessions are At Raya Holding, we are committed to periodically conducted to employees from protect the health and safety of our firefighting, first aid training to more employees, guests and neighbors, as part of technical trainings given to employees our support to human rights. We across business lines. continuously develop and improve our internal standards for safety and security systems. Since 2012, Raya holding have achieved and continue to maintain OHSAS 18001:2007 certification, which relates to occupational health and safety. As part of our commitment to health and safety, we have developed and implemented an Occupational, Health and 2015 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 5 Data Privacy and Information Security sustained social impact. We collaborated with different reputable NGOS’s through inAs part our risk management efforts, at kind donations and monetary donations. In Raya we recognize the significance of fact, whenever the situation seems fit, we protecting the privacy and security of are keen to leverage on our current personal and business data for our portfolio of product and services and customers and employees. donating IT equipment. Furthermore, we We have in place an Information Security are always soliciting employee engagement Policy committing employees to protect the in CSR initiatives and promoting corporate confidentiality, integrity and availability of volunteerism. all the physical and electronic information We collaborated with “Educate Meassets. In line with this policy, we have NGO”and supported the establishment of established an Information Security their “skill based community school” in Management System (ISMS) which is Talbeya, Haram, where now 320 students in intended to be an enabling mechanism for un-privileged area have access to a quality information sharing, for electronic education and facility. Believing that operations, and for reducing informationchildren are entitled to adequate learning related risks to acceptable levels. environment where their safety is not in Moreover, there is an Acceptable Use Policy jeopardy, we participated in national (AUP) which ensures that all employees campaign pioneering by Ministry of know how to deal appropriately and Education for “Safer Learning Environment responsibly with information considering in Public Schools”. In collaboration, with the level of sensitivity of data; preventing “Terous NGO”, we sponsored the breach of confidentiality of personal and maintenance of 8 schools in El Ganayen business information and compromising the region in El Suez, providing a safer and network systems. better learning environment to 4118 students. In line with our belief that our social Taking Action in Support of Broader contributions need to capitalize on UN Goals and Issues company’s core resources, we have promoted corporate volunteerism and Strategic Social Investments; impacting the Raya’s employees volunteered in “Injaz life of more than 4500 Children Egypt NGO” programs and trained students in public schools providing them with skills In 2015, we have undertaken several CSR & awareness related to environment, initiatives in educational sector striving to entrepreneurship, communication and contribute to activities that have a collaboration. 2015 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 6 Whenever, we assessed as fit, we contributed to IT capacity building to NGO’s such as “Watneya NGO” supporting their goal to train caregivers and orphaned youth improving the orphans quality of live in Egypt. We also donated necessary IT equipment to Children Cancer Hospital 57357. In addition, we continued with our efforts in our community engagement activities conducted periodically to create employee engagement and CSR awareness fostering a culture promoting corporate citizenship. Among these civic activities, we conducted two blood donation campaigns in all Raya premises. In collaboration with “Egyptian Food Bank NGO”, we distributed Ramadan Food Boxes. In partnership with “Misr El Kheir NGO”, we restored houses in ElBeheira after the floods as part of this year winter campaign. For more details on Raya’s CSR Initiatives, please contact us: CSR@rayacorp.com to receive our full CSR impact report for 2015. 2015 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 7 Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our Commitment is well articulated in our Code of Business Conduct (COBC), to emphasize respect, Raya’s has ongoing commitment to integrity, fairness and doing the right thing upholding labor standards-including in everything we do. freedom of association, elimination of forced labor, compulsory and child labor; and elimination of discrimination. This Promoting High Labor Standards for Our commitment to labor standards in People embedded in our different HR policies, worker-manager social dialogue, training At the core of our business are the skills and and communication tools provided to all the know-how of our people-Human employees. Capital. Valuing our people, we make sure that we apply high labor standards in hiring, This is reflected in company’s core values, promoting and implementing talent Respect for People, Customer Focus, management and leadership programs. Our Teamwork and Excellence. These values employees are hired, promoted and receive have helped define Raya and they continue training based on meritocracy. In addition, to shape each of us in our business Raya has wellestablished different relationships with one another, our recognition programs that allow customers, shareholders, suppliers, outstanding employees to be recognized for competitors and the communities in which their achievements. Each employee is we live and operate. We expect to eligible to be nominated for any of Raya’s demonstrate these values in our work. This 2015 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 8 recognition programs to be filtered by an unique recreational 5 days trip, usually objective selection committee that abroad. evaluates winners based on strict pre-set criteria. Employees are recognized through the following programs: Talent & Leadership Development Programs  Wall of Fame Program: Managers who over-achieve their target for 4 Raya’s Corporate Learning & Development consecutive years and accomplish a team work on various corporate trainings across superior landmark in the history of the all levels and lines of businesses. Raya’s organization are rewarded through Foundation Programs are one of the strongest becoming candidates for Raya Wall of trainings we organize; there are three levels for this program: Supervisory, Managerial, and Fame, which is located in the entrance Leadership. Each level targets different grades of the building and has one member’s at Raya and has a different outline to fulfill the name (selected by a top management needs of this level. The content is specially committee) engraved for each historical developed for Raya to have something tailoryear of the organization. made for the needs of our employees. Each year, we have numerous training rounds.  Star of the Quarter: Each department Graduates from every level are eligible to take head nominates an employee as the the next level of training. Since 2014, we have star of the quarter based on Raya’s completed 1 Leadership training, 5 Managerial values (Excellence, Team Work, trainings, and 10 Supervisory trainings with Customer Focus, and Respect for more in plan for 2016. The trainings cover People). A selection committee selects modules varying from human relations, high one employee to represent each line of impact presentations, leadership, negotiations, business for the quarter. Finally the etc. The training methodology is very committee selects one star of all lines of interactive there is little lecturing and a lot of business candidates. Winners of each tools and activities. The Corporate Learning & Development team is planning to expand their value are rewarded with a recognition training for the coming years to ensure that we certificate and to join Raya Achievers are equipping all Raya employees with the Club’s trip (see next point). training and development they need to advance in their career and grow.  Raya Achievers Club: Employees who have exerted outstanding efforts in the preceding year (either quantitative or qualitative results) are part of the Ongoing Communication with Employees annual Raya Achievers Club. This group At Raya, we make sure that employees have is recognized by certificates of superior a voice and are able to raise work relatedachievement and is rewarded with a issues through different indirect and direct 2015 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 9 communication channels. Employees are  On-going Focus groups and Employee able to communicate with management Satisfaction Surveys are conducted to through following mechanisms: measure employee motivation, performance, and morale.  Annual Kick Off Meeting: At the beginning of the year, Raya conducts a  Speak-Up System : When an employee kick-off meeting for all employees. The has a concern regarding their working group celebrates the accomplishments conditions and want to raise issues of the past year and shares the goals related to fairness, Risk to health and and strategy for the coming one. During safety, or else, the “Speak-Up System’ that meeting, employees are provides a guideline for employees on encouraged to liaise with the senior how to raise an issue and or complaints management. to management.  Raya Town Hall Meeting: A yearly  Whistleblowing System: we encourage corporate event where senior any employee who suspects wrongdoing management and Raya’s achievers and from any of the senior management top performers are invited to attend team -in his/her Line of Business or in and discuss the overall strategy for the another Line of Businessto raise year. During this event, Raya’s his/her concern directly through celebrates the wall of fame winner of reporting the incident to the the year and the annual stars leaders in Whistleblowing email known to portraying Raya’s core values. employees.  Bi-weekly Chairman Breakfast: Randomly selected employees get facePromoting the Health and WellBeing of to-face contact with the chairman to Employees highlight any concerns. We support the advancement of health by  Rayetna: Our internal portal, where providing various types of health guidance there is a special link (discussion board) and raising health awareness. The Healthy for employees to put their thoughts, Corner opening marked a turning point for opinions and discuss various subjects. our employees where we are able to provide them with healthy menu choices  Fluka: A monthly internal news featuring a balance of calories and magazine which includes a section that nutrition. receives employees’ suggestions, and To encourage active lifestyles, Raya helps daily work experiences. employees make active choices. Wellequipped gym, showers, health and wellness tips, running programs, team 2015 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 10 sports, and Healthy Corner offer healthy options and are just some of the measures that encourage fitness and healthy lifestyles amongst employees. In the effort to prevent illnesses, Raya, together with Raya Sports & Activities Committee, are promoting initiatives that focus on exercise and healthy eating. We also provide health awareness campaign. This year, we actually conducted for our female employees breast cancer awareness sessions enabling them to better understand what cancer is, its risks factors and how to early detect breast cancer. 2015 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 11 Gender Diversity and Women’s Celebrating International Women’s Day Empowerment Initiatives and Ring the Bell for Gender Equality At Raya, we acknowledge the significance of At Raya, we celebrate yearly International a gender balanced workforce in general and Women’s Day. This year we celebrated across the IT sector in particular. A part of International Day for Women & Girls in our commitment to gender diversity and Science and Technology. On that day, we women’s empowerment principle, Raya’s highlighted the significance of female role CEO signed this year the Statement of models in Raya, providing quotes from Support expressing Raya’s support to the female executives across Raya on how to be Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) successful business leaders and face disseminated by the United Nations Entity challenges. got Gender Equality and UN Women. Additionally, Raya participated this year in Committed to develop the required policies the global event “Ring the Bell for Gender and systems that would encourage gender Equality celebrating women in workplace diversity and closing the gaps of women in, and the community. Raya participated and proudly won the GIZECONWIN (when women work, economies win) competition for gender diversity, which is a regional program pioneered to empower women economically. The related project is scheduled to take place in the coming year. 2015 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 12 Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. At Raya, we value the importance of Raya Data Center: developing greener IT advancing environmental sustainability and solutions through cloud computing promoting environmentally friendly Since its inception in 2012, Raya Data technologies. Over the years, Raya group center has always been committed to have invested in key business lines where providing a greener environment through environmental stewardship is a cornerstone energy efficiency and eco-friendly data to their operations. center facilities. Our green building designs Raya Smart Buildings: developing energy are Leeds-certified (Leadership in Energy efficient and resource-saving commercial & and Environmental Design), ensuring offices complexes sustainable environmental responsibility and efficient use of power and cooling As part of our efforts in promoting resources. To guarantee sustainable ecoenvironmental friendly business models, friendliness in day-to-day operations, Raya Raya Smart Buildings developed Galleria 40, Data Center has put in place a power a multipurpose green commercial building quality and efficiency monitoring system that complies with international standard of that includes thermal zone mapping and green building through the LEED program power quality meters, all combined with registration, by U.S Green Building Council continuous internal auditing to prevent (USGBC). This complex is designed to be a inefficient use of power resources. model of sustainability in terms of energy efficiency, water, carbon emissions and waste. As organizations’ appetite for data consumption and robust computer systems increases, so does the demand for 2015 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 13 processing power and energy to keep those BariQ’s pellets are proudly approved by systems going. When businesses build their international regulators including the U.S. own data centers to cater for their IT Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the requirements, the possibility of wasted European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and energy increases causing bigger harm to the Health Canada. environment. One of the key benefits of Maximizing Utilization of Our Resources Cloud Computing is to ensure efficient use of processing resources, thereby minimizing BariQ successfully completed several wasted energy. Being conscious of improvement projects in 2015. The environmental issues that businesses face company also aims to promote productivity, nowadays, Raya Data Center will launch its while complying with Egyptian as well as public Cloud computing platform in the international laws. Egyptian market by mid-2016 targeting small, medium, and large enterprises, Waste Recovery Unit thereby encouraging economies of scale in BariQ team started categorizing all its waste power and cooling consumption & while closely monitoring market trends and providing greener IT the Egyptian business expenses. These figures ultimately made community. the case for establishing new Waste BariQ: first manufacturer of recycled Recovery Unit (WRU). The WRU enables the polyethylene terephthalate in the MENA company to use so-called slow-moving region waste items by converting them into nonfood grade products. Alongside BariQ’s Bringing state-of-the-art green technology food-grade PET products, these new items to the region, BariQ is the first can help the company penetrate new manufacturer of recycled polyethylene markets by offering a more diversified terephthalate (RPET) pellets in Egypt, the product mix. Moreover, the WRU will Middle East & North Africa Region. Backed provide two new sources of raw materials by world-class technology providers, for the existing PET production lines via MENA’s first “bottle-to-bottle” firm, BariQ, reworking both generated waste relieving reprocesses post-consumer plastic PET pressure. bottles with a total annual quantity of 25,000 MT (approximately 1 billion bottles), At the end of October, BariQ technical team that would otherwise likely become part of attended the factory acceptance test for the landfill or burnt, providing top-quality the machinery, which was delivered and food-grade pellets to major international installed early December. Normal bottle and food container makers and operations are expected to commence by major recycled-material fiber producers Q1 2016. throughout Europe and the United States. 2015 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 14 Energy Recovery Kit complying with all national & international laws, regulations & legislations. In collaboration with BariQ’s business partner and top-notch Austrian machinery supplier, an Energy Recovery Kit (ERK) will be installed in the SSP production line, which recovers some of the heat generated in the process and allows it to be reused in the early production stages, saving energy and money. Pioneering Businesses for Sustainable Development Contest In 2015, BariQ participated in the Pioneering Businesses for Sustainable Development Contest organized by the Federation of Egyptian Industries (FEI) in collaboration with the Confederation of Danish Industry. The latter is recognized as one of the leading global industrial bodies concerned with the sustainable development & CSR. In this year’s contest, 193 SMEs & large Egyptian & multinational companies participated and BariQ was one of 30 companies that were awarded for their completed projects throughout the year concerned with the environment, CSR & workplace environment. This comes as recognition of the efforts done by BariQ as a member of a green industry that prioritizes healthy conditions for workers and operating with minimum impact on the environment. In order to maximize resources, reuse waste and have a more sustainable and healthier work environment, while at the same time 2015 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 15 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. At Raya, we maintain the highest standards responsibilities in building value and trust of ethics and integrity in all its business for all stakeholders (employees, partners, operations. We maintain honest and open customers, and shareholders). relationships based on mutual trust. We honor all our commitments internal and external whether verbal or written – values Our Progress and mission statement. Internally, there is an established internal auditing system In our continuous efforts to foster good where all departments and expenditures governance, in the coming year, we plan to are audited on an ad-hoc basis to ensure review the company’s anti-corruption policy that all the budgets are spent properly and to communicate it to all concerned according to the company’s policies. stakeholders and create the needed Externally, any sort of bribery and awareness. In line to our commitment and fraudulent act is not allowed, putting call to action against corruption, we have a forward transparency as the only way thorough anti-corruption implementation forward for a better economy. plan to reinforce the anti-corruption policy within Raya and be actively engaged in the Raya emphasizes anti-corruption strategies collective action against corruption. through clear financial and project reports. Our policies state clearly that employees are not allowed any form of corruption and bribery and have set clear rules to business operations and customer and supplier relationship management, governing the exchange of any sort of gifts/ giveaways. These policies are clearly and directly communicated to all employees upon their hiring in a “code of business conduct” manual. Raya demonstrates a strong commitment to transparency and accountability and its Board believes that sound corporate governance practices provide an essential foundation to assist it in fulfilling its 2015 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 16
