Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact 2016 PREFACE BY THE CEO The Vaillant Group combines its sustainability activities to form a strategic programme – S.E.E.D.S. This involves setting binding, measurable targets, deriving specific measures and continuously reviewing the results obtained in relation to four fields of focus: Environment, Employees, Development & Products, and Society. All activities are Group-wide and transparent. In view of the above, our membership of the United Nations Global Compact represents a conscious step towards increased transparency and visible corporate responsibility. The initiative, founded by former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, aims to strengthen the social commitment of businesses by inviting them to affirm a catalogue of basic values. The Vaillant Group is explicitly committed to the Ten Principles of the Global Compact in the fields of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption, and undertakes to continue fostering and supporting them in its sphere of influence. We report annually on our progress in implementing the Global Compact in our day-to-day business in the form of a Communication on Progress. Furthermore, we will detail significant developments in the implementation of the Ten Principles in the Vaillant Group Sustainability Report. Remscheid, 14 October 2016 Dr Carsten Voigtländer, CEO ABOUT THIS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS This document’s purpose is to provide information on the Vaillant Group’s progress with respect to the implementation of the Ten Principles enshrined in the Global Compact in the day-to-day practice of our business. The action we have taken in this field is founded on our expressed corporate principles and our management systems. The reporting period for this Communication on Progress encompasses the Vaillant Group’s fifth year of Global Compact membership, from 15 October 2015 to 14 October 2016. HUMAN RIGHTS GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2015/2016 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 1:  S.E.E.D.S. strategic  Suppliers to provide a  We source 100% of our Support of human rights sustainability programme written commitment to standard purchasing  Vaillant Group Guideline on comply with the principles volume from suppliers who the Global Compact of the Global Compact have confirmed in writing Principle 2:  Supplier management  Implementation of supplier that they comply with the Non-complicity in human system (pre-selection of audits on the basis of Global Compact’s rights abuses suppliers, assessment of questionnaires on social principles. The target suppliers, purchasing terms criteria which had originally been and conditions, contractual aimed for by 2020 has conditions) therefore already been  Vaillant Group Social achieved. Accountability Policy  Approx. 375 audits conducted in the supply chain during the reporting period. LABOUR STANDARDS GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2015/2016 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 3:  S.E.E.D.S. strategic  Suppliers to provide a  We source 100% of our Upholding freedom of sustainability programme written commitment to standard purchasing association and recognition  Vaillant Group Guideline on comply with the principles volume from suppliers who of the right to collective the Global Compact of the Global Compact have confirmed in writing bargaining  Supplier management  Supplier audits that they comply with the system (pre-selection of  At the main sites of the Global Compact’s suppliers, assessment of Vaillant Group, we are principles. The target which Principle 4: suppliers, purchasing terms bound by collective had originally been aimed Elimination of forced and and conditions) agreements. Where for by 2020 has therefore compulsory labour minimum wages exist, they already been achieved. are not undercut by us in  Approx. 375 audits remuneration. conducted in the supply Principle 5:  The Group has about 70% chain during the reporting Abolition of child labour of employees covered by period. collective bargaining agreements, in Germany about 80%. Principle 6:  Vaillant Group Spirit  In-house campaign on the  Continuous communication Elimination of discrimination  Our company values Vaillant Group Spirit, campaign addressing all entrepreneurship, trust, promoting the company’s employees integrity, passion Group-wide values  HR measures adopted  Vaillant supports the Fair towards implementation of Company initiative, which the Group values requires members to (management training, commit to treating interns employee/team workshops, fairly. Spirit weeks) ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2015/2016 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 7:  Multi-site certification  Annual environmental  All Vaillant Group Precautionary approach to pursuant to EN ISO 14001 audits production and R&D sites environmental challenges and OHSAS 18001  Binding environmental are certified or part of a  S.E.E.D.S. strategic targets to be agreed and multi-site certification, 10 sustainability programme degree of target system audits conducted  Vaillant Group achievement to be  Realisation of energy Environmental Policy measured efficiency and  Group-wide sustainability  All sustainability indicators environmental projects at a targets for 2020 in the to be incorporated into a range of locations (e.g. Environment field of focus: central reporting tool, the reduction of paper usage 25% reduction in CO₂ Vaillant Group for printed manuals emissions, 20% increase in Sustainability Scorecard (central); Reducing energy efficiency, 20% cut  Waste reduction: Expanded packaging waste with the in water consumption and use of reusable packaging introduction of reusable waste for production materials packaging in production;  Group-wide sustainability  Energy efficiency: New Optimisation of energy targets for 2020 in the heating systems in our monitoring system at the Development & Products buildings to be run only on Belper plant) field of focus: highly efficient condensing  Sustainability issues further 80% of our sales revenues devices, CHPs and incorporated into Vaillant to be generated with highly technologies based on Group process map. efficient products; a 15% renewable energies.  Compiling the Six Green reduction in greenhouse Existing systems to be Rules to assist the gases emitted by our successively modernised. development of sustainable product portfolio; 15%  Sustainability standards to heating technology increase in material be integrated into Vaillant  Improvements in key efficiency Group processes. environmental indicators  Process integration of  Consideration of (see key indicators section environmental issues sustainability criteria within in the current Sustainability the scope of the Report) Sustainable Building  Locally adapting S.E.E.D.S. Guideline for the Croatian sales company Principle 8: Promoting  Group-wide sustainability  Suppliers to provide a  We source 100% of our environmental responsibility targets for 2020 in the written commitment to standard purchasing Environment field of focus: adhere to environmental volume from suppliers who 25% reduction in CO₂ standards have confirmed in writing GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2015/2016 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS emissions, 20% increase in  Supplier audits that they comply with the energy efficiency, 20% cut  Environmental Global Compact’s in water consumption and responsibility taken into principles. The target which waste account to a greater extent had originally been aimed  Group-wide sustainability when selecting suppliers for by 2020 has therefore targets for 2020 in the and service providers. already been achieved. Development & Products  Sustainability standards to  Approx. 375 audits field of focus: be incorporated into the conducted in the supply 80% of our sales revenues Group Market Process chain during the reporting to be generated with highly  Group-wide internal period. efficient products; a 15% competition for the  Sustainability Brochure reduction in greenhouse S.E.E.D.S. Award reissued and distributed via gases emitted by our  Sustainability to be a customer forums, sales product portfolio; 15% compulsory part of partners and industry fairs increase in material vocational training and of  We have worked with efficiency Corporate Basics induction installers to hold workshops  Group Market Process training for new employees on sustainable corporate  Vaillant Group Corporate  Vaillant Group is involved governance. Responsibility Framework in a range of initiatives and  Support provided to networks whose purpose is environmental community to work towards projects at a range of responsible management company locations of natural resources. For (examples: fitting example, the company is a technology in the SOS partner organisation of Children’s Villages in German sustainability Germany, Austria, conference, “Deutscher Macedonia in line with a Nachhaltigkeitstag”, and is Group-wide strategic a member of the German partnership) Association of  Conducting a study across Environmental Europe on green Management (B.A.U.M. intelligence: 13,500 people e.V.) and of the from 13 countries took part Sustainability Leadership in the Green IQ study, Forum convened by media coverage reached B.A.U.M. e.V. / Centre for millions. Sustainability Management  Sustainability week held in at Leuphana University, the company’s German Lüneburg. sites to raise awareness  The Vaillant Group is a and inspire action among strategic partner of SOS staff Children’s Villages Intl.  Integrating improvement GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2015/2016 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS suggestions concerning sustainability into idea management Principle 9:  S.E.E.D.S. strategic  Expansion of our portfolio  In 2015, the majority – Development and diffusion sustainability programme of high-efficiency products 64.4% – of the Vaillant of environmentally-friendly  Vaillant Group product  Training to be provided for Group’s product sales technologies strategy focusing on highinstallers revenues were generated efficiency technologies, with high-efficiency synced-up systems and technologies and renewable energies renewable energy systems.  Group-wide sustainability  Europe-wide introduction of targets for 2020 in the Green iQ product range Development & Products  Ongoing training on field of focus: environmentally-friendly 80% of our sales revenues technologies for partner to be generated with highly installers. efficient products; a 15%  The Vaillant Group is reduction in greenhouse honoured as the most gases emitted by our sustainable company product portfolio; 15% (corporation) in Germany increase in material by the jury of the German efficiency Sustainability Award  Group Market Process ANTI-CORRUPTION GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2015/2016 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 10:  Vaillant Group Corporate  Group-wide compliance  Compliance training Action against corruption Governance Codex training in the field of sessions conducted in the  Vaillant Group “Codex of anti-corruption field of anti-corruption: 28 Behaviour”  Group-wide, internal training sessions were  Vaillant Group approval required for gifts attended by 415 Anti-Corruption Directive and benefits that are to be participants in Germany in  Vaillant Group Fraud granted to individuals 2014, while 43 training Response Directive above a certain threshold sessions were attended by  Reviewing compliance with 670 participants abroad in the “anti-corruption” Group 2014; 21 training sessions directive by means of an were attended by 309 internal Group audit participants in 2015 and  Application of the Group four training sessions were Fraud Response Directive attended by 72 participants in 2016  Vaillant Group Spirit  In-house campaign on the  Vaillant Group Spirit:  Our company values Vaillant Group Spirit, Group-wide communication entrepreneurship, trust, promoting the company’s campaign addressing all integrity, passion Group-wide values employees  HR measures adopted continuously towards implementation of the Group values
