Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 contents 01 Words from the CEO 02 Om Pressalit og Global Compact initiativet 03 Pressalits Values 04 Code of Conduct 06 Diversity 09 Human Rights 19 Environment 22 Anti—corruption 23 Compliance with the law 25 Follow-up on targets for 2015 26 Our goals for 2016 Words from the CEO In this report, we will present some of the activities, achievements and challenges in 2015, which has to do with our commitment to the Global Compact. Pressalit has in 2015 continued many of the initiatives that was also the case in 2014. We have a high level of ambition for our CSR-related initiatives, and we are confident that they will contribute positively to our business. In 2015, we have among other things, focused on anchor our efforts to help young people with special needs to integrate into the labor market, to ensure job satisfaction, enthusiasm and well-being and to reduce our environmental impact. The report is built around the ten principles of the Global Compact to provide an insight into our intentions, initiatives and actions. We hope with this, the report appears reader friendly and welcoming. I wish to emphasize our continued support for the Global Compact. Sincerely CEO Pressalit A/S 01 Communication on Progress 2015 About Pressalit and the Global Compact initiative Pressalit is a leading supplier of toilet seats (Pressalit the company invited to share knowledge with groups Seats) and kitchen and bathroom solutions for people outside the company. Social responsibility has always with disabilities (Pressalit Care). Pressalit is a family been part of Pressalits agenda. Right from its foundatiowned business of the Boyter family, founded in Ry in on, the company's management was eager to take the 1954, where we still operate from today. Pressalit currequisite human respect and be aware of its responsirently has 376 employees and 7 subsidiaries. bility as a partner and player in the beautiful locality which Ry represents. Therefore we are proud that in Pressalit has supported the Global Compact initiative 2011 we achieved to be awarded CSR People Prize, since 2002 and has always tried to promote the good industry Knight's Cross for our efforts in Corporate news by disseminating the Global Compact to all emSocial Responsibility. ployees and also by involving the membership when 02 Pressalit values Code of Conduct At Pressalit, the Global Compact's ten principles are anti-corruption. The report is structured in such a way visible in our Code of Conduct. We have in the report that the principles one and two are placed under huplaced the principles under their respective value in our man rights, principles three and ten are placed under own Code of Conduct. Therefore, this global compact the anti-corruption, principles four and five are part of report is divided by our own guidelines as diversity, the compliance with law, principles six placed under human rights, environmental care, anti corruption and diversity , while principles seven, eight and nine are compliance with law. These five points reflect the UN's placed under environmental care. ten principles on human rights, labor, environment and 03 Code of Conduct Pressalit’s Code of Conduct and the Global Compact initiative Pressalit’s Global Compact's ten principles are visible in corruption. The report is structured in such a way that our Code of Conduct. In the report we have charged the the principle one and two are below human rights prinprinciples slide under their respective value in our own ciples three and ten are below the anti-corruption prinCode of Conduct. Thus, this global compact report diciple four and five is part of the compliance with law, vided by our own guidelines as diversity, human rights, principle number six is less diversity, while principles environmental care, anti-corruption and compliance seven, eight and nine is subject to environmental care. with law. These five points reflect the UN's ten principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti04 05 Global Compact 2015 Diversity Principle 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. At Pressalit Global Compact's two principles on hua so-called spectrum of diversity, so that managers in man rights closely connected with our thoughts and Pressalit were asked to relate to the composition of attitudes about being a company that believes that the individual departments. The manager had to diversity makes us stronger. We value diversity very choose three parameters, as how they would put much, and we define the term according to the follotheir diversity forward. We use these parameters for wing range consisting of 11 parameters. example in recruitment, so that by every new recruitment also will be looked at the composition of emIn concrete terms, our attitude toward diversity is ployees. that the work force on each individual department of Pressalit gets such a broad group of employees as possible. Among other things, we introduced in 2011 06 ”A dressage team is a great team with many different functions assigned, and David manages to foster respect for all roles and the cooperation needed to achieve success. Dan Boyter The giver of the Keep Living award 03 07 Sports award Based on Pressalits great interest in disabled sports and sponsorship for the Danish Disabled Sports Association, Pressalit could also in 2015 hand out its Keep Living Award. The Keep Living Award is for disability practitioners who through their particular sport sets a good example and show that obstacles are not an option. In 2015 coach David Amager won the prize. David has since 2009 been the head of Denmark's best para-dressage riders. Since then they has won a large number of EM, VM and PL medals, which the experienced rider and trainer has had a large share in. In his work with the national team, David Amager emphasis on creating a strong and clear organization around the national team, where everyone knows his duties: grooms, managers and medical staff, but also the riders' own trainers, horse owners and family have a share in the great results. It has for David Amager been important to promote good relations and recognition of the support that his national team riders get in daily life. The competitive environment is very sharp in the national team, and new riders are ready to step in. Therefore, David Amagers focus at not only PL in 2016 but also PL in 2020. There has been established a food chain from recruitment of talent to the elite, where David Amager has both been present at the talent selections in para dressage, but also has been contributing to the drafting of a training compendium in para dressage for children and young riders. 04 06 08 Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of international human rights within their sphere of influence. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in the violation of human rights Flexible employment Since 2012, Pressalits share of employees on flexible employwork colleagues and immediate superior as a starting point ment terms has stabilized at around 8%. Our focus this year for further learning. EGU students are better represented in is to sustain our efforts and initiatives for young people. Presthe various social walks of life than we otherwise look at the salit has a desire to provide young people with special needs ordinary vocational training. Therefore, there´s expected a an opportunity for in-company training. different and more professional pedagogical approach to these students. The learning objectives for an EGU pupil can vary from professional to personal learning goals. Including, among others, Pressalits Facility Services Teams are almost 100% occupied the student must be able to cope in the workplace and in the with employees with special conditions, such as in a flexible long term be able to perform a job on contractual terms. job or EGU recruitments. Therefore, we work to create a safe foundation in relation to 09 Global Compact 2015 10 11 Global Compact 2015 Tasty, healty, fresh We believe that a balanced and nutritious lunch menu helps to create happy employees and job satisfaction. We see the diet as part of the whole person and we therefore focus on serving a both modern and interesting diet. Our lunch buffet consists both a hot dish, a salad bar, bread, cold cuts and fruit. We use good, fresh ingredients and seasonal greens. There must be something for everyone, and therefore our kitchen strives to put together a menu that meets all the requirements for taste and quality. We believe that a content and healthy employee is an effective employee. Therefore, we eat well at Pressalit. Just last year, 2015, we consumed 1.4 tons of carrots, 130 kg of marinated herring and baked bread from 865 kg of organic wheat/ spelled flour. Just to give you an idea! At Pressalit, we strive to be up front. Also in our kitchen. Food habits and health trends change constantly. An example: Diets high in carbohydrates, such as pasta and rice, used to be the trend, but today it´s more about limiting the use of carbohydrates. Also at Pressalit. Today we serve less pasta and rice and more vegetables and meat. In 2015, we registered a small increase in meat consumption, approximately 5-10 kg, compared to the year before. We listen, we give, we play, we act – also when it comes to our employee's health and wellbeing. The daily lunch break is something we value highly. A happy and satisfied employee is a good employee. 12 Job satisfaction At Pressalit we will stand together to create job satisfaction and a passion in our everyday lives. We will unite our efforts to make every employee experience a strong sense of being able to contribute and be a vital part of our development. Therefore, we work with Pressalit on green lane . The green path symbolizing a positive approach to work and cooperation, with a focus on creating passion and satisfaction in daily life. During 2015, we launched Pressalit on green lane with the aim to get employees and Pressalit to grow while creating joy and world-class results. The process includes training, advice and practical tools for how we can create strong passion, job satisfaction and an awareness of the goals we are aiming for together. In 2016, the focus will be on how we create passion in everyday life, how we reach our common goal and not least, what each of us can do. 13 14 15 Global Compact 2015 Students and trainees In Denmark, there is a strong focus on the fact that many young people have difficulties finding an internship as part of the alternance that make up our business education. Pressalit also wants in this area to be a responsible company. We want a close interaction with the educational institutions and the young people who need work experience related to their education. Pressalit has for many years weighted to have apprentices as a natural part of our social responsibility. We have students and apprentices in several departments, and we cover a span from production and logistics to the economy and sales. Students and trainees at Pressalit also working outside their specific area and together across professions. For example, the company's apprentices and trainees have taken charge and responsibility for the many requests for a visit to our production, which the company receives from associations, schools, other companies with many more. Also participating students alternately in external activities, where they talk about being a student at Pressalit. This could, for example, be Job dating at Aarhus Business College, but also other places where we meet the students at eye level and try to give a picture of Pressalit as a company. In addition, students take part in the annual food day where they are responsible for cooking lunch for the rest of the company's employees, plus the annual Christmas visit from local kindergartens, who help to decorate our Christmas trees. The many tasks that students plan and carry out is for us a natural part of our development work. We believe that the acquired learning by having to work together across primarily is beneficial right now, but this learning will also benefit the student well into his or hers career. 16 17 Global Compact 2015 Partnership with students At Pressalit is it very important for us to help students gain practical experience to complement their education. One of the target groups for our cooperation are students of higher educational institutions. As part of their study, they will have the opportunity to test the theory in practice and acquire new knowledge through an internship with us. Semester Interns are typically at Pressalit in 4-6 months. We want both the student and Pressalit to get a good outcome of the internship period. Pressalit both receives and provides a great value in cooperation with the students, and at the same time, cooperation helps to ensure our long-term employee pipeline. The student receives regular constructive feedback and coaching and have the opportunity to expand CV with highly relevant experience. In 2015, Pressalit extended its engagement at Aarhus University to include faculty Arts in addition to the faculty Business and Social Sciences. Pressalit attended among others in the events A Day with Pressalit and Company Dating . Our primary purpose of participation was to find candidates for spring internships in HR, Communication, Marketing, Supply Chain, Product Management and Sales. We want to meet the students at eye level and put vivid words and faces of Pressalit as a workplace. Therefore, we also brought our own trainees as Pressalit ambassadors. Furthermore, in 2015 Pressalit engaged in a partnership agreement with Student House, which is a nonprofit organization run by volunteer students to help other students. Student House makes contacts between companies and students and organizes numerous events for that purpose. 18 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Energy consumption At Pressalit, we strive to live in harmony with our surroundings and neighbors as well as the nature that surrounds us. Our effort is not just about complying with the law in the environmental field, but very much on making an active effort to reduce our own environmental impact. In 2015, we continued working on our ambitious goal of reducing energy consumption by 15% with a deadline in 2016. Since the formulation of this objective, we have worked to translate ideas into concrete actions, so that we reach our goals in 2016. The main focus of our work on energy reduction in 2015 has been on our off load , which is one of the main categories in the total electricity consumption. This term relates to the consumption of electricity which helps to make the production ready, and it may be the start of ventilation and lighting. Work in this area has led to a reduction in electricity consumption from 1,414 kW to 1,335 kW, our goal was 1.40 kW. This means a reduction of electricity consumption of 14.41% per product produced since 2014 and it is even 4.65% below target for 2015 production. Going forward Pressalit protect the environment further by also focusing on energy reduction in consumption base load , which is also one of the main categories in the total electricity consumption. Here we will focus on reducing compressed air, since we have found a wasteful consumption when air is trapped out of our hoses. 19 Global Compact 2015 Supplier collaboration In 2015, we have revised our entire supply index so that in connection with the new ISO14001 standard can decide how we affect the environment part in a positive direction at supplier, why do we always issues for environmental improvements at supplier. Furthermore, we have changed all our supplier contracts, so they now include both our Code of Conduct and our quality and environmental policy. All suppliers must sign and return a copy of this. In connection with these supplier contracts, we also got a stand alone contract. These we send out to our smaller suppliers. This confirms the reading over Pressalits Code of Conduct and Pressalits quality and environmental policy. In this way, we encourage all our suppliers to take more environmental responsibility and deliver in accordance with our standards. 20 21 Anti-corruption Principle 3: Businesses should ensure freedom of association and recognize the right to collective bargaining Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including bribery and extortion Pressalit has in 2015 continued to intensify its efforts on anticorruption. Anti-corruption is part of our Code of Conduct as one of five areas. Our Code of Conduct is an integral part of the recruitment of employees. So that we already in the recruitment are involving the company's positions on important issues such as anticorruption. Furthermore, part of our Code of Conduct, including anti-corruption, in an e-learning course that all employees go through as an integral part of their induction program. With this e-learning course, we want to express aspects of the ethical guidelines so that all employees have a better understanding that they have a responsibility to live up to Pressalit’s guidelines. Even if they do not work where such issues are current. At Pressalit it´s not only employees who must meet the requirements of anti-corruption. It is also very much our suppliers. Throughout 2015, we increased our efforts in relation to auditing of suppliers, so that we better ensure that these also comply with our Code of Ethics. Auditing of suppliers both in connection with visits by our own staff and also by visits of external partners. In 2015 we have expanded our cooperation with external partners in Asia, for instance, who make unannounced visits to our suppliers and verifies that conditions meet the requirements of our supplier collaboration prescribes. 22 Compliance with the law Princip 4: Virksomheden bør støtte afskaffelse af alle former for tvangsarbejde Princip 5: Virksomheden bør støtte afskaffelse af børnearbejde Abolition of forced labour When Pressalit and their external partners are auditing our suppliers, we have a particular focus on ensuring that our suppliers comply Pressalits code of ethics formulated in our Code of Conduct. We are looking very much on social issues during an audit. This could be areas such as: Working hours and breaks  Employee satisfaction and well-being  Options for doctor visits and other health agencies  Canteen System  Wages, in particular remuneration for overtime The depth behind these audits is to ensure that forced labor does not take place at suppliers to Pressalit. Regular as well as unannounced audits will continue to be a part of our supplier work and we do not experience that it offers particular challenges. The vast majority of suppliers know that they must have proper conditions to become and remain suppliers to Pressalit. 23 Global Compact 2015 Abolition of child labour During audit, Pressalit in particular has focus on child labor. It's something we always have an eye on when visiting our supplier´s and which by no means is accepted by Pressalit. When visiting our supplier´s, we always looks for signs of child labor. We react if we see an employee who looks young and get the young person and the supplier in dialogue. At the same time, we have given our partners in the field unannounced audits, notification of special to be aware of whether there is child labor 24 What we achieved 2015: Pressalit has in 2015:  Maintained its number of students/apprenctices so that the company has about 1,7 percent.  Maintained its effort in the field of special needs employment, including working with EGU students and flex employees as one croup. This gives us an overall level of employees on special terms of 8,6 percent.  Working with the distribution of trainees in Pressalit so that interns come even more widely in the  organization to new branches again. So that more people can benefit from the trainees` presence.  Working with the distribution of trainees in Pressalit so that interns come even more widely in the organization to new branches, for more people to benefit from the trainees' presence again.  Expanded its coorperation with students. 25 Global Compact 2015 What we aim for in 2016: Our goals:  Maximum absence of 3 percent (2 percent in short-term absence and 1 percent on long-term absence)  Maintain a level of about 1,5 percent for students /apprentices and 1 persent for EGU  Maintain a level of at least 5 percent of employees on special terms.  Have up to 10 trainees in social practices  Have up to 10 young people in work experiences.  Continue reduction of environmental impact. See unimaginative on our webside.  All suppliers sign Code of Conduct 16 26
