Kapa Sustainability Report 2015/2016 Thriving on Integrity Report Contents Topics Contents Report Contents Table of Contents 2 Purpose Scope 3 About this Report Report Guidelines 4 Performance Highlights, 2015 Message from the Chairman Introduction 5 Message from the CEO Core Values 6 Vision and Mission 7 What We Do Our Products and Services 8 Business Structure 9 Our Material Matters 10 Kapa Ethics 11 Quality Products and Services 14 Material Matters Employees and Business Partners 15 Environment 17 Anti-Corruption & Counterfeits 18 Community Engagement 19 Performance Metrics 21 Ethics Enforcement 22 Recruitment & Training 23 Performance Metrics Customer Satisfaction 24 Environment 25 Health and Safety 27 Corporate Social Responsibility 28 Ethics awareness in our supply chain Going Forward 31 Increased Community Collaboration Report Availability Communication on progress 32 2 About this Report About the Report • We welcome you to read our second sustainability report for the period of March 2015 – February 2016. The report expounds on our most material matters for the year within the sustainability context and opportunities for our business. • We have followed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting format guidelines to compile this report • The report is a disclosure of our business commitment and activities in the year 2015, with reference to the Ten Principles of Business Ethics as prescribed by United Nations Global Compact. (UNGC) Scope of the Report •The report covers all our areas operation from production and the respective support processes to engagement with the community with a main focus on the responsibility and initiatives undertaken to transform people n our business chain. Our Sustainability Mission •To build an ethical culture in our business Report Guide • The report summarizes on the topics; about us, our material matters, our metrics, and our future as discussed here in • A brief history of the business has been given to bring forth the background onto which Kapa has emerged from. Figures, analyzed data and photographs have been used to support information reported on our performance 3 Performance Highlights, 2015 Ethics, 2015 Community Engagement, 2015 Activities No. New Employees Trained 44 Children homes 19 Reported Unethical Cases –Internal 24 Monthly Donations Homes for the aged External 2 2 Disciplinary cases 5 Recorded Gifts Offers 30 Different organization in the External Assessment 1 Seasonal country 6 Internal Assessment 1 Recruitment Turn Over, 2015 Training Rate, 2015 Level Staff Staff Left % Turn Over Rate Recruited No. of Staff in Total Staff Training Rate % Department Trained Assistants 37 29 21% Senior Assistants Business 2 5 4% 1562 1274 79.5 Partners Managers 4 1 3% Kapa Staff 144 142 98.6 Senior Managers 1 0 0% Total 1706 1416 83.0 4 Message from the Executives CHAIRMAN Chief Executive Officer In this second sustainability report, we are focused more on business I am pleased to release the 2015-2016 Sustainability Report on our sustainability, as we endeavour in producing quality and safety products business path that is thriving on our integrity in doing business. beyond customer expectations. This commitment has kept as growing as a business and redefined our role in the society we operate in. We have made a stride to another level in our commitment to doing business in line with the UNGC ten principles of ethics. The Kapa continues to support UNGC in promoting the 10 principles on ethical fight against corruption remained our key agenda during the year business practices. We have aligned our business to the four thematic areas as we focused on exploring affirmed strategies in collaborating on Human Rights, Labour Standards, Environment and Anti-Corruption. with business partners to educate the public and the government , Our performance in fulfilling these initiatives is what is contained in this corruption is impacting on our business such as counterfeit and report. This year, as we focused on the fight against corruption, we zeroed dolloping of cooking fat in system into enhancing employees skills and competences on personal financial responsibility as a way of addressing the root cause of corruption among our We released our code of business conduct on our commercial employees. We have further streamlined our business partners operations in website, which offers an interactive moment with our external an effort to seal any lose end that may increase the risks on our business stakeholders. Our future is anchored on the renewed effort by the activities. A clause on the fight against corruption is now included in the government on the fight against corruption, continued business partners agreement which is signed by the party before engagement in environment conservation and transforming the engagement to work. In our effort to stamp this vice out, 4 Managers and 1 people within our business cycle. staff had to resign on account of falsified financial records. We are more engrossed on fortifying our relationship with suppliers and engage more with the community as we endeavour to transform not only how we do business, but how we influence the people in our business chain. 5 What We Do Kapa Oil Refineries is a highly successful family business that has seen tremendous growth since it was established in the late 1960’s. We are leading manufacturer of household products that includes; cooking fats, edible oils, soaps and detergents, margarine, baking powder, glycerine, noodles and now packaging rice. Our range of products brands areas seen in this snap below; Rice Detergents Cooking fats Edible Oils Toilet Soap Margarine Laundry Soap Baking Powder Glycerine Instant Noodles 6 Core Values Every day everywhere in our business, our decisions, behaviour Quality and actions are guided by a set of core values that have stated principles and provisions. Integrity We have developed our code of business conduct policies based on these values. These policies have been communicated to Responsibility everyone within the organization. We have an elaborate communication mechanism which Accountability employees uses to communicate on any violation on these values Respect 7 Our Vision and Mission Vision Statement Kapa is committed to being the ’Benchmark Company’ for quality products in Africa Mission Statement Kapa operations are focused on the manufacture of quality assorted food products, detergent powder, laundry soap and personal care products. It shall lead the market in terms of quality and performance of its products and customer service. Commitment Statement Kapa focuses on ‘value for money’. We aim at providing our customers with premium quality consumer goods at competitive prices while operating in an environmentally sensitive and socially responsible manner. All our processes and procedures are of the highest quality, designed to give results of premium quality. The mechanics and techniques behind our processes and procedures give zero allowance for error therefore producing high quality products and ensuring quality consistency. 8 Management Structure and Roles The Board of Directors • Sets ethical tone in the company • Provide leadership of purpose • Formulate policies and business strategies considering stakeholders interests The Executive • Executes functional strategies • Ensures compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements • Responsible for meeting stakeholders expectation Business Ethics • Promoting ethical culture within the organization Finance and Accounts • Responsible for accountability, quality services and accuracy of data and information within the Company Sales and Marketing • Understanding customers needs and requirements to satisfaction, creating new markets Production • Take responsibility for quality and safety of our products while ensuring customer requirements are met Quality Management • Ensure compliance to standards systems on quality and safety of our products Human Resource • Ensure competency and quality performance of all employees 9 Our Material Matters We consider the material matters to be our business driver. During the Our material matters are anchored on the reporting period we thrived on our value of integrity in the areas of: triple bottom of business success of • Kapa Ethics economic, social and environmental pillars. • Quality Products and Services • Employees and Business Partners • Environment Sustainability • Anti-Corruption & Counterfeits • Community Engagement We have taken it upon ourselves to reflect on our values in every activity. This perspective has seen our business grow to not only in Economic profitability, but also gaining more trust and building our reputation in the society. Social We are participating in collaborative roles with other business partners Environment and the government to enlighten the community on doing the right for the greater good of our society. We see this as the right thing to do for our business sustainability. 10 Kapa Ethics Kapa Executive recognises the fact that ethics is an essential part of the business and the impact ethical behaviours have on the business growth. It is in this aspect that the Kapa Code of Business Conduct was developed and was launched in 2014 and is accessible to all stakeholders on our website www.kapa-oil.com . The adoption of this code signified our commitment to integrity which is now being translated into a practical approach through the outlined strategies. The Executive demonstrates strong leadership commitment by supporting the UNGC 10 Principle of doing business . The Ethics function has a role of promoting ethical behaviour within the Company. Chief Executive Officer sets the tone which is resonated in all our actions . The Ethics committee which comprises ; Human Resources Manager, Legal Officer, Financial Controller, Ethics Officer, Senior Administration Manager, Finance Director and The Chief Executive Officer oversees ethics function activities. For effective performance, the ethics function work in collaboration with other departments ; Production , Quality Assurance, Sales and Marketing, Procurement, Internal Audits , Accounts , Human Resources Legal and Corporate Affairs in ensuring ethical behaviour is upheld at all levels of our business. The effectiveness of this process is assessed by the number of cases reported , a risks assessment carried through surveys and focus group ethical talks. During the reporting period, 26 cases related to ethical issues were reported and disciplinary actions taken against 5 Assistant Managers . In commitment to ethical business practices, the CEO was appointed in to the Global Compact Network Kenya Steering Committee and to The Kenya Anti-corruption Working Group. 11 Ethics Policies Preserving the trust of our stakeholders is the responsibility of every individual in the Company. This together with being honest to others and ourselves, providing effective leadership based on our ethical values, and doing what we say we do. The Code of Business Conduct contains these values and principles, standards and policies designed to help us meet this obligation. We believe our values are the foundation upon which we flourish to a sustainable business. The manner in which we cherish these values distinguish us from the rest as we support one another in protecting our values guided by the golden rule of doing the right thing, every day everywhere. We accurately disclose information on how we conduct our affairs in conscience of our obligations towards our business and justify our decisions and actions and omissions. As individuals and as a team we are responsible for our assets and actions, we take pride in improving our communities as we keep our company on its strategic path. We trust, respect and support each other, and we strive to earn the trust of our colleagues and partners, creating value as a team within and into our business. We consider the legitimate interests of stakeholders when making decisions in the best interest of the company. These values for the foundation of the listed policies: 1. Quality Policy 6 Marketing &BrandPolicy 2 Employees Policy 7. AntiCorruption &Fraud Policy 3. Human Rights Policy 8 Conflicts of Interest Policy 4. Finance & Accounts Policy 9 Environment Policy 5. Data andInformation 10 Corporate Social Responsibility 12 Code of Business Conduct The code of business conduct provide a framework for governance and decision making. The Policies are applicable to all our internal and external stakeholders and to any other entity involved in our business activities. It is expected that all of those, within the scope of these policies, do conform to the letter and the spirit of the code of business conduct. The Ethics Committee with the support of the Board of Directors ensures these policies are adhered to and any violation is dealt with accordingly.The Policies have been communicated throughout the organization on the local network links and hard copies issued to every department where they are easily accessible to every employee at their section of work. The same is also on our commercial website; www.kapa-oil.com 13 Quality Products and Services The quality of our products and services is what has built trust and long lasting relationship with our customers., leading to increased growth and winning confidence of our business in the society. We have endeavored to make quality and safe products beyond customer expectations. Our commitment to quality products is evident through classical quality management, ISO 9001 and HACCP Systems that ensures astringent controls are maintained throughout our processes. The quality assurance department ensures the products meet both customer and regulatory requirements as described in process procedures and regulations. The department has been reorganized by engaging a team of quality professionals for quality laboratory testing and product analysis under the supervision of the Quality Assurance Officer. We have maintained our social responsibility of health care to the community by producing cholesterol free and vitamin enriched cooking fat and edible oils as required by the World Health Organization. We consider having a work environment as a key to efficient production, we have increased awareness to employees on occupational health and safety, communicated on safety measures and displayed all signs and labels to ensure no accident occurrence in our operations. The distinct production lines produces are managed by expert. The Factory Manager has the responsibility over the functional strategies and work hand in hand with the Production Executive on business strategies implementation. Ethics at workplace is regarded as the blood line that flows between the departments and cohesively drive the processes in realizing the strategic objectives . 14 Employees and Business Partners Our employees and business partners drives our business activities. Every department has set annual objectives that are aligned to the vision and mission of the our business. Each employee takes responsibility to ensure effective and efficient implementation of these objectives. In our value for respect to others, we recognize diverse contributions made by our employees towards the business growth. We are an equal opportunity employers, and we do not discriminate against any gender, racial or tribe. When recruiting, we consider age and physical status as we do not engage underage in our work or the physically challenged. We have allowed our employees to interact freely and unite towards a common goal, to the interest of their welfare. This has created a cohesive and peaceful coexistence in our diverse cultural backgrounds We encourage creativity and recognize talented employees to ethical leaders for our business sustainability. As a policy matter on Human Rights, we promote the culture of inclusiveness of fairness, equality and dignified treatment of every individual that works for us. We do not allow any form of discrimination, harassment , bullying and individual abuse within our operations. We ensure our business partners, who provide us with general labour management services are in compliant with both labour and human rights requirements and adhere to the Human rights policy. The CEO has the overall responsibility over the labour activities and ensure everyone is treated fairly and equitably. 15 Labour Standards To ensure thorough management of our work environment, the occupational health and safety systems was separated with quality and food safety management system and was set as a stand alone department run by a Health and Safety Manager. The Manager main role is to ensure full compliance of the system with the requirements of both National Environmental Management Authority and Directorate of Occupational Safety and Health with regard to trainings, signage and awareness creation among the employees. Among the statutory requirements is to ensure the system m is audited annually by an independent body. During the year 2015, the audit was conducted to assess;  Fulfillment of Occupational Safety and Health Act of Kenya  Work environment and systems for prevention of accidents, occupational diseases and general health at work place.  Established baseline safety and health performance The audit covered three major areas as recommended by the law, on:  Work place information;  Management of Occupational Safety and Health policies and work place safety; and  Health and welfare conditions. Reduced number of accidents and fatalities measured the performance on care to our employees. All recommendations made in the previous audit findings had been addressed and verified during systems audits carried out by independent body. The external audit informs on areas of improvement to ensure maximum safety and health within Kapa. In 2015, the audit was carried out in December, 2015. 16 Environment As a business we take precautionary approach to environmental challenges by ensuring we do not release harmful waste into the environment. We recognize the fact that our business impacts on the environment and therefore we take responsibility over sustainable business practices. Managing our environment means reducing energy demands, water use and control over waste and emissions. We have developed an Environmental Policy, which was approved by the CEO in the year. We have committed ourselves to managing and reporting on our environmental performance as required by the law and be a benchmark among the industry players in line with the sector best practices. Each Line Manager is accountable to the waste produced within the unit of production. The Mangers controls on amount of water and power used to ensure we conserve on the natural resources. We are committed to continual improvement of all our manufacturing processes with the aim of conserving all forms of energy and reduce emissions to the environment. We consider environmental best practices in our business strategies in our engagement with the community. 17 Anti-Corruption & Counterfeits As a Company we have taken the fight against corruption in all its forms to higher level. We have zeroed on the high risk areas within our operations. We promote integrity among our employees and business partners to ensure that there is no room for corrupt activities within our business. We have a zero tolerance to corruption clarion in all our operation areas. It is the responsibility of every employee to ensure they are not compromised into corrupt activities, guided by our anticorruption and fraud policy. We have set a gift and entertainment policy that indicates maximum value of a gift or entertainment offer one can accept at 5% value of the employee gross salary. Anything above this value is seen as likely to influence the decision or solicit for a favour. All gifts and entertainment offers exceeding these nominal value should be recorded in the Kapa gift register. To ensure this is adhered to we have started by recording all forms of gift received regardless of their being within acceptable value. This has seen a total of 62 gifts and entertainment offers recorded to date in our register. We have joined hand with other market players to combat corruption as we engaged the government in fight against counterfeit goods in the market. Counterfeits goods affects our business as the malpractice evades on taxes and thus the illegal goods are cheaper beside being unsafe for human consumption as they are normally repackaged in unhygienic conditions and are illegally distributed. 18 Community Engagement Our commitment towards the community engagement focuses on the following activities;  Ensuring good health of our consumers through production of healthy and safe products  Donating of goods in kind to the needy in our society  Supporting basic education for the young children in the community  Financially supporting a local health clinic that serves both our employees and the community.  We provide opportunity for young people to learn and gain the workplace skills that they need in their career development through educational visits and industrial attachments In the year 2015, we focused on health of the community by supporting the health clinic facility within our premises through creating awareness to the community around on visiting the facility on any immediate medical attention they may require at fair charges. Kapa Clinic Publicity Campaign Flyer 19 Community Support A Patient receiving treatment at the Kapa Clinic which is Kapa donated to Construction of a classroom to the open to the community neighbouring community Karania Foundation, Home for the Aged The Chairman at the opening of Old Peoples Home 20 Performance Metrics Our sustainability performance is measured on what we have achieved on our material matters. The metrics are the indicators of our path towards entrenching an ethical culture within our business. The metric that counted on our performance towards building ethical culture in 2015 include:  Ethics Enforcement  Recruitment and Training Evaluation  Customer Satisfaction  Environment  Support to Community In validation of our performance, the metrics are marked against the specific departmental objectives, internationally accredited standards and benchmarked with industry sector best practices. 21 Ethics Enforcement  Communication In our quest to build ethical culture in the business, we have communicated our ethical expectation to the stakeholders through the business code of conduct booklet. In return, we have received queries and guided on ethical dilemma that employees are faced with as they work. The Ethics Officer, on a monthly basis, hold ethical talks with the employees at different levels of management on ethical issues that could affect the business. Critical cases of interest are handled by the Executives.  Training To affirm our commitment to ethical behaviour within the Company, we have included the ethics awareness training in the our new employees orientation programme, the executive visibly demonstrate the commitment to ethics during this sessions. The training outlines about the importance of ethics, what the code of business conduct entails, ethics governance as well resource for decision making and disciplinary actions in case of non-compliance.  Risk Assessment We conducted one independent assessment by Global Compact Africa and one internal employee satisfaction survey done by HR department that recorded a 68% satisfaction level. Global Compact Africa will be releasing the report in 2016  Gift Register In our commitment to integrity, and the unwavering spirit to fight corruption within our business we have ensured every gift and entertainment offers are accounted for. We recorded 22 gifts and entertainment offers in the year 2015. The declared gift were in compliance to our gift and entertainment policy.  Disciplinary cases To ensure no violation of our policies , we have created a platform where employees can raise concerns without fear of reprisal and information given remain confidential and/or anonymous , mainly for our internal stakeholders as; o Help Desk at the Ethics Office o Anonymous E-mail Address (speakitup101@gmail.com) During the period under review, 24 cases related to ethical issues were recorded in our case log register. Cases were handled by the relevant head of department . In swift , but fair decisive way, disciplinary actions were taken against 3 assistants on fraud and theft. 22 Recruitment and Training Recruitment Rate Training Rate Per Department Level Staff Staff Left % Turn No. of Staff in Department Total Trained Training Rate % Recruited 2015 Over Rate Department 2015 Assistants 37 29 21% Boiler House/ETP 132 105 79.5 Senior 4% Baking Assistants 2 5 234 180 76.9 Powder/Noodle Managers 4 4 3% Detergent Packing 170 120 70.6 Senior 1 0 0% Detergent Plant 101 99 98.0 Managers Loading Bay 200 166 83.0 Quality Assurance 31 31 100 Overall Training Rate Refinery Packing 367 293 79.8 21% Refinery Plant 42 38 90.5 79% Soap Plant 217 182 83.9 Warehouse 68 60 88.2 Administration 144 142 98.6 Total 1706 1416 83.0 Pass Failed 23 Customer Satisfaction Demand for our products remained high as we surpassed our sales targets . We increased the Kapa products basket by introducing 3 varieties of rice products. We maintained our quality and safety of our products as confirmed by the systems certification body during the re-certification process carried in the reporting period. Customer Satisfaction 2014 2015 No. of Customer Complaints 23 25 No. of complaints attended to 23 25 customer satisfaction rating (%) 76 77 24 Environment In 2015, we took measures to conserve energy, save on water and reduce on waste water from our production processes. As set in our environmental policy, the team on energy efficiency management embarked on operational strategies on the use of environmentally technologies aimed at efficient energy utilization to environmental conservation. The following objectives were set a. Establishing specific energy consumption standards across the operations b. Continuous monitoring and measurement of relevant energy resources To achieve the above objectives, the following strategies were implemented Strategy Benefits Developed investment and energy policy Reduced waste and emissions into the environment and cost of plant energy Established condition based monitoring (LLF) routine Reduced downtime and maintenance cost checklists across all plants in the factory Established utility monitoring system across all plants in the Increased machine efficiency and reduced breakdowns factory Embarked an energy conservation project on: 20-30% savings on steam energy use • Energy and steam flow meter monitoring Effective and accurate control of power and steam • Condensate recovery consumption • Systematic steam flow sheet record in all levels of Water and electricity conservation operation 25 Energy Monitoring Systems The energy monitoring system project started in May 2015 and was completed & commissioned in mid-October 2015 and we are at the data collection stage. This involved installing 28 energy meters and 10 Steam flow meters which will enable us measure and monitor power and steam consumption by each department respectively. The energy meter data is sent to the monitoring software through a data switch directly or via a converter while the steam flow meter data is sent through a recorder. Energy Monitoring Record System Steam Flowmeter Recorder 26 Health and Safety Data Analysis FY 2015 MONTHLY ACCIDENT ANALYSIS DEPARTMENTAL 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC TOOL ROOM & WORKSHOP MAIN OFFICE LOADING BAY WARE HOUSE E.T.P. BAKING DET. PLANTS & PACKING LAUNDRY SOAP PLANT REFINERY PLANTS & PACKING SULPHONATION TOILET SOAP PLANT BOILER PLANT NOODLE PLANT CS & SCRAP YARD MONTHLY TOTAL 27 Kapa Corporate Social Responsibility Kapa recognises that its social responsibility to the community is integral to its business. To effectively contribute to the society, Kapa founded a charitable organization ‘The Karania Foundation’ to cater for needy in the society in these areas : a) Health , b) Education ; and c) The well being of Children and the Aged in the society. So far, the Foundation has supported the following activities; i. Building a home for the aged in the society located in Nairobi to cater for the old and needy individuals, the foundation fully supports this home. ii. Annual sponsorship to needy students in support of their education at varying levels of education. iii. Funding for specialised medical health care to families in need of such a support. Kapa as a company also contributes to the society through; i. Monthly donations to 21 children homes with edible oils and soap products. ii. Monthly donation to the Home for the Aged with edible oils and soap products. 28 Donations to the Community Donations to Christian Mission Aid Dispatching Donated Products at Kapa Ethics Officer Distributing Donated to Nairobi Kapa Loading bay Sinai Slum Children Nairobi We have reached out to the needy children in our society, from various backgrounds such as the: Deaf community in Kiambu, communities in slums in Sinai, Kuwinda & Kibera, Rescued Girls in Kajiado, a Village (Nkaimurunya schoolGataka), and widows struggling to raise families in Nyanza living with HIV through Christian Mission AID, a community based organization. We are working on scaling up this support to and extend our support in more sustainable way. Visit to Don Bosco Children Home by Kapa Ethics Officer 29 Donations to Children Homes Monthly Donations 2015 Donations Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Soweto Slums Children Home b b b b b b b b b b b b Magodo's Children's Home b b b b b b b b b b b b Child Life Trust b b b b b b b b b b b b Maji Mazuri Children Home b b b b b b b b b b b b Family Care b b b b b b b b b b b b Kwetu Home Of Peace b b b b b b b b b b b b Good Hope b b b b b b b b b b b b Edevalle Home b b b b b b b b b b b b Missionary Of Charity b b b b b b b b b b b b Heritage Of Hope b b b b b b b b b b b b Global Museum b b b b b b b b b b b b Little Sisters Of The Poor b b b b b b b b b b b b Better Life Community Centre b b b b b b b b b b b b International Society For Krishna b b b b b b b b b b b b Thomas Barnados House b b b b b b b b b b b b Amritas Children's Home b b b b b b b b b b b b Maria Romero b b b b b b b b b b b b Ananda Marga Mission b b b b b b b b b b b b The Children's Village b b b b b b b b b b b b 30 Going Forward In line with our sustainability mission, to build an ethical culture in our business we aim to promote ethical business practices to eternal stakeholders. We intend to sensitises our external stakeholders on business integrity, community engagement and on the fight against corruption. The sustainability strategies for 2016 are set as follows:  Promoting ethical business practices in our supply chain  Increasing market reach through diversified product range  Enhancing community collaboration avenues through environmental conservation and health care activities In our effort to fight corruption in our business and in the society, we have joined hand with other businesses in tackling corruption in our country. As part of Global Compact Network Kenya -AntiCorruption Working Group we have set up strategies in the areas of Public Procurement, Taxation, Land Registration, Judicial Processes and Governance. This strategies if adopted will overcome key barriers to development in our society and hence sustainable business growth. The Company plans in supporting the adoption of climate change policy in conjunction with the community are ongoing, we have planned to partner with community planting trees on water catchment areas, at a location of our choice, through the recognized ‘shamba system’ practice. The shamba system provide a precautionary approach to environmental challenges to communities living in water catchment areas and practicing farming beside other water uses. Through this collaboration we shall be able to achieve our goal of sustainable water resource catchment conservation in the near future . 31 Availability of the Report to the Public In line with our values of integrity and accountability, this Sustainability Report will be communicated to all our key stakeholders through our common channels of communication. The channels are;  The Company’s website which is accessible to the public  Emails sent to all Kapa employees; and  The Ethics Communication mechanism. 32
