Blue Ocean Operating Management Co., Ltd. United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (2016) From: 01 Nov 2015 To: 01 Nov 2016 1 Contents Page 1 Statement of continued support 3 2 Introduction to Blue Ocean Operating Management Co., Ltd. 4 3 Human Rights Principles 5 4 Labour Principles 7 5 Environmental Principles 9 6 Anti-corruption Principles 10 2 Statement of Continued Support I am pleased to confirm that Blue Ocean Operating Management reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact with this 2016 Communications on Progress report. BOOM has been a proud member of the UN Global Compact since 2013 and has supported and integrated the 10 principles into our business model since its establishment and is fully committed to continue these practices as we expand and grow. In this annual COP report, we describe our policies and operation procedures that show our commitment and integration of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption principles into our business. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using all primary channels of communication. Htun Htun Naing Managing Director of BOOM 3 Introduction of Blue Ocean Operating Management Co., Ltd Blue Ocean Operating Management Company Limited, BOOM for short, was founded in November 2009 and initially operated as a marketing and business management service, acting as a marketing consultant for Myanmar Football Federation and facilitated oversea medical tours for our customers. In 2010, BOOM ventured into the IT industry and operated a one-stop service area at the opening of IT Jupiter Mall. In June 2011, BOOM launched the M188 mobile application store and the first mobile rental service for tourists at the three main airports of Myanmar. In December 2011, BOOM proudly launched the Blue Ocean Contact Center, the first of its kind in Myanmar, which was an invaluable one-stop information sharing service center. In 2013, our company became a participant of the UN Global Compact and received our ISO 9001:2008 certification. Since then, BOOM has added 1875, 1880, 1886, 1883 and 1881 hotlines, as well as facility rental services, inbound and outbound call center services and business process outsourcing. Our Vision Be the number one customer choice for telecommunication services in Myanmar Our Mission Offer the first, the best and the most innovative services in Myanmar Core Values Honesty and Respect Customer Centric Teamwork Making the impossible possible Innovation and Change Happiness at work Our vision, mission and core values are integrated into every level and aspect of the company and we will strive to continue our growth by improving our services. 4 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 1: BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAMIED HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2: BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHT ABUSES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS BOOM fully understands and stays in compliance with Myanmar labour laws and international standards. Our human rights policy states that “All activities, operations and services of BOOM respect and protect Human Rights and spread our Human Rights commitment to our stakeholder”. Our goal is to focus on the continuous improvement of benefits for our stakeholders by ensuring compliance with internationally proclaimed Human Rights. IMPLEMENTATION Present Office Hotline Via the President Hotline (01-2399666), the general public can inform the president’s office of any incidences of corruption, abuse of authority and unethical behavior by government officials. This hotline which operates around the clock, enables any Myanmar citizen to exert their human rights. We have provided this service free of charge since 20 March 2013 and will continue to do so. 1880 Hotline BOOM started operating the 1880 hotline 24/7 in July 2014 to help people report emergencies along the Yangon-Naypyitaw-Mandalay highway. People facing emergency situations such as car accidents or mechanical breakdowns can call the 1880 hotline to contact the police, ambulance, mechanics or any other relevant institutions. Starting from February 2015, the hotline has also provided access to charity groups for blood donations, oxygen bottles or hospitalization services. 1883 Ministry of Information We also cooperate with the Ministry of Information through the hotline number 1883 which answers any questions related to the ministry since June 2015. Our services include releasing and confirming local updates, weather forecasts and breaking news. Delivering accurate and up-to-date information to the general public can put an end to groundless rumors and helps promotes political stability. Providing forecast information of disasters such as floods, droughts or storms beforehand also helps local farmers, fishermen and even travelers and can potentially save their lives and safeguard their properties. Voice of Complaint We train and empower our Customer Service Representatives (CSRs) who answer customer complaint calls. In accordance with ISO 9001:2008 standards, we record every customer complaint and set quality objectives to ensure customer satisfaction. Our well trained CSRs take every complaint seriously and always try to reach a solution giving utmost priority to customer 5 satisfaction. The recorded customer complaints are also used in training to improve the skills of our CSRs. Disabled Employees We are also committed to creating job opportunities for the disabled which make up about 1.5% of our workforce who are provided with the same benefits as employees without disabilities. We also cooperate with the Myanmar Independent Living Initiative (MILI) for the employment of individuals with disabilities. We offer equal opportunities in recruitment, selection and compensation for disabled individuals who possess desirable skills. Furthermore, in ordered to ensure a comfortable working experience, our computer software systems are tailored to their needs and all other employees are also educated on the Do’s and Don’ts when working with their disable co-workers. Youth Employment BOOM hire employees based on their qualifications rather than experience which enables us to nurture young talents and offer them great opportunities for their career path. Currently, around 30% of all our CSRs are undergraduates. Recently, in August of 2016, we held a job fair targeted at upcoming graduates on the campus of the University of Economics. Fair HR Policy Decisions regarding recruitment, selection, salary or benefit increment, promotion, demotion or dismissal are based upon each employee’s Key Performance Indicator which is also shared with the employee to avoid bias. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES/RESULTS BOOM has successfully handled around 50 public complaint calls during the period covered in the report. Our 1880 emergency hotline has also seen over 10,000 calls in the same period, 91% of which we were able to provide timely assistance. The 1883 hotline service has seen around 10,000 calls and seems to show a sustained increase. We have employed 30% of our CSRs from the undergraduate population and have continued our collaboration with MILI to provide employment opportunities amongst the disabled community. Upon monitoring the annual performance of our employees based on the ISO 9001:2008 quality standards, over 90% satisfy the performance requirements. 6 LABOUR PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 3: BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING PRINCIPLE 4: BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR PRINCIPLE 5: BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR PRINCIPLE 6: BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS We always follow the enacted Myanmar Labour Laws and update our policies accordingly whenever necessary. There is no child labour or forced labour in BOOM. We do not allow discrimination in our workplace due to race, gender, age, religion, marital status or disability and any such incidence is tackled and penalized very seriously. IMPLEMENTATION No Child Labour BOOM does not employ or recruit child labourers, as defined in the Myanmar Labour Laws as individuals of less than 18 years of age. No Forced Labour BOOM pays our salaries before the last day of every month and our salary payment system is transparent to all our employees. Working hours are defined by BOOM as 44 hours per week and employees who work overtime are compensated according to the rate defined by Myanmar Labour Laws. BOOM values the work-life balance of our employees and can ensure our suppliers, partners and customers that we do not use forced labour. No Discrimination BOOM does not subject its employee to any form of discrimination and provides equal opportunity and fair treatment to all people without regard to race, colour, religion, gender, nationality, ethnicity, age, disability, political affiliation, marital status or sexual orientation. Discrimination of any kind is not tolerated among the workforce and any such incidence is dealt with and tackled very seriously. 7 Employee benefits BOOM handles every aspect of the relationship with its employees including recruitment, selection, placement, promotion, termination, training, working conditions, benefits and compensation. BOOM provides a competitive fringe benefits package to all employees as follows: Lunch, coffee, snacks and noodle soup provided for all stuff Uniforms Yearly trips (including trip allowance or reimbursement) Wedding allowance Funeral allowance Mobile phone allowance Loan allowance in case of emergency Free medical check-up and treatment Parking space Sport facilities Free classes for personal development (English, Computer, Leadership and Management skills) Birthday parties once a month Bonus twice a year Annual salary increment or promotion depending on the assessment Loyalty gold award for all employees with 3 or more years of service Monthly awards such as “The best CSR award” Playing motivational games Shuttle for management and night-shift staff Supporting voluntary participation of our employees in donations or corporate social responsibility activities. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES/RESULTS Absolutely no child labour at BOOM. Our employment policies are regularly reviewed to ensure compliance with Myanmar Labour Laws and ILO standards and is kept up to date. Our workforce has increased to around 850 people in 2016 (an increase of around 6% compared to the previous year). 61% of BOOM’s workforce is female and there have been no cases of gender discrimination. We greatly value our loyal employees, 56 of whom have stayed with BOOM for 3 or more years, and reward them accordingly. Recently, in February 2016, we sponsored our employees with 3 years or more of service with a trip to Bangkok. 8 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 7: BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES PRINCIPLE 8: BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLE 9: BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTAL FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS BOOM is a service company and hence our operations have a smaller environmental impact than most industries. BOOM stays in full compliance with the environmental laws and regulations enacted by the Ministry of Environmental Conservation and Forestry of Myanmar. IMPLEMENTATION BOOM’s contact centre services, including local directory assistance and SMS blast advertisement, news and announcements, preserve the environment by eliminating the use of ink, paper, chemicals and vinyl. For internal communication purposes, an internal email communication service called “Zimbra” mail is used to reduce paper usage. All employees are required to use recycled paper for physical internal reporting between departments and also, both sides of a paper is utilised as part of our recycling programme. All BOOM staff are educated on energy saving practices such as turning off lights and electronic devices after office hours. Systems, monitored by the administration department, are also in place to ensure efficient energy and water usage. Light bulbs and air conditioners have also had their capacities carefully calculated and are installed based on the space and number of staff. Toilets are also built so as to get natural light during the daytime, thus saving energy. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES/RESULTS We are committed to conserving our environment and are always striving to reduce our environmental impact as an integral and fundamental part of our business strategy. One of our main objectives is to raise awareness amongst our staff, stakeholders and the general public on topics of green growth, green economy and environmentally friendly practices. BOOM, together with its staff, has also continued our annual tree planting program in 2016. With leadership from the management team, BOOM volunteers have also started collecting litter around monasteries and pagodas on a monthly basis. 9 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 10: BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCULDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS BOOM focuses on the highest standards of governance and ethics in all our business practices and dealings. BOOM has integrated anti-corruption laws within our policies since its formation and cooperates with business partners who value the same anti-corruption practices. BOOM has installed proper business operation procedures to prevent extortion and corruption. BOOM also cooperates with the Myanmar government to help implement systems to fight against corruption. IMPLEMENTATION BOOM actively participates in the forum for E-government, transparency and anti-corruption processes by offering the hot line number 1881 (E-Yangon), 1882 (E-Mandalay) and President Hotline (01-2399666). E-Yangon and E-Mandalay are the point of contact for several government services: o Vehicle dealer license application process o License application process for establishing, repairing, renewing companies E-Yangon and E-Mandalay primarily serve as a one-stop service. The objective is to help customers in the process of dealing with ministries without the need for physical interaction, thus abolishing corruption or bias. Our free of charge President Hotline service also allows the general public to voice their concerns and report incidences of corruption and extortion in ministries and other government institutions. We have also taken measure to prevent internal corruption within the company. BOOM avoids recruiting family members of our existing employees. To prevent corruption and bias, every job applicant goes through the same three stages of assessment, testing English, mathematics and computer skills, personal interviews with the HR Manager and the relevant Head of Departments, and another with the Chief Operating Officer. Promotion, demotion and annual salary increments are also decided according to the results of the assessments by the head of department, HR manager and Chief executive officer in full transparency with the candidate and in compliance with the ISO 9001:2008 rules and regulations. 10 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES/RESULTS BOOM’s code of conduct addresses issues of bribery and corruption. As detailed in the BOOM employment handbook and instruction manuals, employees are both protected and encouraged to raise concerns about possible incidences of corruption. Legal protection is also assured under Myanmar Labour Law. ----END OF REPORT ----11
