SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Contents About this report 2 Performance at a glance 4 Message from the Chairman of the SES committee 6 Statement from the Board of Sanlam 8 About the Sanlam Group Operational structure 9 Our business model 10 WealthsmithsTM – our business philosophy 11 Our business strategy 12 Area of operations 14 Sound governance Sound governance material issues 18 – Stakeholder engagement 23 – Business ethics 26 – Consumer protection and data privacy 30 People development People development material issues 34 – Attraction and retention of key talent 37 – Training and skills development 43 – Employment equity and diversity 48 – Organisational culture and employee commitment 51 – Employee wellness 52  aterial issues not included in this report, but contained in the Sanlam Group Annual Report, as well as at M www.sanlam.com/investorrelations: – Executive leadership selection and training (Sanlam Group Annual Report and Sustainability Report) – Risk management (Sanlam Group Annual Report) – Executive remuneration, incentives and benefits (Sanlam Group Annual Report) Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 4 5 6 Responsible products and services 7 Responsible products and services material issues 58 – Client-centricity, satisfaction and retention 61 – Product development 63 – Distribution network 66 – Providing access to financial services 70 – Embracing technology 72 – Responsible investment 73 – Empowerment financing and infrastructure development 74 Prosperous society Prosperous society material issues 78 – Impact of products and services 81 – Transformation and empowerment 84 – Financial literacy and education 91 Environmental impact Environmental impact material issues 100 – Carbon footprint and energy 104 – Environmental resource conservation 107 General information Assurance report 111 Glossary 113 Sanlam GRI G4 index table 2015 114 Contact details 122 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 About this report This report represents an overview of Sanlam’s sustainability performance for the 2015 calendar year. It addresses a range of stakeholders, including regulators, providers of financial capital, clients, employees, agents and brokers, and the broader society in which we do business. It should be read in conjunction with the 2015 Sanlam Group Annual Report, as well as with relevant information at www.sanlam.com. What we do Sanlam’s annual reports and Sanlam is a leading financial services group based in South reporting standards Africa, with a growing footprint in developed and developing Annually we produce two reports, prepared in accordance with markets. the frameworks shown below. Downloadable and interactive versions of these reports are published on Since 1918 Sanlam has added South Africa to take care of their www.sanlam.com. financial needs and currently provide a broad range of financial solutions and products to retail (individual) and institutional clients: Sanlam’s 2015 Group Annual Report Insurance www.sanlam.com/investorrelations Financial planning Investments Contains Reporting standards applied Wealth Sanlam IIRC <IR> Framework Retirement. Integrated Report King III* JSE Listings Requirements** Turn to page 9 for more on our operational structure and Shareholders’ King III business strategy. information report Scope and boundary Corporate King III governance report Companies Act*** JSE Listings Requirements Extent of activities Remuneration King III Business entity included in reporting report Companies Act*** Sanlam JSE Listings Requirements Group Office/ Sanlam Includes only our South Annual financial IFRS Personal African-based operations statements Companies Act*** Included Finance (SPF)/ that represent the bulk of Sanlam our business activities. Investments (SI) Sanlam’s 2015 Sustainability Report www.sanlam.com/investorrelations Our emerging market Sanlam footprint is growing and we Emerging Partially Contains Reporting standards applied are working to improve our Markets included SEM sustainability Sanlam’s (SEM) cluster IIRC <IR> Framework disclosures. sustainability Financial Sector Code (FSC) performance JSE’s SRI Index Requirements Santam is listed separately Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 on the Johannesburg Stock Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Santam Excluded Exchange (JSE) and therefore reports on its * King III – King Report on Corporate Governance for South Africa, performance separately. 2009. ** JSE – Johannesburg Stock Exchange Limited Listings Requirements. *** Companies Act – the Companies Act 71 of 2008 (as amended), in South Africa. 2 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 About this report 1 2 3 4 Navigational icons 5 Group strategy pillars 6 Earnings growth Assurance Operational efficiencies 7 Internal assurance Independent assurance Optimal capital usage The Sanlam Board EY Inc has been engaged to provide has reviewed the independent assurance on the Diversification content of this report following aspects of our annual and is confident that reporting: Transformation the information Audit opinion on the shareholders’ presented here is a information Strategic enablers true reflection of Audit opinion on the annual Sanlam’s financial statements Sound governance performance. Limited independent assurance on specific elements of the People development performance information in the Sustainability Report Responsible products and services The audit opinion can be found on page 150 and 250 of the Annual Prosperous society Report and the limited independent assurance conclusion Environmental impact can be found on page 111 of this report. Supplementary information Information relating to our Financial Sector Code (FSC) scorecard was Investment management assured by AQRate. Life insurance General insurance Feedback Administration, health and other Contact us with your queries or comments at Credit and structuring sustainabilitymanagement@sanlam.co.za or +27 21 947 2548. Sanlam Group Page reference www.sanlam.com/investorrelations Case study Material issues Limited assurance Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 3 2015 performance at a glance 1 Sound governance FTSE/SRI 63% 100% Only SPF staff King lll Included in the Life insurer in trained on compliant Top 30 Index South Africa Ethics and compliance 2 People development EE R194,2 million 12,38% 45,50% 67,9% 14,5% 87,67% 29,8%* Office Advisers Black Training Staff Black senior staff turnover turnover staff overall and trained managers development spend * Includes African, coloured and Indian total at senior management level. 3 Responsible products and services SAcsi R14 78,4 13% billion Customer Entry-level Empowerment satisfaction market and infrastructure financing 4 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 About this report 1 2 3 4 4 Prosperous society 5 6 R74 SMME million 7 R111 Level 2 billion 10% 0,93% 37,32% 577 Financial Paid to policyCorporate CSI spend as Preferential Jobs sector holders social % of NPAT procurement supported scorecard investment (net profit spend throughout after tax) enterprise development partnerships Beneficiaries through CSI * 14 155 51 284 19 806 10 18 451 Learners Schools Educators Students Universities Community members * Numbers include direct and indirect beneficiaries. 5 Environment 98% 9,54% 24% 53% 56% Carbon Carbon Electricity Water Recycled* Disclosure emissions reduction consumption waste by Project score reduction (kWh/m2) reduction weight (tonnes/FTE) (kℓ/m2) * Head Office only. Key Increase Decrease Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 5 Message from the Chairman of the Social, Ethics and Sustainability committee Valli Moosa Chairman of the Social, Ethics and Sustainability committee Sanlam is deeply committed to the principles of sustainable business. This is embodied in our WealthsmithsTM philosophy and our vision to be the leader in client-centric wealth creation, management and protection. It is also manifested in our products, our approach to responsible investment, and our internal response to operational sustainability. We are currently facing challenging market and socio-economic In these circumstances, the financial wellbeing of individuals is a conditions. Economic growth has stalled and business growing concern. Our research shows that too few South confidence is low. There are social pressures in the form of Africans retire with sufficient funds to maintain their lifestyle inequality, unemployment and poverty, and mass calls for and the gap between the insurance need and premium cover is change, from unions to students. There is growing concern growing unsustainably. The challenge is partly in affordability and throughout society about the prevalence of inequality. partly the lack of financial education. At the 2015 year-end in particular, we were encouraged by our Government’s response has been to lead the reform of the interaction with government around our shared responsibility for retirement fund industry. Sanlam is particularly encouraged by the South African economy. The fruitful engagements we had and supportive of legislative amendments which better enable about turning around a slipping economy and exchange rate South Africans to save for their retirement. We are also were well received and resulted in positive action on the side of encouraged by the fact that clients have a choice between active government. 6 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 About this report 1 2 3 4 investments and passive investments with low-cost structures, a model that Sanlam has anticipated as a key component of our A challenging economic environment 5 Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) strategy. We are also applying TCF principles to ensure our clients have a better understanding Growth in the South African economy has continued of financial planning, are offered appropriate wealth creation or to slow and this is putting substantial pressure on the 6 preservation products, and make informed decisions that suit disposable income of our clients. Our economy is their needs. experiencing a number of challenges: 7 A significant drop in the gross domestic product Part of this focus has been to support South Africans in the way (GDP) rate – from an average of 5% in 2012 to the they prepare for a comfortable retirement through their ongoing current 1,3% (Statistics South Africa, 2014) savings in pension and provident funds. The clarion call has been Worsening household debt ratio to disposable to address financial insecurity and build trust between custodians income (now at 74,5%) of retirement funds. Interest on debt edging higher to 7,9% of income (South African Reserve Bank, 2014) making it more Treating customers fairly is not only morally correct, but critical to difficult for households to repay their debt ensuring low lapse rates and thus supporting consistent and Economic pressure from the deteriorating rand sustained earnings growth. This is in line with the business exchange rate and rising costs may increase the risk strategy we have adopted over the past 10 years and which of higher lapse rates and reduce the affordability for is set to continue with the new Group Chief Executive, Ian Kirk, financial services. at the helm. This strategy to build long-term shared value has not only served the business well in maintaining sound financial performance, but through the pillars of diversification and transformation, it ensures we take cognisance of new market In the area of transformation, we are now at level 2 in terms of the trends and adapt to changes in our business environment. FSC scorecard. And in the environmental sphere, where we are at the end of our five-year target cycle, we have met or exceeded Sanlam’s business strategy is reinforced by our oversight and targets in all areas aside from waste management. New management of non-financial issues material to the long-term environmental efficiency targets are now being developed for the prosperity of the business. Strategy and sustainability of the next five-year period. Sanlam has made a significant contribution business are therefore integral to one another. to socio-economic and enterprise development. These activities are aligned to our business, with specific attention paid to Sustainability is overseen by the Social, Ethics and Sustainability boosting financial literacy and to supporting businesses that will (SES) committee. The committee consists of both executive and in turn add value within our supply chain. non-executive directors, and is responsible for overseeing the sustainability performance of the business. Feedback to the It may be a cliché that sustainability is a journey, but the committee is structured in line with the Sustainability statement is very true for Sanlam. Sanlam is a diverse business Management Framework. This framework has been informed by and it is at times complex to record progress consistently on a process of identifying issues material to the business. The material issues across divisions that are fundamentally different. committee reviews the Group’s performance in response to these For example, while the TCF framework is now being universally material issues, debates targets and reports back to the business applied and good progress made, high-level reporting of progress as to where the focus of effort should be directed. across the business requires additional consideration. Crucial to Sanlam’s continued prosperity is our engagement with Sanlam has a long-standing relationship with the World Wide stakeholders and their concerns. Issues raised through this Fund for Nature (WWF) which has worked with us as a partner to engagement are presented from across the Group to the SES advance our thinking and our response to environmental committee for consideration. challenges. As a financial services business, our direct impacts may not be fundamentally material. However, as a company with I have been pleased by how the business is increasingly controlling interests in leading general insurer Santam, and integrating sustainability into its operational thinking. At a significant investments in JSE-listed enterprises, our indirect governance level, we are making good progress to ensuring influence on the environment remains relevant. standards and processes applied in our South African businesses are built into our emerging market businesses. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 7 Message from the Chairman of the Social, Ethics and Sustainability committee continued “Sanlam business strategy is reinforced by oversight and management of non-financial issues material to the longterm prosperity of the business. Strategy and sustainability of the business are therefore integral to one another.” By refining our approach to underwriting, initiating interventions By striving for continued improvement, we will anticipate within municipalities where risk to life and property resulting from challenges and gain from opportunities to lead the development floods and droughts is high, and allocating capital in our of the financial services industry, for the benefit of our investment businesses, we exert our influence for the benefit of stakeholders as well as society. society. Given our responsibility as providers of capital, we are continuously striving towards improving our operational Valli Moosa efficiencies and thus our direct environmental impact. Chairman of the Social, Ethics and Sustainability committee Statement from the Board of directors of the Sanlam Group The Board acknowledges its responsibility to ensure the integrity of Sanlam’s annual reporting, including this Sustainability Report. The Board is confident that this report provides a fair and balanced account of the Group’s performance across all dimensions and believes it has a material bearing on its capacity to create value over the short, medium and long term. The report has been prepared in line with internationally recognised best practice. The Board is satisfied the Companies Act and King III principles are well entrenched in the Group’s internal controls, policies and procedures governing corporate conduct within all the major operations and at a Group level. Details of the Group’s application of each King III principle are available on its website (www.sanlam.com/investorrelations). This report was approved by the Sanlam Board of directors on 9 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by: Desmond Smith Ian Kirk Valli Moosa Chairman of the Board Group Chief Executive Chairman of the Social, Ethics and Sustainability committee 8 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 About this report 1 About the Sanlam Group 2 3 4 Operational structure The Group Office of the Sanlam Group is responsible for a set of centralised functions, as shown below. 5 Our financial products and services are provided through four operating business clusters, each containing a set of entrepreneurial 6 business units. Each cluster has its own board of directors with delegated authority levels governing the execution of the principles and standards set by the Sanlam Board. 7 We are a leading financial services group, originally established as a life insurance company in 1918. We demutualised and listed on the JSE Limited and Namibian Stock Exchange in 1998. Our head office is in Bellville, Cape Town in South Africa. Net result from financial services R7 269 million (2014: R6 879 million). Responsible for Group strategy, capital management and capital allocation to clusters. Sanlam The following Group functions provide Group-wide support and coordination: Finance || Actuarial and Risk Management || Information Technology || Human Resources || Market Group Development || Brand Services. Office Net result from financial services -R109 million (2014: -R107 million). Sanlam Sanlam Personal Emerging Sanlam Santam Finance Markets Investments Contribution to Group net result Contribution to Group net result Contribution to Group net result Contribution to Group net result from financial services from financial services from financial services from financial services 53% 16% 19% 13% Responsible for Sanlam’s retail Responsible for Sanlam’s Provides retail and institutional Specialises in general business in South Africa. It financial services offering in clients in South Africa, the UK insurance products for a provides clients across all emerging markets outside and elsewhere in the diversified market in South market segments (entry-level, South Africa with the aim of developed world (Europe, Africa. These include personal, middle-income and affluent) ensuring sustainable delivery USA, Australia) access to a commercial, agricultural and with a comprehensive range of and growth across the various comprehensive range of specialised insurance appropriate and competitive businesses that make up this specialised investment products. Santam’s financial solutions. Designed to cluster. management and risk international diversification facilitate long-term wealth management expertise. strategy focuses on creation, protection and niche Net result from financial reinsurance business, financing, these solutions are services R1 197 million Net result from financial specialised insurance products engineered around client (2014: R1 241 million). services R1 417 million and its role as technical partner needs. (2014: R1 468 million). and co-investor in Sanlam Emerging Markets’ expansion Net result from financial into Africa, India and Southservices R3 831 million East Asia. (2014: R3 476 million). Net result from financial services R933 million (2014: R801 million). A fifth cluster will be established in 2016 to support and enhance our service to corporate clients. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 9 About the Sanlam Group continued Our business model We provide financial solutions to retail and institutional clients across a number of market segments and geographies. In line with our philosophy of client-centricity and treating customers fairly, we provide appropriate advice and products to our clients, at a fair price, tailored to their specific needs and circumstances. This we achieve through the application of a number of resources, the most important of which are our people (financial, actuarial, risk management and other skills) and the financial capital that we hold as a safeguard against the risk of potential life events. Ris ka t nd en o nm pp iro or n v lue Cli tu e a en ni rv ic ti e m e tv d al s Ec ns •I on l oa nv • R u ho o e s on l es isk tm b fe t en en in res ital t re efi dm te ap tur ts • e Sh • A •I c s n o n n• C Re redi ar r e s e n g t fe tur tire t fu e i k a n ch me nt r s ge e e alty progr ammes • Value t h ro u me nd nt ing inc R a t m oy g h • an es • L div om m n v e s er e e t •I c s ss vi if •A Provision ser ation An of credit Benefit ic cill facilities payments ary Value enhancement • Investment Financial capital of funds Clients under Human capital management Regulatory capital • Em ices Manufactured capital e manage serv n • Employmen y Natural capital plo tor nd atio ment Social capital ts a icip ploye t • R duc art e valu emun Pooling Regula yee Risk premiums pro try p of funds e pro eratio and fund flows ry ible dus lato valu posit n ons • In ance Regu esp ncy Sanlam ion • R Solve Is t • an en e Em dp nm lu erfo env iro va rm KP • Employment and GDP growth • Financial capital • Funding to government • Infrastructure funding • Liquidity to banking sector Value to society t Vis en ion, gem strat egy, gov km a na ernance and ris 10 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 About this report 1 2 3 4 Wealthsmiths TM – our business philosophy 5 Our vision Sanlam’s vision is to be the leader in wealth creation and protection in South Africa, leading that process in emerging markets and 6 playing a niche role in developed markets. 7 The Sanlam Way It is our resolve and diligent approach to creating and protecting wealth that sets us apart. We call it The Sanlam Way: Our South African heritage is rooted in creating value for individuals, communities and We are determined for our nation. For over 97 years we have been doing business with a roll-up-yourand resolute sleeves readiness and determination. We take pride in our stability, our stature and our reputation as ‘safe hands’ to be in. We are solid We deliberately choose function over fancy, and believe that doing the sensible thing and sensible is the right thing. Above and beyond expertise, insight or intelligence, we steward and manage our We do it very, clients’ wealth, knowing what it took to earn it. We are dedicated to doing what we do very well exceptionally well. Our approach is methodical and thorough. This means that we don’t buy into short-cuts. We have a sincere desire to make a real and positive difference – and create lasting We do it value. We see it as both an opportunity and our responsibility to build a world worth for good living in. This is what inspires us. What drives us is that we do it for good. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 11 About the Sanlam Group continued Our business strategy From the drivers of sustainability to Return on Group Equity Value. Sanlam’s business strategy has been in place for over 10 years – a period in which the Group has transformed itself from a mainly life insurance business to a diversified financial services group with a global footprint. The strategy continues to serve Sanlam as we accelerate our organic growth and expand into new markets and will be driven by the Group’s leadership. The diagram below shows the key pillars of the business strategy and how these link to strategic drivers. Strategic pillars Strategic drivers • Earnings per share We grow our earnings by delivering a • Business volumes consistent client experience and growing • Value of new business our business volumes across the markets • Client persistency we service. Return on Group Equity Value (RoGEV) Earnings • Positive client experience growth We allocate capital prudently, ensuring • Capital allocation per market segment discretionary capital is redistributed into • Strategic investments in growth markets profitable growth opportunities or returned • Capital returned to shareholders to shareholders. Optimal capital usage We attract and retain the right talent, • Organisational structure control costs, optimise systems and • Governance practices manage risk within a sound governance • Enterprise risk management framework to achieve efficient service • Talent management delivery. Operational efficiencies We grow our client base by developing new • Product products and services, and by expanding • Geography within South Africa as well as to other, • Market segments external targeted markets. • Distribution channel Diversification We adapt to the changing business • Analytics environment and needs of our clients by • Research and development continually transforming our business, what • Employment equity we do and how we deliver. Transformation 12 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 About this report 1 2 3 4 Sanlam’s business strategy is aimed at achieving adequate Return on Group Equity Value. This is dependent on building relationships and resources that support the long-term sustainability of the business. Our Sustainability Management Framework (SMF) described on 5 page 25 outlines the five sustainability themes and the related material issues that we manage. The SMF provides the foundation on which the business strategy can be affected. 6 Sustainability Management Framework (SMF) strategic enablers To ensure sustainable value creation over the long term, we manage the following: 7 me on Sound People ety governance development vir We work hard at delivering on our Our people are our single most important Soc En promises to all our stakeholders. This resource. It is vital that we find the right means embedding sound governance i people, engage and motivate them in a principles and practices into our supportive working environment, and corporate culture and business provide opportunities for them to excel. processes. nt Environmental Sanlam Business Responsible products and services impact Strategy Our mission is to grow and We acknowledge that a stable preserve the wealth of society. economy and sustainable By developing responsible business require a sustainable products and services we will natural environment. We integrate deliver superior long-term environmental factors into our results, protect people in the investment decisions and commit face of adversity and promote ourselves to responsible a savings culture. environmental stewardship. Prosperous society Change, economic volatility, unemployment and social inequality are on the increase. To achieve long-term success, we need to help build a stable, healthy and growing economy. Stakeholder Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 13 Area of operations United Kingdom Ireland Switzerland Tunisia Algeria Morocco Mali Burkina Faso Senegal The Gambia Guinea Cote D’Ivoire Ghana Togo Benin Nigeria Cameroon Gabon Republic of the Congo Malawi Zambia Angola Mozambique Zimbabwe Namibia Botswana Swaziland Lesotho South Africa Saham Finances’ geographic footprint Sanlam’s geographic footprint Sanlam and Saham Finances’ geographic footprint Developed Markets 14 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 About this report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Uganda Kenya Rwanda Burundi Tanzania Madagascar Mauritius Australia Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 15 Sound governance We are committed to doing things right and doing the right thing. We follow a timeless approach rooted in doing good business, treating people fairly and working together to deliver on our promise. As a team, we hold each other accountable and foster a culture of ethical behaviour. As Wealthsmiths™ we believe that anything worthwhile is worth doing in a manner that makes us proud. In this way we are able to transform people’s lives while safeguarding the values that we stand for. Why sound governance is important We focus on the following material issues Material issues Page Stakeholder engagement Page 23 to 26. Business strategy Earnings growth Business ethics Page 26 to 30. Operational efficiencies Consumer protection and data privacy Page 30 and 31. Optimal capital utilisation Executive leadership selection Page 215 to 243. and training See Annual Report. Diversification Executive remuneration, Page 114 to 147. incentives and benefits See Annual Report. Transformation Page 251 to 297. Risk management See Annual Report. 18 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 Sound governance 2 3 4 Governance of sustainability Sanlam’s Board takes ultimate accountability for the long-term sustainability of the business. Sustainability is central to 5 the way we do business and forms an integral part of regular business reporting. Our Social, Ethics and Sustainability (SES) committee guides sustainability within the various business units, and monitors the progress of Sanlam’s sustainability 6 journey through the sustainability reporting process. 7 Commentary on performance Stakeholder concerns mapped and prioritised by the SES committee and driven by Sanlam’s Sustainability Management Framework (SMF). No material breaches of business ethics. Focus in 2016 on applying Sanlam’s ethical culture in the work context. Building ethics with regional partners ongoing. Sanlam is well prepared for implementation of the Protection of Personal Information (POPI) Act. Party due diligence (PDD) legislation as yet uncertain. Leadership programmes are driven at both Group and cluster levels to ensure that current and future leaders demonstrate the capabilities to drive accelerated strategy execution in a relevant and distinctive way. In 2015, 34 executives completed the executive leadership programme. Sanlam’s remuneration philosophy and policy support the Group strategy by aligning predetermined strategic goals with the organisational behaviour required to meet and exceed these goals. The Group is proactive in understanding and managing the risks it is exposed to and ensures that capital is allocated where most value can be added for the risks assured. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 19 Sound governance material issues Key performance indicators 2012 2013 2014 2015 Sanlam Ethical Climate Study: Effectiveness* (%) n/a 76,03 n/a 75,5% Incidence of disciplinary action** 173 110 177 137 Cumulative number of calls to the ethics hotline*** 190 227 254 275 * Sanlam Ethical Climate Study is conducted biennially, with the first one in 2003. ** South African businesses; office staff only. *** Total number since 2001. “As Wealthsmiths™ we are committed to building wealth for our clients over the long term. This means we are committed to building legacies to embed the right ethical climate, governance systems and practices in our business, and to transform our business to be representative of the communities around us.” – Valli Moosa Chairperson Social, Ethics and Sustainability Committee 20 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 Sound governance 2 3 4 Structure of sustainability management at Group and cluster levels 5 The Board, through its relevant committees, establishes ‘tight’ management principles for the entire Group and provides oversight and strategic guidance for each cluster. The Group maintains, monitors and enforces internal compliance with Sanlam’s Code of Ethical 6 Conduct and external compliance with applicable laws and industry regulations. The Group establishes and enforces its policy for combating financial crime through the Group Forensic Services unit, together with the forensic services departments of the business 7 clusters. Grievance and disciplinary procedures are also maintained at Group level. At cluster level, a chief executive, supported by an executive committee, is responsible for managing the cluster and executing the strategy approved by the cluster board and supported by the Sanlam Board. Compliance with the Group-wide ‘tight’ management principles and Sanlam’s Code of Ethical Conduct is monitored by quarterly reporting to the Group on ethics and compliance. Business units have their own boards and executive committees that structure their activities within appropriately delegated authority levels. Sustainability governance structure Sanlam Limited Board Audit, Actuarial Social, Ethics Risk and Customer Interest Human Resources and Finance and Sustainability Compliance committee committee committee committee committee Information sharing Group CE, Sanlam Limited Executive committee Environmental Sustainability Subsidiaries/business units committee Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 21 Sound governance material issues continued The SES committee accounts to the Board for the application of Summary of the Social, the Group governance policy across Sanlam Group companies. Ethics and Sustainability This also covers ‘tight’ governance aspects such as branding, people management, risk management, culture and ethics, the (SES) committee charter latter via the internal control environment, and its reporting and Charter disclosures. The Social, Ethics and Sustainability (SES) committee is a committee of the Sanlam Board, established in terms of Section The SES committee assists the Board with its sustainability, and 72 and Regulation 43 of the Companies Act. The committee has social and ethical responsibilities. an independent role with accountability to the Board and does not assume any management role. Its purpose is to assist the Activities Board with: The SES committee undertakes a quarterly review of all Managing sustainability sustainability-related material, including reports on legal, Broadening access to financial services through product regulatory and ethics compliance, transformation, environmental development and financial education management, sustainability risks, Sanlam Foundation activity Ensuring the competence of intermediaries and stakeholder engagement. Responsible investment Responsible procurement and enterprise development Three mandated criteria form the basis of our fiduciary Social and community development requirement as described in the Companies Act and King III. Ethical conduct. We use these to measure the effectiveness of the SES committee and ensure its accountability. We: Monitor whether Sanlam complies with relevant social, ethical and legal requirements and best practice codes Bring to the attention of Sanlam’s Board any relevant matters within the scope of its mandate Report to Sanlam’s shareholders on matters that fall within the scope of this mandate. Sanlam acquires stake in Saham Sanlam, along with its short-term insurance subsidiary, Santam, has acquired a 30% stake in Moroccobased Saham Finances, which operates in 26 countries, predominantly across Africa and the Middle East. The transaction, valued at about R5,3 billion, is one of the Group’s biggest to date and is set to expand Sanlam’s footprint in attractive new markets in North and West Africa. Saham Finances, one of Africa’s largest insurers, is the market leader in most of the countries in which it operates, writing mostly non-life with some life business. The continent’s growing population, improved political landscape, and evolving financial markets and regulatory environment support Sanlam’s vision of being a leading pan-African financial services company. The transaction was completed in the first quarter of 2016. 22 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 Sound governance 2 3 4 Stakeholder engagement Offering active and former clients of Sanlam Private Wealth UK a full review of business affected by unclear disclosure of fees associated with the transfer of their funds to a 5 Oversight of Group-wide Discretionary Fund Management (DFM) service. engagement 6 At present the process of gathering and reporting on stakeholder Each cluster is tasked with managing stakeholder engagement issues is controlled centrally. In future the plan is to contain issues in accordance with their business operations. This includes 7 in a stakeholder hub where the status of engagement can be understanding the needs and demands of clients, engaging with logged and retrieved. The process and protocols for treating the regulatory framework impacting on each business, confidential information still need to be resolved before the developing employees and suppliers, as well as responding change will be effected. to the concerns of broader society impacted by the business unit operations. Stakeholder engagement Following the adoption of a stakeholder communication policy in road shows 2013, we developed a strategy to guide how we engage with The Sanlam leadership holds annual forums in each of the nine stakeholders in line with King III principles. Every quarter, each provinces where Group strategy, economic transformation and business cluster is required to report back on all stakeholder financial results are discussed with clients, shareholders and key engagement activities, noting concerns raised and the current societal stakeholders in each geographic region. These events status of issue management. Feedback from all the clusters is are often co-hosted with the local university to reach a wider and consolidated with the most important issues highlighted and more engaging audience. reported to the SES committee. Critical concerns requiring resolution at an executive level can then be incorporated within Industry advocacy and the SES committee feedback to the Board. Examples of issues that have emerged from our stakeholder engagement process representation through include: industry bodies Sensitivities and challenges within organised labour where we To ensure that we play a constructive role in the development manage significant assets of national policy and regulation, we engage actively with The impact of transformation issues on institutional government, primarily as a collective through industry investment associations such as ASISA, the South African Insurance Engagement with the Association for Savings and Investment Association (SAIA), Business Unity South Africa (BUSA), Business South Africa (ASISA) on the Retail Distribution Review (RDR) Leadership South Africa (BLSA), the Black Management Forum legislation (BMF), the National Economic Development and Labour Council The release of draft regulations on retirement defaults, (Nedlac), the National Business Initiative (NBI) and various process of engaging with stakeholders, such as National business chambers. We have been particularly active in the work Treasury, for feedback of ASISA, with the outgoing Sanlam Group Chief Executive being Implementation of the Solvency Assessment and an ASISA board member and other executives and senior Management (SAM) framework, dependent on the enactment managers represented on all the ASISA standing committees and of the Financial Sector Regulation Bill, the Insurance Bill and working groups. subordinate legislation Informing clients about developments relating to a merger Our industry representation also serves to connect us to the between SIM Global (SIMG) and SIM Unconstrained Capital views of key stakeholder groups and provides a valuable two-way Partners (SUCP) to form a new entity under Sanlam communication opportunity to share experiences and to influence Investment Holdings called Denker Capital views, behaviours and actions. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 23 Sound governance material issues continued In developing the SMF, we took into account: Management oversight of Key reporting standards, including the JSE SRI, the Dow material issues Jones SRI, the GRI G4, the FSC scorecard, the UNGC, Sanlam’s commitment to its sustainability journey and culture is the CRISA (UNPRI) and the IIRC <IR> encapsulated in the WealthsmithsTM brand and The Sanlam Way. Industry practice, based on a benchmark of local and Our Sustainability Management Framework (SMF) provides the international peers structure for identification, management and reporting on issues Existing and pending regulatory requirements that collectively support our value system. Our business strategy and strategic drivers The business risk matrix The SMF is the outcome of a process designed to prioritise the The outcome of an internal engagement process most material issues that require a strategic response from the Our brand promise to our clients and other stakeholders. Group in order to build sustainable value. This initially served as a reporting framework, but in 2014 it was repositioned as an internal management tool. Official opening of the new Alice Lane building on 1 September 2015 by Honourable David Makhura, Premier of Gauteng, and Ian Kirk, CEO of the Sanlam Group. 24 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 Sound governance 2 3 4 Sanlam’s Sustainability Management Framework 5 Material themes Material issues 6 Stakeholder engagement 7 Business ethics Sound governance Consumer protection and data privacy Deliver on our promises and principles through sound Executive leadership selection and training* practices and processes. Executive remuneration, incentives and benefits* Risk management* Attraction and retention of key skills People development Training and skills development Find, engage and motivate the best talent, our most Employment equity and diversity important resource. Organisational culture and employee commitment Client-centricity, satisfaction and retention Product development Responsible products and services Distribution network Grow and preserve the wealth of our clients and broader Providing access to financial services society. Engender a long-term focus that drives and Embracing technology promotes a savings ethos. Responsible investment Empowerment financing and infrastructure development Prosperous society Impact of products and services Contribute towards a healthy, growing and equitable Transformation and empowerment economy. Financial literacy and education Environmental impact Carbon footprint and energy Bring environmental factors into our investment decisions Environmental resource consumption and commit to responsible environmental stewardship. * See Sanlam Annual Report 2015. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 25 Sound governance material issues continued The SMF is refined continually, based on input from the business, Our core values and subjected to the scrutiny of the SES committee for review and approval. SES committee reports are structured to ensure holistic oversight of the Group’s material issues. The SMF has thus far provided an effective structure for oversight Growing Acting shareholder value of and reporting on sustainable practices. However, management through innovation with integrity of sustainability is necessarily owned and driven by the business and superior performance functions within the various clusters. We have made good progress in some areas in ensuring alignment between how the business manages and reports internally on issues incorporated Caring within the SMF. For other issues, there is still work to be done in Leading Serving because there agreeing on common measurement protocols and describing with courage with pride is respect for one another performance consistently across different business clusters. Through ongoing engagement with issue ‘owners’, we hope to improve the integration between the framework and existing internal structures. In particular we aim to resolve challenges in standardising metrics across business clusters, geographies and Key principles underlying our code peers within the industry. Business ethics Ensuring that our conduct at all times conforms to Sanlam’s values Fostering a culture of compliance and ethical Complying with all applicable legislation and regulations behaviour An ethical organisation cannot focus on regulation alone. Our Fostering and maintaining an equitable and sustainable directors, executives and senior managers take responsibility for employer/employee relationship, including the provision of creating, fostering and promoting a positive organisational culture a safe, healthy and productive working environment of integrity. We broadcast Sanlam’s core values and ethical principles through all our internal communication channels and publications. Protecting and maintaining the property and information of Sanlam, its employees and its clients Embedding the right culture and values requires that we educate and instil the importance of integrity, ethics and professionalism Managing and mitigating all conflicts or perceived conflicts of interest into all our employees. The Sanlam Group strives for high ethical standards and has a Protecting any person who reports violations of the code long history of professional and ethical behaviour, which we entrench throughout our organisation, including subsidiaries, via our core values and our Code of Ethical Conduct (the code). 26 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 Sound governance 2 3 All employees are provided with a copy of the code at induction The Sanlam Group Ethics committee, a sub-committee of the 4 and the text of the code is available on our internet and intranet Sanlam Group Executive committee, monitors and reports on sites. It is also visibly displayed at key locations across our offices ethical matters across the Group. The Chief Actuary and Group 5 and is included in our Group-wide compliance training and Risk Officer of Sanlam, a member of the Group Executive sign-off processes. In addition, employees are kept informed of committee, chairs the Group Ethics committee. 6 matters related to the practical application of the code by regular publication of ethics-related content via Sanlam’s various internal Sanlam’s Group Compliance Office (GCO) was established in communication channels. 2009 to facilitate and coordinate the work of the compliance 7 functions across the Group. A compliance control function for A revised version of the Sanlam Group Financial Crime Sanlam Life was established in the GCO to coordinate the work Combating Policy (SGFCCP) – introducing a risk-based approach of the existing compliance functions in the entity. The control to combating financial crime – was approved by the Board in function was established pursuant to the requirements of the September 2014. The SGFCCP supports the code and outlines FSB’s BN 158/2014 in respect of compliance-related internal Sanlam’s zero-tolerance approach to unlawful conduct, in controls. addition to prescribing default and predefined sanctions for specified offences. Regulatory compliance is reported on in more detail in the 2015 Sanlam Group Annual Report. Governance and accountability structures The Sanlam Board has overall responsibility for the establishment Culture of compliance training of a corporate culture that will ensure good corporate Individual business operations are responsible for ethics training, governance, ethical business practices and adherence to all supported by the Group Compliance Office (GCO). Periodic compliance requirements. In adopting the Group’s Compliance (usually annual) and mandatory electronic ethics and compliance Charter and Policy, the Board has formally acknowledged this training programmes are facilitated through our SAP human responsibility. Apart from the formal Group-wide structures resources system. This process is also used as a platform to described below, all levels of management and employees also ensure that employees are familiarised with the most relevant have a responsibility to ensure good corporate governance, regulatory developments. ethical business practices and compliance with all mandated requirements. During 2015, 63% (2014: 66%) of all Sanlam Personal Finance (SPF) employees took part in one or more of the following Culture At the beginning of 2014, the Financial Services Board (FSB) of Compliance programmes: Treating Customers Fairly (TCF), issued Board Notice 158 of 2014 (BN 158/2014) to prescribe Compliance Policy, Conflict of Interest (COI), Operational Health a governance and risk management framework for insurers. and Safety (OHS), Code of Ethical Conduct (the code), BN 158/2014 prescribes specific requirements in respect of Competitions Act, Know Your Business exams and FICA, the composition of the board of an insurer and its board Substance Abuse Policy among others. sub-committees to be formed, as well as risk management policies and internal controls to be adopted. Sanlam performed an internal assessment to confirm that the Group’s governance structures meet the requirements of BN 158/2014. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 27 Sound governance material issues continued Reporting ethical breaches Any of Sanlam’s stakeholders can report perceived incidents of misconduct and ethical breaches to Sanlam. The channels set out in the table below are highlighted in our Code of Ethical Conduct and can be used to report instances of undesirable conduct or ethical breaches. Reporting channel Focus area Business unit, HR Primarily handle employer/employee concerns. Management regularly reviews internal reports departments and line concerning ethical and fraud-related concerns. management Business unit and GroupManage Sanlam’s compliance-related matters and occasionally receive reports of potential ethical level compliance and legal breaches. This channel also receives reports related to any form of non-adherence with compliance departments requirements. Sanlam’s internal Deal with clients’ service-related complaints, including reports on potential ethical issues and ombudsman and complaints allegations of fraud impacting or involving clients. departments Forensic departments Well positioned to receive reports on fraud-related matters linked to both clients and employees from both internal and external reporters. Sanlam’s fraud and ethics Managed through KPMG’s ethics line, the hotline allows individuals to anonymously report potential hotline (the hotline) ethical breaches and fraud. Since the introduction of the hotline in 2001, we have logged a Group HR monitors the number and type of disciplinary total of 275 calls. Of these, less than 10% of all callers felt the measures, hearings, dismissals and CCMA cases as a measure need to remain anonymous. of the ability of the business to instil a value-based culture that adheres to Sanlam’s ethical and operating standards. The number of reports on incidents of undesirable conduct or ethical breaches received via the hotline represents a small No confirmed material breaches of ethics were reported for the fraction of the total number of reports received via the other Sanlam Group in 2015. specified channels over the period. We believe that Sanlam’s efforts to create a transparent and fair reporting environment free Disciplinary actions taken of victimisation have contributed to the very low number of During 2015, we recorded 137 (2014: 177) incidents of anonymous reports received over the years. disciplinary action. Most of the cases were immaterial and considered to be low risk incidences. All instances of undesirable conduct or ethical breaches reported to Sanlam are investigated and a process is in place to track, Nine (2014: five) employees were dismissed for reasons ranging report and close out all reports received. Disciplinary actions from poor performance to ethical breaches. taken against employees, suppliers and contractors, as a consequence of resulting investigations, include termination of The various disciplinary actions resulted in a total financial impact employment and cancellation of contracts. on the Group of R249 512 (2014: R350 446). Note: These results are for office staff only, and exclude advisers. The Group Compliance Office (GCO) serves as the entry point for all reports received via the hotline. The GCO assigns hotline reports to the appropriate officers in Sanlam for investigation and remedial action, but continues to track reports up to the stage of final resolution. 28 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 Sound governance 2 3 During the reporting year, we added three additional elements to 4 Benchmarking our ethical performance Based on an ethical culture assessment conducted by EthicsSA the governance framework policy: in 2015, ethics interventions in 2016 will focus on increased Brand 5 interaction between management and staff on the practical Human resources. aspects of applying Sanlam’s ethical culture in the work context, 6 and further encouraging the reporting of all concerns of perceived Branding misconduct or ethical breaches. Following the Sanlam brand refresh and the launch of our new brand in South Africa during 2014, we rolled out our new brand 7 Financial crime and forensics strategy to SEM countries in 2015 in line with the Sanlam Group’s Sanlam’s Group Forensic Services unit oversees the brand strategy. Initially, the roll-out covered businesses trading implementation of Sanlam’s strategy for the prevention, detection under the Sanlam brand in Namibia, Tanzania and Uganda (life and investigation of incidents of financial crime and unlawful business). In addition, a number of other businesses have been conduct. rebranded to Sanlam. Niko Uganda, Niko Tanzania, Niko Vida Mozambique and Aflife Tanzania. The rebranding of Aflife Zambia Quarterly reports are submitted by Group Forensic Services to and Aflife Kenya is planned for 2016. We also rolled out our the Sanlam Risk and Compliance committee on trends, if any, endorsed brand to affiliates and subsidiaries, but restricted this observed in the incidence of financial crime and unlawful conduct roll-out to business units where Sanlam is a technical partner. in the Group and on measures taken to prevent, detect, investigate and deal with such conduct. The reports also keep SEM aims to ensure regulatory compliance in emerging market the Risk and Compliance committee informed of regulatory or businesses in line with the rest of the Group, which operates other developments in respect of financial crime that may impact under the guidance and authority of King III and South Africa’s on Sanlam. Companies Act. These world-class standards for ethics and corporate governance are the benchmark we aim to achieve for Emerging markets ethics all our operations. When it comes to ethics programmes and training, our level of influence varies depending on the strength and compliance and maturity of the target investments in the different emerging Sanlam Emerging Markets (SEM) is responsible for growing our markets. business in selected emerging markets. Our strategy is to gain access to markets through a trusted implementation partner, Our objective is to implement the required level of ethics training capitalising on its distribution footprint and understanding of local while creating an appropriate channel for raising any concerns market conditions. Sound ethics and compliance with local relating to ethics and compliance. The extent to which we regulations are at the top of our priority list. In countries where we monitor compliance, and require businesses to adopt Sanlam’s do not have a controlling stake, we are in a position to influence frameworks and policies, differs from business to business. behaviour − but not dictate procedures. Largely, it depends on the current structures that each business already has in place. We assess the quality of those structures Our SEM governance framework policy, which we apply in our against our standards and principles and assist with developing emerging markets businesses, was developed and adopted by relevant material, such as due diligence ethics and compliance the Sanlam Board in 2014. Initially, this governance framework questionnaires, in order to develop relevant governance policy comprised four elements: frameworks applicable to each entity. Internal audit and compliance Reporting Risk and capital management Information technology. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 29 Sound governance material issues continued Compliance with the Sanlam Group’s governance framework is compulsory for all our SEM subsidiaries and we expect subsidiary Changing approach of boards to adopt the Sanlam Group Code of Ethical Conduct and regulators establish appropriate channels to raise concerns and to report Regulators in jurisdictions where Sanlam operates are incidents, which we respond to. Most of the businesses have a increasingly moving away from rules-based regulation in favour of whistle-blowing mechanism and where this is not available, the principleor outcome-based regulation. Adapting to this KPMG whistle-blowing mechanism used in South Africa is made changing approach can be challenging, but it also allows an available to subsidiaries for implementation. organisation with a strong ethical culture more freedom to decide how it will deliver the desired outcomes. We require subsidiaries to comply with SEM’s governance standards. We have a rolling programme of governance review Sanlam understands that the two approaches have different that ensures the full cluster is assessed over a threeto four-year characteristics and implications, but also that regulation in any period. Most of our significant associates have been evaluated form aims to protect stakeholder interests, be it those of against these standards and there were no material concerns. shareholders, clients, employees or society at large. We therefore This process continues. In May and June 2015, we completed a make a concerted effort to ensure that we will be able to meet governance review for Pacific and Orient Insurance Company the expectations of regulators in this changing environment. Berhad (P&O) in Malaysia. The governance review process was rolled out to Nico Holdings (Malawi), Enterprise Insurance We appreciate that principle-based regulations focus on the Company Limited (EIC) and Santam Namibia during the second intended outcome of the regulation, rather than on expected half of the year. In terms of new acquisitions, governance is an or disallowed practices which the regulator deems will achieve integral component of due diligence. or deter the intended outcome. The principle-based approach allows us to respond to regulation in the context of the situation No ethics training was conducted in 2015 as the results of the by setting our own control objectives sympathetic to the ethics survey will inform the appropriate ethics interventions regulation and to implement suitable and relevant controls to required at board, executive and staff levels. achieve the intended outcome. For more information, refer to the 2015 Sanlam Group Annual Report. Establishing a strong culture of integrity and ethical business Consumer protection and practices forms the basis of Sanlam’s approach to implementing principle-based regulation. This is complemented by an data privacy assessment and analysis of the risks that the regulation seeks to address to enable us to formulate an appropriate response. We are responsible for protecting the personal information of our clients, employees and other stakeholders against loss or misuse. Measures we employ include controlling access to all personal information processed, providing for explicit consent for certain processing functions, and ensuring that adequate security measures are in place for all backed-up, stored and retained information. 30 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 Sound governance 2 3 A final draft of the POPI Code of Conduct for the non-banking 4 Party due diligence (PDD) financial services sector was approved by the Regulatory Affairs The party due diligence (PDD) project is aimed at improving Board Committee (RABC) of the Association for Savings and 5 Sanlam’s ability to combat money laundering, the financing of Investments South Africa (ASISA) in November 2014. This draft terrorism, corruption and bribery, and tax evasion. International code will be presented to the regulatory authority (Information 6 regulatory measures aimed at combating money laundering and Regulator) to be established under the POPI Act for approval corruption and bribery respectively are examples of increasingly as soon as the Information Regulator has been appointed. principle-based regulation. 7 In the interim, Sanlam has prepared for implementation of the Our main obstacle to finalising the PDD project remains the POPI Act while we wait for the promulgation of the effective date uncertainty around local regulatory reforms. National Treasury has of the Act. Draft versions of relevant documentation were tabled a draft amendment bill in Parliament aimed at the prepared to align with the POPI Act principles and the draft alignment of South African anti-money laundering regulations with ASISA code. These documents include a Sanlam Group privacy international standards. It remains uncertain how these proposed policy, privacy statements for use by Sanlam, disclaimers for use amendments will become effective and how regulators will expect in contracts and electronic communications, as well as consent financial institutions to implement these. statements to be used in respect of customers, employees and service providers. None of the Sanlam internal policies and Privacy protection project procedures can however be finalised before the primary and The privacy protection project is aimed at ensuring Sanlam’s subordinate legislation has become effective. compliance with data protection regulations – specifically the Protection of Personal Information (POPI) Act of 2013. Although The prepared documents have been discussed with all POPI was enacted in 2014, no indication has been given as to stakeholders in the Group. The Group Compliance Office has when the legislation will come into effect. Sanlam’s final response also assisted Sanlam’s business clusters in their response to to POPI is dependent on the regulations to be issued in terms of queries from external stakeholders regarding our approach to the Act as well as the industry codes of conduct provided for meeting the requirements of this legislation. in POPI. Once the detailed compliance requirements under the POPI Act are issued, these documents will be finalised and submitted for approval. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 31 People development As Wealthsmiths™ we have respect for the worth of our people and an appreciation for what they can become. We embrace our differences, firmly believing that diversity allows us to build on our collective strengths. For this reason we promote equal opportunities, because our success depends on the skill and dedication of every person working on our team. Why people development is important We focus on the following material issues Material issues Page Business strategy Attraction and retention of Earnings key talent Page 37 to 42. growth Operational Training and skills development Page 43 to 48. efficiencies Optimal Employment equity and capital utilisation diversity Page 48 to 50. Diversification Organisational culture and employee commitment Page 51 and 52. Transformation Employee wellness Page 52 to 55. 34 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 People development 3 Sanlam is successful because of its people. People drive the Our emphasis on transformational practices is embedded in a 4 strategy, they represent our brand. This is why we do belief that diverse work teams and an inclusive culture are good for business. Our appreciation for diversity and the transformation everything we can to engage, motivate and retain them, 5 investing heavily in talent attraction and in the delivery of targets we set for Sanlam are driven within this context. an employee experience which is compelling and As our reach into Africa and Asia deepens, the competitive edge 6 differentiated. provided by our people becomes ever more important. Our talent extends beyond South Africa’s borders and the mobility and 7 Our culture and way of doing things provide our competitive motivation of staff across all boundaries is critical. edge. We drive a high-performance culture, but we temper this with care and respect. Our 97-year-old legacy of empowerment Group HR provides strategic direction in terms of Sanlam’s and leadership has seen us through both the good and the human intellectual capital across the Group, driving synergies challenging times. This legacy serves as the foundation of our between the clusters, fostering collaboration and seeking out core values and The Sanlam Way, and we believe it positions us opportunities for alignment. It implements initiatives aimed at well for the rapidly changing world of work. driving talent mobility and development across the Group, both in South Africa and globally. Group companies identify and address their own commercial and strategic needs. Commentary on performance 2015 KPIs Turnover 26,6% . 12 988 26,6% Strong emphasis on attracting young professionals and graduates. Number of Turnover employees (overall) Training spend up three-fold in five years, to R194,9 million R17 171 per employee. Skills development spend FSC score up from 7,71 in 2014 to 8,15 in 2015. 8,15 New EE plan developed for 2016 – 2018. FSC score for employment equity Business clusters developing their own KPIs. For example, SEB conducts an employee engagement survey, achieving 4,81 out of 6,00. Number of employees screened for wellness increased to 37,8% . Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 35 People development material issues Key performance indicators 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of employees 1 11 557 11 550 12 031 12 781 12 988 Black employees (%)2 60,9 63,3 65,4 67,3 67,9 Female employees (%) 58,7 59,1 59,7 59,8 59,9 Turnover (overall) (%)3 23,27 25,24 23,75 24,43 26,59 Turnover (office employees) (%)3 11,12 15,51 10,93 11,68 12,38 Turnover (advisers in the field) (%)3 42,62 40,09 42,05 41,43 45,50 Skills development spend (R million)4 58,2 115,4 144,4 170,2 194,9 Employees participating in skills development training 9 626 10 546 10 461 11 994 11 354 Absenteeism (%) 1,76 1,88 1,91 1,96 1,95 1 Employee figures include all South Africa-based employees, but exclude Santam. 2 Black employees refer to African, coloured and Indian employees. 3 Turnover is calculated by dividing the total number of exits by the average employee headcount. 4 Skills development spend includes management overhead expenditure as well as expenditure for learning programmes. Sanlam Future Leaders Conference brought together 247 future leaders around the theme of “Building a Sustainable Future”. 36 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 People development 3 4 Attraction and retention of key talent 5 Our Employee Value Proposition Our attraction and retention strategies are closely aligned with Sanlam’s business strategy and are built on the premise of a differentiated 6 Employee Value Proposition (EVP) for key talent segments. Sanlam is a company built on respect for what people are worth and an appreciation for what they can become. This is why we give everyone who works for Sanlam the opportunity to make the most of who they are, and to be recognised, respected and rewarded for what they’re worth. We inspire people to realise their worth. This is our 7 commitment to employees. And this is what makes us WealthsmithsTM. Internally, our commitment to our employees is explicit – Realise Your Worth. We encourage all employees to take advantage of the rich array of opportunities available to them and, through this, to raise their level of contribution to the business. The campaigns to embed our EVP continue to gain traction and it is evident that our employees have internalised what it means to be a WealthsmithTM. Externally, our efforts to position Sanlam as an employer of choice are starting to yield dividends. Both our corporate brand positioning and the marketing of our EVP externally help us showcase the company in the marketplace. Our employer brand message is clear: Sanlam is the company where WealthsmithsTM are groomed. We are particularly conscious of the importance of developing young black talent into key skills areas, such as asset and portfolio management, actuarial and chartered accounting. We inspire people to realise their worth. This is our commitment to employees. This is what makes us Wealthsmiths™. We deliver on this promise through the six pillars of our Employee Value Proposition: Reputation Leadership Reward Growth Balance Connectivity Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 37 People development material issues continued Transformation and empowerment Reputation A market leader in financial services, with global footprint Invest in our people, communities and environment Execute strategy, deliver on targets, drive innovation, inspire industry firsts Leadership Nurture and grow leaders through development and succession Globally benchmarked total reward approach Reward Reward and recognise exceptional performance An environment where excellence can flourish Culture of continual learning and growth Growth Stimulating work and development opportunities Fair and flexible expectations of employees Balance Holistic employee health Wellness programme a core offering Culture rooted in: • vision, purpose, strategy and values Connectivity • sincerity, respect and care for one another Build collective strength while celebrating differences 38 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 People development 3 KPI table for attraction and retention of key talent 4 2012 2013 2014 2015 5 Recruitment Career website: unique visitors 150 000 206 000 6 Applications received on graduate microsite/employed 1 500 2 000 5 000 2 200* Number of followers on LinkedIn home and careers pages 6 500 10 500 25 000 7 Employee turnover Number of employees 11 550 12 031 12 781 12 988 Office staff turnover (%) 15,51 10,93 11,68 12,38 Advisers turnover (field) (%) 40,09 42,05 41,43 45,50 Overall turnover (%) 25,24 23,75 24,43 26,59 * Reduced applications as a result of a more targeted recruitment approach. Recruitment platforms Attracting graduates and We use three key recruitment platforms: online recruitment on our young professionals career website (our main talent attraction platform), LinkedIn for Sanlam continues to increase awareness of its employer brand strategic sourcing, and our face-to-face and online graduate among young professionals and graduates. The objectives are recruitment channels. threefold: to recruit high potential future leaders who will help us craft the Sanlam of tomorrow; to position Sanlam as a preferred Our careers page is one of the most visited pages on employer; and to create brand awareness in the young www.sanlam.co.za. In addition to aligning this page to the new professional and graduate market. brand positioning, ease of use has improved since it was adapted for mobile users, and applicants are now also able to apply with The graduate recruitment campaign includes activations and their LinkedIn profiles. The LinkedIn recruiter contract has allowed presentations at universities, and advertising in university career us to create a dedicated careers page on this platform. Our magazines. The campaign has continued to deliver high quality campaign to target key talent segments has resulted in follower graduates for the Group and is aligned with our key talent growth from 10 000 at the end of 2014 to just over 25 000 segments and the Group’s transformation strategy, both of which followers to date. More than 6 500 Sanlam employees are on aim to ensure that we have the leadership strength to meet future LinkedIn and their professional networks are leveraged to position business needs. There are currently more than 40 graduates the Sanlam employer brand. placed in various positions across the Group. Sanlam has also participated in several talent engagement events, the most noteworthy being the Black Management Conference, where delegates were exposed to the Wealthsmiths™ experience. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 39 People development material issues continued Participation in Sanlam’s graduate development programmes Programme Description Duration Graduate A development programme which offers permanent and contract placements for key skills 18 months Development and focuses on the personal and professional development of graduates with no prior work Programme experience. Actuarial A comprehensive programme that focuses on invaluable industry knowledge, knowledge of 12 months Graduate Sanlam’s products and systems as well as hands-on experience. Programme CA Trainee A SAICA-accredited chartered accountant training programme. Trainees also have the 3 years Programme chance to develop leadership skills through the Graduate Development Programme. Alternative A unique opportunity offered by Sanlam Investments for graduates to develop and hone their 36 months Investments investment skills. Academy Graduate A programme for final year students to develop self-reliance and an understanding of careers 3 weeks Vacation in the investment industry. Programme Graduates appointed into internal development programmes between 2013 to 2015 Graduate Alternative Graduate Actuarial Development Investments Vacation trainees CA trainees Programme Academy Programme 2013 6 2013 4 2013 14 2013 42 2014 8 2014 5 2014 16 2014 42 2015 6 2015 5 2015 12 2015 4 2015 46 40 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 People development 3 Leadership is one of our EVP pillars. We take leadership seriously and are committed to continuously nurturing and growing our leaders 4 at all levels of the business. Our graduate recruitment programme is one of the primary ways we do this. 5 We asked our graduates what makes them WealthsmithsTM 6 “I am a WealthsmithTM because I am committed to pursuing success in every aspect: in my personal development and career, in ensuring I am 7 continuously learning and engaging, in the pride I take in my work produced, and in building and strengthening collegiality within my professional network. As a WealthsmithTM every moment is an opportunity to build on, learn, grow and ensure that together we pursue success at Sanlam.” Wajdah Fataar LL.B University of Cape Town Glacier by Sanlam – Assistant Compliance Officer “Sanlam WealthsmithsTM encourage their clients to protect and nurture their greatest assets, being their wealth. So as a young WealthsmithTM myself, I pay careful attention to nurturing my skills and talents in order to become a master at my craft. As a young professional within the Sanlam Group, I do things with excellence so as to deliver work that I am proud of.” Thato Shole BA Hons Labour Relations, North West University (Potchefstroom Campus) Sanlam Sky Solutions – Trainee: Compliance Officer “As WealthsmithsTM we strive to be the best, to put our clients at the centre and meet their needs through exceptional performance. Sanlam is a dynamic and diverse company and it is a privilege being part of a company making a difference in South Africa and the world.” Barend le Grange BHons Actuarial Science, North West University Sanlam Group Risk – Actuarial Specialist Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 41 People development material issues continued A remaining challenge is the positioning of Sanlam’s employer Employee retention brand to certain external markets where we are not yet making To attract and retain key skills, Sanlam provides competitive sufficient talent inroads. Efforts in this regard will be stepped up in remuneration, bonus and benefit packages, aligned to global 2016. Time to fill key vacancies and ensuring business continuity benchmarks. All Sanlam employees have access to a range of is a critical outcome of this focus area. Group benefits. We acknowledge that there are employees whom the company identifies as key contributors to business performance, or with the potential to become a key contributor. For people who create disproportionate value to the business, a differentiated EVP may be offered which includes, in addition to the universal benefits, the following: Access to the long-term incentive share scheme A suite of structured, functional and/or technical group-wide exposure opportunities depending on individual development needs and areas of interest Sanlam Limited, represented by Sanlam Personal International exposure Finance and the Group Office, has participated in the Networking opportunities with senior leaders and executives. Top Employer Survey for the first time, and is delighted to be accredited as a Top Employer for 2016. Succession planning Organisations that carry the Top Employer seal are Group HR has defined the core principles and philosophy acknowledged to have demonstrated the highest underlying talent management and succession planning for key standards of employee offerings and a forward-thinking leadership roles across the Group. The Group Chief Executive, human resources environment which leads the way in in consultation with Group HR and each cluster’s executive the development of their people. committee, oversees succession planning for key executive and senior roles. This process not only assists us in driving talent mobility and transformation at the highest levels but also serves to improve the depth of leadership across the broader Group. Each business cluster conducts an annual review of the primary leadership and technical positions within their businesses. Succession decisions and processes to drive succession are centred on high value-creators and the key roles they occupy or will occupy. Pools of young professionals are identified to feed the succession pipeline. Through regular assessments and targeted training initiatives, these individuals are given special attention to develop the required competencies to lead the business into the future. 42 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 People development 3 4 Training and skills development Growth is a key pillar of our Employee Value Proposition (EVP). We strive for greater growth – growth that touches more lives and makes 5 a bigger difference in the world. We strive to provide challenging, stimulating work and development opportunities to help our people grow and realise their potential. 6 Wealthsmiths™ are differentiated by the rigour, commitment and dedication they bring to their work. This way of working has its roots in our approach to learning and development. We build confidence and competence through continual development and individualised 7 training and career plans. Training and development is integral to our high-performance culture and we provide a range of opportunities to employees to ensure our future business requirements are properly aligned to the competencies required. KPI table for skills development 2012 2013 2014 2015 Training and skills development spend* Total (R million) 115,4 144,4 170,2 194,9 Average spend per employee (R) 10 941 13 810 14 199 17 171 Training and skills development beneficiaries Number of employees 10 546 10 461 11 994 11 354 – of which are black (%) 65,76 61,4 65,4 65,8 – of which are female (%) 60,6 60,9 59,8 61 FSC score for skills development/10 9,13 9,16 9,21 Percentage spend to black employees 62,7% 66,3 Learnerships beneficiaries Total number of learners 38 145 87 124** Number with disabilities 30 34 34 53 Number of black learners 33 132 87 117 Total number employed 29 37 10 19 * Spend includes management overhead expenditure as well as expenditure on learning programmes. ** Only learners completing studies in 2016. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 43 People development material issues continued Cost summary – January to December 2015 Black Black White White Grand Total Cost type male female male female Foreign total black Direct spend (R) 12 048 775 15 814 846 8 107 146 7 263 017 222 099 43 455 883 27 863 620 Indirect cost (R) 31 388 647 70 032 878 17 237 393 32 614 257 234 812 151 507 988 101 421 525 Grand total (R) 43 437 422 85 847 723 25 344 540 39 877 274 456 912 194 963 871 129 285 145 Spent by race (%) 22,28 44,03 13,00 20,45 0,23 66,31 Recipients of training (%) 24,53 41,24 14,22 19,61 0,41 Number of staff trained 2 785 4 682 1 614 2 227 46 11 354 7 467 Average cost per person (R) 15 596,92 18 335,69 15 702,94 17 906,28 9 932,86 17 171,38 17 314 Recipients of training – January to December 2015 Black Black White White Grand Total Occupational level male female male female Foreign total black Top and senior management 70 37 207 63 1 378 107 Middle management 373 289 517 495 20 1 694 662 Junior management 1 320 2 042 866 1 498 12 5 738 3 362 Unskilled 1 022 2 314 24 171 13 3 544 3 336 Grand total 2 785 4 682 1 614 2 227 46 11 354 7 467 Average number of staff in 2015 3 267 5 494 1 878 2 260 50 12 950 8 762 Staff trained as % of all staff in 2015 85,24 85,22 85,94 98,53 91,24 87,67 85,23 Sanlam’s Top and Senior Management from across the globe connect once a year at the Senior Management Conference to ensure a shared vision. 44 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 People development 3 4 Leadership development Leadership programmes are driven at both Group and cluster levels to ensure that current and future leaders demonstrate the 5 capabilities to drive accelerated strategy execution in a relevant and distinctive way. Action learning is often used to integrate the learning acquired. 6 From a personal development perspective, action learning enhances vital interpersonal leadership skills such as questioning, creativity, collaboration, problem-solving and systems thinking. The action learning projects provide the platform for cross-cluster exposure which 7 stretches and challenges participants, who grow in confidence and feel more able to work constructively within a team. 10-month programme Description Senior A partnership with the University of Stellenbosch Business School (USB) Executive Development that aims to Management equip senior managers with the change management skills to function effectively within a corporate environment. Development Programme Business A partnership with the USB supporting managers in the implementation of strategic objectives, by providing a Management broader understanding of the different fields of management and leadership. Development Programme Executive Leadership A partnership with the Gordon Institute of Business Science (GIBS), developed to enable current high-performing Programme senior management, across global business clusters, to further refine their leadership and management skills. Senior Business Management Management Executive Development Development Leadership Programme Programme Programme 2013 28 2013 25 2013 32 2014 51 2014 60 2014 35 2015 55 2015 61 2015 34 The intake reflects Group figures. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 45 Customer Services @ your doorstep Action learning is an approach to identifying challenges and potential solutions across all Group businesses. During 2012, a group who had completed the Senior Management Development Programme identified as a challenge the weak penetration of insurance in emerging markets. The group included participants from Enterprise Group in Ghana, Santam AGRI, Santam Associated Marine and Sanlam Sky Solutions, and the project sponsor was Margaret Dawes, Executive Director of Sanlam Emerging Markets Africa. The group’s research revealed an opportunity to achieve growth with existing products in current market segments, but also to increase market share by differentiating Sanlam from its competitors. Their proposed solution was a ‘Sanlam mobile office’, a minivan which could visit pay points and malls to service the insurance policies of policyholders as well as sign on new policies. This is the Sanlam mobile office During 2015, the mobile office was piloted in South Africa, and proved highly effective in positioning the Wealthsmiths™ brand. In Ghana, a similar concept, called the ‘life centre’, was implemented – it operated from a mobile office. The initiative has improved client service delivery remarkably. 46 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 People development People development material issues continued 3 Sanlam Investments People Management 4 Development Programme Training of our distribution In conjunction with the University of Stellenbosch Business network 5 School, Sanlam Investments runs a programme to enable We offer our distribution network a range of training initiatives managers to execute on strategy through building their including sales; skills development; legal and technical training; 6 managerial and leadership competencies. The programme helps management and leadership; entrepreneurial and business managers to develop a core understanding of the different fields management; technical product support; and business of people management in an integrated manner. During 2015, processes. 7 20 managers successfully completed the programme. Sanlam Personal Finance (SPF) Distribution Learnerships and internships Academy We remain focused on offering learnership and internship The Sanlam Personal Finance Distribution Academy plays a programmes across the Group. Once learners successfully pivotal role in ensuring that our tied agents are able to service complete their learnership, they are placed on an internship clients effectively. The academy is accredited by the Insurance which allows them to continue their development. The Sector Training Authority (INSETA) for the NQF level 4 and programme is often used to create a pipeline for persons with 5 programme in wealth management. This curriculum supports disabilities. our tied agents to become Certified Professional Planners, endorsing our Sanlam Financial Advisers (SFA) strategy of professionalism and ongoing upskilling. Unemployed Sanlam Sky Solutions trains intermediaries learnership (people Graduate Sanlam Sky Solutions trains intermediaries focused on the with disabilities) internships intake entry-level market. The aim is to attract intermediaries with the right profile and invest in their development to ensure that we build a network that can offer appropriate financial advice and products to our entry-level clients. 2013 34 2013 611 2014 34 2014 592 2015 53 2015 963 1  1 of the interns completed a learnership, the balance are graduate 2 interns. 2 23 of the interns completed a learnership, the balance are graduate interns. 3 20 of the interns completed a learnership, the balance are graduate interns. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 47 People development material issues continued Sanlam Sky Solutions Project Re a Gola Instrumental in repositioning our people development strategy. Project Re a Gola (we are growing) has been instrumental in repositioning our people development strategy in Sky. Employees are now fully aware of which drivers are important, how they need to develop in their roles and what to do to help the business realise its strategic objectives. The Sky training curriculum was developed to ensure that each role’s development requirements are documented in order to facilitate individual development. Management has been equipped with a talent planning tool which enables managers to develop each employee to his or her full potential within the business. A highlight of the project has been the roll out of e-learning for representatives in Agency Distribution through providing technology infrastructure in each branch. This access to technology has been well received by all representatives in the business and has changed perceptions about their ability to work with it. The Re a Gola project has laid a solid foundation for further technology roll-out which will enable the business to manage all sales staff more effectively. Employment equity and diversity Embracing and accelerating transformation is an ongoing priority and is one of Sanlam’s key strategic pillars. Sanlam remains steadfast in its approach to drive activities designed to foster an inclusive workplace that is rich in all forms of diversity. Diversity enables creativity and innovation, both of which are fundamental to ensuring success in the fast-paced and complex world of work. During 2015, we worked on the development of the employment equity (EE) plan for the 2016 – 2018 period. KPI table for employment equity 2013 2014 2015 FSC score for employment equity/15* 7,07 7,71 8,15 * FSC score includes Santam. Sanlam employment equity plan The legislatively mandated employment equity (EE) barrier language policy in Sanlam, to the issue of sub-optimal analysis, which forms the basis of our EE plan, started during communication in some of the EE forums. June 2015. Forty-two percent of our staff participated in the initial survey and we followed this up with focus group sessions which Significant consultation then took place within each business served to validate survey results. Between 10% and 12% of cluster, resulting in the development of cluster EE plans, respondents indicated a variety of concerns ranging from the incorporating revised three-year targets and affirmative action fairness of the recruitment process within Sanlam, the measures, both quantitative and qualitative. Measures are determination of remuneration, and the application of the specifically designed to address concerns raised by employees in 48 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 People development 3 the survey. An overarching EE plan for the Sanlam Group was additional roles and, importantly, making funds available to 4 then finalised, approved and submitted to the National implement these business-specific initiatives. Department of Labour. 5 Sanlam’s commitment to increasing its diversity, while at the Accelerated transformation initiatives have been identified within same time embedding an inclusive and embracing culture, is each cluster to ensure we are able to positively affect the evident in the initiatives being driven in the revised EE plan and 6 demographics at management levels and ultimately have a the accelerated transformation initiatives. We have targeted plans positive impact on the Financial Sector Code (FSC) scorecard. to ensure progress is made in less transformed areas of the 7 Challenges within each business are different, hence the need to business. We are encouraged by the pipeline of talent evident in drive unique initiatives in different clusters. Some of the initiatives the more junior leadership and specialist ranks of the business include job shadowing, targeted recruitment, creation of and look forward to these employees making their mark in the years ahead. Employment equity demographics and progress Black:white ratios: 2005 – 2015 % 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Black White Employment equity targets versus actuals % 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Top Senior Middle Junior Semi-skilled Unskilled Employment equity target 2015 Employment equity actuals 2015 * Excludes Santam. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 49 People development material issues continued Sanlam’s South African workforce profile per the Department of Labour’s occupational levels based on the Employment Equity Act as at 31 December 2015* Male Female Foreign Grand Occupational level African Coloured Indian White African Coloured Indian White Male Female total Male Female Total Top management 2 0 0 6 0 0 1 0 0 0 9 8 1 9 Senior management 30 23 22 205 16 14 8 60 1 0 379 281 98 379 Middle management 130 165 93 492 94 124 70 493 12 2 1 675 892 783 1 675 Junior management 697 531 176 1 147 851 954 228 1 553 11 5 6 153 2 562 3 591 6 153 Semi-skilled 1 273 139 13 20 2 752 344 38 140 13 5 4 737 1 458 3 279 4 737 Unskilled 5 0 0 0 21 9 0 0 0 0 35 5 30 35 Grand total 2 137 858 304 1 870 3 734 1 445 345 2 246 37 12 12 988 5 206 7 782 12 988 * Excludes Santam. Staff with disabilities Promotions % 180 60 150 50 120 40 90 30 60 20 30 10 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 African Coloured Indian White Terminations Appointments % % 80 80 70 70 60 60 50 50 40 40 30 30 20 20 10 10 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 African Coloured Indian White African Coloured Indian White 50 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 People development 3 4 Organisational culture and employee commitment Our purpose, brand and values form the foundation on which our culture is based. We approach everything we do with determination, 5 with common sense and with a commitment to always doing things for good and doing them well. Each and every Wealthsmith™ understands that this is what makes us distinctive in the wealth-creation industry. 6 There are a number of different ways in which the clusters embed and work with their culture. Some look at engagement levels, while others embed key behaviours which support the values and The Sanlam Way. All clusters work with the pillars of the EVP and strive to 7 embed our focus on connectivity through encouraging networking, teamwork and volunteering. KPI table for organisational culture and employee commitment 2014 2015 1 Employees completed wellness risk assessment 5 805 5 819 2 Unionisation (%) 1,37 1,19 SEB engagement survey score 4,81/6,00 1 These numbers include wellness screening conducted across the Sanlam Group. 2 Unionisation is not a material issue in the financial services industry. Employee engagement initiatives Sanlam Employee Benefits (SEB) employee engagement survey The Sanlam Employee Benefits (SEB) internal brand confidence, corporate service brand and client-centricity were perceived to be employee engagement survey is business strengths we should communicate. aimed at assisting SEB in reaching the next level of business growth. An overall engagement score of 4,81 out of 6 was In response to the results, SEB has embarked achieved. Areas for improvement highlighted in the on a programme for all employees to address survey include a better understanding of employee the identified shortcomings. In addition, engagement, psychological safety, driving change and managers have been trained on leadership personal initiative. Skill sets we need to improve on practices, thus fostering a culture where include innovation, constructive debate, execution, innovation and constructive debate can take internal service and delivery. Thought leadership, place in a more conducive environment. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 51 People development material issues continued Recognition Fair labour practices We offer a number of recognition programmes across the Group, Through our Code of Ethical Conduct, we subscribe to the the most notable of which include the Chief Executive Awards, principles of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and to the Group Office Kudos Awards, the Personal Finance Activator the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). While all employees Awards and the Investments – Living the Values programmes. All have the freedom to associate and to bargain collectively, of these programmes aim to recognise employees for living the Sanlam is not a highly unionised environment. Currently only company values and for making a contribution to the strategic 154 employees (2014: 175) are members of a union, less objectives of the business. than 1,19% of our staff complement. Connectivity opportunities The EVP connectivity pillar aims to unite employees as Wealthsmiths™, encouraging them to get involved in opportunities and experience collaboration. An exciting new platform has been designed for Wealthsmiths™ to connect with one of our connectivity opportunities. Employees can choose a networking opportunity through the Women’s Network and the Young Professionals Network, get involved in a Sanlam Foundation project or make a sustainability pledge. They have also been encouraged to share their goals as part of our ‘100 days to 100 years’ campaign, which aims to connect all Wealthsmiths™ around a common goal – to make South Africa a better place. Employee wellness While we are driven to excel because we are Wealthsmiths™, we know that balance is crucial to the wellbeing of our employees. But it is about more than flexible working hours and convenience at work – it’s about enabling our employees to discover their passion and letting that passion inspire them. We provide employees with a number of avenues to improve their physical and emotional health. KPI table for employee wellness 2015 Employees screened for wellness (%)* 37,8 * Includes wellness screens for the Sanlam Group. The Sanlam bWELL programme is our key offering in response to bACTIVE – Based on health risk screenings conducted over this commitment and an important component of the Employee the past three years, physical inactivity was identified as one Value Proposition (EVP) balance pillar. Lifestyle issues such as of the Group’s key health risks. The bACTIVE campaign was smoking, physical inactivity, weight gain and stress have a designed to encourage employees to take steps towards a significant impact on the development and progression of illness healthier lifestyle. The call to action was clear: a healthy, and chronic diseases. In addition to health issues there is also a balanced lifestyle is the key to a healthy body and mind. More clear and measurable workplace productivity impact. than 1 200 staff members participated. Activity monitors that employees could use to track their steps and calories were The programme focuses on three main modules: made available. bAWARE – This module offers wellness screenings through a bHEALTHY – Building on an ‘all inclusive’ approach to hybrid model of on-site, pharmacy-based and self-report wellness, partnerships have been formed with all relevant screenings; personalised weekly wellness emails based on Group-wide service providers to extract maximum value for an individual’s wellness profile; and a wellness website at all Sanlam employees. These include employee assistance www.sanlambewell.co.za which provides access to hundreds programme (EAP) providers (Careway’s and Icas), staff of articles, calculators, trackers and personalised advice from canteens (Fedics) and medical schemes. Success has been a range of practitioners. More than 100 000 articles were read achieved in incorporating healthier food options at the head in 2015. office canteen and this will be extended to the regions in 2016. 52 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 People development 3 4 5 Sanlam Cape Town Marathon 6 7 More than 1 100 employees participated in the Sanlam Cape Town Marathon. More than 1 100 employees participated in the Sanlam Cape Town Marathon during September 2015. This was part of a campaign to encourage greater employee involvement in Sanlam-sponsored events, but also to address one of our major health risks – a sedentary lifestyle. In 2016, continued efforts will be made to increase staff participation, with a strong focus on adopting healthy lifestyles. Cape Town Corporate Games The Sanlam United team represented Sanlam for the fourth time at the 2015 Cape Town Corporate Games. This is a multi-sport festival held annually around the world. Athletes represent their company in various sporting codes. The Sanlam team, consisting of 202 Wealthsmiths™, won six of the 10 sporting codes, 79 medals and three prestigious awards. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 53 People development material issues continued 1 963 employees with a wellness assessment tracked over a three-year period Since 2012, more than 5 000 employees have completed a wellness screening. Of the 37,8% staff members with a wellness profile, we now have a sample of 1 963 that we have been able to track over a three-year period. We are pleased that our statistics reveal a positive trend in wellness data, but acknowledge that more needs to be done to encourage employees to change behaviour and adopt healthier lifestyles. of employees with high cholesterol 2013 39,2 2015 38,4 of employees who don’t exercise 2013 53,6 2015 32,2 of obese employees 2013 35,5 2015 34,6 of employees with high blood pressure has decreased by 2013 51,7 2015 40,4 11,3% change in prevalence of smoking 0,2 54 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 People development 3 4 Staff involvement in company-sponsored events is encouraged. These events contribute significantly to the employee value proposition in terms of connectivity and balance. 5 6 7 Sanlam Rugby World Cup 20 Sanlam tag rugby teams from Personal Finance and Group Office represented the 20 nations that played in the 2015 IRB Rugby World Cup. Each team consisted of 10 players of both genders, thus involving 200 participants in 52 games. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 55 Responsible products and services Wealth is a journey. As Wealthsmiths™ we have a deep respect for that journey and the different needs that arise along the way. It’s why we are committed to truly understanding our clients’ ever-changing needs, so we can treat them fairly and provide affordable solutions that deliver on their expectations. In this way, we are able to offer a highly considered and diverse portfolio of responsible financial products and services designed to build wealth and transform lives. Why responsible products and services are important We focus on the following material issues Material issues Page Client-centricity, satisfaction and retention Page 61 to 63. Business strategy (including Treating Customers Fairly (TCF)) Earnings growth Product development Page 63 to 65. Operational efficiencies Distribution network Page 66 to 69. Optimal capital utilisation Providing access to financial services Page 70 and 71. Diversification Embracing technology Page 72. Transformation Responsible investment Page 73 to 74. Empowerment financing and infrastructure development Page 74 and 75. 58 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 Responsible products and services Saving and investing for the future are an essential Delivering on these demands requires innovative products and requirement for a prosperous society. Sanlam is committed services to drive client-centricity and efficient delivery, which in to creating and distributing savings products that build and turn are important in driving the development of our business grow wealth for more South Africans, and in the process, model. As Wealthsmiths™, we are committed to understanding 4 securing our future as the financial services industry and in the different needs of our various client segments, treating them fairly and constantly working to provide affordable solutions that turn our country. 5 address their financial needs. The global financial services industry is continually striving for In addition, as a large institutional investor, Sanlam Investments 6 higher ethical standards and business behaviour. Similarly, in South Africa, the transition to an increasingly strict regulatory has sizeable interests in most of South Africa’s companies, and environment is placing pressure on our industry to lower corresponding influence over governance and sustainable 7 costs while maintaining standards and continuing to treat business behaviour. Our aim is to use our influence to encourage customers fairly. good governance, not only as responsible investors, but because it makes long-term investment sense. Commentary on performance Rated a leading insurer for overall customer satisfaction in SAcsi survey. No significant TCF risks or compliance issues. Complaints under control. Underwriting models simplified, with clearer value proposition for clients. Sales growing in affluent, growth and entry-level markets. Retail Distribution Review (RDR) legislation and retirement industry reform proposals increasing the level of uncertainty in the industry. Initiatives aimed at improving value and efficiencies within the broker model. Strong emphasis on growth in funeral policy market. Over 3 400 tied agents in 62 sales branches, 280 independent brokers and 29 Ubuntu service points within communities across the country. In 2015, we launched our mobile app for intermediaries, InterAct. Improved quality of environmental, social and governance (ESG) research. In 2015 Sanlam enabled UB to pay a special dividend of R830 million to its shareholders. UB has acquired 51% of Indwe (a leading black-controlled insurance brokerage firm in South Africa), with Sanlam at 24% and Santam at 25%. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 59 Responsible products and services material issues Key performance indicators 2012 2013 2014 2015 Customer satisfaction index score (SAcsi)* — 79,3 77,8 78,4 Ombudsman complaint handling – percentage in favour of Sanlam** 76% 75% 76% 88% Research and development spend*** (R million) 57 69 68 53 Percentage growth in new business sales in the entry-level market**** 6% 17,4% (2,4)% 13% Number of resolutions voted on 1 942 1 708 3 028 3 347 * SAcsi  is an independent national benchmark of customer satisfaction of the quality of products and services available to households. According to the SAcsi study, Sanlam is one of two large insurers who are leading in this sector. ** Unverified. *** Excludes Santam. **** Refer to the 2015 Sanlam Group Annual Report for more detail. Sanlam re-engineered its processes in order to respond to our clients need to receive payment as quickly as possible. 60 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 Responsible products and services Client-centricity, satisfaction and retention Sanlam embeds client-centricity firmly within its business What client-centricity means for Sanlam practices, an approach fully aligned with Treating Customers 4 Fairly (TCF), which mandates a formal approach to treating customers fairly and improving client confidence in the financial 5 Understanding our clients and their financial service needs. services industry. Providing the right tailored solutions to fulfil clients’ needs The six fairness outcomes of the TCF framework are: and their desires by designing business models and 6 solution sets that are appropriate for each market segment. Customers are confident that they 7 1 Fair treatment are dealing with firms where the fair treatment of customers is central to Taking necessary steps to ensure that our client expectations relating to quality of service and any the firm culture. guarantees or promises in products and marketing are met. Meet the Products and services marketed and Service standard requirements are in place to support the needs of sold in the retail market are designed delivery of quality service and fair treatment. 2 identified customer to meet the needs of identified customer groups and are targeted We subscribe to providing our clients with information that groups accordingly. is clear, fair and does not mislead. Clients are encouraged to provide feedback through Customers are given clear various channels on whether the quality of service, advice 3 Clear information information and are kept appropriately informed before, during and performance meet their standards. and after the time of contracting. Types of research Where customers receive advice, the 4 Suitable advice advice is suitable and takes account of their circumstances. All research is conducted by independent research houses and Sanlam has no influence on outcomes. Customers are provided with products that perform as firms have Some research is commissioned by Sanlam, 5 Products that perform led them to expect, and the associated service is both of an while other surveys are external initiatives that acceptable standard and what they may or may not include Sanlam’s involvement. have been led to expect. Examples of research commissioned by Sanlam include: Consumer Tracking Study and the No Customers do not face unreasonable annual Sanlam BENCHMARK Survey. 6 unreasonable post-sale post-sale barriers to change product, switch provider, submit a claim or barriers make a complaint. Examples of external research include: SA Customer Satisfaction Index (SAcsi) and the Our reporting structure for client-centricity, product development Orange Index report. and distribution follows the TCF framework. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 61 Responsible products and services material issues continued From 2015 we have included an evaluation of our clients’ Developing client insights experience when transacting on new products with Sanlam in We use a number of ways to gain insight into client needs and to order to meet their financial needs. The results of this research keep abreast of changing market trends. Market insight teams reveal that overall, a large percentage of clients are delighted within each business cluster conduct market research throughout (score of 9 or 10 out of 10) with their experience. the year. Our annual Consumer Tracking Study, involving 1 200 participants, helps us understand the financial needs, Not only did the client survey reveal that we continue to offer our behaviour and engagement preferences of consumers in markets clients and intermediaries an excellent experience, but also that we target. It also benchmarks consumer perceptions of Sanlam independent brokers (intermediaries who also support other against key competitors. financial services providers) declare a better service experience at Sanlam with regard to new business process compared to our Engagement with Sanlam clients is measured through client competitors. However, we are cognisant of the increased experience research in the course of client transaction processes pressure from competitors, and the constantly raised service throughout all stages of the product life cycle. levels within our industry. We interact with our institutional clients and the intermediaries TCF reports are presented to the Sanlam Customer Interest serving our retail clients. We hold a number of annual regional committee every quarter. The consolidated summary for 2015 forums and conferences to engage our intermediaries. is as follows: We interact with the TCF framework and we review government discussion documents, assisting the Association for Savings and Sanlam Individual Life and Segment Solutions Investment South Africa (ASISA) in formulating coherent (SILSS) responses to the Financial Services Board (FSB). Once new regulations are gazetted, we develop formal policies and While some TCF issues were identified, these were not management frameworks to ensure compliance. Further serious and are being addressed, which is good news for engagement takes place through complaints management, SILSS as we have very few cases coming back from the see section in page 63. Ombudsman that need to be resolved. Performance Sanlam Sky Solutions According to the 2015 South African Customer Satisfaction Index (SAcsi) study, Sanlam and one other insurer were sector leaders No significant TCF risks or compliance issues were reported while the other four large insurers were statistically on par with for 2015. The number of complaints, an important indicator the industry average in terms of overall customer satisfaction. of TCF compliance, is low relative to the number of transactions processed. We have proactively put measures The international life insurance industry benchmark is set by the in place to reduce the number of clients going to external United States of America, and South Africa scored second forums to resolve complaints. internationally. Sanlam scores well in terms of customer satisfaction compared to the leading international insurers – we In general, issues are addressed quickly, but we realise that are in the top five internationally. more focus is required to finalise the significant number of calls logged through the legacy product review. The 2015 client experience survey involved more than Group Benefits have aligned their TCF report to be in the 6 000 clients and intermediaries across our different business same format as that of the Individual Life TCF information. units and market segments. Overall, we are satisfied with the results of the surveys, as we have met standards across all elements and consistently perform in the top quartile across the various areas, the business and market segments. 62 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 Responsible products and services Safrican Sanlam Investments No significant TCF risks or compliance issues were reported Sanlam Investments (SI) implements all the elements of TCF for 2015. We are taking steps to address concerns regarding in accordance with the Sanlam TCF Framework. The SI 4 our sourcing agreements with our administrators. business culture and TCF practices are subject to Management has undertaken to improve the internal process continuous improvement to minimise conduct risk. and ensure that all approved claims are paid. Ensuring that 5 the proper diligence is exercised during the assessment A key area of progress in 2015 is that the product evaluation phase remains an important focus. group (PEG) is well established and meetings are held on a monthly basis. PEG is tasked with coordinating and 6 In addition, two sets of client surveys on products and approving products within SI, while ensuring that the services were distributed to our administrators. The business requirements of TCF Outcome 2 are adhered to. 7 remains committed to respond to these learnings. The SI Compliance department has a TCF monitoring Reducing the number of complaints generally, and the programme whereby evidence is collected and evaluated for number of complaints found in favour of complainants, each of the six TCF outcomes throughout the year. Any remains our key area of focus. Safrican continues with findings are addressed either by specific intervention or by interventions to decrease our number of adverse findings to embedding the required TCF activities into operational below the industry average. processes. The content and structured measurement of the TCF outcomes within SI is at an acceptable level. The awareness Glacier by Sanlam of TCF and the processes within the business to supply the required information continue to improve. We continue to No significant TCF risks or compliance issues were reported align our development of TCF management information to for 2015. The number of complaints has been reasonably our strategic imperative of creating a client-centric business. stable during the year under review, and we are looking into why there has not been an improvement. Resolving complaints We have a strong internal complaints management process. This Sanlam Personal Loans is governed by a Group complaints policy and the internal complaints processes provide Sanlam clients with the opportunity The implementation of the TCF framework will continue at to lodge complaints with the Sanlam arbitrator. We further business cluster level in 2016, with a special focus on the subscribe to the Long Term Ombudsman Scheme (OLTI). Any of roll-out of product training and the amendment of all client-facing communication. While it is not yet officially a our long-term insurance policyholders can lodge a complaint at requirement in any of the African countries in which we do the independent ombudsman of long-term insurance to have business, we are nonetheless improving complaints their complaint resolved. The OLTI publishes industry complaints management in these countries. data for all subscribers with the publication of their annual report. This information is available on their website www.ombud.co.za Business clusters have started quarterly reporting against our TCF framework and we are steadily improving the public disclosure of our TCF performance. Product development Our goal is to develop solutions that promote financial wellbeing We expect that the TCF regulatory framework will evolve within the communities we serve, by promoting a savings culture over time as both the industry and the Financial Services Board (FSB) grapple with its consequences. As and providing protection. We design products that clients can developments around TCF and regulatory requirements easily understand and we build on our strong product legacy to relating to market conduct unfold, such as the recent foster trust and confidence in our solutions. publication of the complaints management discussion document and the Retail Distribution Review (RDR), we will The Sanlam Group provides tailor-made financial solutions to initiate new projects or working groups to incorporate these meet a broad range of needs in different market segments, from new requirements. entry-level to high net worth clients. We are committed to promoting access to financial services to all South Africans, especially in rural areas. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 63 Responsible products and services material issues continued Our actuarial team has access to the database of Sanlam Personal Finance (SPF) of over six million clients, enabling them Product development to develop more accurate models of future trends, and better activities in 2015 understand the changing client profile. Using a value-mapping tool, we check the accuracy of this predictive modelling against the amount of new business signed against our client profiles. Retail Distribution Review In November 2014, the Financial Services Key insights informing Board (FSB) released the Retail Distribution Review (RDR) discussion paper, which could product development have far-reaching effects on our industry and The following key insights have informed our product clients. It proposes a set of structural changes development activities: to incentives, relationships and business models Tough economic conditions and low economic growth are in an effort to support fair client experience. The eroding particularly lowand middle-income clients’ wealth RDR covers 55 proposals to improve client and their ability to spend. confidence in the retail financial services market. There is a growing trend of affluent clients taking their money Through the Association for Savings and offshore, driven by the depreciation of the rand and the Investment South Africa (ASISA), Sanlam has sluggish performance of the South African economy. provided feedback on each of the proposals Products are increasingly at risk of being commoditised, relevant to the business. We will continue to particularly in the savings and investment sector. Brand and engage with and support efforts by the FSB to service differentiation continue to be key to avoid margin improve the financial service sector’s conduct, erosion. which will ultimately improve client confidence. Market and regulatory pressure continues to drive down fees, exerting further pressure on margins. We need to provide In April 2015, Sanlam launched a tax-free clients with bespoke value and improve business efficiencies. savings account product in line with National Technology (robo-advice) is enabling clients to obtain more Treasury’s guidelines on simple savings. advice online and is changing the nature of the intermediary engagement. The entry-level market is a growing segment with tough The Sanlam Emerging Markets client and competition in the funeral space. product team There is growing appetite for simple savings in the entry-level Sanlam Emerging Markets (SEM) has established a new team market. dedicated to driving and supporting growth through appropriate client distribution and product strategies across the cluster. KPI table for product development The team spans across SEM’s four core product lines of life insurance, general insurance, asset management and retail 2014 2015 credit. It aims to provide innovative solutions and support for Growth in new business addressing gaps in our client and product offerings and in the sales in entry-level market models supporting them, and promotes the sharing of concepts (%) (2,4)% 13% and the re-use of product models across the cluster. Growth in new business sales in growth market (%) 9,8% 3% Growth in new business In January, the SEM board was informed of the approach that is sales in affluent market (%) 29,9% 27% being followed with regards to Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) Research and development and client interest. While SEM embraces the principles of the spend (R million) 68 53 Sanlam Group TCF framework, it also recognises that the format Please refer to the 2015 Annual Report for more detail. of TCF within SEM will be influenced by local market practices 64 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 Responsible products and services and the maturity of the markets in which the businesses operate. Sanlam Individual Life Segment Solutions Accordingly, SEM will follow a risk-based approach to ensure that Risk products offer quality benefits and certainty of benefit customers are treated fairly. payments at good value for money. This is what Sanlam is known for in the industry and this is the philosophy we continue to 4 The SEM minimum governance standards that were developed in portray and protect. Ultimately, the aim is to increase value for our 2014 have been expanded to include a separate section on TCF shareholders, and we therefore measure our performance against 5 and each of our businesses will be assessed against these our targets in terms of the value of new business for each specific standards. Meanwhile, a client interest statement and policy, and product line. a client interest risk escalation process are minimum TCF 6 standards for all SEM entities. At the end of the first quarter of 2016 we will enhance our product range further with the following additions and changes: 7 Sanlam Sky Solutions Sanlam Sky Solutions has developed solutions aimed specifically at meeting the demand for funeral policies. Our flagship products A competitive cash back structure to risk products allow the flexibility to pay either a premium per life covered or a single premium covering the immediate family. Benefits include increasing cover and premium at the same rate, rewarding clients for keeping their policies active while also allowing premium Integration with Reality to offer members premium discounts on savings and risk business holidays in the case of unemployment or pregnancy, and paying premiums on clients’ behalf when they reach a certain age and have paid premiums for at least 15 years. A simplified underwriting model, which will not only Funeral policy payout turnaround time give us better entry into part of the lower income market, but potentially also revolutionise the ease of doing business in some of the upper segments looking for far 2014 2015 Target larger cover sizes on a wider product set Payout percentage in 24 hours 92% 98% 95% Payout percentage in four hours 67% 80% 80% A comprehensive rate review to reflect changes to the tax dispensation of risk business, while ensuring that we remain as competitive as possible in the market. After extensive market research, the Sanlam My Choice Family Funeral Plans were launched in October 2015. This range of funeral plans was designed to offer an affordable funeral cover package for the whole family. The recent income protection review showed the results which can be achieved through a comprehensive review and Sanlam Glacier re-packaging of product benefits. We have identified the need for Sanlam Glacier has over the last two years rewritten its online a similar review to ensure our dread disease benefits remain best client and intermediary interface. The final switch-over to the new of breed. We are working towards the possible implementation of interface will take place during the first quarter of 2016. At the new dread disease benefits in the third quarter of 2016. same time Glacier is rewriting a new business acquisition portal, enabling intermediaries and clients to interface with Glacier without having to use either verbal communication or paper documentation. This initiative is due for launch during the first quarter of 2017. The aim is to improve the efficiencies within the intermediaries’ practice and to make it easier to do business with Sanlam Glacier. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 65 Responsible products and services material issues continued Distribution network Sanlam’s distribution channels can be broadly classified into three general categories that align with our three market segments: entry-level, growth and affluent. The largest of these are Sanlam Financial Advisers (SFA) and Sanlam Broker Distribution. Sanlam’s three distribution channels Sanlam’s distribution channels can be broadly classified into three general categories: Sanlam Financial Advisers (SFA) services the growth and affluent markets via two adviser categories: those who are only accredited to sell Sanlam products, and those accredited to sell a wider product range. 1 Advisers/tied agents The Sanlam Sky agency distribution channel services the entry-level market, as well as the lower part of the growth market, via advisers who sell Sanlam products exclusively. Sanlam affiliated intermediaries also service the entry-level market, selling Sanlam products exclusively, but operate with a greater degree of autonomy. Brokers/ 2 Independent brokers service individual clients across the market segments and are supported by dedicated independent intermediaries broker service units in Sanlam Sky, Glacier and Sanlam Broker Distribution. 3 The Sanlam Direct unit markets Sanlam products directly to clients using an outbound call centre. Direct The various market segments also have a direct client offering for certain products, via an online platform. Sanlam makes use of an intermediated distribution model to The intermediary channel is therefore crucial to our business generate around 90% of all new business. Our prosperity is model. Nonetheless, there are significant challenges: therefore dependent on a sustainable and growing flow of new business revenue from a professionally accredited sales force, The cost of supporting an intermediated distribution with client-centricity and treating customers fairly at the core of network, and especially a tied agency network, has our business philosophy and practice. increased over the past five years While new distribution structures such as dealership models, Increased regulatory requirements have added franchise models and direct-to-market models are on the rise, considerable cost and complexity our consumer tracking study revealed that the vast majority of clients still prefer to receive financial advice from financial advisers and independent brokers. Aggregated industry statistics provided There is uncertainty about the effect of the Retail Distribution Review (RDR) proposals, particularly on the by the Association for Savings and Investment South Africa low-income segment, as well as in the independent (ASISA) support this. financial adviser market. 66 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 Responsible products and services Furthermore, South Africa is known to have a poor savings New legislation driving change culture, which is under further pressure from a stagnating We take full legislative ownership and responsibility for our tied economy. However, we are confident that with the right support agents operating under Sanlam’s multiple financial services and a long-term value creation approach, we can continue to provider (FSP) licences. Independent brokerages, which operate 4 assist intermediaries in creating and maintaining sustainable and under their own FSP licences, can consult our support staff about economically viable businesses. Sanlam solutions and service offerings. We provide various levels 5 of support to our intermediaries to help them adapt to this We support the development of a network of intermediaries changing legislative environment, supporting them in adapting across multiple distribution channels that are aligned with the 6 to new distribution models such as Sanlam BlueStar Succession needs of our clients for different market segments. We strive to and the Sanlam Affiliated Intermediary (SAI) network. ensure that our intermediaries are professional, well-informed and 7 up-to-date regarding all legislative and regulatory compliance Furthermore, Sanlam participates in the RDR consultative aspects. We are also committed to supporting intermediaries in process of the Financial Services Board (FSB) via ASISA, with terms of administration, value-adding and competitive financial the objective of providing a balanced view of implications solutions, leading-edge tools of trade, leadership and advice. not only to clients, but especially to intermediaries and other industry stakeholders. Financial advisers The growth in new clients and retention of existing clients is very Engagement in the distribution channel much dependent on the success of our intermediated distribution We regularly engage with our intermediaries. Our distribution and sales strategy. Sanlam Personal Finance (SPF) distribution leaders participate in regular workshops, unit meetings and many consists of two main channels: Sanlam Financial Advisers (SFA) other formal and informal sessions. and Sanlam Broker Distribution (SBD – Independent Financial Advisers (IFAs) or brokers). It is important that, given changes The general manager of SFA and senior managers in the channel in the market place and regulatory reform interventions, hold quarterly Sanlam Adviser Forum (SAF) meetings with the intermediaries have businesses that operate in a sustainable way. national committee, which consists of elected representatives from specific regional adviser constituencies. Matters discussed To achieve this, SPF has conducted thought leadership include client relationships, intermediary contracts, remuneration, engagements with various industry stakeholders, informing new compliance issues, incentives and training. design and implementation changes. In particular, we have invested significantly in providing comprehensive financial advice This year, SFA also held workshops with the national committee to our clients, training advisers to communicate knowledgeably, around the RDR proposals. and providing transparent statements quickly and efficiently. In Sanlam Broker Distribution, we have created a digital forum Looking forward, we will have to simplify business processes and called The Broker Voice, engaging with brokers around topical bring costs down through improvements in technology. The aim issues in the independent intermediated space. is to continue retaining clients in 20 years’ time and to continue being able to provide outstanding service at competitive cost. We provide our advisers and brokers with up-to-date information through our monthly Inside Sanlam Personal Finance (Inside SPF) magazine, an initiative that earns intermediaries 0,5 continuous professional development (CPD) points per edition from the Financial Planning Institute of South Africa (FPI). Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 67 Responsible products and services material issues continued KPI table for distribution network 2013 2014 2015 Number of: Growth in total advisers 1 918 1 940 1 992 Growth in BlueStar businesses 159 181 209 Growth in supporting brokers 1 980 1 990 2 000 Recruitment into Succession 50 75 135 Increase in entry-level market footprint Proportion of black advisers 30% 32% 31% Proportion of female advisers 32% 31% 32% entry-level intermediary network. This performance reflects our Growth in the distribution continued focus on improving the Group’s geographic footprint network in the entry-level market, and ensures our ability to build trusting While adviser numbers in the growth and affluent markets have relationships across South Africa’s diverse client base. increased modestly, the number of BlueStar businesses has Strategy to improve performance grown significantly, with close to 50% of the middle and affluent tied agents now being part of a BlueStar business. Sanlam BlueStar aims to convert tied agents with small practices into professional, entrepreneurial businesses. Adapt to legislative requirements Specialised BlueStar businesses focusing on specialised solutions and services are also being established. This aligns with Grow our footprint our vision to provide professional advice and services, as well as to focus more on profitability and sustainability and not only on generating sales for the sake of business volumes. Improve efficiencies to achieve profitable growth In Sanlam Broker Distribution, we have operated a broker network known as Succession Financial Planning for some time, Diversify our offering in a sensible way currently with more than 150 broker partners. Recently we have added conversion of broker practices to agency alternatives to the proposition, focusing on practice building, new intermediary Find synergies, for example with SFA, to collectively development, and capital extraction and retirement, known as increase growth and market share Sanlam Aligned Financial Planning. In the entry-level market, the prohibitive costs associated with Provide competitive products (see page 63 under regulatory compliance for independent brokers prompted us to Product development) endorse a new model – the affiliated intermediary model. This model provides sole proprietors and other one-person brokerages whose licences have lapsed the opportunity to Support intermediaries with efficient IT systems (see operate under Sanlam’s licence through a contractual agreement. page 72 under Embracing technology) Sanlam brings its experience to the partnership to ensure that these independent brokers meet regulatory requirements. Secure and train the right people (see page 43 under Training and skills development) In support of our transformation agenda, we have maintained a 99% black adviser staff complement, with 67% female, in the Enhance systems to improve agility and flexibility. 68 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 Responsible products and services Key initiatives for the middle and affluent markets Sanlam BlueStar and Succession enable advisers to adopt A big focus in SPF Distribution is on client retention, advice and, new-generation business principles, where the primary objective from a product perspective, recurring risk business. We is to deliver the Sanlam value proposition to clients in an committed to high targets in 2015, and exceeded them. Plans independent business setting, while still having the security and 4 to ensure this is being achieved sustainably have been drawn up protection of Sanlam as the licence provider. The intention is to for 2016. build and run profitable and compliant financial advisory businesses with predefined rules and processes, subject to strict 5 Ongoing client relationships are secured through the BlueStar governance and discipline. and Succession models of delivering services and advice by the 6 business and not by individual advisers, as in traditional Two new variants of BlueStar models are currently being rolled distribution models. We take cognisance of client preference and out. These provide further aspirational focus for existing BlueStar employ direct marketing principles to actively target certain businesses while also expanding the SFA offering to 7 segments of our client base. During 2015 we launched an online intermediaries and groups of intermediaries still not part of offering aimed at the self-directed consumer. This capability is Sanlam. also available on BlueStar websites as part of a larger digital strategy. Within Sanlam Broker Distribution, there is significant emphasis on preparing broker businesses for the advent of RDR. Support is offered through both thought leadership and tools. Key strategic initiatives for the entry-level market Sanlam Sky Solutions is our business vehicle for expanding into previously under-represented income segments, geographies and industries. Its goals are to: Grow the distribution footprint Retain our share of the Gradually expand the Sanlam of our tied agency branch and traditional broker market at affiliated intermediary manpower network entry level as cost-effectively distribution force. as possible We are also focusing on empowering our distribution force to meet client needs by creating a pool of advisers who can provide Sanlam Direct a wider range of products, by putting referral arrangements within As we are faced with more demanding and empowered clients, the Sanlam Affiliated Intermediary (SAI) network and between we need to ensure that we provide relevant mechanisms in order Sanlam Sky Solutions and SFA in place, and by seeking other for them to engage with us. Our clients are ‘always on’ and this mechanisms for crossand up-sell with the Group. makes them ‘channel agnostic’. The channel derives value from four distinct sources: Other initiatives include: Traditional direct marketing aimed at clients in the Sanlam Life Driving TCF and the development of long-term client database. These promotions mostly involve up-sell and relationships in our sales forces cross-sell invitations across the long and short-term insurance Improving access to technology for our sales force to enable spectrums. them to better service customers and increase their The acquisition of brand-new clients with the help of external productivity and earnings databases. These promotions involve invitations to clients that Improving our training and development to provide worldecho those of Sanlam Life. class skills development to our people, focusing on the use Online sales via www.sanlam.co.za: This initiative launched in of technology to expand reach, reduce costs and improve 2015 with the self-directed client in mind. sustainability for our employees and the business. Collaboration with Sanlam’s advisers with the view to act as an extension of their selling capacity. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 69 Responsible products and services material issues continued FSC standards. These funeral products have been instrumental Providing access to financial in meeting our FSC targets for access to financial services. In services addition, our credit life product, offered through Sanlam Personal Loans (SPL), meets the FSC credit life standard. Low-income consumers face a number of barriers restricting their access to the financial system: poor physical access, onerous The SPF cluster has combined expertise and capabilities from requirements for identification, unaffordable service fees, and a Sanlam Individual Life Segment Solutions (SILSS), SPF lack of products that align with their needs. Distribution and Sanlam Sky Solutions to develop smart financial products for our market segments. The aim is to offer a wider Sanlam Sky has strong distribution channels to make sure these range of simple financial solutions to the various market solutions reach the different market segments. Sanlam Sky segments while delivering a consistent client experience. conducts business through: 90 client care offices Expanding our footprint through funeral policies More than 280 independent brokers and over 360 Sanlam Increasing our distribution footprint is key to expanding into the affiliated intermediaries lower income market. Funeral policies remain a priority for this Over 3 400 tied agents in 62 sales branches across the market and also serve as a savings tool. The SPF cluster has country been active in developing appropriate products and expanding 29 Ubuntu service points within communities our distribution footprint in the communities where our clients live. Affinity groups: churches, burial societies, retailers, unions and funeral parlours. A significant development in 2015 was the expansion of Sanlam funeral parlours in KwaZulu-Natal to 12 parlours in Durban, Market research has suggested a number of avenues to improve Pietermaritzburg, Eshowe, Kokstad, Ulundi, Vryheid, Port this situation. These include a better understanding of the needs Shepstone, Newcastle, Matatiele, Mount Fletcher, Manguzi of these consumers and creating products that fit these needs, and Greytown. engaging consumers in their communities rather than through the existing branch network, working with trusted partners that The Sanlam client service centres were renamed client care already serve low-income consumers, providing incentives for offices. Over the last 12 years, the client care offices have grown participation in the mainstream financial system, and crafting tremendously, both in terms of numbers and the quality of service technology solutions that work for low-income consumers. they provide. Today, there are over 90 offices with a total of 191 staff members. There is an increasing number of initiatives being pioneered in this regard by the banking industry. However, there is as yet no national strategy that addresses the unique needs of low-income Sanlam roadshow and economically vulnerable consumers. The challenge for the The Sanlam roadshow, a partnership between Sanlam and SABC industry is to provide financial access, while eradicating Education’s Takalani Sesame, travelled to seven towns in five exploitative lending practices. In line with our brand promise, provinces, including Northam in Limpopo, Manguzi and Stanger Sanlam focuses on offering wealth-building products that offer in KwaZulu-Natal, Soweto in Gauteng, Queenstown in the sustained value. Eastern Cape, and George and Worcester in the Western Cape, to host free events for children and adults filled with fun, festivities Sanlam Sky Solutions and lots of prizes. The aim of the 2015 roadshow was to help South African families ‘make every rand count’ and educate Sanlam Sky Solutions, a business unit within the Sanlam adults on the importance of saving. Personal Finance (SPF) cluster, is responsible for growing our footprint in this market. Sanlam Sky focuses on individual and group solutions that efficiently meet the needs of the entry-level Financial education market. Sanlam again partnered with leading skills training provider Avocado Vision to empower communities, state-owned entities To keep products affordable, we offer affordable risk solutions to and corporates countrywide with basic financial skills. In 2015, members of affinity groups. Two of our funeral products adhere the Money fo Sho! financial education programme reached more to three of the Financial Sector Code (FSC) access product than 15 551 people in six provinces. standards. In addition, our funeral product sold to state grant recipients has been awarded partial recognition in terms of the 70 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 Measuring performance against the Financial Sector Code Responsible products and services We subscribe to the Financial Sector Code (FSC), which measures the extent to which we provide access to financial services to the entry-level market. We view this market as an opportunity for Sanlam to expand our business and deliver on our promise to improve 4 people’s lives. By the end of 2015, we had close to 730 000 low-income market policies in force over a wide geographical area, around 62% higher than our FSC target of 452 000. Included in this number, was around 149 000 state pensioner policies, which count 5 75% towards market penetration. 6 This enabled us to achieve all nine available points for transactional access and market penetration under the FSC codes. In total, we maintained our score of 12,14 (2014: 12,05) out of 14 on the FSC scorecard for access to financial services. 7 Access to financial services indicators FSC 2015 2013 2014 2015 target Number of in-force low-income market policies 650 000 656 000* 730 000* 452 000 FSC access to financial services score (score out of 14) 11,59 12,05 12,14 14,00 FSC access to financial services product standards (score out of 3) 1,50 2,00 2,00 3,00 Also see Transformation on page 84. * Approximate figures. We have been working closely with the independent agency that audits Sanlam’s FSC compliance in order to improve our Enterprise and supplier development understanding of the ‘access to financial services’ element of the Sanlam’s enterprise and supplier development FSC. This includes a review of all our entry-level market products (ESD) programme run by the Association for against FSC requirements. Our products meet four of the FSC’s Savings and Investment South Africa (ASISA) ‘access to financial services’ product standards (funeral member was initiated in July 2013. The focus includes only, member and family, parent and extended family, and credit supporting the strategic growth and life), leading to a total FSC score of two out of a possible three development of Sanlam’s distribution for our products. networks. The programme supports transformation imperatives and shifting levels We have developed products that comply with the life of professional, comprehensive advice product standard. services. During the year under review, a cohort of predominantly black-owned BlueStar We obtained approval from the FSC Council in 2015 for the state businesses received specialist business pensioner product to be awarded 75% recognition in terms of development support to link them to market penetration points. The product does not fully comply accounting firms in value-adding ways. The with the product standard. focus was also on providing practice management support to a group of financial planners to complete their BlueStar We will continue working towards closing the gap between our accreditation and empower their businesses products and the FSC’s product standards, while looking for with practical practice management toolkits, new distribution channels and opportunities to develop product and skills and knowledge to build and solutions that address the needs of the entry-level market. transform Sanlam’s distribution capability. For more details, see page 86. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 71 Responsible products and services material issues continued In the intermediary space we are putting quotation functionality Embracing technology for SILSS products on our website. This will allow people in Sanlam continues to harness the power of increasingly powerful different roles, such as a Sanlam sales support assistant (SSA) digital technology to make our products and services more and a broker, to work on the same quote, and for the broker to accessible to the market. Our approach to embracing technology submit an electronic proposal based on a quote prepared by a − which is closely aligned with the principles of Treating SSA. We are currently piloting with risk products and will do a full Customers Fairly (TCF) – focuses on four key areas: roll-out to intermediaries and support staff in 2016. Thereafter we will add retirement annuities and savings products. 1 Improving strategic planning through data analytics Glacier has also started a project to provide an integrated online system for quotes, applications and submission of new business, aimed at making it easier for intermediaries to do business. Intermediary software 2 Operational efficiency solutions support systems SanFin SanFin, an online financial planning, client management and 3 Intermediary software support systems practice management system, is a notable example of how we exploit technology to the benefit of our intermediaries. Launched in 2013, this system helps intermediaries to provide appropriate advice and run their practices more efficiently. The roll-out of 4 Mobile and online technology solutions. SanFin was staggered throughout 2014 and 2015. In 2015, 898 advisers had been trained on SanFin. KPI table for embracing technology FSC 2013 2014 2015 target Number of advisers trained on SanFin 19 1 711 898 2 100 Number of brokers trained on SanFin — — 1 174 800 InterAct InterAct was designed in-house and developed with the support In December 2015, we launched our mobile app for of external suppliers. Early feedback indicates that the app is intermediaries, InterAct. Its principal benefit is to improve the already achieving its objectives and over 500 intermediaries have efficiency and productivity of face-to-face meetings between downloaded it. Drawing on their feedback, we will improve and intermediaries, brokers as well as advisers, and their clients. fine-tune InterAct during 2016. Among other functions, InterAct allows clients to sign application Mobile and online forms and other paperwork without actually having to use paper. Not only does this make the client’s life easier, but it also helps technology solutions We continue to expand the range of products and services intermediaries to cut their paper and printing costs. InterAct also that clients can browse and buy through our main website, provides access to the latest product brochures and forms; www.sanlam.co.za. makes it simple to download and update client information on SanFin; and helps to determine the client’s risk tolerance when planning investments. 72 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 Responsible products and services Responsible investment Our investment philosophy 4 As value investors, we make use of the opportunities created Given this investment philosophy, we look to embed sustainability when prices differ from their fair value. Generally, we invest in as a core process that can result in more insightful research and 5 assets that are trading below our fair value estimate and disinvest a better understanding of the potential for companies to deliver from assets that are trading above our fair value estimate. This sustainable cash flows into the future. By taking the long-term 6 means that our team of analysts conducts in-depth research to view, non-financial issues may play a greater role in our gain insights into what an asset is truly worth, as opposed to valuations. These issues are typically related to the quality of what investors are willing to pay because of greed or fear. We are companies’ relationships with their broader stakeholders and 7 convinced that by applying this approach over the long term and their responsible stewardship of natural resources, as well as their riding out volatile and uncertain periods, we will be able to deliver own governance. consistent, long-term investment performance for our clients. Principles of the Code for Responsible Investing in South Africa (CRISA): 1. An institutional investor should incorporate sustainability considerations, including environmental, social and governance, into its investment analysis and investment activities as part of the delivery of superior risk-adjusted returns to the ultimate beneficiaries. 2. An institutional investor should demonstrate its acceptance of ownership responsibilities in its investment arrangements and investment activities. 3. Where appropriate, institutional investors should consider a collaborative approach to promote acceptance and implementation of the principles of CRISA and other codes and standards applicable to institutional investors. 4. An institutional investor should recognise the circumstances and relationships that hold a potential for conflicts of interest and should proactively manage these when they occur. 5. Institutional investors should be transparent about the content of their policies, how the policies are implemented and how CRISA is applied to enable stakeholders to make informed assessments. Responsible investment policy Sanlam Investments became a signatory to the United Nations SIM’s responsible investment policies can be found at Principles for Responsible Investments (UNPRI) and in addition www.sanlaminvestments.com. subscribes to the Code for Responsible Investing in South Africa (CRISA). In doing so, we aim to comply with international best Each year, Sanlam’s policy framework and implementation is governance practice, in particular to promote a relationship of assessed by the UNPRI against its six principles. By comparing trust between all relevant stakeholders and to contribute to the our performance against that of international peers, we are able ongoing and long-term sustainability of listed companies. to continuously improve our approach to responsible investing. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 73 Responsible products and services material issues continued Membership of/listings with international frameworks United Nations Principles for Responsible Investments (UNPRI) Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Water Disclosure Project (WDP) RobecoSAM Dow Jones Responsible Investing Emerging Markets Index United Nations Principles for Sustainable Insurance (UNPSI) United National Global Compact (UNGC) JSE FTSE Socially Responsible Investing (SRI) Index In compliance with CRISA principles we continue to incorporate environmental, social and governance (ESG) principles and data Reporting into our investment processes. Every quarter we report to clients and update the implementation portion of our website (see www.sanlaminvestments.com). We In May 2012, the Sanlam Investments management board produce an annual responsible investment report in terms of our approved a policy document which guides our approach to CRISA requirements. environmental sustainability. In June 2015, the Sanlam Investments management board approved a policy document which guides our approach to Empowerment financing and social sustainability. In December 2015, the Sanlam Investments management infrastructure development Empowering the people of South Africa is embedded in the fixed interest team obtained approval from the Sanlam Central history of Sanlam – our first black empowerment transaction saw Credit committee to incorporate ESG factors into the credit the sale of the then Metropolitan Holdings to a majority black approval process. consortium in 1994. Our Ubuntu-Botho broad-based black economic empowerment (BBBEE) transaction matured in To increase transparency further, SIM’s progress in implementing December 2013, and remains one of South Africa’s most the responsible investing principles is regularly updated on the successful empowerment transactions to date. It continues to Sanlam website (SIM corporate governance website). We posted add value to both its shareholders and Sanlam. our first ‘apply or explain’ report on the CRISA principles after SIM’s 2012 December year-end, and have reported annually since then. Financing BEE transactions We provide empowerment finance to both unlisted and JSEThe SIM business has itself established compliance, risk listed entities. All empowerment and infrastructure transactions management and internal audit functions to identify and manage are subject to a detailed risk and credit assessment and potential conflicts of interest (as required in CRISA principle 4). transactions are concluded only once the relevant risk The SIM conflict of interest management policy provides a committees have approved the transaction. framework to promote transparency and fairness, while other Group policies provide guidelines for ethical conduct, combating Our investments in BBBEE transactions allow black South financial crime, and gratifications. Compliance monitors the SIM Africans to either gain direct ownership in existing or new entities, insider information and personal account trading policies. In or to facilitate joint ventures and equity investments in BBBEE addition, Sanlam Investments is structured into discrete clusters, companies. and the flow of information between clusters is limited. 74 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 Responsible products and services The UB empowerment consortium encompasses broader society Targeted investments through BEE entities and local communities. These include In the course of our normal business we invest in infrastructure Abafazi Basadi Ubuntu-Botho Investments Limited, the Ubuntuinvestments either directly, by financing specific projects in Botho Women’s Upliftment Trust, and trade unions such as the underdeveloped sectors such as transport, telecommunications, South African Democratic Teachers Union (SADTU), representing 4 energy, health and education-related facilities, or indirectly, by around 250 000 teachers countrywide, and the National investing in government bonds. Through government bonds we Education Health and Allied Workers’ Union (NEHAWU), which 5 are able to finance specific infrastructure projects earmarked in has a membership of more than 180 000. various municipalities within South Africa. The guarantee that these investment instruments hold, as well as the social impact, The Sanlam dividends received over the following 10 years were 6 creates a mutually beneficial return for both parties. enough to repay all the debt of R1,2 billion, cover costs and in 2007 enabled UB to pay a R50 million once-off dividend to its All transactions must meet our investment criteria and our credit shareholders and, in 2008, invest R110 million in Ubuntu-Botho 7 analyst team reviews all investment decisions before seeking Investments Holdings (Pty) Limited, a targeted investment approval from our Board’s Credit committee. Beyond social company jointly owned by Sanlam and UB. In 2015 Sanlam sustainability, we are currently funding three environmental enabled UB to pay a special dividend of R830 million to its sustainability projects, which form part of the Department of shareholders. Energy’s Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer Procurement (REIPPP) programme as well as the Department At the end of December 2013, UB held around 292 million of Energy’s Independent Power Producer Peaking Generation Sanlam shares, worth R15,2 billion. After deducting the initial Project. R200 million capital investment, the total value created was about R15 billion. The financial services industry has identified the opportunity for a dual approach to empowerment financing, which goes beyond The Sanlam Group continues to align with Ubuntu-Botho shareholding-only status, by promoting empowerment through Investments as part of its sustainability strategy and the two targeted investments. This is the unique advantage that the parties concluded an agreement in terms of which: Financial Sector Code (FSC) offers, and a view that Sanlam Ubuntu-Botho Investments has agreed to retain a core wholly supports. shareholding in Sanlam for a further 10 years, thereby ensuring a sustained empowerment shareholding for the 2013 2014 2015 Group. Sanlam will also retain the valued involvement of the Ubuntu-Botho representatives on the Sanlam Board. Total empowerment finance and Both parties will jointly explore and pursue opportunities of targeted investment assets* (R billion) 13,8 15,9 14,2 common interest, while Sanlam will assist Ubuntu-Botho in its * Includes government bonds after applying FSC weightings. strategy to establish an independent financial services More information regarding our BBBEE transformation scorecard can be business. found on page 86. The Sanlam Ubuntu-Botho Community Development Trust, having benefited from the value created in the transaction At the end of December 2015 we had a total of R14,2 billion over the past 10 years, will now actively contribute to the (2013: R15,9 billion) in empowerment finance and targeted initiatives of both Sanlam and Ubuntu-Botho Investments, investment assets. This includes government bonds and is aimed at supporting poor and disadvantaged communities. arrived at after applying FSC weightings. Ubuntu-Botho and Indwe Risk Services Ubuntu-Botho BBBEE In a bid to bolster independent brokerage firm Indwe Risk Services’ distribution and expansion opportunities in the future, transaction Santam agreed to sell its controlling stake in the company to Ubuntu-Botho Investments and Sanlam. The transaction will Sanlam’s Ubuntu-Botho (UB) transaction, which matured in see Ubuntu-Botho Investments acquire 51% of the Indwe December 2013, was one of the first significant BBBEE shareholding through its wholly owned subsidiary African transactions in the financial services sector. Ubuntu-Botho, our Rainbow Capital, while Sanlam will acquire 25%. Santam empowerment partner led by Patrice Motsepe, initially acquired will retain 24% of Indwe. 226 million Sanlam shares at the beginning of 2004. The transaction was funded through R1,148 billion debt and a capital This transaction establishes Indwe as a leading black-controlled investment by Mr Motsepe of R200 million. Of the capital insurance brokerage firm in South Africa with direct ties to investment, R62,5 million was used to enable the participation Sanlam, thus further improving the distribution and expansion of broad-based empowerment groupings. opportunities for its business both in South Africa and Africa. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 75 Prosperous society Sanlam is in the business of building legacies. As a Group we are dedicated to the never-ending pursuit of meticulously crafting people’s futures. It’s a tireless approach that’s rooted in our founding purpose of helping everyone to live their best lives fold line possible. We do good business, for the good of the countries we operate in and the people who live there. Why a prosperous society is important We focus on the following material issues Business strategy Earnings growth Material issues Page Operational Impact of products efficiencies Page 81 to 83. and services Optimal capital Transformation and Page 84 to 90. utilisation empowerment Diversification Financial literacy Page 91 to 97. and education Transformation 78 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 4 Our business is about planning for tomorrow. This means Through its products and services, Sanlam aims to redistribute Prosperous society helping our customers to build a more secure, prosperous wealth more equitably over time. The business itself is also future for themselves, their families and communities. It’s a transforming and making progress in the transformation of its 5 role that is rooted in our founding purpose: to help all South distribution channels. Africans lead their best lives possible. 6 Finally, we recognise our obligation to involve all citizens in Sanlam recognises that it has a responsibility to create and creating and preserving wealth through financial literacy and education programmes. Here, the Sanlam Foundation plays 7 preserve wealth for its clients. At the same time, we understand our responsibility to ensure that previously disadvantaged South a critical role in building a prosperous society. Africans and their communities are given the skills and support to participate equally in the national economy. As WealthsmithsTM, we are in the business of building legacies. Accordingly, we have a profound desire to make a real and positive difference when it comes to creating lasting value for all. Not only are our products and services designed to benefit individuals, but they also help to lighten the burden on the state. Social benefits (employment and security) in South Africa cost taxpayers R57 billion annually (2014 National Budget Review). In addition, corporate South Africa contributed R8,1 billion (2014: R8,2 billion) to social development initiatives (Trialogue 2015 CSI Handbook). Commentary on performance The Sanlam Annual Benchmark survey revealed that people are not saving R145 399 million enough for their future. For this reason Sanlam fully supports the government’s efforts at industry reform and consolidation, which include improved cost wealth distributed efficiencies and the value proposition of savings products Sanlam maintained its level 2 rating against the FSC. We improved our score to 89,69 in 2015 compared to a score of 89,14 from 2014. R9,4 million spent on financial literacy – 14 155 learners, 51 schools, 19 806 students, 10 universities and 18 451 community members benefited from Sanlam Foundation during 2015 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 79 Prosperous society material issues Key performance indicators 2012 2013 2014 2015 Wealth accumulated (R million)* 117 516 145 467 140 204 145 399 Wealth distributed (R million) 117 516 145 467 140 204 145 399 – Policyholders 96 987 119 652 112 106 111 269 – Employees and directors 6 123 7 027 7 889 8 456 – Shareholders 3 491 5 284 5 090 6 494 – Suppliers 3 608 4 735 5 637 6 378 – Government 4 003 3 856 3 934 4 295 – Communities 67 98 84 71 – Retained for future growth 3 239 4 815 5 464 8 436 CSI spend (R million) 34 64 67 74 CSI spend as % of NPAT 0,84 1,18 1,20 0,93 BBBEE scorecard 80,92 87,54 89,14 89,69 * Wealth accumulated refers to investment return and financial services income; remuneration commission paid to agency and brokers. Takalani Sesame Muppets at schools promoting literacy, numeracy and basic life skills. 80 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 4 Prosperous society Impact of products and services 5 A study conducted by the Association for Savings People are saving less for and Investment South Africa (ASISA) in 2014 shows that the 6 their retirement difference between insurance need and insurance cover, referred to as the ‘insurance gap’, has increased from R18,4 trillion in 7 2010 to R24,0 trillion in 2013 (R9,3 trillion in respect of death and R14,7 trillion in respect of disability cover). This represents an “According to the 2015 Sanlam increase of between 9% and 10% per annum, exceeding annual Benchmark Survey, only a quarter of inflation by at least 3%. South African retirees are expected to have the financial resources to In response to these challenges, the government is taking active maintain their standard of living steps to reform South Africa’s retirement industry. The ultimate once they retire.” aim of these reforms is to reduce pressure on the national fiscus by ensuring that citizens make sufficient provision for their retirement rather than relying on social grants once they stop The long-term insurance and investment industry’s role is to working. create wealth and enable a prosperous society for South Africa’s citizens. Retirement scheme members should be financially Among other reforms, the government is making it more self-sufficient, secure against uncontrolled events, able to retire attractive for members to make contributions to retirement with dignity at an acceptable standard of living, and able to savings and to preserve their retirement funds, improving the progressively improve the economic position of their families disclosure of reporting to members, simplifying retirement savings through generations. products, applying stricter controls to the retirement and savings industry, and improving transparency of intermediary The challenge of under-insurance is of concern since it could remuneration. In addition, the reforms are designed to make result in life events leaving people destitute and reliant on the industry players more responsive and more connected to the state. The socio-economic impact and the role of insurance are people they serve. often underestimated. In other emerging markets in Africa, provision for retirement is at The general picture of the savings industry in South Africa an even lower level than in South Africa and represents a strong continues to deteriorate. People are not saving enough for their investment case for Sanlam Emerging Markets (SEM) to provide future, resulting in an increased burden on the state as they grow much-needed retirement funding services to these markets. older. There are many reasons for this, including the increased cost of living and rising levels of indebtedness. Sanlam’s response The result of reform in the retirement fund industry has been a Aggregate assets of retirement funds in South Africa grew from sharp decrease in the number of retirement funds in South Africa R171 million at the end of 1994 to R3,2 billion at the end of 2013. from 13 500 in 2005 to around 3 500 today. As this process In parallel, active members increased from 7,8 million at the end of consolidation continues, the number of retirement funds is of 1994 to 10,4 million* at the end of 2013. expected to fall even further. Sanlam fully supports the government’s efforts to reform the industry and welcomes the *This is the active membership figure in the Registrar of Pension Funds annual report published in March 2015. consequences of consolidation which include improved cost efficiencies and the value proposition of savings products. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 81 Prosperous society material issues continued Sanlam’s strategy remains unchanged. It continues to do encouraging employers to take a more proactive role in everything in its power to build trust with its clients in line with the safeguarding their employees’ future wellbeing by cultivating a principles of Treating Customers Fairly (TCF). This strategy stronger savings culture in the workplace. With this in mind, we comprises three main components: have produced a software tool that tells employees how much Identify what clients need in relation to what they can afford they should be saving towards retirement from the day they start Ensure clients understand what savings/insurance product in a new job. they are committing to Follow through on our commitment to create wealth for our We have also anticipated the government’s imperative to reduce clients in accordance with what they have purchased. fees by developing our own fee model for umbrella funds that is both consistent and transparent. In addition, we support Sanlam is also playing an instrumental role in shaping the reform initiatives that will make it more difficult for people to cash in their agenda. For example, we continue to place a strong emphasis on pension funds when they change jobs. Leading the savings debate through education We believe that education is fundamental to improving South Africa’s savings culture In recent years, the launch of our Through the Benchmark Survey, we take on a leadership role in the retirement fund research annual Benchmark Survey has space by encouraging industry stakeholders to become an increasingly important improve their business practices. All information is made freely available to the public, and provides event on the retirement industry’s key insights for various stakeholders, including calendar. retirement fund providers and the government. A future worth saving… In 2015, we presented the survey at a series of roadshows in Johannesburg, Cape Town and Durban under the theme ‘A future worth saving…’ Among other issues, the study explored the all-pervasive issue of debt and the impact that it has on the financial and emotional wellbeing of employees. It also looked at how indebtedness causes people to prematurely withdraw from their employer-sponsored funds. One of the survey’s key findings was that employees are not fully aware of the impact their financial decisions will have on their future. For the full report on the Benchmark Survey, visit www.sanlambenchmark.co.za. 82 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 4 Wealth accumulated Of the wealth we accumulate annually, approximately 80% is Prosperous society (R’million) distributed to policyholders. In 2015, we distributed R111,3 billion 160 000 (2014: R112,1 billion) to our policyholders by way of insurance 5 140 000 claims and reserves for future payouts to clients when their 120 000 investments mature. 6 100 000 80 000 60 000 The graphic below illustrates how we have added value to our 40 000 other stakeholders: 7 20 000 0 -20 000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Premium income Investment return Other operating income Commission and other sale remuneration paid to agents and brokers Wealth distributed (R’million) 35 000 Wealth distributed 25 000 (R’million) 20 000 160 000 15 000 140 000 10 000 120 000 100 000 5 000 80 000 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 60 000 Employees and directors Retained for future growth Shareholders 40 000 Suppliers Government Communities 20 000 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Policyholders Other Wealth distributed 2015 Most of the wealth we accumulate every year comprises the premiums paid by our policyholders and the money earned from 24,8% 0,2% the investments we manage. In 2015, our annual accumulated 12,6% wealth increased by 4%. 18,7% Investment returns totalled R55,2 billion, or 38% of the total 24,7% wealth we accumulated in 2015. 19,0% Employees and directors Premium payments stood at R90,0 billion, or 63% of the total Retained for future growth Shareholders wealth we accumulated in 2015. Suppliers Government For further information refer to the Sanlam 2015 Group Communities Annual Report. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 83 Prosperous society material issues continued Transformation and empowerment Why this is important For Sanlam, transformation and empowerment are social and business imperatives. Given our position in society, we recognise that we have a crucial part to play in transforming South Africa’s economic landscape to include all South Africans, while giving everyone the chance to participate meaningfully in the mainstream economy. Transformation is one of the five key strategic pillars underpinning our business strategy and will continue to shape our approach to sustainable development. The aspects of transformation and empowerment that impact our business are defined by the dti’s Codes of Good Practice (CoGP) and take into account the specific challenges facing the financial services industry. Sanlam’s verified FSC scorecard Weighting 2013 2014 2015 Ownership 14 + 3 15,90 15,97 15,76 Management control 8+1 7,07 7,07 7,10 Employment equity 15 + 3 7,07 7,71 8,15 Skills development 10 9,13 9,16 9,21 Preferential procurement 16 14,04 14,16 15,06 Enterprise development 5 5,00 5,00 4,27 Socio-economic development 3 2,74 3,00 3,00 Empowerment financing 15 15,00 15,00 15,00 Access to financial services* 14 11,59 12,05 12,14 Total 100 87,54 89,14 89,69 Contributor level 2 2 2 * Consumer education is included as part of access to financial services (as sub-element) in terms of the FSC. Through the Association for Savings and Investment South Africa (ASISA), Sanlam has played an active role in negotiating a revised The Sanlam Foundation Financial Sector Code (FSC) scorecard with the government. The Sanlam’s care for the communities in which it operates has revised scorecard was introduced in February 2016. evolved from mostly donations to a comprehensive corporate social investment (CSI) strategy. Ownership The Sanlam Foundation strategy is aligned with our core business We have made steady progress against our transformation strategy and provides focused contributions to areas of significant objectives over the last seven years, improving from level 4 to impact. level 2 over this period. Our total black ownership percentage, as per the FSC rules, was 30,40% as at 31 December 2015 The focus areas of the Foundation rest on three pillars: consumer (2014: 31,33%). financial education, socio-economic development and enterprise development. 84 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 4 Prosperous society Sanlam Foundation 5 6 Financial 7 Education Enterprise Environmental literacy (SED) development stewardship (CFE) Avocado Vision Secondary school (Please refer to the (Please refer to – Money fo Sho! education Transformation and Environmental section on programme Protec Maths and Empowerment section page 112) ASISA Foundation Science – maths on page 86) Project Qaphela and science projects WWF-SA and Financial Literacy for students in Sanlam-ASISA Sanlam Partnership with the KwaZulu-Natal Enterprise and ASISA Foundation – and Mpumalanga Supplier financial education Executive Back-toDevelopment for mineworkers School programme programme SEB Trustee Training Regency Foundation Shanduka Black – trustee training for – HIV & Me Umbrellas trustees of unions programme TSiBA Ignition Centre Sanlam for Sulabh Water and Professionals Sanitation at school Financial Literacy – primary and University secondary education Programme – WOW – Words Open financial education Worlds for students at tertiary institutions Tertiary education Thuthuka Bursary Fund Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University – bursaries for students studying BComm Financial Planning UWC Mathematics programme Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 85 Prosperous society material issues continued Responsibility for sourcing and contracting suppliers lies with Principles guiding the Group Sourcing, while buying is decentralised. This approach Sanlam Foundation delivers significant cost savings to the Group. In 2014, our Partnership and collaboration procurement teams launched a series of initiatives in collaboration We partner with leading non-profit organisations to implement all with the business that achieved total savings of R192 million. our corporate social and environmental initiatives, and encourage Our savings target for 2015 was R228 million. Sanlam employees to participate. We work with government departments, ensuring alignment with national priorities. We link procurement-related opportunities for our suppliers to our BBBEE scorecard’s enterprise development (ED) component. Core business alignment However, ED beneficiaries do not automatically qualify for We focus on education, in line with Sanlam’s core capabilities of procurement-related contracts. Those who do qualify are financial management and planning. This allows us to leverage awarded contracts based on how well they meet the selection our expertise, minimise our risk of failure and deliver maximum criteria. benefit to both society and the long-term sustainability of our business. We continue to face challenges when it comes to ensuring the viability of these suppliers, with room for improved performance. Values-and-brand fit Linked to our FSC score on preferential procurement, we spent We test all our programmes and partnerships for their fit with our 37,32% of our total procurement budget on small and microvalues and our brand, ensuring that each project is a true enterprises in 2015, versus 32,3% in 2014. We also recognise reflection of our corporate identity and will promote brand loyalty. that black women-owned businesses need additional support. Holistic systemic approach During the reporting period, we continued to devote significant We invest in multiple components linked to our projects to resources and attention to managing our relationships with improve their overall efficacy and impact. suppliers. For example, we are signatories to the Prompt Payment Code under which our standard payment terms are Long-term investment 30 days, but can be as favourable as seven or 14 days for We rigorously select all our programmes and monitor, evaluate black-owned and black women-owned SMMEs. and assess their impacts. We hold our service providers to account through regular reporting on agreed deliverables and Enterprise development outcomes. According to the Association for Savings and Investment South Africa (ASISA), enterprise and supplier development (ESD) is the single most powerful tool for creating jobs and addressing Preferential and responsible poverty. With the economic output of small and medium-sized procurement enterprises (SMEs) in South Africa estimated at 52% of gross domestic product (GDP), the SME sector currently provides We recognise that transforming our supply chain by changing employment for 60% of our nation’s labour force. This means the way we procure goods and services represents an important SMEs are an indispensable industrial and economic driver and contribution towards creating a more equitable and sustainable are essential to reducing unemployment in South Africa. society. In particular, increasing the amount we spend with small, medium and micro-enterprises (SMMEs) – especially blackWith these factors in mind, Sanlam’s supplier development owned and black women-owned enterprises – remains high on strategy seeks to enhance efforts to create and maintain a our priority list. network of competent suppliers while driving transformation throughout our supply chain. Considering our procurement budgets only increase by CPI or less we need to find more innovative and inclusive ways to bring In 2015, Sanlam invested R9,2 million in enterprise development. new suppliers into our supply chain. 86 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 4 Our overall enterprise development performance in 2015: Our overall enterprise development initiatives for 2015 were: Prosperous society 577 total jobs supported through 107 enterprise development partnerships Enterprise development: sector leadership 5 5 583 hours of mentorship and business development support invested in enterprises The Sanlam/ASISA ED programme 6 Average increase in turnover of 143% was achieved across Sanlam still leads the way in the industry with its the portfolio highly successful enterprise development programme Procurement spend of R12,2 million was directed to introduced in 2013. The programme is aimed at 7 supporting strategic growth and development of accelerator businesses. SMEs linked to Sanlam’s supply chain and distribution networks. In line with the recent changes to the FSC scorecard, our aim is to treat enterprise development and preferential procurement as The programme achieved notable results for some of the two sides of the same coin. Over the last year, we have taken enterprises during 2015: specific steps to align these parts of our business more closely. Waste Want (waste management) R3 million SME Among other measures, this involves identifying potential growth investments deployed from the ASISA ED suppliers that are capable of adding real value to our business Fund (2014). Implemented scales and weighing while filling a gap in our current supplier list. We then support processes and streamlined operations. Won a City of them with the high-quality, targeted support they need to fulfil Cape Town tender worth over R3 million. Liquid Thought engaged with PwC through the their potential as sustainable, profitable businesses. ASISA network for performance management and an incentive scheme. The business found the programme In 2015, 37,32% of our procurement spend went to SMMEs, and extremely beneficial. we took active steps to increase the percentage of black-owned Office Box successfully registered as a supplier for businesses and black women-owned businesses in areas Sanlam Business Assist. In addition, the enterprise received additional funding from Seartech. Office Box including – but not confined to – marketing, IT, plumbing, building has also started on a drive to hire more staff. and motor body repairs. We continue to implement our enterprise Reynolds Autocare researched the ‘going green’ and supplier development strategy with three partners: ASISA, model – the company wants to be the first panel Shanduka Black Umbrellas and TSiBA Ignition Centre. beater to go green. Judante Building Solutions are officially 33% black owned. In addition there is a potential R3 million Association for Savings and Investment South investment by the ASISA ED Fund. Africa (ASISA) Legaci Dry Cleaning submitted a proposal to Sanlam In 2015, the ASISA Enterprise Development (ED) Fund continued Alice Lane. The enterprise is currently looking for to establish enterprise and supplier development capabilities in funding for expansion. partnership with ASISA member companies. The first project, Moving Ads experienced a difficult period for the initiated in partnership with Sanlam, proved hugely successful business with cash flow seriously impacted. Time was spent on getting new business in and building were in 2014. potential relationships. D and P Auto increased revenue and profitability, with Over the past two years of running the programme, a total of targeted sales. Customer tracking and protocol were 112 SMEs received 5 828 hours of business development implemented. support valued at R6,4 million. This helped to produce Stanhope Auto investigated new business opportunities with Metro file. an average increase in revenue growth of 19% and create Fireworkx renewed its contract with Sanlam and held 75 new jobs. in-depth strategy sessions. As Sanlam’s implementation partner, the fund is able to source high-impact SMEs through Sanlam’s procurement network and provide financial and business development skills to SMEs to create meaningful success stories to the benefit of our industry and economy. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 87 Prosperous society material issues continued Our investment in sector leadership to shape the enterprise The businesses currently participating in the Sanlam SBU development agenda in South Africa’s savings and investment programme are: sector benefits our industry peers, who also face tough challenges when it comes to diversifying their supply chains. Supplier development During the year, for example, Santam – the Group’s short-term Cape Town Bravo Promotions CC insurance division – made a one-off investment contribution of Cape Town Exquisite Stationery R10 million to the ASISA ED Fund. This contribution entitled the Cape Town Oaktree Marketing Solutions CC Group to a seat on ASISA’s influential ED investment committee, which plays an instrumental role in setting the sector’s approach Enterprise development to enterprise development, supplier development and business Cape Town Broad-Based development support. Solutions (Pty) Limited Cape Town Cherry Blossom Communications We are working hard to address two particularly significant Cape Town Kamva Capital (Pty) Limited challenges in the enterprise development space: giving emerging suppliers improved access to markets and giving them improved Cape Town Just Amber Media access to capital. Our partnership with ASISA has been helpful in Cape Town Measurecsi addressing both issues, especially improving access to capital. Cape Town Red Silk Tree Media Johannesburg Africentric Research Our procurement board also acts as an important forum when Johannesburg Careers For A Powerful You (Pty) Limited it comes to raising awareness across our businesses around the Johannesburg Ceracure importance of building productive two-way business relationships with viable black-owned SMMEs. Encouraging our decisionJohannesburg Molete & Khumalo Accountants makers to build productive alliances with emerging black-owned Pretoria Advanced Solar enterprises is essential towards helping these businesses unlock new opportunities. Graduated businesses (2015) Incubator Business name Date graduated Shanduka Black Umbrellas Cape Town Yes Youth Employment September 2015 Shanduka Black Umbrellas (SBU) works with smaller Services 100% black-owned and black women-owned businesses and Pretoria Digital Ether September 2015 supports them towards becoming supply chain ready. Sanlam’s association with this organisation dates back to December 2013, Johannesburg Phakamo Holdings May 2015 when the two partners signed an ESD agreement with two Johannesburg Heita Ngamla Holidays June 2015 principal aims: and Leisure To identify 20 100% black-owned enterprises with a turnover Sanlam’s sourcing and procurement departments continue to of less than R5 million per year to offer support and work with SBU to develop an understanding of the procurement development through the SBU incubation programme opportunities available within the Sanlam supply chain, so that To identify five additional black women-owned enterprises the remaining three businesses can be recruited into the supplier with a turnover of less than R5 million and proven track development programme. records, that are supply chain ready, for possible opportunities within the Sanlam supply chain. While 20 enterprises did qualify, during the period of the agreement, several businesses no longer met the SBU requirements and left the programme. Profiles of additional qualifying businesses were submitted to Sanlam and, once approved, they were included in the programme. 88 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 4 TSiBA Ignition Centre Prosperous society This organisation works with larger black-owned enterprises that This joint partnership with Sanlam focuses on growing enterprises have significant scale and experience and are close to being through collaboration between small and big businesses. The aim 5 supply chain ready. The centre offers practical opportunities to is to assist SMMEs with skills and technology transfer, supplier maximise ESD activities. Not only do the benefits apply to development, and creating marketing opportunities. 6 supplier development, but they also help to grow a high-quality and efficient supply chain that will improve the operations and Together, TSiBA and the Sanlam Foundation have started 7 profitability of the SMMEs taking part in the programme, as well recruiting for the 2015 – 2016 enterprise development as the businesses supporting them. programme. The new participants will enjoy the full benefits of this programme, while the 2014 – 2015 participants will receive TSiBA has designed a 10-month enterprise development mentoring. programme that focuses on strengthening business acumen as well as operational and financial management, and marketing skills within black-owned SMMEs. The focus of our Foundation strategy is to improve the lives of South Africans through education. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 89 Prosperous society material issues continued Enterprise development: emerging markets As our footprint continues to expand beyond South Africa, our focus on developing local suppliers in our emerging markets is set to intensify. To date, our approach has been to identify viable local partners in our new territories and then work in partnership with them to implement our strategy. Although it is still early days, we are already utilising local marketing suppliers and implementing our updated branding guidelines in various countries outside South Africa. Project BlueStar Sanlam’s BlueStar project provided management training to 88 financial planners across seven regions to empower them with practical business knowledge and toolkits in order to develop their businesses. 448 hours of training were provided (value = R384 000). 70% of the advisers and associates converted to BlueStar during the programme, the rest committing for 2016. Transformation BBBEE: 60% of all the advisers and associates completed the training, with 32% of these converting to BlueStar. Female: 34% of all female advisers and associates completed the training with only 27% of these women converting to BlueStar. 90 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 4 One of the key recommendations arising from the successful Prosperous society Financial literacy and outcome of the first phase of Money for Sho! was that the education initiative should expand to cover worksites. As well as equipping 5 the participants with financial knowledge and skills, implementing Financial literacy and education are essential to the sustainable this recommendation has given Sanlam Sky Solutions an 6 economic development of our country. Through the Sanlam opportunity to build contacts and business opportunities in the Foundation and our business units, we contribute significantly worksites involved. The programme reached 7 024 worksite towards raising South Africa’s notoriously low levels of financial learners within 285 sessions. 7 literacy. Our work in this area is designed to improve financial decision making among consumers by exposing them to Community consumer financial education statistics consumer financial education (CFE). Number of According to ASISA, raising financial literacy levels is becoming Province participants more difficult as financial markets become increasingly complex, Eastern Cape 770 the choice of financial products expands and the volume of Gauteng 2 774 information directed at consumers grows. As a result, consumers KwaZulu-Natal 1 211 are finding it more difficult to match different financial products to Limpopo 2 411 their personal circumstances and manage their finances properly. Mpumalanga 666 The situation is complicated by associated factors such as North West 299 predatory lending, high levels of consumer debt, low savings Western Cape 396 rates and limited knowledge about recourse mechanisms. Total 8 527 Our commitment to improving financial literacy levels to mitigate these challenges aligns directly with the Treating Customers Fairly Worksite consumer financial education statistics (TCF) regulations and with National Treasury policy. During the year under review, we spent R9,4 million on consumer financial Worksite education initiatives, reaching a total of 17 502 South Africans sessions Worksites Employees Provinces across the country. Consumer financial education projects 285 28 7 024 8 Money fo Sho! financial education programme Launched as a pilot in June 2014 through a partnership between Sanlam and Avocado Vision, the Money fo Sho! project is Project Qaphela financial literacy partnership designed to equip communities across South Africa with the The key objective of this initiative is to present mineworkers with financial skills and knowledge they need to make better financial a range of solutions that enable them to manage their finances decisions. better, while also helping them understand employee benefit policies and salary statements. Specific challenges addressed The current Money fo Sho! project trained 8 527 community included levels of indebtedness, micro-lending and garnishee members in seven provinces by the end of June 2015. The orders. Training involved interactive workshops and industrial programme targeted the following provinces: Gauteng, the North theatre to create a story-based approach. West, Limpopo, Mpumalanga, KwaZulu-Natal, the Eastern Cape and the Western Cape. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 91 Prosperous society material issues continued In 2015, we trained 800 mineworkers in areas selected by the Sanlam Learner Brilliance Programme National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) during the current pilot Research has indicated that South African maths and science phase, with the emphasis on engaging shop stewards. learners perform poorly when compared to learners in other middle-income countries. A low percentage of learners qualifying Sanlam Employee Benefits (SEB) trustee training for university entrance impacts negatively on South Africa’s future In 2013, SEB embarked on a trustee education and training skills pool. initiative that set out to empower trustees with a better understanding of their duties and to sharpen their financial skills. It is against this backdrop that the Sanlam Foundation chose to prioritise maths and science education as a key focus area and A training programme with around 20 delegates from across sought a partnership with Protec in order to utilise a tested, three trade union federations was then launched. In 2015, the innovative solution that would positively impact on maths and programme hosted 29 delegates representing 16 trade unions science education levels. and trusts. The project was successfully piloted in the North West and Sanlam for Professionals and Graduates – financial Limpopo regions over a three-year period (2012 – 2014). The literacy university programme programme was extended for a further three years to replicate By the end of July 2015, the Sanlam for Professionals and the project in other provinces. For the period 2015 to 2017 we Graduates programme reached 1 122 students across eight are working with Protec in KwaZulu-Natal and Mpumalanga. tertiary institutions. To date the project has achieved the following results: The objective of this series of interactions was to equip graduates with financial knowledge to guide their financial decisions once 11 they graduate and earn their first salaries. This programme also Number of schools reached includes Thuthuka bursary students at South African universities. (six in Nelspruit and five in Durban) An independent assessment of the programme indicated a 100 Total number of learners reached significant increase in knowledge and greater confidence in (50 per province) choosing financial products, combined with a stronger appreciation of how important it is to have financial goals and stick to a budget. 10 Number of Protec staff members deployed on the project Education programmes Sulabh International Programme 33 Number of teachers who benefited through In 2015 the Sanlam Foundation added the Sulabh International school support visits and workshops Programme as part of its educational programmes. The initiative allows Sanlam to build a relationship with schools, and improve sanitation facilities and promoting hygiene practices at schools in South Africa. In 2015, R3 million was spent on this programme in 200 Approximate number of parents reached six schools in Gauteng. 92 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 4 SI Vacation Work Development Programme BComm financial planning bursary Prosperous society The SI Vacation Work Development Programme provided In 2010, Sanlam introduced the Black Advisers Bursary, aimed 46 students with exposure to the Sanlam Group, supporting at students registered for the new postgraduate diploma which 5 brand building among current graduates, who in the years ahead seeks to increase the number of black certified financial planners will be potential employees and/or clients. in the country. 6 This brings to 258 the total number of students who have In 2015 Sanlam and the Sanlam Foundation awarded 7 benefited from the programme since 2006. 10 bursaries of R31 000 each for students to attend courses in financial and entrepreneurial skills at Nelson Mandela Vacation programme (Year) Students Metropolitan University (NMMU). The Sanlam bursary programme 2006 6 has maintained a 66% retention rate of all recipients. 2007 6 Thuthuka Bursary Fund 2008 13 The Thuthuka Bursary Fund identifies academically strong 2009 12 learners who aspire to become chartered accountants. Students 2010 29 who perform exceptionally well in maths and science, and have 2011 20 excellent marks in other core subjects, may apply. The Sanlam 2012 42 Foundation contributed R836 064 towards the fund in 2015, amounting to 16 bursaries. In addition, there are 11 Thuthuka 2013 42 graduate trainees currently working within the Sanlam Group. 2014 42 2015 46 The first four of our trainees qualified at the end of 2015. Total 258 The programme’s success has been attributed to a concerted effort to collaborate with colleagues from across the Sanlam Group, pooling various resources to offer students the best possible experience. The students, representing 10 tertiary institutions from around South Africa, were provided with an overview of the financial services industry, insights into potential future careers within the industry, information on what they require in terms of attributes, skills and attitude to take up these roles, as well as personal, professional and leadership development. In 2015 the programme impacted 46 final-year undergraduates, as well as Honours and Masters students from 10 universities. The goals of the 2015 programme were achieved by selecting the best candidates from a pool of 1 150 applicants from at least 22 tertiary institutions around the country. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 93 Prosperous society material issues continued This is what some of the Thuthuka bursary recipients had to say about the opportunity the bursary represents: “I grew up in Jozini in Northern KwaZulu-Natal. Thuthuka came into my life when I didn’t have any options. To be a CA isn’t just about working in accounting. You can do anything you want to – I want to be a CEO one day, running my own business.” Simamile Makhunga (23) Second year “I was born and bred in Port Elizabeth in the Eastern Cape. With Thuthuka I have been able to attend the best university in Africa and obtain both my undergraduate and postgraduate qualifications. Thank you also for the mentoring support.” Sinethemba Ntezo (25) Third year “I went to school in Oudtshoorn and was strong in maths. When I heard there was a shortage of accountants I decided to take on the challenge and become one. Thuthuka ensured that I didn’t put any financial pressure on my parents, who still have to save for the tuition of my younger brother and sister one day.” Grantham Josephs (23) Second year 94 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 4 Sanlam Foundation Business Challenge measuring each sponsorship against a predetermined set Prosperous society Since 2012, the Sanlam Foundation has funded a business of requirements to determine return on objectives as well as challenge at NMMU. The competition is based on an investment. In 2015, our sponsorship programme included, 5 internationally recognised business simulation programme, among others, the following causes: encouraging participants to be innovative in exercising 6 entrepreneurial skills. Sanlam Cancer Challenge Organised in partnership with the Cancer Association of South Africa, this annual countrywide amateur golf tournament attracted 7 The competition is open to students of any discipline and has become increasingly popular. A total of 155 students completed 37 000 participants and the support of 450 golf clubs. Together, the challenge in 2015. they raised R3 567 843 for cancer research, prevention programmes and patient care. HIV&Me In partnership with the Regency Foundation Networx (RFN) and Sanlam Cape Town Marathon the provincial Department of Education (DoE), we extended the As a partnership between ASEM Running, the City of Cape HIV&Me programme to eight schools in Limpopo during 2015. Town and Western Province (WP) Athletics, the Sanlam Cape Town Marathon is Africa’s only IAAF Silver Label city marathon These eight schools participate in a comprehensive two-year and the continent’s only carbon-neutral marathon. In 2015, it programme that aims to entrench HIV/Aids knowledge and attracted over 15 800 participants who joined forces with over awareness at beneficiary schools. In 2015, the programme 50 charities to raise more than R700 000. reached 1 882 grade 9 learners through 19 trained educators. Takalani Sesame The Foundation has invested close to R2 million over three years This international award-winning children’s edutainment in the programme and intends to expand it into other provinces. programme runs six days a week on SABC1 and SABC2 as well as nine vernacular radio stations countrywide. In total, it attracts Sponsorships more than 2,5 million children aged between four and eight years, Sanlam invests significantly in sponsoring a diverse range of good their parents and teachers. The programme has achieved a causes that align with our core values, resonate with our clients documented improvement in early childhood development, with and deliver social value. We place a strong emphasis on a focus on numeracy, literacy and life skills. Kay Motsepe Schools Cup Programme Description Reach Developmental return 2015 Kay Motsepe The Kay Motsepe Schools Cup 3 413 schools from nine The winning sum of R3,4 million Schools Cup sponsored by the Motsepe provinces, exposing 85 325 is invested into legacy projects (co‑sponsored with Foundation and Sanlam is an learners and their parents to at the respective schools, not the Motsepe annual national tournament hosting the project. only benefiting the school but Foundation) over 3 000 schools from all nine Over 4 000 high school their communities at large. provinces competing at regional, learners and the community 30 top players have been provincial and national levels. The of Soweto attended the finals scouted by various PSL primary objective of the of this tournament at the Nike academies for permanent club tournament is to revive the culture Centre. employment. of school football among students Readers of print and social Winning schools have become and the youth. media covering the known for excellence and tournament. see an increase in enrolment every year. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 95 Prosperous society material issues continued Environmental stewardship Staff engagement and Having been in partnership with the World Wide Fund for Nature involvement South Africa (WWF-SA) since 2007, Sanlam is committed to The Sanlam Foundation team has partnered with Sanlam’s Group improving South Africa’s water security. The Group has already Human Resources to determine pilot staff involvement invested almost R30 million into this partnership, with an programmes. additional R20 million investment committed over the next three years. Refer to People chapter (attraction and retention of key talent page 37). The World Economic Forum recently ranked the water supply crisis as the number one global risk. WWF-SA’s aim between The Foundation has identified three programmes to be piloted: 2015 and 2017 is to upscale our impact in four key areas of freshwater: Project Involvement 1 Sanlam Learner Brilliance Mentorship of the 100 learners taking part in the Programme Sanlam Learner Brilliance Water source areas – securing South Africa’s ecological 2015 – 2017 Programme infrastructure for water security 2 Opportunities exist for staff to lecture, tutor and mentor TSiBA Education TSiBA students – relies Planning in a way that demonstrates heavily on volunteers that water matters 3 Teach Children to Opportunities exist for staff to sign up to volunteer to educate children at schools Save (TCTS) Water stewardship and water balance project on the importance of saving and managing money – the role of business 4 The Foundation has compiled a baseline structure of what it hopes to achieve with each project. Water-wise finance See case study on page 110. 96 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 4 Prosperous society Mandela Day 2015 5 6 CSI Market Day 7 The Sanlam Foundation recognises that there are few platforms that exist for the purpose of facilitating access, raising awareness, enhancing reach and linking people and organisations within businesses. The Foundation thus held its first CSI Market Day, in celebration of Mandela Day 2015. The aim of the day was to introduce various NGOs and causes to staff, and in the true spirit of Madiba, encourage staff to sign up to volunteer for Mandela Day. The Market Day served as a platform for staff to interact with some of the Sanlam CSI partner organisations. The organisations collectively received over R5 000 in donations from staff during the day. In addition TSiBA Education, The Community Chest and the SPCA secured a large number of volunteers for their various programmes. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 97 Environmental impact Every one of us has a responsibility to help save our scarce resources for future generations. We are driven by this belief and by our sincere desire to find new ways to reduce our impact on the environment so that we can make a positive difference as we work together to build a world worth living in. Why managing our environmental impact is important We focus on the following material issues Business strategy Earnings growth Material issues Page Operational Carbon footprint and energy efficiencies Page 104 to 106. Optimal capital Environmental resource utilisation conservation Page 107 to 110. Diversification Environmentally responsible investing* Page 73 to 74. Transformation 100 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 4 5 Environmental impact By impacting people’s lives, climate change affects both example by managing our natural resources responsibly as a general insurance and the long-term insurance business. precursor to commenting on, or attempting to influence, the behaviour of the companies in which we invest. Natural disasters and the impacts of extreme weather will continue to raise the risk profile of clients in the general More efficient use of energy and natural resources also has the insurance industry, while disrupted and contaminated water benefit of leading directly to operational efficiencies and cost supply will have a negative impact on the health and savings, and motivating employees to live the Wealthsmith™ 6 mortality of human populations, affecting the long-term values of prudence and long-term thinking. It also contributes to insurance industry. As Wealthsmiths™ we are driven by a a low carbon economy. 7 sincere desire to make a positive difference and to create a A strategic focus on embedding a green mindset world worth living in. This starts with us caring for our Our Energy Management Forum is playing an increasingly environment. important role in improving Sanlam’s environmental performance. There is also growing awareness throughout the business that We are working with the World Wide Fund for Nature South Africa improving environmental performance demands clear targets, (WWF-SA) to gain a better understanding of the impact of accurate measurement and formal structures. environmental risk on Sanlam’s investments. This also supports our obligation as a signatory to the United Nations Principles for Considering our employees’ widespread interest in environmental Responsible Investment (UNPRI) to favour companies that issues, we plan to improve the way we engage people in this area demonstrate sound and responsible practices (See Responsible to ensure we maximise the value of their involvement. We also investing, page 73). recognise that we need to take a stronger approach to vetting our suppliers’ green credentials. Sanlam’s direct impact on the environment is small within the context of our business operations. Our impact is largely the All clusters participate in quarterly group environmental forum result of the presence and activities of our people working in our discussions. Business units have their own boards and executive six major office buildings across South Africa. However, as a committees that structure their activities within appropriate leading institution in our country, it is important that we set an delegated authority levels. Commentary on performance Current performance Our carbon emissions decreased by 1,8% per full-time employee in 2015. 9,54 298 We achieved massive electricity reductions in 2015. Emissions/FTE Electricity usage (kWh/m2) (all buildings in scope) Over the last five years we have reduced our water consumption by 53%. 0,53 36,2 Water usage Paper consumption (kℓ/m2) (kg/FTE) (office paper only) * Refer to Responsible investment, page 73. Reporting on Santam and SEM is not included in this report. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 101 Environmental impact material issues Key performance indicators 2010* 2013 2014 2015 2015 target Emissions/FTE 11,77 9,77 9,71 9,54 15% reduction (10,00) Emissions per m2 0,48 0,42 0,44 0,44 15% reduction (0,41) Electricity usage (kWh/m2)** 390 316 312 298 20% reduction (312) Water usage (kℓ/m²) 1,06 0,74 0,63 0,53 10% reduction (0,90 ) Paper consumption (kg/FTE)*** 21,68 33,52 30,90 36,2 15% reduction (18,43) % Waste to landfill (%) by weight 58 50 49 44 10% of total waste (10) Recycled waste by weight (%) (kg)**** 42 50 51 56 90% of total waste (90) * Baseline year. ** All buildings in scope (of total space including common areas, but excluding consumption by external tenants). *** Office paper only. **** Sanlam Head Office only. Sanlam renewed its partnership with the WWF SA. The power of this partnership is focused on supporting a water-securing future for South Africa. The Journey of Water campaign (www.journeyofwater.co.za) aimed to raise awareness around the fact that water does not come from a tap, but travels a long route from our delicate water source areas. In addition, these water source areas cover 8% of our land surface, but produce 50% of the country’s surface water. 102 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 Success stories from 4 2010 – 2015 target cycle 5 Environmental impact We met and exceeded our energy reduction targets 6 in 2015. 7 Sanlam reduced its annual electricity consumption by 7,9 million kWh between 2010 and 2015. This is enough electricity to power around 1 437 households in South Africa per year. We exceeded our water targets. In our bid to help create a world worth living in, we are committed to driving awareness around the importance of water security and how we can use it wisely. In 2015, as in 2014, we participated in the Global Water Disclosure Project, which enables society to interrogate how its corporate citizens use this scarce resource. Areas for improvement from 2010 – 2015 target cycle Waste management We are aware that we are running out of landfill space and this is a serious social and environmental issue. At Sanlam, we choose to do the right thing and take responsibility for our waste. In doing so, we support the growing green economy of recyclers and up-cyclers that turn waste into wealth. Meeting our waste targets has been a challenge and this journey will continue until we are able to meet our zero waste-to-landfill target at Sanlam Head Office by concentrating on training and promoting separation at source. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 103 Environmental impact material issues continued Setting our 2020 environmental targets Sanlam and Santam have committed to reducing their office buildings’ scope 1 and scope 2 emissions intensity by 10% per employee by 2020, relative to 2014 levels. Apart from greenhouse emission targets, Sanlam will also have environmental sustainability targets linked to electricity, water, travel, waste and investments. This means committing to recording and tracking at least 80% of our scope 3 emissions. Proposed breakdown Overall Group target Scope Resource Proposed target Sanlam/Santam commits 1 and 2 Energy/ 10% reduction by the end of 2020 per m2/full time employee based on 2014 levels* to reducing its offices’ Electricity scope 1 and scope 2 3 Office paper 10% reduction by the end of 2020 based on 2014 levels per full time employee emissions intensity by 10% per employee by 3 Waste/ 10% reduction per full-time employee by the end of 2020 based on 2014 levels 2020, relative to 2014 recycling 50% recycling for the Sanlam Group levels. Sanlam Head Office – zero waste-to-landfill target to be carried over to 2020 3 Travel 10% reduction km per full-time employee based on 2014 levels 3 Water Water balance* through WWF-SA water balance projects 3 Investments Still being discussed * Both m2 and full time employee will be taken into consideration. ** Water balance programme with WWF-SA is aimed at clearing alien plants in selected area(s) around the country in order to promote maximum water catchment, also contributing towards job creation. Carbon footprint and energy KPI table for carbon footprint and energy 2010* 2013 2014 2015 2015 target Total carbon footprint (tCO2e/FTE) 58 179 53 955 53 092 54 029 15% reduction 49 452 Total carbon footprint (tCO2e/FTE) 11,77 9,77 9,71 9,54 GHG emissions per m2 0,48 0,42 0,44 0,44 Scope 1** 41 68 115 135 Scope 2*** 44 535 38 988 39 584 36 999 Scope 3 11 677 14 712 13 311 16 850 Total electricity usage (kWh) million 38,4 36,6 Other non-Kyoto GHG emissions**** 1 926 187 82 35 Electricity usage (kWh/m2 of total office space 390 316 312 298 20% including common areas, but excluding 295 consumption by external tenants) Business travel 15% – Air travel – km/FTE 5 519 5 104 4 665 5 188 4 692 – Car rental – km/FTE 193 187 163 193 164 – Hotel accommodation – bed nights/FTE 1,85 1,98 3,20 3,98 1,57 * Baseline year. ** Scope 1: This represents one of the KPIs of our Sustainability Management Framework. The basis of measurement thereof is scope 1 emissions based on the GHG protocol for six buildings: Sanlam Head Office, Sanlam Investments, Glacier, Alice Lane (Sandton), Sanlynn and Sanlam Sky. *** Scope 2: This represents one of the KPIs of our Sustainability Management Framework. The basis of measurement thereof is scope 2 emissions based on the GHG protocol for six buildings: Sanlam Head Office, Sanlam Investments, Glacier, Alice Lane (Sandton), Sanlynn and Sanlam Sky. **** Non-Kyoto protocol GHG emissions are reported separately according to GHG protocol. Limited Assurance. 104 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 4 5 Environmental impact The biggest contributor to our carbon emissions is the electricity Our carbon emissions for 2015 were 54 029 tCO2e (2014: we consume from the national grid. This consumption presents 53 092 tCO2e) for an intensity of 9,54 tCO2e/FTE. Our total significant challenges, given the sharply rising costs of energy emissions decreased by 7% compared to 2010. As previously and its derivation from coal. It is therefore critical that Sanlam stated, by far the biggest contributor to our carbon footprint is conserves its usage of electricity and ensures its supply can the municipal electricity we purchase from Eskom. It comprises maintain critical IT systems around the clock. Our energy 68% of the total. Sanlam Head Office contributes the greatest 6 conservation strategy continues to aim to achieve efficiency gains proportion at 70% of the total. before committing to capital outlay. 7 In 2015, we have reduced electricity consumption per square This year, we again participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project metre by 24% compared to 2010. (CDP) and Sanlam achieved a score of 98B (2014: 94A). Of the 83 companies that were assessed for the JSE/FTSE Russell Measured against the 2010 baseline, our indirect emissions Index, 61 qualified and Sanlam was among the top 30 to make (scope 3) increased by 44%. This is due to the inclusion of the index this year. Santam was also among the 61 qualifiers for additional factors in the calculation of the carbon footprint from the FTSE/JSE Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Index. We flights, vehicle fleet and waste. In 2015, we also included staff have also been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. commuting as part of our scope 3 emissions. In 2015 average We are the only South African life insurer included in the emerging emissions per full-time employee for staff commuting decreased market index out of the 83 companies. from 1,24 to 1,18. Electricity consumption per building 2015 Consumption Consumption per building per building 2014 (%) 2015 (%) million kWh 2014 million kWh 2015 Sanlam Sky 2,21 6 2,21 6 Hyde Park/Sandton* 1,10 3 2,23 6 Glacier 1,48 4 0,83 2 Sanlynn 2,86 7 2,94 8 Sanlam Head Office** 28,05 73 25,67 70 Sanlam Investments 2,73 7 2,71 8 Total 38,42 100 36,59 100 * The Sandton building replaced Hyde Park as from 1 December 2014. ** S anlam is responsible for 94% of the Head Office building’s total electricity consumption. Tenants are liable for the balance. Sanlam is responsible for all the electricity consumed by all other buildings. Consumption per building 2015 (36,6 million kWh) 6% 2% 8% 7% 6% 70% Sanlam Sky Glacier Sanlynn Sanlam Head Office Sanlam Investments Sandton Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 105 Making our events carbon neutral In 2014, our plans to make all our sponsorship events carbon neutral took an important step forward when the Sanlam Cape Town Marathon (SCTM) became the first sporting event in South Africa to gain carbon neutral status. We achieved this landmark by purchasing carbon credits traded on the JSE platform using existing financial and commercial infrastructure. In 2015, we went one step further by introducing an app in partnership with Green Pop and the Climate Neutral Group that enabled SCTM participants to offset their own carbon emissions associated with travelling to and from the event. In less than two minutes, participants could use the app to offset their emissions by buying their carbon credits online. This emphasis on carbon neutrality aligns directly with our overall sustainability strategy and targets, which included reducing our carbon footprint by 15% by the end of 2015 based on 2010 emissions. The benefits certainly added up. The 2015 marathon attracted more than 15 000 runners from around the world. Its total greenhouse gas emissions were calculated at 1 292 tCO2e, or around 0.08 tCO2e per participant. The SCTM is not the first Sanlamsponsored event to be declared carbon neutral. Since 2013, we have also purchased carbon credits to offset gas emissions from our annual Benchmark Symposium. 106 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 4 5 Environmental impact Environmental resource conservation The material aspects that have the biggest impact on Sanlam’s environmental resource conservation are water and paper usage, the responsible management of our waste stream and green buildings. KPI table for environmental resource conservation 6 2010 2013 2014 2015 2015 target 7 Total water usage (kℓ)* 127 899 93 612 77 270 65 275 Water usage (kℓ/m²) 1,06 0,74 0,63 0,53 Total paper consumption (tonnes) 158 085 236 897 224 412 204 928 Paper consumption per FTE (kg/FTE) 21,68 33,52 30,90 36,2 15% reduction % Waste to landfill by weight (kg)** 58 50 44 44 10 % Recycled waste by weight (kg)** 42 50 56 56 90 Total waste generated (kg) 586,1 717,5 740,6 617,2 * This represents one of the KPIs of our Sustainability Management Framework. The basis of measurement is water usage for six buildings: Sanlam Head Office, Sanlam Investments, Glacier, Sandton, Sanlynn and Sanlam Sky. ** Head Office only. Limited assurance. Water We are not a water-intensive business. However, we recognise During 2015, we participated in the Global Water Disclosure that we have a responsibility as a corporate citizen to address the Project. This initiative is designed to enable society to examine challenges of water scarcity in the country. how its corporate citizens use this scarce resource. Based on our municipal accounts, we estimate that the Sanlam Our aim is to become water balanced by investing in WWF-SA’s Head Office accounts for more than 40% of our total water water balance programme, focusing on the community project usage, primarily through the HVAC system. By improving aimed at clearing alien plants in selected area(s) around the efficiencies, we are reducing our energy requirement, and also country in order to maximise water catchment. our water consumption. We have reduced our water consumption by 53% per m2 since 2010. Consumption per building 2015 (65 275 kℓ) 15% 12% 8% 8% 8% 49% Sanlam Sky Glacier Sanlynn Sanlam Head Office Sanlam Investments Sandton Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 107 Environmental impact material issues continued Our overall waste (kg/FTE) has decreased by 14% since 2011, Paper largely as a result of better record keeping. In previous years we The manufacturing process of paper demands considerable based a significant proportion of our information on estimates, energy, accompanied by the threat of pollution in the form of but we have now introduced tighter monitoring that will enable us chlorinated organic compounds used in the bleaching process. In to achieve accurate and auditable waste figures. addition, paper not recycled decomposes in landfills, releasing methane, a greenhouse gas 21 times the heat trapping power. In 2015, a communications strategy was drafted and during the year, we took steps to train staff on environmental sustainability, In response, Sanlam uses environmentally friendly paper with a particular emphasis on energy, water and waste. This will certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and recycles continue into 2016. used paper. Waste by building Paper consumption* 2015 (617 187 kg) (kg/FTE) % change from 2013 -3% 700 000 35 600 000 59% 30 500 000 25 400 000 20 41% 300 000 15 200 000 10 100 000 5 0 0 Total landfill Sanlam Sky 2010 2013 2014 2015 Total recycled Glacier Sanlynn Sanlam Head Office Sanlam Investments 2010 2013 2014 2015 Sandton Sanlam Sky recycled Total kg* 158 085 236 897 224 412 204 928 Glacier recycled Kg of paper/FTE 21,68 33,52 30,9 32,6 Sanlam Head Office recycled Sanlam Investments recycled * Office paper only. Sandton recycled Waste Apart from paper, the waste we produce includes printer ink Sanlam Head Office waste split cartridges, packaging and food. Unless it is consciously % 100 managed, this waste ends up in landfills, presenting significant town planning challenges while also adding to the pollution load 80 on the environment. 60 40 We are committed to reducing the Group’s waste to landfill and 20 increasing its recycling capacity. As Wealthsmiths™, we realise 0 the importance of recycling and sharing tips on how to recycle 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 correctly. Landfill Recycled 108 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 4 5 Environmental impact Green buildings By using natural light and ventilation, as well as smart design for During the year, we intensified our focus on the challenges the movement and accommodation of employees, green associated with making our buildings and facilities as buildings use significantly less energy and other resources. environmentally efficient as possible. We developed sustainable business cases for incorporating the most innovative and 6 Sanlam accommodates almost all of its 5 661 full-time employees environmentally advanced designs into our building infrastructure. in six major buildings. Two of these buildings have now achieved Significantly, we expanded this focus beyond our Head Office to 7 four-star status: a new seven-storey office block in Gauteng, cover all our buildings, notably our data centre. close to the Sandton Gautrain station, and the Glacier building in Cape Town. We have consolidated our staff complement as far as possible in the new four-star buildings, in order to reduce the need for less efficient buildings. Furthermore, we are assessing the other four buildings for their green building status and will use this understanding to make improvements in environmental efficiency. Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 109 Environmental impact material issues continued Water stewardship WWF Sanlam partnership WWF Sanlam partnership extended for three years South Africa is one of the 30 most water-stressed countries in the world, with an average of just 450 mm rainfall a year. Additionally, only 8% of our country’s land area provides more than 50% of our surface water. To add to these challenges, South Africa is currently experiencing its worst drought since 1992, affecting food production in some critical farming regions. Ultimately, partnerships – within the private sector and between the public and NGO sectors – are required in order to address South Africa’s various water challenges. The rationale behind Sanlam’s partnership with WWF South Africa, which started nearly 10 years ago, is easy to appreciate in this context. To date, Sanlam has committed R30 million to the partnership, and we are now extending this relationship for another three years, committing a further R20 million. Sanlam’s investment goes towards securing South Africa’s water source areas, promoting water stewardship, and empowering local government to integrate freshwater protection into its policies and plans. Sanlam has also invested in a collaborative project with Cape Nature to clear 95,2ha of selected management compartments within the Driftsands Nature Reserve of alien invasive vegetation via WWF-SA. The specific project objectives have been: To control the spread of invasive woody alien species and Contribute to local economic development and job creation through the creation of approximately 653,15 person work days. © Scott Ramsay The purpose, and real social impact, of clearing these compartments and substantially reducing the related biomass is the reduction in risk of fires that confront the surrounding informal settlement. 110 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 General information 4 Assurance report 5 6 Independent limited maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation of the report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to assurance report on selected fraud or error. General information key performance indicators, Inherent limitations including the GHG GHG quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emissions statement, to the directors factors and the values needed to combine emissions of different 7 of Sanlam Limited gases. We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement on Non-financial performance information is subject to more inherent selected key performance indicators, including the greenhouse limitations than financial information, given the characteristics of gas (GHG) statement, as described below, and presented in the the subject matter and the methods used for determining, 2015 Sustainability Report of Sanlam Limited (Sanlam) for the calculating, sampling and estimating such information. year ended 31 December 2015 (the report). This engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary team including Our independence and quality control environmental and assurance specialists with extensive We have complied with the Code of Ethics for Professional experience in sustainability reporting. Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants as well the Code of Professional Conduct for Subject matter Registered Auditors issued by the Independent Regulatory Board We are required to provide limited assurance on the following key for Auditors, which includes independence and other performance indicators, including the GHG statement, prepared requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, in accordance with management’s sustainability criteria, marked objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality with a on the relevant pages in the report. and professional behaviour. Key Management’s In accordance with International Standard on Quality Control 1, performance sustainability EY maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including Category indicators criteria Boundary documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with Environmental GHG Criteria applied Six buildings ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal statement, for the selected in South and regulatory requirements. comprising: key performance Africa: Our responsibility Scope 1 indicators are Sanlam Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on carbon those identified Head Office, the selected key performance indicators, including the GHG emissions by Sanlam and Sanlam statement, based on the procedures we have performed and the Scope 2 are provided Investments, evidence we have obtained. We conducted our limited assurance carbon where the key Glacier, engagement in accordance with the International Standard on emissions performance Sandton, Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised), Assurance indicators are Sanlynn and Engagements other than the Audits or Reviews of Historical Water disclosed in the Sanlam Sky. Financial Information and ISAE 3410, Assurance Engagements consumption report on Greenhouse Gas Statements, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. Those standards require that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain Directors’ responsibilities limited assurance about whether the selected key performance The directors are responsible for the selection, preparation and indicators, including the GHG statement, are free from material presentation of the key performance indicators, including the misstatement. GHG statement, in accordance with management’s sustainability criteria, provided where the key performance indicators are A limited assurance engagement undertaken in accordance with disclosed in the report. This responsibility includes the ISAE 3000 (Revised) and ISAE 3410 involves assessing the identification of stakeholders and stakeholder requirements, suitability in the circumstances of managements’ sustainability material issues, for commitments with respect to sustainability criteria as the basis of preparation for the selected key performance and for the design, implementation and performance indicators, including the GHG statement, assessing Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 111 General information Assurance report continued the risks of material misstatement of the selected key assurance engagement. As a result the level of assurance performance indicators, including the GHG statement, whether obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower due to fraud or error, responding to the assessed risks as than the assurance that would have been obtained had we necessary in the circumstances, and evaluating the overall performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we presentation of the selected key performance indicators, do not express a reasonable assurance opinion about whether including the GHG statement. A limited assurance engagement is Sanlam’s selected key performance indicators, including the GHG substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance statement have been prepared, in all material respects, in engagement in relation to both risk assessment procedures, accordance with management’s sustainability criteria. including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. The Limited assurance conclusion procedures we performed were based on our professional Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence judgement and included inquiries, observation of processes we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes performed, inspection of documents, analytical procedures, us to believe that the selected key performance indicators, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods and including the GHG statement as set out in the subject matter reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying paragraph, for the year ended 31 December 2015 are not records. prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with management’s sustainability criteria. Given the circumstances of the engagement, in performing the procedures listed above we: Other matters Interviewed management and senior executives to obtain an Our report does not extend to any disclosures or assertions understanding of the internal control environment, risk relating to future performance plans and/or strategies disclosed in assessment process and information systems relevant to the the report. sustainability reporting process, but did not evaluate the design of particular control activities, obtain evidence about The maintenance and integrity of Sanlam’s website is the their implementation or test their operating effectiveness; responsibility of Sanlam management. Our procedures did not Inspected documentation to corroborate the statements of involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly we management and senior executives in our interviews; accept no responsibility for any changes to either the information Reviewed the process that Sanlam has in place for in the report or our independent assurance report that may have determining material selected key performance indicators, occurred since the initial date of presentation on the Sanlam including the GHG statement to be included in the report; website. Tested the processes and systems to generate, collate, aggregate, monitor and report the selected key performance Restriction of liability indicators, including the GHG statement; Our work has been undertaken to enable us to express a limited Inspected supporting documentation on a sample basis and assurance conclusion on the selected key performance performed analytical procedures to evaluate the data indicators, including the GHG statement to the directors of generation and reporting processes against the reporting Sanlam in accordance with the terms of our engagement, and for criteria; no other purpose. We do not accept or assume liability to any With respect to the GHG statement, evaluated whether party other than Sanlam, for our work, for this report, or for the Sanlam’s methods for developing estimates are appropriate conclusion we have reached. and had been consistently applied. However, our procedures did not include testing the data on which the estimates are based or separately developing our own estimates against which to evaluate Sanlam’s estimates; Ernst & Young Inc Evaluated the reasonableness and appropriateness of Director – Jeremy Peter Grist significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in Registered Auditor the preparation of the other key performance indicators; Chartered Accountant (SA) Evaluated whether the selected key performance indicators, 102 Rivonia Road including the GHG statement presented in the report are Sandton consistent with our overall knowledge and experience of sustainability management and performance at Sanlam. 2196 9 March 2016 The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable 112 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 Glossary 4 5 6 Aids Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome LISPs Linked Investment Services Providers AML Anti-money laundering LSM Living Standards Measure General information ASISA Association for Savings and Investment South Africa NBI National Business Initiative BBBEE Broad-based black economic empowerment NGO Non-governmental Organisation BUSA Business Unity South Africa NHI National Health Insurance CCC Client Contact Centre NSSS National Social Security System 7 CCMA Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and PHI Policyholders’ Interest committee Arbitration POPI Protection of Personal Information Bill (proposed) CDP Carbon Disclosure Project PPP Public-Private Partnership COP Communication on Progress (Global Compact) SEM Sanlam Emerging Markets CRISA Code for Responsible Investing in South Africa SILSS Sanlam Individual Life and Segment Solutions CSI Corporate social investment Limited Service dti Department of Trade and Industry SIM Sanlam Investment Management EAP Employee Assistance Programme SME Small to Medium Enterprises EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and SMF Sustainability Management Framework Amortisation SPE Sanlam Private Equity EE Employment Equity SPF Sanlam Personal Finance ESG Environmental, social, governance SPI Sanlam Private Investments Exco Executive Committee SPAB Sanlam Provincial Advisory Board FAIS Financial Advisory and Intermediary Association SRI Socially Responsible Investment FSB Financial Services Board TCF Treating Customers Fairly regulation FSC Financial Sector Code UB Ubuntu-Botho (empowerment partner) FTE Full-time employee UNPRI United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment GESC Group Environmental Sustainability Committee UNGC United Nations Global Compact GHG Greenhouse Gas USA United States of America GLP Graduate Leadership Programme USB University of Stellenbosch Business School GRI Global Reporting Initiative VoC Voice of the Customer HIV Human Immunodeficiency Virus WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development HR Human Resources WRI World Resources Institute JSE SRI JSE Limited Socially Responsible Investment Index WWF World Wide Fund for Nature Kℓ kilolitre KPI Key Performance Indicator kWh kilowatt hours Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 113 Sanlam GRI G4 index table 2015 External Indicators Page reference assurance GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-1 p6 Message from the Chairman – Sustainability Report 2015 G4-2 p13, p14 Sanlam Sustainability Management Framework (SMF) – Sustainability Report 2015 p86 Impact of products and services – Sustainability Report 2015 Key risks and opportunities – Annual Report 2015 Sustainable value creation for shareholders – Annual Report 2015 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 p24 Overview of the Group – Annual Report 2015 G4-4 p34 Business model – Annual Report 2015 p2 About the Sanlam Group – Sustainability Report 2015 G4-5 p9 Head office location – Sustainability Report 2015 p26 Head office location – Annual Report 2015 http://www. Head office location – Refer to Company website sanlam.co.za/ contact/Pages/ default.aspx G4-6 p28 Where we operate – Annual Report 2015 http://www. Sanlam Global – Refer to Company website sanlam.co.za/ about/Pages/ sanlamglobal. aspx G4-7 p21 Ownership – Sustainability Report 2015 G4-8 p74 Strategic review by the Group Chief Executive Officer – Annual Report 2015 p9 Operational structure – Sustainability Review 2015 G4-9 p10 Business model, human capital – Sustainability Report 2015 p170 Shareholders’ income statement – Annual Report 2015 G4-12 p88 Preferential and responsible procurement – Sustainability Report 2015 G4-15 p13, p24 Sanlam’s Sustainability Management Framework (SMF) – Sustainability Report 2015 p6 Embedding a sustainability culture across the business – Sustainability Report 2015 p62, p63 Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) – Sustainability Report 2015 Policy Framework: United Nations’ Principles of Responsible p73 Investment (UNPRI), Code for Responsible Investing (CRISA) – Sustainability Report 2015 p74 Responsible citizenship United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) – Sustainability Report 2015 p82 Creating value through transformation broad-based black economic empowerment (BBBEE) – Annual Report 114 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 4 5 6 External Indicators Page reference assurance General information G4-15 p105 Carbon disclosure submission – Sustainability Report G4-16 Engagement with business institutions and organisations Association for Savings and Investment South Africa (ASISA) – Sustainability Report 2015 7 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 p2 Annual Report 2015 G4-18 p2 About this report – Sustainability Report 2015 No p2 About this report – Annual Report 2015 G4-9 p2, p10 Scope and boundary – Annual Report 2015 No p2 Scope and boundary – Sustainability Report 2015 No G4-20 p12 Materiality – Annual Report 2015 No Sustainability Report 2015: p18 Sound governance – Material issues p34 People development – Material issues p58 Responsible products and services – Material issues p78 Prosperous society – Material issues p100 Environmental impact – Material issues STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 p32 Governance and Board review – Annual Report 2015 p32 Stakeholder engagement – Annual Report 2015 p23 Business context and stakeholder engagement – Sustainability Report 2015 G4-25 p32 Stakeholder engagement – Annual Report 2015 p215 to p243 Governance and board review – Annual Report 2015 p23 Stakeholder engagement – Sustainability Report 2015 G4-26 p32 Stakeholder engagement – Annual Report 2015 REPORT PROFILE G4-28 p2 About this report – Annual Report 2015 p2 About this report – Sustainability Report 2015 G4-29 p2 About this report – Annual Report 2015 p2 About this report – Sustainability Report 2015 G4-30 p2 About this report – Annual Report 2015 p2 About this report – Sustainability Report 2016 G4-31 p3 Feedback – Sustainability Report 2015 p402 Feedback – Annual Report 2015 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 115 Sanlam GRI G4 index table 2015 continued External Indicators Page reference assurance G4-32 p2 About this report – Annual Report 2015 p2 About this report – Sustainability Report 2015 G4-33 p3, p111 Assurance Report – Sustainability Report 2015 p14 Independent assurance – Annual Report 2015 p150, p250 Independent Auditor’s Report – Annual Report 2015 GOVERNANCE G4-34 p215 Corporate Governance Report – Annual Report 2015 G4-38 p30 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees – Annual Report 2015 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 p11, p26 Our vision and values – Annual Report 2015 p11 Our business philosophy – Sustainability Report 2015 G4-57 p229 Corporate code of ethical conduct – Annual Report 2015 G4-58 p229 Corporate code of ethical conduct – Annual Report 2015 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CATEGORY: ECONOMIC MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA1 p12 Strategic drivers – Sustainability Report 2015 No G4-EC1 p78 Prosperous society – Sustainability Report 2015 No MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT G4-DMA3 p70 Providing access to financial services – Sustainability Report 2015 No G4-EC7 p81 Impact of products and services – Sustainability Report 2015 No p70 Providing access to financial services – Sustainability Report 2015 p62 Expanding our client reach – Sustainability Report 2015 p74 Empowerment financing and infrastructure development – Sustainability Report 2015 116 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 4 5 6 DMA and External indicators Page reference assurance General information G4-EC8 p83 Impact of products and services – Sustainability Report 2015 No Financial education – Sustainability Report p88 Enterprise development – Sustainability Report 2015 p88 Sanlam enterprise and supplier development (ESD) programme 7 MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-DMA6 p100 Why our environmental impact is important – Sustainability Report No 2015 p101 What we are doing about our environmental impact key performance indicators – Sustainability Report 2015 What we are doing about our environmental impact group and p101 cluster response – Sustainability Report 2015 G4-EN3 p212 Environmental footprint – Annual Report 2015 No p102 Environmental impact performance indicators – Sustainability Report 2015 G4-EN4 p104 Energy – business travel – Sustainability Report 2015 No G4-EN5 p100 Why our environmental impact is important – Sustainability Report No 2015 p102 Environmental impact performance indicators – Sustainability Report 2015 G4-EN6 p102 Environmental impact performance indicators – Sustainability No Report 2015 G4-EN7 MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER G4-DMA 7 p107 Water usage – Sustainability Report 2015 No p110 Water stewardship investing in South Africa’s water security G4-EN8 p107 Environmental resource consumption – Sustainability Report 2015 Yes, Assurance Report (p111) MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-DMA 9 p104 Carbon footprint GHG emissions – Sustainability Report 2015 No G4-EN15 p105 Carbon Disclosure Project – Environment Sustainability Report 2015 No Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 117 Sanlam GRI G4 index table 2015 continued DMA and External indicators Page reference assurance G4-EN16 p104 Carbon emissions – Environment Sustainability Report 2015 Yes, Assurance Report (p111) G4-EN17 p104, p106 Reduction in energy consumption water and electricity – Environment Sustainability Report 2015 G4-EN18 p104 Carbon emissions – Environment Sustainability Report 2015 No G4-EN19 p104 Carbon emissions – Environment Sustainability Report 2015 No MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA p108 Waste management – Sustainability Report 2015 No G4-EN23 p108 Waste management – Sustainability Report 2015 No MATERIAL ASPECT: TRANSPORT G4-EN30 p104 Reduction in airline miles – Environment Sustainability Report 2015 No MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES G4-EN27 p108 Paper usage – Sustainability Report 2015 No CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUBCATEGORY: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA17 p35 Why people development is important – Sustainability Report 2015 No p36 What we are doing to develop our people key performance indicators – Sustainability Report 2015 p35 Group and cluster response how we manage people – Sustainability Report 2015 G4-LA1 p26 Employees, agents and brokers – Annual Report 2015 No p44 Movement in our workforce – Sustainability Report 2015 G4-LA2 p42 Employee benefits and remuneration – Sustainability Report 2015 Yes p357 Retirement benefits for employees – Annual Report 2015 MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA19 p27 Culture of compliance training – Sustainability Report 2015 No 118 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 4 5 6 DMA and External indicators Page reference assurance General information MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA20 p34 Why people development is important – Sustainability Report 2015 No What we are doing to develop our people key performance p36 indicators – Sustainability Report 2015 7 G4-LA9 p43 Training and skills development – Sustainability Report No G4-LA10 p40 Graduate development programmes – Sustainability Report 2015 No p27 Culture of compliance training – Sustainability Report 2015 p215 to p243 Executive leadership selection and training education and induction – Annual Report 2015 p26 Sanlam Group Code of Ethical Conduct (the code) ethics training – Sustainability Report 2015 p43 Types of training programmes – Sustainability Report 2015 G4-LA11 p42 Employee benefits and remuneration – Sustainability Report 2015 No p357 Retirement benefits for employees – Annual Report 2015 MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA 21 p82 Transformation – Annual Report 2015 No p48 Employment equity and diversity our transformation strategy – Sustainability Report 2015 G4-LA6 p36 Absenteeism – Sustainability Report No G4-LA12 p49 Employment equity demographics and progress – Sustainability No Report 2015 MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOUR PRACTICES AND GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-LA16 p28 Reporting ethical breaches – Sustainability Report 2015 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 119 Sanlam GRI G4 index table 2015 continued DMA and External indicators Page reference assurance SUBCATEGORY: SOCIETY MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA p78 Why a prosperous society is important – Sustainability Report 2015 No p79 What we are doing to contribute to a prosperous society key performance indicators, group and cluster response – Sustainability Report 2015 G4-SO1 p78 Prosperous society – Sustainability Report 2015 No p85 Sanlam Foundation – Sustainability Report 2015 MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA36 p229 Corporate Code of Ethical Conduct – Annual Report 2015 No p28 Reporting ethical breaches – Sustainability Report 2015 MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA39 p18 Why sound governance is important – Sustainability Report 2015 No p18 What we are doing to ensure sound governance key performance indicators – Sustainability Report 2015 p35 Group and cluster response – Sustainability Report 2015 Delivering value to our clients Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) – Annual Report 2015 p62, p63 Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) – Sustainability Report 2015 SUBCATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-DMA45 p26 Business ethics – Fostering a culture of compliance and ethical No behaviour – Sustainability Report 2015 p30 Consumer protection and data privacy – Sustainability Report 2015 p31 Privacy protection project – Sustainability Report 2015 G4-PR8 p63 Resolving complaints – Sustainability Report 2015 No 120 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 1 2 3 4 5 6 DMA and External indicators Page reference assurance General information MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA46 p26 Business ethics – Fostering a culture of compliance and ethical No behaviour – Sustainability Report 2015 p62, p63 Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) – Sustainability Report 2015 p58 Why responsible products are important – Sustainability Report 7 2015 p60 What we are doing to offer our clients responsible products and services key performance indicators, group and cluster response – Sustainability Report 2015 p27 Culture of compliance training – Sustainability Report 2015 p62, p63 Delivering value to our clients Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) – Annual Report 2015 p18 Why sound governance is important – Sustainability Report 2015 p18 What we are doing to ensure sound governance key performance indicators – Sustainability Report 2015 p26 How we manage and govern our business – Annual Report 2015 MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING G4-PR5 p58 Responsible products and services – Sustainability Report 2015 No p62, p63 Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) – Sustainability Report 2015 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 121 Contact details If you have any queries or comments about this report or Sanlam’s sustainability performance, please contact: Head of Group Corporate Affairs Francois Adriaan francois.adriaan@sanlam.co.za +27 21 947 2548 Group Sustainability Management Office Nonkululeko Shabalala nonkululeko.shabalala@sanlam.co.za +27 21 947 1056 General enquiries sustainabilitymanagement@sanlam.co.za 122 Sanlam Sustainability Report 2015 BASTION GRAPHICS www.sanlam.com
