2015 Citi Global Citizenship Report Contents About This Report 1.1 Strategy We report annually on our citizenship performance. 2.1 Conduct, Culture This report covers calendar year 2015. In addition to and Governance our 2015 initiatives, we highlight our progress over time, 3.1 Trust including global and regional data where possible. All 4.1 Inclusive Cities reporting and performance data are limited to information 5.1 Financing on the owned and operated facilities of Citigroup Inc. and Development its subsidiaries, unless stated otherwise. This reporting 6.1 Human Rights supplements information published in our 2015 Annual 7.1 Sustainability Report. For more information on the citizenship initiatives 8.1 Diversity described here and how Citi responds to challenges around 9.1 Workforce and Talent the world, please visit citi.com/citizenship or contact: 10.1 Citi Foundation Global Public Affairs Citigroup Inc. 11.1 GRI Index and 388 Greenwich Street UN Global Compact New York, NY 10013 12.1 Assurance citizenship@citi.com Strategy In 2015, Citi created a new Mission and Value Proposition that reaffirms our focus on serving clients by responsibly providing financial services that enable growth and economic progress. We are committed to using our products, services, scale, reach and partnerships to help our clients and communities meet the world’s toughest challenges. From building sustainable infrastructure to creating jobs, we embrace our obligation and desire to be good citizens that contribute to a shared social purpose. CITIZENSHIP AT CITI financial products and services that meet CITI AT A GLANCE Citizenship is core to Citi. As a global company client and community needs. As society faces that employs approximately 230,000, new and pressing challenges like climate We have approximately does business in over 160 countries and change and rapid urbanization, we know we 230,000 jurisdictions and has over 200 million must innovate and provide new solutions customer accounts, we are an integral part that matter today, but also consider the employees of the communities where we work and well implications for tomorrow and beyond. positioned to help address the challenges do business in over There are many challenges and issues that facing society. Prosperous communities society must address, and we are better 160 countries and economies are essential to our success as a company and, in turn, to our ability to positioned to tackle some than others. and jurisdictions Our Citizenship Strategy prioritizes the globally and have provide financial access and opportunities areas where we can have the greatest to others. Strong citizenship practices, a focus on culture and environmental, social impact and influence. We work with clients, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), 200 million and governance performance makes us a customer accounts the public sector and other stakeholders stronger and more sustainable company. to create innovative financial solutions and We have specialized units that facilitate programs that advance financial inclusion our citizenship activities, but ultimately, and social mobility, and promote economic citizenship is a responsibility shared by all development, environmental sustainability, of our businesses, clients, suppliers and human rights and other factors essential to communities. It is embedded in our mission a healthy, vibrant world. Underpinning all of and culture, and it is brought to life by this is our commitment to ethical conduct our employees who work to improve the and responsible finance. If we fall short, wellbeing of people and communities we will take decisive action and learn from around the world. our experience. Banks play a particularly important role To find out more about how citizenship in driving economic growth, and Citi takes at Citi is embedded in all aspects of our this responsibility very seriously. For more business visit our website. than 200 years, we have helped finance global growth and progress by developing 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT STRATEGY 1.1 A LETTER FROM OUR CEO Citigroup 388 Greenwich Street New York, NY 10013 April 2016 As the leader of a U.S.-based bank with a distinctly global footprint and focus, I spend a fair amount of my time traveling around the world, meeting with clients, customers and colleagues in the more than 100 countries where we open our doors every morning. Having done that on a regular basis for years I think I’m on pretty safe ground when I say that the world doesn’t seem likely to get any less global, uncertain, unpredictable or challenging. This expectation only underscores our commitment to take our mission – one that we explicitly reaffirmed and clarified over the course of the past year – seriously. That mission is: to responsibly provide financial services that enable growth and progress. Whether that means enabling growth and progress through our core business activities, forging partnerships with organizations that align with our values, or providing philanthropic support through the Citi Foundation, my more than 200,000 colleagues and I work to fulfill that mission faithfully every day. Yet, we also humbly recognize that we don’t have all (or even many) solutions to some of society’s more daunting challenges at our fingertips. What we can do, however, and where we focus our energy, talent and best thinking, is helping our clients and customers navigate and manage through many of these issues, which often helps society move forward. Where we see places where we are confident that we can meaningfully contribute, we do and we will. With an understanding of the priorities and concerns of our clients, partners and people, we focus on the following issues where we engage in both breadth and depth. • Culture, Conduct and Governance • Trust • Talent We lead with these because they are Safeguarding our clients’ and customers’ Achieving our aspiration of being the fundamental to our success. If we don’t get critical assets and information while holding world’s most admired bank starts with these issues right, nothing else matters – ourselves to the highest ethical standards in and ends with us – our people. We remain at risk is the credibility needed to fulfill our all our decision-making is key to preserving committed to bringing out the best in mission and our license to do business. deeper client relationships. We continue to ourselves, our peers and our teams. invest in the training and tools required to • Financing Development live up to not just the letter but the spirit of • D iversity Today’s world is so inextricably every law, statute and regulation we follow. Maintaining, cultivating, and preserving a interconnected that global companies diverse and inclusive culture is paramount like ours do and must continue to play • Sustainability for us. We know that diversity of thought, an influential role in determining how Market activity and global convenings backgrounds and perspectives produce responsibly business is conducted in such as COP21 are accelerating the better outcomes for our clients the countries and communities where risks and opportunities embedded in and customers. we operate. environmentally sustainable business. Due to the strength of environmental • H uman Rights • Inclusive Cities finance markets and the ambitions of Few concepts are as fundamental to the We say (and we mean it) that “city” is not our clients, our financing of solutions advancement of a fairer, more just society just in our name, it’s in our DNA. For more to reduce the impact of climate change than to respect, promote and protect than 200 years we have contributed to has skyrocketed. After announcing our human rights across our value chain. building the economic strength of cities. Sustainable Progress Strategy, including Our policies are inviolable and the basis We’ve worked to preserve the historically a commitment to lend, invest and facilitate of an enduring commitment to uphold and pivotal role of urban centers as places of $100 billion over ten years to activities respect the rights of all our employees, progress and opportunity for the millions focused on environmental solutions, we suppliers, clients, customers, communities of people who live in and move to them recorded our highest annual volume of and countries wherever we do business. every day in search of better lives for sustainable finance activity in 2015, themselves and their families. with $47.6 billion in transactions. I offer these demonstrations and proof points as tangible evidence in support of our thesis that global institutions like ours are uniquely positioned to help society address global problems on a global scale. And none of the negative political discourse, rancor or rhetoric about the need to “break up the big banks” will deter us from continuing to do what we do every day in fulfillment of our mission to enable growth and progress around the world. If anything, it only reinforces that commitment while helping us to appreciate the fact that, despite signs of progress, our work is never done. Michael L. Corbat Chief Executive Officer, Citigroup Inc. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT STRATEGY 1.2 MISSION AND VALUE PROPOSITION A Mission of Enabling Growth and Progress Citi’s mission is to serve as a trusted partner to our clients by responsibly providing financial services that enable growth and economic progress. Our core activities are safeguarding assets, lending money, making payments and accessing the capital markets on behalf of our clients. We have 200 years of experience helping our clients meet the world’s toughest challenges and embrace its greatest opportunities. We are Citi, the global bank – an institution connecting millions of people across hundreds of countries and cities. WHAT YOU CAN EXPECT FROM US AND WHAT WE EXPECT FROM OURSELVES These capabilities create an obligation to act responsibly, do everything possible to create “Global institutions We protect people’s savings and help the best outcomes, and prudently manage like ours are uniquely them make the purchases – from everyday risk. If we fall short, we will take decisive positioned to help transactions to buying a home – that action and learn from our experience. improve the quality of their lives. We advise society address We strive to earn and maintain the public’s people on how to invest for future needs, trust by constantly adhering to the highest global problems such as their children’s education and their own retirement, and help them buy ethical standards. We ask our colleagues to on a global scale.” ensure that their decisions pass three tests: securities such as stocks and bonds. Michael L. Corbat they are in our clients’ interests, create Chief Executive Officer, We work with companies to optimize economic value, and are always systemically Citigroup Inc. their daily operations, whether they responsible. When we do these things well, we need working capital, to make payroll or make a positive financial and social impact in export their goods overseas. By lending to the communities we serve and show what a companies large and small, we help them global bank can do. grow, creating jobs and real economic value at home and in communities around the world. We provide financing and support to governments at all levels, so they can build sustainable infrastructure, such as housing, transportation, schools and other vital public works. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT STRATEGY 1.3 Our materiality assessment informed our present report, which aligns our most material topics under our eight central citizenship issues. Materiality Assessment We are committed to continuous OUR MATERIAL ISSUES improvement in our approach to citizenship PRIORITY AREAS reporting. We regularly review our priorities • Financial Inclusion and Access • Ethical Conduct to align them to what is most critical to our • Risk Behavior and Culture • Systemic Risk • Transparency and business, clients and stakeholders. In 2015, Accountability we conducted a materiality assessment with a third party covering environmental, social and governance issues. The process involved a review of our business strategy, policies and other documents, and stakeholder Importance to Stakeholders • Impact of Operations • Climate Change • Data Security and Privacy communications, as well as in-depth on Communities • Consumer Protection • Diversity and Equal Opportunity interviews with 30 internal and external • Human Rights • Environmental and Social Risks stakeholders, including investors, clients, • Regulatory Reform • Environmental Finance NGOs, government agencies and academia, • Taxes Products • Social Finance Products to identify and prioritize the issues of greatest importance to our business success and to our stakeholders. Internal subject matter experts from across Citi reviewed the issues • Energy and Emissions • Board Structure • Client Satisfaction and Quality and gave feedback during a cross-functional • Resource Use and Waste • Employee Engagement of Advice workshop. Our materiality matrix reflects the • Responsible Sourcing • Employee Health and Wellness • Talent Attraction • Strategic Philanthropy • Executive Compensation • Talent Development feedback provided by all participants and the and Retention analysis done during the internal workshop. Our most material topics, both in terms of influence on business success and importance to stakeholders, are included • Volunteerism • Political Involvement in the top-right section of the matrix. The top issues identified were ethical conduct, systemic risk and transparency and accountability, all of which are fundamental to our business and citizenship success. Other priority topics included our development of social finance products and diversity, with economic progress, financial inclusion and Influence on Business Success valuing our employees also being particularly meaningful in our review. Climate change, environmental and social risk management critical to business. Overall, stakeholders and indicators that we have reported on and environmental finance products rounded emphasized the need for ethical conduct in the past. In many instances, these areas, out the top areas. Stakeholders emphasized and transparency in everything we do. such as emissions and responsible sourcing, the importance of continued investment have become integrated into our business in environmental and climate finance, the Our materiality assessment informed our approach and are now viewed as “table urgency to reduce environmental and present report, which aligns our most stakes” activities for good citizenship. In social risks associated with finance, and material topics under our eight central 2016, we will build on insights from this disclosure of greenhouse gas emissions citizenship issues, listed on the next page. We analysis to further refine our Citizenship across our value chain. A topic that emerged placed extra emphasis on priority areas and Strategy based on business priorities and as being increasingly important was human emerging priorities, such as human rights. stakeholder expectations. rights, which has recently become more In addition, we continue to report on areas 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT STRATEGY 1.4 We work around the world and see first hand the impacts of global megatrends on people, companies, cities and the environment, and we look at challenges and opportunities at the global and local levels. OUR STRATEGY CITI ISSUES AND BOUNDARIES Today’s business landscape is complex. We work around the world and see first hand Strategy Issue Materiality Sub-issues Areas of Relevancy the impacts of global megatrends on people, Conduct, Culture • Board Structure • Citi – all global operations companies, cities and the environment, and and Governance • Ethical Conduct we look at challenges and opportunities at • Executive Compensation the global and local levels. In developing our • Political Involvement Citizenship Strategy, we regularly engage • Risk Behavior and Culture stakeholders through formal processes such • Taxes as the materiality assessment, as well as • Transparency and Accountability one-on-one discussions to consider the issues and determine how we can contribute. We Trust • Client Satisfaction and Quality • Cit – all global operations also use external principles and standards, of Advice • Clients including the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), • Consumer Protection the United Nations (UN) Global Compact and the UN Sustainable Development Goals, Diversity • Diversity and Equal Opportunity • Citi – all global operations as guides to determine how we, as a global • Talent Attraction business, can manage our impact most • Talent Development and Retention effectively and be a force for good. We manage our citizenship activities in Financing • Financial Inclusion and Access • Citi – all global operations a structured, strategic way to make sure Development • Social Finance Products • Communities in which we operate we stay on course, keep our stakeholders involved and informed, and measure Human Rights • Diversity and Equal Opportunity • Citi – all global operations our progress. • Human Rights • Clients • Responsible Sourcing • Communities in which we operate Citizenship Governance • Supply Chain The Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee of the Citi Board of Directors oversees Citi’s corporate citizenship activities. Inclusive • Financial Inclusion and Access • Citi – all global operations Cities This committee’s responsibilities include • Impact of Operations on Communities • Clients reviewing and advising management on: • Social Finance Products • Communities in which we operate • Citi’s sustainability policies and programs, Sustainability • Climate Change • Citi – all global operations including the environment, climate change • Energy and Emissions • Clients and human rights. • Environmental and Social Risks • Communities in which we operate • Citi’s relationships with major external • Environmental Finance Products • Supply Chain constituencies, how they view the company • Impact of Operations on Communities and the issues they raise. • Resource Use and Waste • Responsible Sourcing For more information on the roles and responsibilities of Citi’s Nomination, Workforce • Employee Engagement • Citi – all global operations Governance and Public Affairs Committee, and Talent • Employee Health and Wellness • Communities in which we operate download our Nomination, Governance and • Talent Attraction Public Affairs Committee Charter. • Talent Development and Retention • Volunteerism 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT STRATEGY 1.5 Only by embedding citizenship into our core business and by working with our Partners can we leverage our scale and reach to enable growth and progress for society. CITIZENSHIP AT CITI – OUR SHARED RESPONSIBILITY PARTNERS Global businesses s s ng C citiz e ddi r Sma en ral and e ll bus b ate a ntr ine Em s ltil cies ep Mu gen re sse hip ne u to enable growth and progress nt oc i ies s NG o re b u s i n e s rsi t Os ive Un Governments COMMUNITY IMPACTS Social Job Environmental Global Economic Affordable mobility creation solutions infrastructure growth housing development 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT STRATEGY 1.6 We constantly look for ways to add social and environmental value to everything we do. Brandee McHale, Director of Corporate A third-party consultancy helped us identify WHAT’S AHEAD Citizenship and President of the Citi new stakeholders to interview for our One of our greatest opportunities is to Foundation, is the senior executive in materiality assessment. Ceres, a non-profit identify how our business can create charge of citizenship and environmental sustainability advocacy organization, helped innovative solutions to address the most sustainability at Citi. She provides progress us convene clients, investors, NGOs and pressing social issues. We continue to reports to the Nomination, Governance others to give feedback during development implement our Sustainable Progress and Public Affairs Committee on our of our Sustainable Progress Strategy in Strategy, which outlines how we marry citizenship activities at least annually to 2014. In January 2016, they reconvened business strategy and citizenship to address inform the Board of material citizenship and the group, along with additional impact climate change, sustainable cities and human sustainability issues and trends, and to share assessment experts, to give us feedback rights, among other societal issues. We with them our progress. She is a member of on the methodology and impacts of our constantly look for ways to add social and the Citi Environmental and Social Advisory $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal. environmental value to everything we do. Committee, comprised of senior leaders from Stakeholders also seek us out. Citi’s first The 2015 materiality process highlighted across the bank, which provides guidance on Shareholder Dialogue Group, comprised a number of key areas we plan to explore environmental and social issues related to primarily of socially responsible investors, and improve upon in 2016 and beyond. We our global business activities. She regularly self-organized in 1997 to advise us on will continue to prioritize core issues such meets with a range of stakeholders on managing environmental and social risk as good corporate governance and assess citizenship and environmental sustainability and reporting on our citizenship progress. our management of increasingly important issues and communicates relevant issues issues such as human rights and financed and raises critical concerns to the Board. The For a list of stakeholders and examples of emissions. Our disclosure of progress Director of Corporate Citizenship also works engagements, see our website. We also against key metrics and our engagement in close partnership with other senior leaders communicate our work through our Annual with internal and external stakeholders on across the company who play a critical role Report, Proxy Statement and U.S. Securities how to improve our approach to citizenship in our Citizenship Strategy, including those and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings; underpins our approach. leading Diversity, Inclusive Finance, and industry association memberships; public Community Development. policy forums; sustainability surveys and We do not have all the answers, but we are traditional and social media. committed to using our businesses and Stakeholder Engagement resources to contribute to social, economic Addressing our citizenship priorities requires Reporting on Our Progress and environmental progress. As global working with governments, NGOs and Our citizenship activities are anchored by citizens, we know this is our responsibility other partners who share our vision and responsible business practices, ethical and see it as an opportunity to help people values. We regularly and openly engage with decision-making and financial innovations and communities thrive. stakeholders on a range of issues and act on that drive economic progress. Our their feedback. We hold formal stakeholder performance has been recognized by To find out more, go to: dialogues approximately once per year, and external rankings such as the Dow Jones citi.com/citizenship small group and one-on-one engagements Sustainability Index and FTSE4Good. We on a regular basis. have been honored to receive community investment-related awards and recognition We have long-standing relationships with from respected third parties. stakeholders interested in the environment, climate change, human rights, community Our 2015 Global Citizenship Report was development and other societal concerns. prepared following the GRI G4 Guidelines. We ask our partners to identify other For information on our disclosures and stakeholders with whom we should engage to locate report content, download our and from whom we should seek feedback. GRI Index. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT STRATEGY 1.7 image Conduct, Culture and Governance As articulated in our Mission and Value Proposition, Citi serves as a trusted partner to clients by responsibly providing financial services that enable growth and economic progress. We strive to earn and maintain public trust by constantly adhering to the highest ethical standards in all of our dealings with clients, business colleagues, shareholders, communities and each other. WHAT’S HAPPENING WHAT CITI IS DOING 2015 HIGHLIGHTS Eight years after the financial crisis, public Citi continues to work hard to rebuild the trust in banks and financial institutions public’s trust, but we know it takes time. We revised our remains low. Just over half of people across We are dedicated to improving our culture Code of Conduct 24 countries trust the industry as a whole, by building on our values and adhering to the available in and many say operating ethically is the most high expectations of ethical and professional important issue for banks to address.1 People behavior and standards we set for ourselves. 26 languages expect banks to be open, accountable and Our Mission and Value Proposition, which responsive to societal needs. was developed by Citi’s senior leadership We trained over and distributed throughout the firm, asks all employees to ensure their decisions 213,000 employees pass three tests: and non-employee • They are in clients’ interests workers • They create economic value on anti-money laundering, sanctions and anti-bribery • They are always systemically responsible and corruption We believe business decisions that pass each of these tests have a positive and More than lasting effect, economically and socially, on the millions of people and hundreds of 123,000 employees were trained on Citi’s Global communities we serve. For this reason, our Consumer Banking Fairness senior leaders frequently communicate our Policy and Treating Customers Mission and Value Proposition and encourage Fairly Program employees to use all three tests in every decision they make. Approximately 35,000 employees were trained on ethics and leadership 1 “ Seven Years On From The Financial Crisis: Trust In Banks Remains At All Time Low”, GlobeScan, July 2015. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CONDUCT, CULTURE AND GOVERNANCE 2.1 To equip employees to make systemically responsible decisions that are in our clients’ interests and create economic value, Citi has championed a series of firm-wide CASE STUDY initiatives that promote ethical conduct and enhance our culture. The Ethics and Culture Committee, a standing • Supplemented our annual Voice of the LIVE TRAINING REINFORCES committee of the Citigroup Inc. Board of Employee Survey with additional items ETHICS EXPECTATIONS Directors that was established in 2014, related to ethics and leadership. We Ethical behavior is every Citi oversees senior management’s efforts to performed strongly on our ethical culture employee’s responsibility. reinforce and enhance a culture of ethics index, an average score comprised of items To help ensure we have the throughout the firm. predictive of an ethical culture, with an right information and tools 89 percent favorable score this year. to make ethical decisions, To equip employees to make systemically responsible decisions that are in our clients’ • Continued to implement Citi’s Conduct Risk we developed an interactive, interests and create economic value, Citi, with Program, which focuses on reducing the live training program called the Ethics and Culture Committee’s oversight, probability that behavior by Citi employees Ethics and Leadership led by has championed a series of firm-wide or agents may, intentionally or through senior business facilitators. initiatives that promote ethical conduct and negligence, harm customers, clients or Based on an ethical decisionenhance our culture. For example, in 2015, we: the integrity of the markets and thereby making framework called the integrity of the firm; and Citi’s Treating The Right, The Good, and • Revised our Code of Conduct to help Customers Fairly Program, which promotes The Fitting, authored by employees better understand their fair outcomes for consumers. Princeton University’s responsibility to make the right ethical Dr. David Miller, it presented choices, promptly report actual or REINFORCING AND ENHANCING employees with “gray” ethics suspected misconduct and know to CITI’S ETHICAL CULTURE scenarios and introduced a whom concerns should be reported. Citi has policies, programs and other decision tool to help them • Issued a firm-wide Escalation Policy, under initiatives to reinforce Citi’s ethical culture handle ambiguous situations. which employees are required to promptly and put Citi’s Mission and Value Proposition escalate issues that pose or may pose into action. They include, but are not limited The program was designed to significant risk, including violations of to, the following: sharpen employees’ ethical Citi’s Code of Conduct. competencies and prepare Code of Conduct them to share what they • Redesigned our Leadership Standards to Our Code of Conduct outlines the values and learned with others. Through reflect our Mission and Value Proposition, principles that must direct employees’ daily hundreds of senior leader-led and are working to embed them into actions. The Code is available publicly in 26 interactive sessions around our hiring, performance evaluation, languages and applies to all Citi employees. the world and a virtual version promotions and talent development Individuals performing services for Citi may of the training, Citi trained decision-making processes. also be subject to the Code by contract or approximately 35,000 • Delivered training on ethical business agreement. Our Code of Conduct reinforces employees – from managing decision-making and leadership to the message that adherence to our core directors to assistant vice approximately 35,000 employees. values and principles is every employee’s presidents – on ethics and responsibility and that we each have an • Delivered training to align leaders with leadership in 2015. obligation to: our firm’s common purpose and know which behaviors and standards we • Apply the values and principles expressed accept and which ones we do not. in our Code to everything we do and everywhere we operate. • Completed a year-long video series in which Citi’s senior management told • Conduct business in a transparent, prudent personal stories of difficult decisions they and dependable manner. faced in their careers to emphasize the • Take responsibility and hold each importance of acting with integrity; other accountable. the videos have been viewed nearly • Raise concerns and ask questions. 600,000 times at Citi. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CONDUCT, CULTURE AND GOVERNANCE 2.2 Our Code of Conduct reinforces the message that adherence to our core values ETHICS AND CULTURE EMPLOYEE VIDEO CHALLENGE and principles is every employee’s responsibility. While there is no legal or regulatory requirement on how often an organization To engage employees in real-life ethics must revise its Code, Citi typically issues a decisions, we released a 12-part Ethics and revised Code every two years to reflect new Culture Video Series highlighting ethical rules, regulations and best practices. We revised it in October 2015, and launched new challenges senior leaders have faced training on our Code for our employees in the in their careers and the decisions they first half of 2016. We offer separate training for non-employee workers who have access made. To close the Series, Citi employees to Citi systems. participated in a challenge by submitting Conduct Risk Program videos describing how one of the Ethics We established a Conduct Risk Program to manage and mitigate instances of conduct and Culture videos inspired them. risk, or intentional or negligent actions of employees or agents that may lead to “I found the Ethics “When making negative outcomes for customers, clients and markets. In 2015, we issued a global series to be very decisions, you must Conduct Risk Policy and trained employees in powerful and not jump on the businesses and control functions to improve their understanding of conduct risk. inspiring, especially bandwagon – just Treating Customers Fairly Program hearing from our because something Our Treating Customers Fairly Program senior leaders is popular doesn’t promotes fair outcomes for consumers about some of the mean it is right. through the adoption of, and adherence to, fairness-related principles. We trained decisions that they I like how Citi is more than 160,000 Global Consumer Bank have made with empowering and employees on customer fairness in 2015. For more information on this program, download respect to ethics… equipping everyone our Trust Fact sheet. It’s not just about to have that Escalation Policy making the right confidence to say no Citi issued a firm-wide Escalation Policy in December 2015, which gives our employees decisions based when appropriate a globally consistent framework for on whether or not by promoting the determining how to appropriately escalate issues that pose or may pose significant risk. something is legal company’s ethical We ask employees to immediately escalate or illegal. It’s about standards.” their concerns and to avoid escalating to people who have a conflict of interest that making the right JONNA DONCERAS, Enterprise Operations might bias their perspective or willingness decisions even when and Technology – Human to act. The policy also details what employees are expected to do if an issue is escalated nobody is looking.” Resources Shared Services, to them. Manila, Philippines SARA KRAWLL, Global Consumer Bank, Global Digital Team Miami, USA 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CONDUCT, CULTURE AND GOVERNANCE 2.3 Our global Compliance organization protects Citi by managing adherence to applicable laws, regulations and other standards of conduct, and by promoting business behavior consistent with our Mission and Value Proposition. Ethics Hotline MANAGING COMPLIANCE RISK Number who Completed Citi’s 2015 AntiCiti’s Ethics Office provides employees, Our global Compliance organization protects Money Laundering, Sanctions and Anticustomers, suppliers and other third parties Citi by managing adherence to applicable Bribery and Corruption Training, by Region* with channels to report ethics concerns either laws, regulations and other standards of Region Number anonymously or without attribution. Those conduct, and by promoting business behavior who are uncomfortable raising concerns with consistent with our Mission and Value Asia Pacific 63,865 their managers or others at Citi can contact Proposition. The Compliance organization Europe, Middle East and Africa 26,598 our Ethics Office via a toll-free phone number has several programs and initiatives, some of Latin America (including Mexico) 51,363 available 24/7 that accommodates multiple which are mentioned above. The organization languages, or by e-mail, mail, fax and website also has programs to protect Citi from the risk North America 71,497 submission in 11 languages. Employees may of corruption and to assist with compliance Total 213,323 report concerns anonymously, to the extent with sanctions requirements. *AML, Sanctions and AB&C training is a combined permitted by applicable laws and regulations. online training. Numbers include all Citi employees and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Program contingent, contractor and temporary workers who All complaints are treated as confidentially Citi complies with all applicable anti-bribery completed the 2015 training as of February 9, 2016. as possible, consistent with the need to Employees and non-employee workers have 30 days and corruption laws and regulations, and investigate and address the matter, and are to complete the training once it is assigned. our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Program subject to applicable laws and regulations. expressly prohibits bribery in any form. We Sanctions Program Citi policies prohibit retaliation against require prior written approval before giving, Citi conducts business and operations in anyone who raises a concern or question in offering or promising: compliance with applicable sanctions, laws good faith, or participates in an investigation. • Entertainment, lodging, meals or travel and regulations, including those of the Spotlight on Ethics to government officials. United States and other countries in which Research shows employees are more likely we operate. We maintain a robust, risk-based • Employment or work experience to to report ethical concerns when they know Sanctions Compliance Program that applies job candidates who are senior-level action will be taken. Our quarterly Spotlight globally and is commensurate with our global government officials, relatives or referrals on Ethics features real ethics cases and footprint. As a financial institution organized of senior-level government officials, outcomes to show how concerns submitted in the United States, Citi and its subsidiaries or referrals of certain senior-level lead to actions. To help employees take the globally comply with applicable U.S. sanctions commercial persons. first step in raising concerns about their requirements, among other requirements. behavior or that of others, or to determine • Certain corporate political and charitable contributions. Our enterprise-wide Sanctions Program the best course of action in a particular promotes compliance with increasingly situation, we created Ask the Ethics Office, We conduct an annual anti-bribery and dynamic sanctions requirements. The an intranet page where employees can ask corruption risk assessment of all global program includes policies and procedures, if behaviors they observe are appropriate. business lines. It addresses many areas of enterprise-wide screening, annual risk Additionally, as part of an Ethics Awareness risk, including gifts and entertainment, hiring assessments and audits of sanctions control Program created in 2015, Ethics Officers practices and third-party relationships. We processes, employee training and a diverse hosted town halls and small group discussions train our employees on anti-bribery and team of Compliance professionals stationed with more than 2,000 employees in five corruption annually, and supplement it with around the world. countries to explain the Ethics Office process, targeted training and communications as ask for feedback and gather ideas on the best needed. We give employees multiple ways, OTHER PROGRAMS AND INITIATIVES ways to reinforce Citi’s standards and values. including an Ethics Hotline, to escalate Other programs and initiatives that help us instances of corruption and to prompt manage our compliance risk include, but are investigations, where necessary. not limited to, Citi’s Anti-Money Laundering Program and Citi’s taxation policies and standards. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CONDUCT, CULTURE AND GOVERNANCE 2.4 We have more than 2,500 anti-money laundering professionals, including over 400 designated anti-money laundering officers covering every Citi business, function and geographic area. Anti-Money Laundering Program Taxation Policies and Standards One of our most important obligations is to Our commitment to our Mission and Value protect the integrity of the global financial Proposition extends to our tax policies and system. Our Anti-Money Laundering Program approach to paying taxes. We operate in more helps protect our clients, businesses and than 100 countries and strictly abide by all the financial system from the risks of money tax laws in the United States and throughout laundering, terrorist financing and other the world. We are a current income tax financial crimes. It is based on our Anti-Money payer, both within and outside the United Laundering Policy, which provides globally States. Our tax profile is consistent with the consistent controls to identify and mitigate locations of our business operations, and our risks related to anti-money laundering and review and escalation processes enable us to comply with relevant laws and regulations. adhere to high standards of compliance with The program centers on: applicable tax laws. • Prevention: We adhere to a robust Know We emphasize strong internal controls and Your Customer program of globally transparency with global tax authorities and consistent policies and standards, share information relevant to our tax profile. customer risk scoring and onboarding. We expect to supplement this transparency • Detection: We monitor transactions globally with additional country-by-country reporting to identify unusual or suspicious transactions requirements, as contemplated under the or patterns of activity. Our anti-money Organization for Economic Cooperation and laundering investigations unit reviews Development action plan to address base transactions as well as new and existing erosion and profit shifting. clients across businesses and regions. Citi complies with reporting and withholding • Reporting: We proactively create, track and requirements imposed globally on financial file Suspicious Activity Reports, Suspicious institutions in connection with customer Transaction Reports and Currency transactions they intermediate. We have Transaction Reports, as required in implemented systems and processes many countries. to comply with the Foreign Account Tax • Governance: Our enterprise-wide controls Compliance Act and expect to be fully govern the overall program including global compliant with the Common Reporting anti-money laundering policies, processes, Standard as it becomes law in approximately testing and training. 90 countries. Similarly, we have a firm-wide policy applicable to customer transactions We have more than 2,500 anti-money under which Citi will only engage in a laundering professionals, including over transaction where there is a high degree 400 designated anti-money laundering of certainty that any tax aspects will be officers covering every Citi business, function accepted by the respective taxing authorities. and geographic area. They help us execute the program and meet our anti-money laundering-related requirements. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CONDUCT, CULTURE AND GOVERNANCE 2.5 Our Ethics and Culture Committee reflects our commitment to promote a strong culture of ethical conduct. This committee is highly engaged and in continuous dialogue with management. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Additionally, the Chairman of the Board is WHAT’S AHEAD Our governance structures, policies and a non-executive independent director. As The dynamic global business environment processes serve employee, client and of January 2016, the standing committees creates new ethical challenges every day. community needs and promote a culture of of our Board of Directors are: We must help our employees practice accountability and ethical conduct across our • Audit sound decision-making and take actions firm. Our corporate governance documents that preserve our culture of integrity. Early • Ethics and Culture identification of issues and resolutions are detail these policies and structures, including our executive compensation philosophy and • Executive critical to maintaining strong relationships Board of Directors’ committee charters, all • Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs with our clients, business colleagues, of which are available on our public website. • Operations and Technology employees and communities. We provide resources for our employees and agents Board of Directors and Committees • Personnel and Compensation to promptly raise concerns and ensure Our Board aims to have at least two-thirds • Risk Management our policies encourage and reward the of its membership as independent directors. right behaviors. The Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee oversees Citi’s Global Acting according to the highest ethical Citizenship and Sustainability activities standards will always be a strong focus at and performance. Our Ethics and Culture Citi; it is our license to do business and the Committee reflects our commitment to key to restoring and maintaining consumer promote a strong culture of ethical conduct. and public trust. It also requires constant This committee is highly engaged and in diligence. Citi has approximately 230,000 continuous dialogue with management. employees globally and many stakeholders who influence our decisions every day. We Executive Compensation continue to reinforce our principles with We compensate our executives fairly, programs that are sustainable in the based on individual and company long term. performance, competitive benchmarking and support of our Mission and Value Our commitment to our Mission and Value Proposition. Citi’s proxy statement contains Proposition not only benefits us; it also helps a scorecard with each named executive raise ethical standards across the entire officer’s financial and nonfinancial financial services industry. As financial performance goals, which are approved by system stewards, we constantly enhance the Board’s Personnel and Compensation and strengthen our Compliance programs. Committee. We incorporate shareholder We regularly review our policies, procedures and stakeholder input on executive pay and programs to ensure we have the into our Compensation Philosophy. strongest possible controls. To find out more, go to: citi.com/citizenship 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CONDUCT, CULTURE AND GOVERNANCE 2.6 image Trust The trust of the people and communities we serve is the foundation of our business and our license to facilitate economic progress around the world. Citi works to earn that trust every day by safeguarding our customers’ assets and information and conducting business in a responsible, ethical way. WHAT’S HAPPENING WHAT CITI IS DOING 2015 HIGHLIGHTS According to the 2015 Edelman Trust Citi is committed to the highest standards Barometer, consumer trust in business of ethical conduct and responsible finance. Pew Charitable Trusts ranked globally reached its lowest point since the In 2015, we recommitted to our mission to Citi among 2009 recession. Data breaches, air disasters, serve as a trusted partner by responsibly the top 10 government scandals and bank misconduct providing financial services that enable growth shook public confidence and drove trust in and economic progress. Our new Mission and retail banks business among informed consumers below Value Proposition articulates what consumers in the United States in terms of 50 percent in half the countries surveyed.1 can expect from us, and underscores our overall disclosure, overdraft and promise to protect our customers’ savings, dispute resolution practices In a digital world, information security and act responsibly, manage risk and adhere to privacy are fundamental to customer trust. We placed the highest ethical standards. Potential threats from organized crime, terrorist organizations, state-sponsored Information Security 1st or 2nd actors, political activists and others who Information security is a top priority at Citi. in industry rankings for Retail want to steal assets or disrupt a way of life We not only have stringent policies and Bank or Credit Cards in have increased dramatically. Consumers expect companies to protect their personal technologies to protect our data and systems, we lead the way in raising the security of our 15 of our information from these risks, but do not industry. We work with clients, competitors, 19 markets want to be inconvenienced by extra governments, law enforcement agencies and security measures. intelligence agencies to share best practices We trained over Another component of trust is doing and conduct joint cyber resilience exercises. 123,000 business fairly and ethically. For consumers in the Edelman Trust Barometer survey, We have an intelligence-led security program. We study information security employees on Citi’s Global Consumer Banking this includes actions such as employing challenges across industries to learn how to Fairness Policy and Treating ethical and transparent business practices, strengthen our own defenses. We also have Customers Fairly Program listening to customers’ needs and feedback, strong mechanisms and security features to offering innovative products and services, detect and respond to problems as quickly and addressing society’s needs in as possible to minimize impacts on our everyday business. customers, clients and business. For more information on how we protect customer accounts and help customers 1 ” Trust in Institutions Drops to Level of Great Recession”, protect themselves, see the Citi Edelman, January 2015. Security Center. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT TRUST 3.1 We protect personal information with physical, electronic and procedural CASE STUDIES safeguards that meet or exceed applicable laws. Privacy CITI ENHANCES SECURITY CONSUMER-FRIENDLY We know how important privacy of personal THROUGH TECHNOLOGY POLICIES information is to our customers and securing Biometric technologies A 2015 report by Pew it is essential to maintaining trust and that use personal physical Charitable Trusts ranked confidence. We protect this information characteristics such as Citi among the top 10 retail with physical, electronic and procedural fingerprints, iris recognition banks in U.S. in terms of safeguards that meet or exceed applicable and voice recognition to verify overall disclosure, overdraft laws. We train our employees to properly identities offer us new ways and dispute resolution handle personal information and, when we to enhance data security practices. Citi consistently use other companies to provide services and customer experiences. maintains some of the most for us, we require them to protect the In 2015, Citi launched a voice consumer-friendly practices confidentiality of personal information they authentication project in the in the industry, particularly receive. We also offer customers choices United States that allows regarding overdraft fees. of how their personal information may be our credit card customers to It has been a longstanding shared. For more on our customer privacy use their voice to verify their policy never to authorize ATM policy, see our Online Privacy Statement. identification when they call or point-of sale debit card Citi follows all laws and regulations governing us. Approximately 250,000 transactions if sufficient funds privacy, confidentiality and information customers have opted in since are not available. Checks are security. Many countries have data protection, the launch by setting up a processed from the lowest bank and professional secrecy or privacy “voiceprint”, which takes less dollar amount to the highest, laws affecting the collection, use, storage than a minute. The technology instead of using the standard and transfer of personal and confidential is more secure and more method of clearing the biggest client information. We also adhere to our convenient for customers. checks first, to minimize the own security standards including, but not number of potential overdrafts, limited to, the Citi Information Technology and we do not impose a Management Policy, the Citi Information “continuous overdraft” fee. Technology Management Standards and the In addition, we offer the noCiti Information Security Standards. For related overdraft-fee Access Account, information, download our Code of Conduct. a checkless banking account with low or avoidable monthly Treating Customers Fairly charges and no overdraft fees As part of our efforts to deliver an that serves many customers’ outstanding customer experience, we needs with convenience developed the Treating Customers Fairly and simplicity. (TCF) Program, which focuses on ensuring our products and services demonstrate four qualities: fairness, value, clarity and dependability. We launched the TCF program in our U.S. Consumer Bank in 2013, and began expanding it globally in 2014. TCF is one way we are adapting our business to what the market demands and earning what matters most – our customers’ trust. TCF provides a globally consistent framework for our Consumer Bank to consider issues, products and services in ways that keep 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT TRUST 3.2 We invest in leading-edge tools and resources to systematically capture customer feedback and satisfaction and develop processes to quickly monitor, diagnose and act upon customer experience issues. the customer first. The program guides our Customer Feedback and Satisfaction WHAT’S AHEAD interactions with customers and provides We strive to deliver the service and Earning and maintaining trust in a rapidly tools our businesses use to ensure their experience our customers expect. We invest changing world is challenging. Newly products and services are fair. TCF principles in leading-edge tools and resources to emerging security threats, technology are an important tool to improve customer systematically capture customer feedback advances, changing regulations and evolving satisfaction. Last year, we completed a and satisfaction and develop processes consumer expectations require us to transformation of our U.S. card benefits to quickly monitor, diagnose and act upon continually refine our policies, procedures, to make them more relevant and valuable customer experience issues. Our new systems and technology to keep pace. to customers. With TCF as a guide, the U.S. listening command center proactively We will continue to invest in technologies Cards team removed some benefit exclusions identifies emerging issues through multiple to enhance security, protect our customers’ and updated Benefit Guides so they are channels including social media, phone, assets and make our interactions with clearer, more streamlined and easier chat and email. Our team uses a closed-loop customers more secure and more convenient. to understand. feedback process to follow up with customers We will engage with consumers, monitor who indicate through surveys that they have As part of the TCF program, Consumer their changing needs and explore new unresolved service issues. We leverage data Bank employees are required to complete products and services – particularly digital and analytics to understand the root cause an annual fairness training to ensure they banking services – that meet those needs, of problems so we can preempt them in understand how to identify issues of fairness deliver enhanced value and respect privacy the future. and how fairness influences real-world and security. results. In 2015, more than 123,000 Citi Citi tracks customer satisfaction and To find out more, go to: employees around the world completed engagement through the Net Promoter Score citi.com/citizenship the course. (NPS) system, which measures customers’ willingness to recommend Citi to others, Responsible Marketing and increasingly, through social media. We always try to be clear when marketing We revamped our approach to capturing products and services. If our practices customer feedback through a new survey appear to fall short, we take corrective platform and reporting tool, through which action. Following a review by U.S. regulators we measure NPS, and use standard metrics of banks’ marketing and billing practices and processes to compare regions and related to U.S. credit card add-on products surface best practices and problem areas. like debt protection and credit monitoring We are building dashboards to deliver survey in 2011, we took actions to strengthen our results and customer feedback in near-realvendor management programs, product and time so we can more quickly see and act upon process oversight and training for customer customers’ feedback. facing associates. We also ceased marketing credit card add-on products in the U.S. in In 2015, we placed first or second in industry 2013. The actions taken enhanced controls rankings for Retail Bank or Credit Cards in for add-on products we still provide. In 15 of our 19 markets. 2015, Citi entered into consent orders with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), which included $700 million in customer remediation and $70 million in penalties. We continually review our policies and controls to meet or exceed the high standards that we expect and our customers deserve. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT TRUST 3.3 image Inclusive Cities Investing in cities has been central to our business since Citi was founded in 1812; it is in our DNA. As more people around the world move from rural to urban areas in unprecedented numbers, we are expanding our work to help build vibrant, inclusive communities where all citizens can fulfill their potential. WHAT’S HAPPENING WHAT CITI IS DOING 2015 HIGHLIGHTS While the rise of megacities with more Citi helps build economically vibrant and than 10 million inhabitants captures the inclusive cities and communities by supporting We lent more than headlines, cities of all sizes are growing modern infrastructure, stimulating local $10 billion rapidly. The fastest growth is occurring economies, enabling public services to run to U.S. small businesses bringing in smaller and medium-sized cities of up smoothly and empowering residents to attain our total to $46 billion to one million inhabitants. financial success. Our approach, Citi for Cities, in the past five years brings many parts of our firm together to Regardless of size, municipal governments address cities’ immense challenges. We provided a record are looking for new ways to address residents’ growing need for affordable Stimulating Local Economies $4.8 billion housing, social services, energy, economic Citi works with companies, governments and in loans for 228 affordable empowerment, financial inclusion and institutions of all sizes and scope that power housing transactions that infrastructure. They need partners to help the global economy and help cities fulfill their supported more than them address entrenched barriers to urban potential as places of opportunity. progress and provide tools and solutions to We are the leading bank for multinational 39,000 units connect citizens to services. across the United States companies, many of which employ large Meaningful employment is also essential urban workforces. We commit significant to community and household financial money and resources to lending programs, 20 cities success. As urban economies evolve, income commercial banking services and community have joined Cities for Citizenship, generation strategies must be combined investments that cater to small business and a national program led by Citi with efforts to help families save and invest entrepreneurs. We lent more than $10 billion and the mayors of New York City, for the future. We must create an economy to U.S. small businesses in 2015, bringing our Los Angeles and Chicago where households at all income levels have total over the past five years to $46 billion. opportunities to succeed. We provide access to capital through loans, lines of credit and other conventional products to small business owners. Citi’s Community Development, Community Capital and Inclusive Finance divisions also work with local and national, mission-based community development financial institutions, community development corporations, microfinance institutions and local municipalities. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT INCLUSIVE CITIES 4.1 Our work helps revitalize neighborhoods and connect citizens to much-needed CASE STUDIES services including financial services, affordable housing and sustainable transportation. Our activities help entrepreneurs start NEW AFFORDABLE HOUSING PATHWAYS TO PROGRESS businesses and help business owners – DEVELOPMENT COMBINES LEADS TOWARD including women, minorities, immigrants and HOUSING AND HEALTHCARE FINANCIAL SUCCESS veterans – create jobs, propel the economy Citi provided a construction Pathways to Progress is and put more people on the path to financial to permanent loan, a a global Citi Foundation security. We support those who want to subordinated loan, an AHP initiative focused on ensuring start or grow businesses in a variety of ways. sponsorship and equity the future financial success For example, our Citi Mobile Challenge, through the Raymond James of young people from which launched in 2014 in Latin America multi-investor fund to LINC low-income families. We and expanded to our Europe, Middle East Housing Corporation for provide opportunities for and Africa, and Asia Pacific regions in 2015, a new affordable housing entrepreneurship training, is a competition for innovative financial community in the Willowbrook leadership and service technology start-ups with a focus on financial neighborhood of Los opportunities, mentoring inclusion. Winners receive awards such as Angeles County. The 61-unit relationships and summer jobs cash prizes, business consulting services community, called Mosaic to help youth become career and mentorship. Gardens at Willowbrook, ready. In 2014, we committed Strengthening Communities will provide housing for low$50 million over three years to income and formerly homeless benefit 100,000 young people Lending to Small Businesses Year in the United States households. LINC recognizes in 10 large U.S. cities; already, the link between health, more than 70,000 young 2011 $7.9B housing and other social people have participated in the 2012 $9.6B factors and as a participant in program. In 2015, Pathways 2013 $9.1B the Citi Foundation supported to Progress expanded 2014 $9.2B program Partners in Progress, globally with the release of 2015 $10.0B explored different approaches new research connecting the to leverage affordable housing future competitiveness of 35 Supporting Urban Growth to address the health needs of global cities and investments We help finance and make direct investments the community. Taking their made to help youth develop in infrastructure projects in cities around the learnings from the program, the skills and networks globe. Our work helps revitalize neighborhoods LINC is embedding numerous needed to succeed. For more and connect citizens to much-needed services architectural and landscape information on our Pathways to including financial services, affordable housing features into this project to Progress work, download our and sustainable transportation. promote healthy living and Foundation Fact sheet. enhance residents’ quality of An example of this work is our role in financing life, including a community the upcoming construction of Mexico City’s garden to grow healthy foods. new international airport. The $13 billion project is expected to also consist of financing in the bond markets using an innovative securitization of passenger fees. The Citi-led transaction is one of the largest emerging market, privately financed infrastructure financings and will enable replacing the current Benito Juarez International Airport, which is operating at full capacity and has limited room to expand. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT INCLUSIVE CITIES 4.2 City Accelerator connects urban technologists and experts in municipal CASE STUDIES innovation with city governments across the United States. Bringing Innovation and Efficiency to Public Services Cities need new ideas to improve the way they work and enhance quality of life, especially for low-income residents. In response to this need, we partner with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and community organizations that act as change agents to find solutions to persistent social and economic challenges. An example of this work is the City Accelerator, a Citi Foundation-led initiative in collaboration with Living Cities that serves as an incubator PERUVIAN MICROLOW-INCOME TAXPAYERS for innovation among municipal leaders. ENTREPRENEURS GAIN COLLECT WHAT THEY EARN The program connects urban technologists BANKING SUPPORT The United States earned and experts in municipal innovation with In Peru, 12 Cajas Municipales income tax credit (EITC) city governments across the United de Ahorro y Credito (CMACs) provides an average tax refund States. The first three cities to participate, service the financial needs of $2,500 per household to Louisville, Kentucky; Nashville, Tennessee; of one million microlowand moderate-income and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, are working entrepreneurs in urban working families, yet many on solutions to problems such as urban and rural areas. CMACs are who are eligible do not take homelessness, lack of affordable housing wholly owned by their local advantage of the benefit. and low enrollment in taxpayer benefits. municipalities and serve Citi is the only corporate a group largely ignored partner in the New York City’s Cities in the second cohort – Albuquerque, by most banks. As Peru’s largest ever EITC education New Mexico; Atlanta, Georgia; Baltimore, economy expanded, so too campaign and supported Maryland; New Orleans, Louisiana; and did the banking needs of expanded free Volunteer Seattle, Washington – are enhancing these micro-entrepreneurs. Income Tax Assistance (VITA) innovation through civic engagement to In partnership with CMACs’ sites around the city. In 2015, meet the needs of immigrant entrepreneurs, national coordinating approximately 150,000 lowrebuild community trust, reduce recidivism federation (FEPCMAC), Citi income New Yorkers filed rates and close gaps in healthcare. Cities helped integrate CMACs and their taxes at a VITA site, a in the third cohort, Saint Paul, Minnesota; their micro-entrepreneur 50 percent increase from the San Francisco, California; Pittsburgh, clientele into the international year before. Hard-working Pennsylvania; and Washington, D.C., trade market. Banking services families gained an estimated will focus on infrastructure finance. are now available to send $250 million in EITC refunds and receive money transfers and tax preparation savings. worldwide, along with vital international trade products including import/export letters of credit and collections. CMACs also have access to Citi’s expertise and our global network and electronic banking platform, CitiDirect. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT INCLUSIVE CITIES 4.3 Citi helps build economically vibrant and inclusive cities and communities by supporting modern infrastructure, stimulating local economies, enabling public services to run smoothly and empowering residents to attain financial success. CATALYZING INCLUSIVE CITIES PUBLIC SERVICES SUSTAINABLE INVESTING IN PUBLIC SMALL BUSINESSES INNOVATION INFRASTRUCTURE TRANSPORT & ENTREPRENEURS Citi Foundation Contributed to $1.9 billion Helped to raise $4.2 Lent more than $10 supported municipal for water quality and billion in capital for billion to U.S. small innovation in 8 U.S. cities conservation projects. sustainable transport businesses bringing our in 2015 through the City solutions. Provide financing total to $46 billion over Accelerator program. We provided $2 million the past five years. for building retrofits 20 U.S. cities have joined and commercial and to expand Citi Bike Cities for Citizenship residential solar program into Jersey City, and more than 6,000 solutions to promote on top of $82 million individuals nationwide energy efficiency. to support Citi Bike in were assisted in their New York City and Miami. pursuit of citizenship. EDUCATION AND TRAINING AFFORDABLE Invested $25 million in DIGITAL COMMUNITY HOUSING Turner Agassi Charter INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRESS School Facilities Fund II Closed a record 228 Provide technology to Citi Foundation to finance high-quality affordable housing digitize and improve supported 376 NGOs educational facilities. financings, totaling municipal services, to promote economic $4.8 billion in loans Enabled over 103,000 enhance security and progress in low-income in the U.S. youth to enroll or connectivity, increase communities. complete postsecondary Helped develop over efficiency, lower costs and Citi Foundation launched education and training 1,300 units of affordable increase convenience for $20 million Community through the Citi housing for homeless, residents and businesses. Progress Makers Fund. Foundation’s grants. at-risk and low-income veterans since 2012. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT INCLUSIVE CITIES 4.4 By the end of 2015, 20 cities had joined the Cities for Citizenship campaign and thousands of individuals nationwide were assisted in their pursuit of citizenship. Enabling Routes to Citizenship Our financial inclusion innovations are part Through Citi Salutes, our firm-wide Research shows that foreign-born residents of our broader efforts to promote financial commitment to veterans and military who secure U.S. citizenship have higher success through income generation and asset families, we partner with the Local Initiative potential for financial success. Their incomes building. Through 2015, Citi’s pioneering Support Corporation and National Equity rise by up to 11 percent and they are four partnership with the City and County of Fund on Bring Them HOMES. This initiative times more likely than non-citizens to have San Francisco on the nation’s first universal secures predevelopment funding for bank accounts. The problem is 8.8 million child college savings account program, transitional housing for homeless, at-risk eligible residents, more than half of whom Kindergarten to College, has helped families and low-income veterans, service members are low-income, have not taken the final save over $1.5 million of their own money. and their families. So far, we have helped steps to secure citizenship. In addition to develop 1,300 units in 21 affordable housing Affordable Housing and Homeownership providing greater financial security, securing developments in U.S. cities. In 2015, we Affordable housing for all residents is vital citizenship strengthens local economies. If all celebrated the opening of Veterans New to healthy cities. We are proud to be the those who are eligible become U.S. citizens, Beginnings in Chicago, IL, a 54-unit facility top affordable housing lender in the United the U.S. economy would be boosted by providing shelter and services to homeless States, according to Affordable Housing $52 billion. Citi Community Development veteran men and women. Finance Magazine, an honor made possible in partnered with the mayors of New York large part by Citi Community Capital. This Citi City, Chicago and Los Angeles, and NGOs lending and investing group provides creative to develop Cities for Citizenship, a national financing to affordable housing developers, campaign to increase U.S. citizenship and nonprofits and government entities focused financial capability among eligible legal WHAT’S AHEAD on community development. We had a record permanent residents in 2014. By the end We are proud of our reputation as the year in 2015, closing 228 affordable housing of 2015, 20 cities had joined the campaign go-to bank cities turn to with their most financings totaling $4.8 billion in loans for and thousands of individuals nationwide challenging, visionary projects. Our priority more than 39,000 units across 28 states, were assisted in their pursuit of citizenship , going forward is to continue developing the District of Columbia and Guam. including over 6,000 individuals in New York novel financing models and public-private City alone. Through the Citi Office of Homeownership partnerships to keep pace with cities’ growing Preservation (OHP), we help U.S. needs. We leverage our on-the-ground Helping Residents Attain Financial Success homeowners in difficulty find alternative teams around the world to understand what Cities prosper only if residents have healthy solutions to foreclosure. In 2015, we is happening locally, apply our resources financial lives and the resiliency to withstand continued our foreclosure prevention and where they are needed most today, and unexpected setbacks. We have long played intervention outreach efforts through anticipate and prepare for what cities will a leadership role in promoting financial our Road to Recovery Program, and in need tomorrow. inclusion and strive to give everyone access partnership with nonprofit organizations like to fair, affordable and appropriate financial To find out more, go to: Hope Now, as well as with other sponsoring services. In 2014, we created the Access citi.com/citizenship entities. The OHP participated in a total of Account, a checkless banking account with 36 events in more than 30 cities meeting no or low monthly fees and no overdraft face to face with 627 borrowers in need fees. The account offers customers access of assistance. Citi continues to take part to Citi’s digital banking capabilities as well as in government sponsored programs that retail locations and ATMs. We enhanced the help homeowners, and has been a major Access Account in 2015, making it possible participant in the Federal Home Affordable for customers to sign up online and link it Modification Program since its inception. to a savings account. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT INCLUSIVE CITIES 4.5 image Financing Development Citi has provided capital to governments, corporations and development organizations to support economic, social and environmental progress for more than 200 years. We know new types of financing solutions and partnerships are needed to meet 21st century challenges. We remain as committed as ever to do our part to enable global progress. WHAT’S HAPPENING WHAT CITI IS DOING 2015 HIGHLIGHTS Significant investments in infrastructure Financing and driving development is one of and services including healthcare, education, our clients’ key priorities. Our relationships We have provided over clean energy, water and sanitation are needed to advance global development and with private and public sector clients including governments, development $412 million in financing to date to growth. It will take an estimated $89 trillion in agencies and development financial energy, transportation, communications and institutions in more than 100 countries give other infrastructure investment to maintain us unique insights into what works in policy 44 microfinance or strengthen global economic growth between now and 2030.1 Furthermore, and practice to address governments’ and citizens’ needs in sustainable ways. institutions in in September 2015, more than 150 world Global Leadership leaders adopted a new development agenda including the United Nations (UN) Sustainable When the UN hosted its Third International Conference on Financing for Development 25 countries Development Goals (SDGs). The cost to and reached more than (FfD3), Citi played a key role and had frontline achieve these 17 transformative goals aimed business representatives at the table. Jay at ending poverty and hunger, creating more equitable, just and inclusive economies Collins, vice chairman of our Corporate and 1.2 million and building a more sustainable planet Investment Bank, was honored to share the stage at the Opening Plenary with luminaries entrepreneurs is estimated at $4.5 trillion annually.2 of whom Jim Yong Kim, president of the World Bank, Public financing, business-as-usual private and Ban Ki-moon, secretary general of financing and philanthropy are not enough the United Nations, to discuss how capital 92% are women to fill these unprecedented needs. The public markets can help bridge the SDGs’ financing as part of our over decadeand private sectors must work together gap. “The only way to plug the $3 trillion long partnership with the U.S. to develop market-based solutions that funding gap for the new global Sustainable Government’s Overseas Private address development challenges, including Development Goals is for the public sector Investment Corporation ways to leverage capital markets and scale to leverage the private sector and take innovative financing structures. Businesses, advantage of the power of capital markets,” including Citi, are embracing their roles in said Collins. “We will need to usher in a bold advancing new solutions because supporting new era of public-private collaboration to global development promotes progress and reach these new ambitious objectives.” is also good for business. We knew financing would be crucial – and we came prepared to find solutions. 1  etter Growth, Better Climate: Financing a Low-Carbon Future, The New Climate Economy, September 2014. B 2 Blended Finance Vol. 1, World Economic Forum, September 2015. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT FINANCING DEVELOPMENT 5.1 With our local, on-the-ground presence and commitments in many developing countries and emerging and frontier markets, Citi helps governments mobilize domestic CASE STUDY resources, strengthen domestic capital markets, raise local currency finance and access funds in global capital markets to meet their economic, infrastructure and development needs. We are involved in several global initiatives countries. Since then, we have helped clients CITI SUPPORTS SENEGAL to promote financing for development. underwrite thematic bonds for other global POWER PROJECT Among them are the World Bank Global issues to meet their social and environmental The West African country of Infrastructure Facility, a global open goals. We also helped clients to raise nearly Senegal has high electricity platform that facilitates complex sustainable $8 billion in green bonds in 2015. For more costs and low energy access. infrastructure public-private partnerships; information on green bonds, download our Only 55 percent of the country and Convergence, a platform that brings Sustainability Fact sheet. has access to electricity and public and private investors together in rural areas, access falls to Local Government Support to invest in emerging and frontier markets. 28 percent.3 In August 2015, While foreign investments and global capital Public-Private Partnerships are important, we know it will also take Citi issued a €36.5 million Partnering with the public sector to help domestic resources and local commitment syndicated standby letter of finance development is not new to Citi. to achieve development. With our local, credit on behalf of the Republic We have long-standing partnerships on-the-ground presence and commitments of Senegal and Senelec to with the World Bank Group’s Multilateral in many developing countries and emerging support Tobene Power’s Tabia Investment Guarantee Agency and the U.S. and frontier markets, Citi helps governments Ndiaye power project. The Government’s Overseas Private Investment mobilize domestic resources, strengthen project, an integral part of Corporation (OPIC) through risk-sharing and domestic capital markets, raise local the Senegalese government’s other forms of guarantee mechanisms that currency finance and access funds in global electricity production plan, is enable us to provide capital to the world’s capital markets to meet their economic, expected to meet more than least developed countries. We are a founding infrastructure and development needs. 16 percent of electricity demand member of the Sustainable Development in Senegal and significantly Microfinance and Small and Medium-Sized reduce the average cost of Investment Partnership (SDIP) that includes Enterprise Finance electricity production on the governments, foundations and the private Micro, small and medium-sized businesses Senelec network. sector working to mobilize more than are priorities for many governments. They $100 billion in private capital over five years This transaction is an example are engines of economic growth that create for infrastructure projects in developing of our support of the Power jobs and build livelihoods, particularly in countries. Going forward, we see even more Africa initiative, which aims to developing countries, but they face the opportunities to incorporate public and double access, reliability and greatest barriers to finance. To promote philanthropic capital to catalyze and bring sustainability of the electricity development and economic progress, in private sector capital to support global supply through investments in Citi Inclusive Finance gives micro, small growth and development. energy infrastructure, policy and medium-sized businesses access to Thematic Bonds financial products and services. We partner and regulatory reforms and We believe in the power of thematic bonds, with public entities and other financial institutional capacity building which raise funds in global capital markets institutions when we cannot do it alone. in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). In based on socially responsible issues or Globally, our partnership with OPIC has 2014, we committed to source “themes”. We are leaders and innovators in allowed us to provide more than $412 million $2.5 billion in incremental this space, issuing our first thematic bond – in financing to 44 microfinance institutions capital for the energy sectors a “socially responsible investing” corporate in 25 countries and reach more than in the SSA region over the next bond – in 2012, and our first green bond for 1.2 million entrepreneurs, 92 percent of five years. the International Financial Corporation in whom are women. We also provide capital 2013, which raised much-needed capital for to financial institutions in developing climate-friendly investments in developing countries that in turn lend it to small and medium-sized companies. 3 Power Africa in Senegal, USAID. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT FINANCING DEVELOPMENT 5.2 Whenever possible, we will leverage technologyCASE STUDIES enabled solutions that drive efficiency and reduce costs to make more financial resources available for development, reach underserved populations and expand financial access. WHAT’S AHEAD Helping to build a more sustainable and prosperous world is important to Citi. We will continue to explore ways to increase the flow of private sector capital to finance development. We will work with clients to use thematic bonds to promote social and environmental progress and encourage them to take advantage of this instrument to raise capital for sustainable infrastructure investments. We also see opportunities for FINANCING WOMEN ON-LENDING TO SUPPORT thematic bonds to incorporate risk mitigation ENTREPRENEURS IN INDIA SMALL BUSINESS GROWTH such as the developing catastrophic bond Women face significant IN PARAGUAY market to push natural disaster risk into barriers to financial Small businesses in Paraguay, capital markets. access, particularly in the like those in many countries, We hope to see progress in new financing developing world. In India, often lack access to credit, structures through our participation in SDIP Citi has a $10 million loan limiting their ability to grow. and Convergence. Whenever possible, we facility, partially guaranteed In June 2015, Citi closed a will leverage technology-enabled solutions by the Overseas Private $40 million, 10-year term loan that drive efficiency and reduce costs to Investment Corporation, with for Banco Atlas in Paraguay make more financial resources available Ujjivan Financial Services, with support from the for development, reach underserved a microfinance institution Overseas Private Investment populations and expand financial access. that provides microloans to Corporation to expand access India’s female urban microto finance to small businesses. To find out more, go to: entrepreneurs. This facility This transaction enables Banco citi.com/citizenship enables women entrepreneurs Atlas to accelerate its small to get access to loans to business portfolio growth, grow their businesses, hire strengthen its client base and employees and promote offer clients a more stable, economic progress for longer-term source of funding themselves, their families for business activities. and communities. As an example, Shubhangi Dhobale, an entrepreneur in the city of Pune, built a paper goods business with her husband and employs other women from their neighborhood. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT FINANCING DEVELOPMENT 5.3 image Human Rights The protection of human rights is essential to sustainable development. We respect human rights across our value chain and apply our policies to our employees, suppliers, clients, communities and countries where we do business. This approach is consistent with our values and helps ensure our success as a global business. WHAT’S HAPPENING WHAT CITI IS DOING 2015 HIGHLIGHTS In 2011, the United Nations (UN) Human We first published our Statement on Human Rights Council endorsed the UN Guiding Rights in 2009. We updated it in 2014 to We reviewed Principles on Business and Human Rights, incorporate the UN Guiding Principles transactions creating a global framework for preventing and address evolving societal, regulatory and addressing the risk of adverse impacts and ethical issues. During this process, covered by our on human rights linked to business activity. we assessed our human rights impacts ESRM Policy for Since then, companies have engaged with and identified issues across our employee stakeholders, human rights experts, clients population, supply chain, client and human rights risks and peers to find practical ways to uphold the community engagements and the countries as a part of our due diligence guidelines. Human rights regulations have where we do business. We work to support increased, violators are more exposed and human rights across our operations and We have been named a companies are being pressed to publish expect everyone we work with, inside and 100% Corporate their policies and report on their progress. outside Citi, to do so as well. We are guided by principles such as those in the UN Universal Equality Index We believe all industries share responsibility for preserving human rights, and it has been Declaration of Human Rights and the Company International Labour Organization (ILO) Core by the Human Rights Campaign an increasing focus of financial institutions in Conventions regarding child labor, forced annually since 2004 recent years. Since we first established our labor, freedom of association, the right to Environmental and Social Risk Management organize and bargain collectively, equal pay (ESRM) Policy in 2003 we have gone beyond and nondiscrimination in the workforce. a narrow focus on the activities we finance to We adhere to and regularly update the also evaluate the impacts of those activities policies that underpin our Statement on on people and the environment. At Citi, we Human Rights, communicate our approach assess how our business and operations may externally and engage with stakeholders affect human rights. Our policies related on issues of concern. to human rights are clear and each of us has a responsibility to adhere to them. We recognize, however, that these policies do not cover some of the indirect ways we can affect human rights. We are determined to find and manage human rights risks across our company, our supply chain and anywhere else we can influence the human rights agenda. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS 6.1 While diversity and inclusion are not always discussed in human rights terms, CASE STUDIES they are critical in our business, especially in countries where there is no legal protection based on characteristics such as gender, gender identity, race, age or sexual orientation. Our Employees ADDRESSING HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGING HUMAN RIGHTS IN Our Code of Conduct prohibits unlawful ABUSES IN THE THAI FISHING THE PALM OIL SECTOR discrimination, harassment and other INDUSTRY Human rights risks exist across behaviors that infringe on individual rights. In 2014 and 2015, investigations the palm oil supply chain. Diversity and inclusion are of particular by journalists and human rights Palm oil grows in low-income, concern. While these issues are not always organizations found labor and ethnically diverse tropical discussed in human rights terms, they are human rights abuses in the Thai countries and its cultivation is critical in our business, especially in countries fishing industry, which is part of both land and labor intensive. where there is no legal protection based several Citi clients’ supply chains. Palm oil plantation concessions on characteristics such as gender, gender Our policies expressly prohibit often intersect with rural identity, race, age or sexual orientation. We forced labor and we responded farmland and Indigenous provide diversity training to our employees immediately. Our Environmental communities as well. To address to foster a respectful and inclusive work and Social Risk Management these issues, Citi joined the environment, and we investigate and take team and senior regional risk Roundtable on Sustainable Palm action on all violations. For more information officers engaged clients to Oil (RSPO), a multi-stakeholder on Diversity at Citi, download our Diversity understand the situation. We group and sustainability Fact sheet. found them working hard to certification body that holds Freedom of association is another important address these issues – auditing members accountable to human rights issue. While the financial operations to ensure their supply environmental and human services industry is not heavily unionized, chains were free of forced labor, rights standards, in 2010. Our we do have unions or work councils in raising awareness of human Environmental and Social Risk approximately 30 countries, representing rights and sustainability in their Management team looks into approximately 10 percent of our employee companies and developing client adherence to RSPO human population. We engage directly with our policies and systems to track rights principles and actively employees and through these associations, input and product sources. participates in RSPO complaint and strive to provide fair compensation, Where subcontractor labor panels, which manages and benefits and working conditions. violations were detected, mediates compliance breaches. clients hired those workers We perform annual reviews Our employees are encouraged to use Citi’s directly. Concurrently, the Thai of our palm oil clients and Ethics Hotline to raise and resolve concerns, fishing industry started a task directly engage with their senior questions and grievances. The hotline is open force to share solutions and management to ensure local to external parties and available in several increase accountability. The community, indigenous and formats and languages. Thai government mandated labor rights are respected. When Our Suppliers registration of all Thai fishing human rights risks emerge, we Our suppliers are expected to adhere to vessels and audits for labor work with our clients to ensure Citi standards, including those related protection. Companies intend they make progress towards to human rights, as outlined in our to implement a tracking system prescribed resolutions. Statement of Supplier Principles. This that, by the end of 2016, will expectation is reinforced by our Corporate allow consumers to scan the Responsibility Questionnaire, which helps barcode on a can of tuna at our procurement team determine how well the supermarket and see the potential and current suppliers manage location, vessel and legal status corporate citizenship, environmental of the vessel that caught the fish. sustainability, diversity and human rights We are monitoring this issue and in their businesses. For more information helping clients address human on our supply chain work, download our rights risks. Sustainability Fact sheet. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS 6.2 2 As a bank, what we finance is as important as how we operate. Therefore, assessing and managing human rights related to our clients is integral to respecting human rights at Citi. Our Clients Closed transactions reviewed under Citi’s WHAT’S AHEAD As a bank, what we finance is as important Statement on Human Rights Citi and other global financial institutions as how we operate. Therefore, assessing # of Transactions where Risk operate within a complex framework when and managing human rights risks related to Human Rights Risk was Identified and Managed it comes to human rights. We do not have our clients is integral to respecting human Indigenous Peoples 4 the same control or influence over client rights at Citi. Environmental and Social Risk activities as we have over our own workforce Labor Risks 2 Management (ESRM) – the review of clients and suppliers. So despite our policies, due and projects we finance for environmental Resettlement 6 diligence and intent to do the right thing, we and social risks including human rights – is Security Risks 1 risk associating with companies with potential central to our human rights due diligence human rights challenges. We see the next and a key pillar of our Sustainable Countries Where We Do Business step as further dissecting these risks and Progress Strategy. Citi has operations in more than 100 countries, working more closely with clients to address each with its own human rights laws and them. We already consider human rights in Our ESRM Policy prohibits activities we practices. While we respect government our client portfolio reviews and acknowledge believe pose risks to us, our clients and our sovereignty and understand that each nation the risks for human rights violations in stakeholders. In the area of human rights, has a duty to protect its citizens’ human rights, higher risk sectors and countries, but we it prohibits financing any clients or projects we know the laws in some countries where we recognize the need to strengthen our due involved in forced labor, harmful child labor do business do not meet global standards or diligence approach. We will also continue and human trafficking. It also covers “Areas our own internal standards. In these instances, to communicate and apply our employee of High Caution and Special Focus” that we increase our due diligence to ensure we equality policies in places where equality require closer due diligence and heightened manage these risks, share best practices and is not the norm. risk management, including social risks such set a positive example to raise human rights as negative impacts to Indigenous Peoples, standards worldwide. Listening to stakeholder concerns and expert large-scale resettlement, and conflict risk. views is vital to staying on top of human Wherever possible, we align our policies with Continuous Learning and Improvement rights issues. At our 2015 meeting with multilateral and government entities as well The field of human rights is quickly evolving. external experts, they urged us to consider as our financial services peers to ensure To keep pace with emerging issues, we how our products can support human rights. consistency in the market. meet periodically with human rights For example, one participant asked, “Can experts to determine where we should you use your remittance payment platforms All Citi business units must comply with Citi’s focus our business and due diligence to gather data that could indicate human ESRM Policy to assess and manage risks efforts. At a November 2015 meeting with trafficking, such as whether employers are consistently around the globe. We review external experts and our regional ESRM holding immigrant workers’ passports, or if transactions covered by our ESRM Policy Champions, who support our ESRM Policy workers had to pay a fee to obtain their jobs?” for human rights risks during the initial due implementation around the world, we Questions like this challenge us to use diligence phase, and ensure prior to close discussed how Citi can incorporate a human our resources in creative ways to protect that these risks are being properly mitigated rights risk-based due diligence approach, human rights. and managed by our clients. For more looking at the severity of risk not just to our information, download our Sustainability enterprise, but also to human rights holders. Whatever we do, we must see human rights Fact sheet. The stakeholders noted slave trafficking not in terms of how it affects companies in the Thai seafood industry (see previous or finances, but how it affects people. This In 2015, Citi closed 10 transactions where we page) and labor issues in the electronics, requires new ways of thinking and new risk conducted due diligence under our Statement construction and steel sectors as areas of management practices to ensure more on Human Rights. One transaction may have concern. Understanding which sectors and sustainable progress for all involved. We more than one human rights risk. geographies are higher risk for human rights are committed to finding the right balance violations helps us refine and focus our without compromising our commitment due diligence. to universal human rights standards. To find out more, go to: citi.com/citizenship 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS 6.3 Sustainability Citi’s mission to enable growth and economic progress has remained the same for 200 years. Our approach, however, continually evolves to meet global needs. We began focusing on the intersection of finance and environmental and social challenges more than 15 years ago, and we understand the effect of these issues on our business, our clients and our stakeholders. Then, as now, we work to incorporate sustainability principles into everything we do to help ensure business success, improve our operations and contribute to a strong global economy. Our Five-Year Roadmap Our Progress 2015 HIGHLIGHTS In 2015, we launched our Sustainable Our Sustainable Progress Strategy outlines Progress Strategy, which is aligned with our commitments in each of our focus areas, We participated in our corporate strategy and our goal to most notably, our environmental finance $47.6 billion create value for our company and for goal to lend, invest, and facilitate $100 billion in environmental finance future generations. Through a materiality over 10 years for environmental solutions and activities toward our $100 Billion assessment focused specifically on activities to reduce climate change impact. Environmental Finance Goal sustainability issues, we identified climate We are making significant progress in all change, sustainable cities and people and areas, as highlighted below and detailed in We developed a new communities as our top priorities. We are this report. tackling these issues with activities in Coal Mining three areas: Standard 1. Environmental Finance: Advising that commits us to reduce our on and financing projects focused “Incorporating the principles credit exposure to the sector on environmental and climate change solutions. of sustainability into We achieved our stretch 2. Environmental and Social Risk everything we do improves goal to reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by Management (ESRM): Helping our clients our own operations, understand and manage risk associated 25% without enhances our clients’ with the impact of their businesses on the carbon offsets environment and communities. work, and contributes to 3. Operations and Supply Chain: Managing a better world.” Over our own operations and supply chain Michael L. Corbat 675 suppliers to minimize our direct environmental Chief Executive Officer, completed our Corporate impact, reduce costs and demonstrate at Sustainable Progress launch Responsibility Questionnaire best practices. event on February 18, 2015 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT SUSTAINABILITY 7.1 We work with our employees, clients, suppliers and partners to implement our sustainability strategy and understand how emerging trends affect us and our stakeholders. CASE STUDY Sustainability Governance Our Corporate Sustainability team, working RAISING A CLIENT’S Oversight of Citi’s sustainability efforts, across business units and regions, is ESRM PRACTICES including environmental and social issues responsible for setting Citi’s sustainability In 2015, ESRM conducted a such as human rights, is provided by our strategy in partnership with the businesses, five-day monitoring visit to Board’s Nomination, Governance and Public and for managing and monitoring strategy Mexico for a project financed Affairs Committee and includes an annual implementation and reporting on our by Citi’s Banamex unit and a review of our sustainability performance. In progress. Citi’s ESRM Policy is managed by consortium of five banks and 2015, we reconfigured our cross-business the ICG ESRM unit, which works closely with two export credit agencies. steering committee to align with and support ESRM specialists in our Commercial Bank and The project is a $1.5 billion, our new Sustainable Progress Strategy. The regional ESRM Champions. Our Corporate 500-hectare manufacturing new Environmental and Social Advisory Realty Services group has a specialized facility for which Citi and a (ESA) Committee is co-chaired by senior sustainability team that manages our banking syndicate provided executives in our Institutional Clients Group environmental footprint and green building a $600 million loan. The (ICG) banking and risk organizations, and goals, and our Enterprise Supply Chain loan triggered the Equator includes executives from banking, risk, Development, Inclusion and Sustainability Principles (EP) as a Project public affairs and operations, as well as team oversees supply chain sustainability. Related Corporate Loan the heads of Corporate Sustainability and These specialized teams sit within their and was subject to internal Environmental and Social Risk Management respective business units, ensuring EP review by our dedicated (ESRM). The ESA Committee advises on ownership of sustainability goals ESRM team and an external and supports the implementation of Citi’s throughout the firm. environmental consultant. Sustainable Progress Strategy, including During the review, we Engagement and Transparency the $100 Billion Environmental Finance determined the client did not Partnership, engagement and transparency Goal and ESRM objectives. The Committee have an international level are required to solve the complex meets approximately three times per year Environmental and Social sustainability challenges we face globally in person or by phone. At the regional level, Management Plan (ESMP). and are essential components of growth Citi also has a Climate and Sustainability Development of an ESMP was in the environmental and climate finance Council based in London, United Kingdom, included in the EP Action Plan, markets. We work with our employees, and focused specifically on our sustainability which was covenanted into clients, suppliers and partners to implement performance in the Europe, Middle East the loan agreement. During our sustainability strategy and understand and Africa (EMEA) region. This senior level the monitoring visit, our how emerging trends affect us and our committee is also cross-functional and helps ESRM team worked directly stakeholders. We embed sustainability in ensure our approach to climate change and with company environmental all parts of our business and solicit candid sustainability is strategic and client focused. engineers and facility feedback on how we can do better. We track and publicly communicate our performance managers and collaborated annually and encourage our clients and with an independent suppliers to do the same. environmental and social consultant to assist the client Sustainability has been part of our business in creating their ESMP. The agenda for nearly two decades. Our plan included a community Sustainable Progress Strategy clearly defines grievance mechanism to our path for the next five years. There is a promote healthy relations lot of work ahead, but we are proud of the between project-affected progress we have made so far – in partnership communities and the project with our clients and stakeholders – to combat sponsor, as well as pollution society’s toughest challenges. controls and worker health and safety programs. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT SUSTAINABILITY 7.2 SUSTAINABLE PROGRESS FRAMEWORK AND SCORECARD Environmental Finance Our $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal – To lend, invest and facilitate $100 billion over 10 years towards activities that reduce the impacts of climate change and create environmental solutions Goal Metric By Progress (cumulative 2014 + 2015) Environmental Finance Goal $100 billion 2023 $71.2B Environmental Total GHG annual CO2e emissions avoided Ongoing 7,639,436 mt Impact Tracking* Social Impact Jobs supported (direct, indirect and induced) Ongoing 31,909 jobs Tracking* For renewable energy project finance and tax equity activities only Annual ridership on transit systems Ongoing 4,219,233,524 rides Population served by water quality projects Ongoing 34,778,485 people Families served by affordable housing Ongoing 7,983 families Miles traveled on Citi Bike Ongoing 32,119,884 miles * These potential impacts represent the positive environmental and social benefits of a subset of our Environmental Finance transactions. Environmental and Social Risk Management To manage environmental and social risks and impacts associated with client transactions and our financial products and services Goal Progress ESRM Policy Continuous New Coal Mining Standard released in 2015 Improvements Sustainable Palm Oil Standard due diligence approach updated Internal Training Intensive week-long ESRM training in New York for Regional ESRM Champions 1,335 bankers and risk managers trained on ESRM Policy in 2015 Portfolio-Level Analysis of Reviewed Citi’s mining portfolio for environmental management, greenhouse gas emissions and High-Risk Sectors social performance Reviewed Citi’s forestry and palm oil portfolios for human rights, biodiversity and fire/haze impacts as well as progress toward achieving 100% RSPO certification Emerging Risks and Trends Developed an Environmental and Social Risk Radar to more systematically identify emerging environmental and social risks, and included in regular ESRM updates to seniors Building Global Capacity Presented to Singapore banking regulator (OJK) on how the application of ESRM is helping to achieve sustainable access to energy for all, in accordance with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Advised Citi Peru on developing their local ESRM policies to meet Peruvian Superintendent of Banking’s Regulation on Management of Social and Environmental Risk Presented to the Association of Supervisors of Banks of the Americas on Citi’s approach to ESRM Operations To minimize our impacts across Citi’s entire portfolio of 12,000 owned and leased facilities Goal Metric By Progress New 2020 Metrics Environmental Footprint 25% reduction in absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 2015 25.0% 35% reduction in absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions (32% if considering offsets) GHG emissions 20% reduction in energy consumption 2015 22.2% 30% reduction in energy consumption 20% reduction in water consumption 2015 22.1% 30% reduction in water consumption 10% of water used from reclaimed/recycled sources 40% diversion of waste stream to landfill 2015 58.1% 60% diversion of waste stream to landfill 15% of global real estate portfolio LEED certified 2015 16.2% 33% of global real estate portfolio LEED certified Supply Chain To work with our suppliers to ensure that they meet high environmental and social standards Goal Metric By Progress Supply Chain Policies: Policy finalized and policy 2018 White papers for each finalized and disseminated • Paper and Paper Products training implemented** • IT Hardware and E-waste Disposal • Travel and Logistics Update Statement of Supplier Statement updated and Q2 2017 Statement Update in Process. On track to be finalized and Principles disseminated disseminated by end of 2016 Integration of Supplier Principles #/% of Contracts 2018 In progress into Master Contracts CRQ Rolled Out to All Regions #/% of Suppliers Q4 2018 In progress Internal/External Training Enterprise Supply Chain 2018 In progress employees trained Suppliers in all regions 2018 In progress ** Four main steps: finalizing and disseminating white papers; integrating policies into Global Operations Procedures; finalizing, adopting and integrating policies; and providing policy training. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT SUSTAINABILITY 7.3 Environmental Finance Financing renewable energy and other environmentally positive projects is a vital component of our Sustainable Progress Strategy. These projects combat climate change CASE STUDY and support healthy communities, economic activity and jobs. WHAT’S HAPPENING WHAT CITI IS DOING The world needs more investment in Environmental finance is a key pillar of Citi’s renewable energy and energy efficiency Sustainable Progress Strategy, and we are projects to combat climate change. The creating innovative financial products and International Energy Agency says an average solutions that support our clients’ needs and of $1.1 trillion in low-carbon investment help them drive sustainable progress. Capital, is needed in clean energy per year. This collaboration and a long-term commitment investment, which Ceres has coined the are needed to solve problems as far-reaching “Clean Trillion”, is required annually through as climate change. Citi was among the first DELIVERING CLEAN POWER TO 2050 to help keep global temperature from banks to provide a full range of financing SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA rising more than 2˚C above pre-industrial solutions for environmental projects globally. levels and avoid the most damaging effects We have promoted sustainability and Citi provided tax equity and of climate change. Despite the enormous financed sustainable growth for more than construction lending to need, only a fraction of this amount is 15 years and will continue to develop affiliates of D. E. Shaw mobilized each year.1 innovative, end-to-end solutions to meet Renewable Investments, L.L.C. our clients’ unique financing needs. (DESRI) and 8minutenergy There are, however, encouraging signs of Renewables for construction of progress. In December 2015, at the COP21 Public-Private Partnerships the 150 MW Springbok 2 Solar (Conference of Parties) United Nations Public-private partnerships are increasingly Farm, located 70 miles north (UN) climate conference in Paris, France, important to achieving our environmental of Los Angeles in Kern County, 195 nations reached a universal, binding finance goals. Renewable energy projects California. Combined with the agreement to take action toward and invest in often cost more upfront than traditional 105 MW Springbok 1 Solar Farm a low-carbon, resilient and sustainable future. energy projects, yet once built, their operating that DESRI and 8minutenergy costs are more modest and there are no fuel started building in July 2015, Many more financial institutions, policymakers costs. We partner with municipal and federal the solar facilities are expected and investors must step up to tackle this issue government entities, countryand state-based to generate enough clean, collaboratively. In addition to addressing green banks, nongovernmental organizations renewable energy to serve important societal challenges such as climate (NGOs) and other banks to find the lowest-cost more than 110,300 Los Angeles change, resilient infrastructure and air and capital available to our clients. We look at households. The amount of water pollution, environmental finance is multiple forms of financing such as loans, greenhouse gas emissions a growing and profitable business. This bond deals in the private placement market avoided will be comparable to opportunity allows banks like Citi to direct and initial public offerings to help firms removing 71,400 cars from the more capital to environmentally positive raise money. road. The projects together are activities and solutions. expected to create an estimated 600 direct and 800 indirect jobs during construction in 1  lobal Landscape of Climate Finance 2014, by B. Buchner, M. Stadelmann, J. Wilkinson, F. Mazza, A. Rosenberg G Kern County. and D. Abramskiehn, Climate Policy Initiative, November 2014. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT  SUSTAINABILITY: ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCE 7.4 Increased market activity in environmental finance and the focus of climate issues at the forefront of global convenings such as COP21 have highlighted the importance of business CASE STUDY engagement on environmental issues and associated risks and opportunities. $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal To develop this process, we engaged with LANDMARK WHEEL The flagship goal of Citi’s Sustainable the businesses and reviewed transactions TRANSACTION FINANCES Progress Strategy is our $100 Billion that contributed to the goal and collected ENERGY EFFICIENCY Environmental Finance Goal, a goal to lend, available nonfinancial data to consider In June 2015, Citi and Renew invest and facilitate $100 billion over 10 years potential impacts. We then identified Financial closed the first-ever (2014–2023) to activities that reduce climate correlating environmental and social metrics asset-backed security (ABS) change impacts and create environmental aligned with our Sustainable Progress transaction comprising solutions in collaboration with clients, Strategy’s thematic priorities to combat unsecured consumer energy policymakers, investors, peers and NGO’s. climate change, champion sustainable efficiency loans. The landmark This follows our previous goal to direct cities and engage people and communities. transaction, in which Renew $50 billion to climate-friendly projects over Our social impact metrics focus on Financial and Citi issued 10 years launched in 2007, which we met in community benefits and jobs supported by $12.58 million in securities, 2013, three years early. renewable energy financing activities. For creates a new asset class in the our environmental impact metric, we are form of ABS backed by pools Increased market activity in environmental measuring reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) of residential loans for energy finance and the focus of climate issues at the emissions. By aggregating GHG emissions efficiency and water saving forefront of global convenings such as COP21 reductions across many transactions improvements. We expect to have highlighted the importance of business contributing to the environmental finance execute similar transactions in engagement on environmental issues and goal, we are able to quantify the impacts of 2016 and over the next several associated risks and opportunities. In 2015, our financing relative to widely recognized years, firmly establishing a our work with our clients reflects this growth, climate change goals such as the Ceres secondary market for these with over $47 billion in environmental finance Clean Trillion, and better understand how loans to make more capital activity counting towards the goal. our clients can contribute to making those available to homeowners Examples include renewable energy, green goals reality. to fund energy efficiency bonds, municipal securities, energy efficiency, improvements to their homes. green affordable housing and infrastructure The deal represents the improvements. We have also committed first securitization from the to measuring the potential environmental Warehouse for Energy Efficiency and social impacts of this financing and our Loans (WHEEL), an innovative inaugural reporting on these impacts can public-private partnership to be found on our website. Our clients create create a national financing significant environmental and social benefits platform to bring low-cost, largeand Citi is proud to support their efforts. scale capital to government and utility-sponsored residential energy efficiency loan programs. Through Renew Financial’s ReHome loan program, homeowners can borrow up to $20,000 at very competitive rates to make improvements to their homes such as heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment, water heaters, roofing, insulation, windows and energy efficient appliances. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT  SUSTAINABILITY: ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCE 7.5 Our $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal is to lend, invest and facilitate $100 billion over 10 years (2014–2023) to activities that reduce the impacts of climate change and create environmental solutions. $100 BILLION MEASURING ENVIRONMENTAL POTENTIAL FINANCE GOAL ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS Environmental and social IDENTIFYING impacts associated with INNOVATIVE PROJECTS the activity that is counted Examples of sustainable towards the goal: growth activity that is counted towards the goal: 7,639,436 mt DEFINING IMPACTFUL GHG emissions CRITERIA IPO for Renewables avoided A set of environmental Company criteria is used to assess the activity that is counted Solar or Wind Farm Project Finance 31,909 towards the goal: jobs supported To date we have Data Center (direct, indirect, supported $71.2 Renewable and induced) Financing billion in market Energy activity towards Energy Energy Star Mortgages 34,778,485 our $100 Billion total population in Efficiency cities and counties Environmental Citi Bike supported by water Sustainable Sponsorship Finance Goal for Transportation quality projects environmental solutions that Green Green Bonds Building 7,983 will reduce climate families served Bond for Mass change impacts Water Quality Transit Project by green affordable and benefit society. and Conservation housing Energy-efficient Clean Tech Affordable Housing 4,219,233,524 total annual Solar Company ridership on Loan transit systems Citi LEED Certified Facilities 32,119,884 miles traveled PPA for Wind Farm on Citi Bike Case Study – Footnote 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT  SUSTAINABILITY: ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCE 7.6 Growing market activity and increased global attention to climate issues have highlighted the importance of business engagement on environmental risks and opportunities. In 2015, our work with our clients reflects this growth, with over $47 billion in environmental finance activity counting towards the goal. Breakdown of Environmental Finance Activities By Region Multiple Regions, $15.4B 2014 2015 Total North America, $30.4B $ billions % $ billions % $ billions % North America $9.5 40% $20.9 44% $30.4 43% Europe, Middle East and Africa $9.2 39% $14.7 31% $23.9 33% Total $71.2B Asia Pacific $0.7 3% $0.1 0% $0.8 1% Latin America $0.1 1% $0.6 1% $0.8 1% Multiple Regions $4.1 17% $11.3 24% $15.4 22% Europe, Middle East and Africa, $23.9B Total $23.6 100% $47.6 100% $71.2 100% Asia Pacific, $0.8B Latin America, $0.8B By Environmental Category 2014 2015 Total Multiple Categories, $31.7B $ billions % $ billions % $ billions % Wind, $17.5B Wind $5.8 25% $11.7 25% $17.5 25% Solar $3.1 13% $6.2 13% $9.4 13% Sustainable Transportation $2.3 10% $4.2 9% $6.5 9% Total $71.2B Water Quality and Conservation $0.8 3% $1.9 4% $2.7 3% Green Housing $0.6 3% $1.6 3% $2.3 4% Solar, $9.4B Energy Efficiency $0.3 1% $0.5 1% $0.8 1% Sustainable Citi Operations $0.2 1% $0.2 0% $0.4 <1% Transportation, $6.5B Multiple Categories* $10.4 44% $21.3 45% $31.7 45% Water Quality and Conservation, $2.7B Total $23.6 100% $47.6 100% $71.2 100% Green Housing, $2.3B * Includes transactions such as some green bonds and yieldcos activity that bundled together multiple Energy Efficiency, $0.8B environmental technologies. Some figures in the table above have been rounded, therefore minor differences in totals may occur. Citi Operations, $0.4B By Business Commodities, $0.7B 2014 2015 Total Consumer/Commercial Banking, $0.7B $ billions % $ billions % $ billions % Public Citi Operations, $0.4B Banking and Capital Markets $11.5 49% $31.8 67% $43.3 66% Finance, $8.6B Other, $0.1B Green Bonds $9.5 40% $8.0 17% $17.5 17% Public Finance $1.7 7% $6.9 14% $8.6 15% Commodities $0.2 1% $0.5 1% $0.7 1% Total Consumer/Commercial Banking $0.4 2% $0.3 1% $0.7 1% $71.2B Citi Operations $0.2 1% $0.2 0% $0.4 0% Other $0.1 0% $0.0 0% $0.1 0% Total $23.6 100% $47.6 100% $71.2 100% Banking and Capital Markets, $43.3B Green Bonds, $17.5B 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT  SUSTAINABILITY: ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCE 7.7 In addition to financial accounting of the $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal, we have also committed to report associated environmental and social impacts. In 2014 and 2015, we provided financing that resulted in 3,658 MW of new installed clean energy capacity. $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal* Environmental Impacts Greenhouse Gases Avoided (mt) Business 2014 2015 Total Banking and Capital Markets – Alternative Energy Finance Project Finance and Tax Equity 3,450,713 2,686,335 6,137,047 Other Banking and Capital Markets 1,995 0 1,995 Public Finance 3,065 5,739 8,804 Commodities 197,485 1,280,366 1,477,851 Other 3,224 4,352 7,576 Consumer/Commercial Banking 3,182 2,981 6,163 Total 3,659,663 3,979,773 7,639,436 Some figures in the tables above have been rounded, therefore minor differences in totals may occur. Social Impacts 2014 2015 Total Jobs supported by renewable energy project finance and tax equity 17,269 14,640 31,909 activity (includes direct, indirect and induced jobs) Annual riders on transit system projects 143,739,841 4,075,493,683 4,219,233,524 People serviced by water quality projects 13,914,915 20,863,570 34,778,485 Families serviced by affordable housing activity 3,485 4,498 7,983 Total miles traveled on Citi Bike 13,667,643 18,452,241 32,119,884 For more information on Citi’s environmental and social impact methodology, go to www.citigroup.com/citi/environment/ * This data represents estimated environmental and social outputs associated with a subset of our Environmental Finance transactions, for a period of one year. For the jobs supported calculations, these estimates are assumed over the total project life. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT  SUSTAINABILITY: ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCE 7.8 CASE STUDIES FINANCING SUSTAINABLE EXPANDING USE OF GREEN WHAT’S AHEAD TRANSPORT IN BONDS GLOBALLY Renewable energy is becoming mainstream HYDERABAD, INDIA In 2015, Citi continued to support energy. Power companies are developing The Hyderabad Metro Rail green bond market growth and renewable energy projects to diversify Project (Hyderabad Metro) is a helped several clients issue their generation portfolios, decrease 72-kilometer rail network being green bonds, including some their environmental impact and meet built along three high-density for the first time, to raise capital societal expectations. Countries, states corridors in Hyderabad City, for environmentally positive and communities are adopting it to meet India. Citi helped the developer activities. We helped BRF S.A., energy needs over the long term. In parts raise approximately $40 million Brazil’s largest food company, of the developing world, renewables are in cost-efficient, long-term, raise €500 million in its first not replacing traditional energy sources – unsecured debt for the project in green bond issuance. Proceeds they are providing reliable energy for the 2015. The Hyderabad Metro will will go toward investments first time. Fossil fuels, big power plants and be the world’s largest elevated in energy efficiency, GHG transmission structures are not always the metro system to be developed emissions reduction, renewable best solution. Instead, energy is being created in a single phase through a energy, water and waste through lots of small distributed projects Public Private Partnership. management, sustainable and right where people live. Once operational, it will serve an efficient packaging, sustainable In some ways, banking regulations challenge estimated 1.5 million passengers forest management and raw this new norm. Many startup, alternative by 2017. It will connect major materials use reduction. This energy companies need long-term, fixed-rate office, retail and residential is the first green bond to be capital but often do not meet our lending areas with other transit systems, issued by a Brazilian company criteria. We are working to find ways to including bus and suburban and the second in Latin America. finance these high-growth firms while rail, to make the city more Citi also helped IDBI Bank raise meeting regulatory requirements and risk commuter friendly and reduce $350 million – the first green thresholds. We are also looking for ways to congestion, carbon emissions, bond issuance by a commercial help finance distributed generation projects, fuel consumption, pollution and state-owned (or public sector) not just major plants and infrastructure. commuter travel times. bank. Proceeds from the bond will provide debt finance to Environmental and social issues are creating renewable energy projects. waves of change across every part of society. These phenomena fit squarely in our mission to enable progress, but requiring Citi and our partners to find new approaches to financing big and small projects to meet communities’ and individuals’ needs. To find out more, go to: citi.com/citizenship 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT  SUSTAINABILITY: ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCE 7.9 Environmental and Social Risk Management Environmental and social progress are crucial to our world, now and for future generations. At Citi, it is not enough to serve clients and monitor our operations; we must make sure that what we finance is responsible as well. As a key pillar of our Sustainable Progress Strategy, our Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) Policy helps us and our clients adhere to high standards. WHAT’S HAPPENING Citi knows that what we finance can have WHAT CITI IS DOING The world is challenged by the present and environmental and social impacts and Businesses everywhere are working to potential impacts of climate change, resource incorporates these risks into our financing meet evolving environmental and societal scarcity, ecosystem degradation and rapid decisions. We helped found the Equator expectations. Many of our clients’ practices growth and urbanization. These problems Principles (EP) in 2003, establishing a global are best-in-class, and we share experiences endanger well-being, hinder community environmental and social risk framework for and learn from each other. We work closely progress and threaten global prosperity. financing projects. In 2003, we also became with clients to help them meet international the first U.S.-based financial institution to standards and mitigate risk. We decline to The way businesses conduct themselves introduce a comprehensive Environmental work with clients who cannot or are unwilling can significantly affect the sustainability and Social Risk Management (ESRM) Policy, to meet our standards. Importantly, through of our global economy, natural resource which incorporates the EP requirements, our Sustainable Progress Strategy, we use preservation and human rights protection. and also covers a wide scope of financial our accumulated ESRM knowledge and As a result, the public is calling for products and sets standards for assessing experience to strengthen client relationships greater transparency and accountability client impacts on local communities, and create value for all stakeholders. Our from companies. The realization that biodiversity, air quality, water and other ongoing actions in this area are described environmental and social sustainability environmental and social receptors. We in the next two pages. is tied to financial sustainability is driving updated and expanded our ESRM Policy in businesses to think differently about the 2012 to cover the Citi Commercial Bank and risks associated with their activities. For developed a public Environmental and Social global companies, varying standards and Policy Framework that provides transparency regulations from one country to another on Citi’s ESRM Policy and other internal complicate the issue even further; a negative environmental and social initiatives. environmental or social incident can erase good intentions and shake public trust. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT  SUSTAINABILITY: ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 7.10 Citi mobilizes and lends billions of dollars of capital for a wide variety of companies and projects, including some that are associated with environmental and social impacts. We conduct portfolio-level reviews ​ of sectors that are important to our business but also fall into the higher-risk category. Continuous Policy Improvement Portfolio-Level Analysis of Environmental Emerging Risk Monitoring We evolve our ESRM policies and standards in and Social Risks ESRM improved its ability to proactively scan response to emerging risks and new product Citi mobilizes and lends billions of dollars of for emerging risks in 2015 by developing the development. We partner with others and capital for a wide variety of companies and Environmental and Social Risk Radar, a method deepen transaction-specific engagement projects, including some that are associated that identifies and quantifies environmental with our clients to manage risks and identify with environmental and social impacts. We and social concerns. The Radar tracks trends in solutions. We conduct internal training to conduct portfolio-level reviews of sectors that environmental and social content in a number build our knowledge of and accountability are important to our business but also fall into of sources, including: media outlets, third-party for ESRM and uphold our sustainability the higher-risk category. These analyses help data providers, internet searches, and financial standards. us identify emerging risks and decide how industry-targeted civil society reports, among to evaluate future transactions. They also other sources. We perform this review in order ESRM responsibility is shared across our uncover opportunities for us to advise clients to flag emerging issues that indicate increasing organization. In addition to our core ESRM on solutions to thematic risks. risk and/or global attention. This method allows team and bankers, we have regional ESRM us to fine tune our risk management efforts, Champions located in Citi offices around the In 2015, one of our ESRM portfolio reviews raise awareness throughout the firm on new world. These credit risk officers use their local focused on our mining portfolio. We issue areas and provide valuable advice to our knowledge and insights to apply our global identified and evaluated environmental and clients on increasing issues of concern. ESRM Policy in their regions and business social risks with potential material financial lines. They also counsel our bankers on a impact using third-party data and internal Building Global Capacity and Consistency variety of environmental and social issues research. Companies were scored based We have collaborated with clients, peers and and provide training on ESRM Policy and on their relative ability to cope with stress regulators to build ESRM awareness and regional ESRM issues. In 2015, we trained in different categories. For example, in the capacity since we co-founded the Equator 1,335 key risk and banking personnel on our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions category, Principles in 2003. This allows us to maintain ESRM Policy, including in-depth discussions we evaluated mining clients’ ability to cope a level playing field with our competitors on environmental and social risks relevant with tighter carbon emissions regimes in and raise the standard of environmental to certain regions and sectors, Equator the near to medium term. Clients who have and social performance across our client Principles implementation and Citi adopted more renewable technologies (to base, geographies where we operate and Sector Standards. power mining operations) and therefore the industry as a whole. For example, decreased their carbon intensity are better our partnership with the Natural Capital In keeping with our commitment to continuous positioned to manage the evolving global Declaration (NCD), established in 2015, policy improvement, in 2015 we developed GHG emissions regulatory regime than commits Citi to work with other industry a new Coal Mining Standard that requires peers who have not. We used this approach leaders, including financial institutions, to more in depth due diligence of all coal mining to assess other environmental and social understand the impacts and dependencies client relationships and commits to reduce risk categories such as wastewater and of business on natural capital, support credit exposure to these companies over time. hazardous waste management. In 2016, we development of methodologies that integrate The policy applies to coal mining companies will review environmental and social risks in natural capital considerations into decision globally, including those using mountaintop other industries and adapt the categories to making, work toward a global consensus for removal methods. those most financially relevant to each sector. integrating natural capital into private sector accounting, and collaborate with thought leaders and stakeholders to advance the field of natural capital valuation. Also in 2015, we took a leadership role by serving as the vice chair of an NCD project to incorporate valuation tools into drought scenarios to identify key industries impacted by drought. This project is ongoing through 2016. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT  SUSTAINABILITY: ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 7.11 Citi will continue to apply our ESRM Policy and increase our due diligence on projects that present risks to people, CASE STUDY communities and the planet. MITIGATING HUMAN RIGHTS Transaction ESRM Reviews WHAT’S AHEAD RISKS IN MINING The ESRM team reviews client transactions Environmental and social standards and In 2015, Citi evaluated a junior subject to our ESRM Policy and categorizes laws around the world are uneven, especially African mining company them A, B, C or GR (general review), based in emerging markets. A proliferation of seeking a loan for general on the magnitude of potential adverse social environmental regulations, pressure corporate purposes and and environmental impacts. Higher-risk from bank regulators to evaluate clients’ potential acquisitions of new transactions require in-depth reviews against environmental activities, and shifting societal assets. Our ESRM team worked international best practices by independent expectations will continue to present new with our regional bankers environmental and social consultants. If gaps and evolving challenges. In countries without to ensure the client had an are found between a client’s environmental effective resource governance, development adequate environmental and social plans, policies or practices and can trigger disputes over land, reduce access and social risk management industry best practice, we develop an to natural resources such as water, and framework. We determined Environmental and Social Action Plan to fill threaten livelihoods in adjacent communities. that human rights risks related the gaps over time, and make completion Citi will continue to apply our ESRM Policy to resettlement, security, and of the plan a condition of financing. and conduct robust due diligence on projects artisanal mining communities Our ESRM Policy defines the standards that present risks to people, communities and would require closer attention we require clients to meet to receive Citi the planet. Our processes for identifying risks in the event of future financing, and our due diligence refines are strong, and we have committed resources acquisitions and adapted our our approach to specific transactions and to help our clients comply with standards credit agreement to include sectors. Clients increasingly see the value to ensure responsible development. language that acquisitions of of including these considerations in their new assets must adhere to To find out more, go to: planning from the earliest stages. the Equator Principles and IFC citi.com/citizenship Performance Standards. The Areas of High Caution and Special Focus loan was approved and closed. Some transactions present elevated Once the company identified franchise risk to Citi due to very sensitive an acquisition target, they environmental or social impacts, and we hired experts to help them only proceed with these after thorough and comply with lenders’ standards, judicious assessments. These “Areas of High including the development of a Caution” include critical habitat, areas of high Stakeholder Engagement Plan, conservation value and significant cultural which looked at community heritage; Indigenous Peoples; large-scale needs and included a specific resettlement; and conflict risk. Our ESRM strategy for artisanal mining Policy prohibits financing transactions communities, and a plan for involving illegal logging, forced labor and implementing the UN Voluntary harmful child labor. Our responsibilities Principles on Security and include respect for human rights in our Human Rights. Our early own activities and in client transactions. engagement proved essential For more information about how Citi to helping our client mitigate approaches human rights, download our environmental and social risks Human Rights Fact sheet. in their operations. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT  SUSTAINABILITY: ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 7.12 As part of our commitment to the Equator Principles, we report annually on our implementation. 2015 PROJECTS COVERED BY EQUATOR PRINCIPLES Funded Project Finance Loans Funded Project-Related Corporate Loans Category A $13B 3 Category A 1 Category B $5.8B 7 Category B 1 Category C 0 Category C 0 * We had no EP-covered Project Finance Advisories and no EP-covered Bridge Loans in 2015. Funded Project Finance Funded Project-Related Loans Breakdown Corporate Loans Breakdown By Sector A B C Total By Sector A B C Total Oil and Gas 2 2 0 4 Manufacturing 1 0 0 1 Infrastructure 1 1 0 2 Oil and Gas 0 1 0 1 Power* 0 4 0 4 By Region A B C Total * (2 wind, 1 solar, 1 gas) US and Canada 0 0 0 0 By Region A B C Total Latin America 0 1 0 1 US and Canada 0 5 0 5 Europe 0 0 0 0 Latin America 2 2 0 4 Middle East and Africa 1 0 0 1 Europe 0 0 0 0 Asia and Oceania 0 0 0 0 Middle East and Africa 1 0 0 1 By Country Designation A B C Total Asia and Oceania 0 0 0 0 Designated 0 0 0 0 By Country Designation A B C Total Non-Designated 1 1 0 2 Designated 0 5 0 5 By Independent Review A B C Total Non-Designated 3 2 0 5 Yes 1 1 0 2 By Independent Review A B C Total No 0 0 0 0 Yes 3 7 0 10 No 0 0 0 0 Citi received external assurance of our Equator Principles data from SGS. For our SGS Assurance Statement, download our assurance letters. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT  SUSTAINABILITY: ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 7.13 Our processes for identifying risks are strong and we have committed resources to help our clients comply with standards to ensure responsible development can continue. TRANSACTIONS RECEIVING ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (ESRM) REVIEW By Region Total transactions receiving ESRM review Asia and 99 Total 380 Category A Not Categorized the Pacific 4 Category A 29 Category B GR* Europe 67 5 Category C Middle East 47 and Africa 6 Latin America 91 2013 81 101 217 44 443 and the Caribbean 14 US and 65 2014 90 82 179 54 405 Canada 0 Global 11 2015 118 49 72 112 29 380 (multiple regions) 0 By Sector In 2015, we had one power sector project finance transaction Infrastructure and 89 Total 380 for a natural gas fired plant. We report the percentage of Transportation 6 Category A 29 Metals and 44 lifetime emissions equivalent to the percentage of total Mining 4 project costs financed by Citi. Oil, Gas and 60 Petrochem 5 Power 79 Lifetime thermal power plant project financed emissions (mmtCO2) (Including Renewables) 11 Manufacturing 16 and Industrials 2 Reporting Year 30-year plant life 60-year plant life Other 33 0 2013 9.7 mmtCO2 19.4 mmtCO2 Forestry, Pulp 16 and Paper 1 2014 0 0 Agribusiness 32 2015 9.6 mmtCO2 19.2 mmtCO2 (including Palm Oil) 0 Telecom 11 0 ESRM Employee Training By Product Type Year # of Employees Trained in Citi’s ESRM Policy Project Finance 17 Total 380 Loans 4 Category A 29 2011 168 Project Finance 0 Advisories 0 2012 447 Corporate or 206 Government Loans 6 2013 504 EP Project-Related 22 2014 916 Corporate Loans 12 Debt and Equity 20 2015 1,335 Underwriting 2 Forestry and Palm Oil 34 Annual Reviews 0 Acquisition 19 Finance 1 Letters of Credit 16 and Guarantees 3 Other (e.g. Equity, 46 Derivatives, etc.) 1 * In 2015, we updated the ESRM policy to include a new General Review (GR) category, which covers corporate level transactions, such as forestry and palm oil annual reviews, transactions below ESRM Standard financial thresholds, and general corporate purposes transactions. Citi received external assurance of our ESRM data from SGS. For our SGS Assurance Statement, download our assurance letters. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT  SUSTAINABILITY: ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 7.14 image Operations and Supply Chain Our global footprint and supply chain impact the environment and the communities where we work. We continually look for ways to reduce these impacts, lower costs and minimize risks CASE STUDY to the environment and society that come from our operations and supply chain partners. These actions are core to our Sustainable Progress Strategy. WHAT’S HAPPENING Supply Chain Operations Banks’ supply chains may not be as complex Many regard climate change as the most as in other industries, but their sustainability urgent challenge of our time. The United impact is important. Business for Social Nations (UN) Intergovernmental Panel Responsibility (BSR) studied supply chain on Climate Change (IPCC) says a global issues for financial institutions and found temperature increase of 2°C is the tipping the greatest risks and opportunities in GHG point for irreparable damage to society. emissions, human rights, data security Moreover, demonstrating even greater and privacy, conflict minerals, e-waste ambition, in the December 2015 Paris and security for branch offices and Agreement nations agreed to an aspirational transporting money.3 goal to minimize this increase to 1.5°C. To stay We started evaluating our supply chain below a 2° threshold, greenhouse gas (GHG) sustainability in 2009, with the development CITI RUNS ON SOLAR emissions need to be drastically reduced.2 and release of our Statement of Supplier ENERGY IN INDIA All companies, financial institutions included, Principles outlining the ethical, human rights Furthering our commitment to share the responsibility to make operational and environmental standards we expect. environmental sustainability, changes to meet these ambitious goals. We continue to build on this foundation and we recently installed 50-kilowatt Citi has responded by managing its communicate to suppliers how important solar panels on Citi India’s Club environmental footprint, developing sciencethese issues are to us and the world, and seek House Road office in Chennai. based goals and looking towards the future out suppliers who share our values. A total of 168 photovoltaic solar on trends in the built environment. panels – which convert solar energy directly into electricity – were installed in the fourth quarter of 2015. The clean energy units are expected to generate a minimum of 60,000 kilowatt-hour in energy annually. This eliminates 55 tons of carbon dioxide emissions per year. 2 IPCC Infographic Series, World Resources Institute, March 2016. 3  upply Chain Sustainability in the Financial Sector, Business for Social Responsibility, August 2015. S 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT  SUSTAINABILITY: OPERATIONS AND SUPPLY CHAIN 7.15 We play a direct role in combating climate change by reducing our GHG emissions and consumption of scarce resources. CASE STUDY WHAT CITI IS DOING CITI TOKYO FACILITY EARNS We are proud to report we have met or TOP LEED CERTIFICATION Operations exceeded all of our 2015 goals. We have: With approximately 12,000 owned and leased The U.S. Green Building facilities worldwide, we recognize that our • Reduced absolute Scope 1 Council (USBGC) awarded global footprint impacts the environment. and Scope 2 GHG emissions Citi’s Shinjuku Eastside We play a direct role in combating climate by 25 percent Square (SES) facility in Tokyo, change by reducing our GHG emissions • Reduced energy use by more than Japan, a LEED Platinum and consumption of scarce resources. Citi 22 percent certification, the highest of began reporting on our direct environmental • Reduced water use by more than their internationally recognized impacts related to energy, water and waste 22 percent standards. The prestigious in 2002. In 2006, we set our first GHG rating is another example of our • Diverted more than 58 percent of emissions goal to reduce GHG emissions by commitment to green building waste from landfill 10 percent from 2005 levels by the year 2011. and sustainability. Minimizing We expanded these goals in 2010 to include • Obtained LEED certification for more our environmental impact not reductions in energy use, waste to landfill than 16 percent of our portfolio only contributes to operational and water use, and a commitment to more efficiency, but also supports green building. To meet these goals, we analyzed what employee well-being. SES is we control in our operations and created our first office project with a 2015 Goals a strategic approach to reductions. Citi’s fully functioning Citi Works In 2010, Citi set ambitious goals to reduce Corporate Realty Services (CRS) unit ensured environment. Citi Works is a our operational impacts on the environment. its initiatives aligned with our overall mission new workplace design strategy These addressed GHG emissions, energy, to enable growth and progress and that they that incorporates a range of water use, waste and green building. We made good business sense. work settings and technology publicly pledged to reduce by the end of 2015, to support our more active from a 2005 baseline: We took a three-pronged approach to and connected work styles, • GHG emissions by 25 percent managing our resources: delivering a progressive and • Energy by 20 percent • Efficient use of our facilities portfolio engaging environment to • Water by 20 percent • Operational site efficiencies Citi employees. This further supports our sustainability goal • Waste to landfill by 40 percent • Capital improvements by having more than 60 percent We also committed to LEED certify 15 percent By balancing these three aspects, we created of employees use low-energy, of our global portfolio of facilities. a dynamic model and forecasted different agile technology and promoting outcomes to ensure we managed our recycling by eliminating In 2013, we met two of our goals early. We personal rubbish bins at resources to meet our 2015 commitments. reduced our GHG emissions by 25 percent each desk. We will use this approach to achieve our next with the help of renewable energy credits and set of goals for 2020. diverted more than 40 percent of our waste stream from landfill. We decided to continue challenging ourselves and announced new ”stretch” goals in these categories to reduce absolute GHG emissions by 25 percent and divert another 9 percent of waste from landfill. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT  SUSTAINABILITY: OPERATIONS AND SUPPLY CHAIN 7.16 Our science-based goals call for reducing GHG emissions by 35 percent by 2020 and 80 percent by 2050. CASE STUDY 2020 Goals and Beyond Employee Engagement ALTERNATIVE FUNDING In 2015, we announced our third generation Actively engaging Citi employees is critical to SAVES ENERGY AND CAPITAL of environmental footprint goals for 2020 achieving our environmental sustainability Data centers are our most and 2050. To determine the appropriate objectives. We partner with employees to energy-intensive facilities, level of GHG reductions, we used a sciencemake our facilities and communities more accounting for about based approach to absolute reductions to climate-friendly through everyday work 25 percent of our overall support the United Nations’ 2° C threshold practices, volunteer-led “Green Teams” and electricity usage. In a for a climate tipping point. Our goals call for environmental events such as Earth Week first-of-its kind project, we reducing GHG emissions by 35 percent by and Earth Hour. developed an innovative 2020 and 80 percent by 2050. To achieve measure to cut energy use Through our Green Teams, employees our ambitious 2050 goal, we will set absolute by 10 percent at our United design and lead positive environmental GHG goals in five-year increments and track Kingdom data center. Two initiatives tailored to their workplaces and annual performance. Citi teams, Corporate Realty local communities. These forums provide Overall, our 2020 goals call for: opportunities for sustainability-minded Services and the Asset employees to enhance their professional Finance Group, collaborated • 35 percent reduction in GHG emissions and personal development and help Citi to demonstrate how a third• 30 percent reduction in energy use party’s equity investment reduce its environmental footprint through • 30 percent reduction in water use events like recycling drives, volunteer can address internal capital • 10 percent of water coming from reclaimed projects, informative lectures and awareness constraints and show the or recycled sources campaigns. We have 25 Green Teams with viability of a financial product approximately 2,000 members operating in that Citi can now offer to • 60 percent reduction in waste to landfill cities around the world, from Mississauga, clients. The project is funded • One-third of our facilities LEED-certified through an energy services Canada, to Johannesburg, South Africa. Reporting agreement that treats host Green Teams also serve as ambassadors payments as operating cost We believe it is important to communicate for Citi Earth Week, an annual campaign of rather than capital expenditure, our operational sustainability work to share environmental and sustainability events to which reduces expenses, thus what we learn and learn from others. We support the globally recognized Earth Day. requiring no upfront investment have submitted a response to the Carbon In 2015, Citi employees led 128 events in 12 from Citi. Disclosure Project (CDP) every year since countries and 38 cities. In Manila, Philippines, 2003. We follow the new GHG Protocol employees donated 60 refurbished Scope 2 Guidance for measuring and computers to three community partners reporting both market-based and locationand provided basic computer training to based Scope 2 GHG emissions, and we local residents. The Buffalo, New York, Green also report on Scope 3 CO2 emissions from Team recycled 12,491 glass bottles and cans, employee air and train travel and projectredeeming and donating the proceeds to a financed thermal power plants. local animal sanctuary. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT  SUSTAINABILITY: OPERATIONS AND SUPPLY CHAIN 7.17 In 2015, we identified three priority areas in our supply chain where we will manage CASE STUDIES and measure progress as part of our Sustainable Progress Strategy: paper and paper products, information technology (IT) hardware and e-waste disposal, and travel and logistics. Supply Chain We believe our suppliers should share our values and meet our high environmental and social performance standards, and we are working toward integrating sustainability into all aspects of our supplier selection processes. Our Enterprise Supply Chain (ESC) team not only works with our business IMPROVING OUR SUPPLY RECOGNIZING SUSTAINABLE units to support the end-to-end supplier CHAIN IN MEXICO THROUGH AND DIVERSE SUPPLIERS life-cycle process from supplier bidding and THE CRQ In 2015, our Supplier selection to contracting and payment, but Banamex, our Mexico Relationship Management also collaborates with them to implement subsidiary, piloted Citi’s growing team designed a process sustainable supplier initiatives and mitigate Corporate Responsibility to identify suppliers who supply chain risks, including human rights Questionnaire (CRQ) program. excelled in areas of innovation, and environmental risks. Partnering with In 2013, Banamex rolled collaboration, supplier suppliers is critical to enabling progress, out the CRQ to our top 100 diversity and sustainability. meeting our larger sustainability goals, suppliers in Mexico and, in We invited suppliers to provide protecting human rights and managing our doing so, created the template documentation of their efforts expenses. Our sustainable supply chain goals for the questionnaire’s global and looked for those who focus on sourcing and supplier engagement. circulation. In 2014, Banamex showed that these values repeated the roll out to top were a part of their day-to-day Sourcing suppliers and achieved a business considerations. A In 2015, we identified three priority areas 60 percent response rate. To group of internal and external in our supply chain where we will manage continue building on this level judges reviewed and voted and measure progress as part of our of response, as of August 2015, on the submissions, and Sustainable Progress Strategy: paper and our Enterprise Supply Chain recognized winners with paper products, information technology (IT) organization in Mexico includes awards in April 2016. hardware and e-waste disposal, and travel the CRQ in all new electronic and logistics. We drafted white papers to requests for proposals and brief employees in our ESC organization quotations. As a result, 146 and key business units on the issues, and suppliers have been invited introduced a framework for evaluating the to participate in 24 electronic three areas. We wrote a position statement bids requiring the CRQ. Scores incorporating the white papers to align with below 70 will be flagged for our procedures and initiatives on supplier review, and in 2016 we will standards and principles. As an important conduct feedback meetings step, the statement will be included in the with suppliers who previously Global Operating Procedures, which provide scored in the lower percentiles guidance on ESC’s supply chain processes as part of our effort to help and support compliance and risk reduction, companies improve their ESG in 2016. performance and resulting CRQ scores. Suppliers who fail to improve their scores or to make immediate corrections will be reassessed as part of a third party management review and governance process. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT  SUSTAINABILITY: OPERATIONS AND SUPPLY CHAIN 7.18 Our Supply Chain Development, Inclusion and Sustainability Program gives women and minority-owned firms access to business opportunities, education, mentoring and training. Supplier Engagement Supplier Diversity Human Rights We cannot achieve our environmental and We feel the same about diversity among We support human rights in our supply chain social goals without increasing supplier our thousands of suppliers as we do our and work with suppliers who share our values. engagement. We have a Statement of employees and clients: it is imperative to We expect our suppliers to abide by the Citi Supplier Principles, which we share with innovation and efficiency. Our Supply Chain Statement on Human Rights, which outlines suppliers. We engage suppliers with our Development, Inclusion and Sustainability our standards for freely chosen employment, Corporate Responsibility Questionnaire Program gives women and minority-owned child labor avoidance, working hours, respect (CRQ), a tool we use to assess how well firms access to business opportunities, in the workplace, wages and benefits, and current and potential suppliers manage education, mentoring and training. Citi’s health and safety. The Citi Statement of governance, environmental sustainability Enterprise Supply Chain organization sets Supplier Principles also highlights our strong and supplier diversity, and to identify gaps in clear supplier diversity goals and embeds commitment to human rights in our supply priority sectors and geographies. In 2015, we them in our supplier selection processes. chain. For more information on human rights, piloted the CRQ in Malaysia and Australia in download our Human Rights Fact sheet. We work through our Sourcing Category our Asia Pacific (APAC) region and in Ireland Champions network to find opportunities in our Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) in our supply chain for small and diverse region, and 75 suppliers completed it. As of supplier inclusion. We leverage our August 2015, the CRQ became a mandatory relationships with Supplier Connection, the part of all electronic requests for proposals National Minority Supplier Development or quotations in North America and Latin Council and Women’s Business Enterprise America, and was completed by over 600 National Council to identify small and diverse suppliers in those regions. suppliers who can potentially meet our supply The CRQ is an example of how employees chain needs and help build these suppliers’ throughout Citi share accountability for capacity. We partner with organizations such good citizenship. If a supplier’s CRQ score as the New York City Small Business Services is low, we communicate our concerns to the Corporate Alliance Program to provide supplier and our regional sourcing manager. training on topics such as subcontracting, We give suppliers our feedback and a year to sustainability best practices for suppliers work together to improve, then rely on our and access to capital. managers to make the right decisions for These efforts help ensure our supplier base their business units and for Citi. To ensure a mirrors the diversity of our customer base consistent approach and understanding of and communities. Our diverse spend for the CRQ process and supplier evaluation, we 2015 totaled over $700 million, with more developed training materials for employees. than $400 million in Tier One spend with We also provide sustainability training and direct suppliers. Champions in each category education to suppliers. review the potential line of sight and business opportunities for suppliers both locally and globally on a monthly basis. We ensure diverse firms are part of our day-to-day supplier selection process, even as we reduce our number of suppliers to improve supply chain efficiencies and reduce costs. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT  SUSTAINABILITY: OPERATIONS AND SUPPLY CHAIN 7.19 Partnering with suppliers is critical to enabling progress, meeting our larger sustainability goals, protecting human rights and managing our expenses. CASE STUDY WHAT’S AHEAD We continue to test and refine our CRQ by OPPORTUNITY GROWS IN Operations gathering feedback from suppliers and A ROOF GARDEN We work hard to improve the environmental making sure our scorecard is sound. Through When the roof of the Citi impact of our operations and will continue the Global Supply Chain Sustainability Center building in São Paulo, to do so moving forward. However, what Operation Procedure published in Q1 2016, Brazil, needed to have its was once considered “cutting edge” has our main objective for 2016 is to increase the 25-year-old waterproof become “license to operate”. Realizing this CRQ global response rate through proper coating replaced, CRS saw an space is ripe for innovation, we have started language, training and increased regional opportunity. We replaced the an initiative to approach sustainability more champion engagement. We will continue waterproofing membranes holistically to include the built environment rolling out the CRQ in APAC and EMEA to with a 400-square-meter roof and its effect on human capital. After expand our global reach. garden housing nearly 80 extensive research, our team has identified Internal communications are equally endangered species of Atlantic what we believe are future sustainability important. We need all of our supply chain Forest native vegetation from trends in the built environment: employees to understand our goals and Brazil. The garden reduces • How sustainable design can impact their roles in achieving them. We highlighted the heat captured by the employee health and wellness. sustainability as a key objective for members roof, therefore lowering the of our Global Champions’ Network and they energy required for cooling • How a sustainable environment can each have a specific environmental, human and water evaporation from foster employee engagement and rights or other sustainability goal to focus on. the cooling towers. This green facilitate interaction. roof integrates biophilic design • Incorporating biophilic design elements To find out more, go to: principles, which we believe into the built environment. citi.com/citizenship helps reduce environmental These trends will influence how we approach impacts and could benefit operational sustainability by expanding employee well-being and the scope from focusing on impacts to productivity. sustainably engaging our workforce. Supply Chain Dialogue is critical as we communicate our expectations and implement our supply chain strategy and policies around the world. There are thousands of links in our supply chain, and what works in one country will not necessarily work in another. We are adapting our approach to our suppliers’ local cultures and business norms and communicating in ways that make sense in each region. We rely heavily on feedback from our regional champions to make sure we get it right. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT  SUSTAINABILITY: OPERATIONS AND SUPPLY CHAIN 7.20 We are proud to report we have met or exceeded all of our 2015 environmental footprint goals. PROGRESS ON OUR GOALS Progress Against 2015 Goals LEED Certified Buildings by Region* From a 2005 Baseline Achieved Region Certified Silver Gold Platinum Total 25% reduction in absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions 25.0%* North America 33 27 55 2 117 20% reduction in energy consumption 22.2% Latin America 3 2 3 0 8 40% diversion in waste stream to landfill 58.1% Asia Pacific 5 7 28 8 48 20% reduction in water consumption 22.1% Europe, Middle East 1 5 12 6 24 15% of global real estate portfolio LEED certified 16.2% and Africa * 32.0% if considering offsets. Total 42 41 98 16 197 Regional Operational Environmental Performance LEED Certified Buildings by Building Type* GHG Total Total Building type 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 GHG Emissions Energy Water Total Emissions (mt) (mt) Consumption Consumption Waste Data Centers 0 0 0 1 0 0 Region Location based Market based (GWh) (m3) (mt) DC File Storage 0 0 0 0 0 0 North America 387,854 350,483 903 2,811,882 23,010 Office Buildings 4 14 10 14 14 16 Latin America 138,595 126,729 361 1,386,248 12,790 Operational Centers 2 0 2 0 3 1 Asia Pacific 205,044 195,074 320 871,519 8,793 Branches 7 9 23 1 24 11 Europe, Middle 105,865 73,966 235 453,227 5,396 Total 13 23 35 16 41 28 East and Africa Cumulative Total 54 77 112 128 169 197 * Based on Active Buildings in the Portfolio as of year end 2015, and excludes projects for GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) by Region in 2015* ** Inactive and Disposed Buildings. Scope 2 CO2e Scope 2 CO2e Total CO2e Total CO2e (Location (Market (Location (Market Region Scope 1 CO2e based) based) based) based) North America 16,780 371,073 333,702 387,854 350,483 Latin America 2,320 136,275 124,408 138,595 126,729 Asia Pacific 1,962 203,082 193,112 205,044 195,074 Europe, Middle 5,490 100,375 68,476 105,865 73,966 East and Africa * The Scope 2 Quality Criteria have been met for the instruments used in the calculation. ** F  or our GHG emissions performance, the base year and the annual performance against the goal are calculated using a location-based method. Electricity Consumption Amounts Applied to Market-Based Emission Factor Types 2015 Electricity Consumption (kWh) Percent of Total Emissions Factor Basis Electricity Steam Chilled Water Total Consumption RECs or Other Energy Attribute Certificate 100,000,000 0 0 100,000,000 6% PPA or Source Contract 41,041,562 0 0 41,041,562 2% Supplier Specific 201,354,797 21,800,082 9,946,350 233,101,229 14% Steam Default 0 6,046,552 0 6,046,552 0% Residual Mix 58,391,653 0 8,011 58,399,665 4% Grid Average 1,251,903,029 0 9,700,213 1,261,603,242 74% Total 1,652,691,042 27,846,634 19,654,574 1,700,192,251 100% 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT  SUSTAINABILITY: OPERATIONS AND SUPPLY CHAIN 7.21 With approximately 12,000 owned and leased facilities worldwide, we recognize our global footprint impacts the environment. We play a direct role in combating climate change by reducing our GHG emissions and consumption of scarce resources. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT 2005 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Rentable Sq. Ft. (RSF) 71,707,566 65,938,428 64,353,202 63,011,327 59,271,207 56,313,085 54,043,708 Headcount 343,330 349,005 356,547 315,669 240,339 230,929 231,100 ABSOLUTE INDICATORS ENERGY Electricity (GWh) 2,050 2,006 1,963 1,920 1,813 1,728 1,653 District Heating (Steam and Chilled Water) 84 72 58 59 55 52 48 Energy Purchased (GWh) – Scope 2 2,133 2,078 2,021 1,979 1,868 1,779 1,700 Natural Gas (GWh) 157 129 119 91 95 91 83 Fuel Oil (GWh) 49 49 40 55 41 36 36 Energy Consumed (GWh) – Scope 1 207 178 159 146 136 127 120 Total Energy (GWh) 2,340 2,256 2,180 2,125 2,004 1,906 1,820 CO2e EMISSIONS Direct CO2e (GHG Scope 1) (Gas and Fuel Oil) 44,778 39,120 34,703 33,055 30,197 28,100 26,553 Indirect CO2e (GHG Scope 2) 1,071,975 988,993 961,010 926,693 882,513 848,581 810,806 (Electricity, Steam and Chilled Water) Total CO2e (mt) 1,116,752 1,028,113 995,713 959,749 912,710 876,681 837,358 Green Power Offsets (CO2e) 5,953 42,084 56,882 98,450 101,642 96,038 77,909 Net CO2e (mt) 1,110,799 986,029 938,831 861,299 811,068 780,642 759,450 WATER AND WASTE Total Water Consumption (m3) 7,088,968 6,482,936 6,479,907 6,719,056 6,369,262 5,717,184 5,522,877 Recycled Office Paper (mt) 6,180 17,285 17,493 14,072 16,830 16,615 15,123 Refuse and Other (mt) 61,922 46,506 43,123 40,009 37,467 36,087 34,865 Total Waste (mt) 68,103 63,790 60,616 54,081 54,297 52,702 49,988 RELATIVE INDICATORS TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMED KWh/RSF 32.63 34.21 33.88 33.72 33.82 33.85 33.67 KWh/Headcount 6,816 6,463 6,114 6,730 8,339 8,255 7,874 NET CO2e Metric Tons/RSF 0.0156 0.0156 0.0155 0.0152 0.0154 0.0156 0.0155 Metric Tons/Headcount 3.25 2.95 2.79 3.04 3.80 3.80 3.62 SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS Business Air Travel CO2e (mt) NA 100,243 119,179 123,302 150,967 178,694 109,687 Business Train Travel CO2e (mt) NA NA NA NA 5,335 6,651 1,605 THERMAL POWER PLANT EMISSIONS 30-year Pant Life CO2 NA 0 7.4 0 9.7 0 9.6 60-year Plant Life CO2 NA 0 14.8 0 19.4 0 19.2 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT  SUSTAINABILITY: OPERATIONS AND SUPPLY CHAIN 7.22 image Diversity Diversity is an essential part of Citi. When our workforce is as diverse as the clients, communities and world we serve, we are a more vibrant, innovative and high-performing bank and a better place to work. WHAT’S HAPPENING Our experience confirms these findings, 2015 HIGHLIGHTS Why Diversity Matters which is why we have structured programs We have A diverse, inclusive workplace allows to foster and advance our diverse and everyone to bring their full selves to work, inclusive culture. We are a global company 121 employee and welcome people of every cultural regardless of backgrounds or characteristics. Diversity has also proven to be a strong background, gender, race/ethnicity, networks generation, sexual orientation, gender with 15,000 members in business advantage. Research shows identity or expression, among other 30 countries and 56 locations companies in the top quartile for gender or racial/ethnic diversity are more likely characteristics, military veterans, and to have higher financial returns than their people with disabilities. We strive to treat Women all employees fairly and with respect, give national industry medians. The reverse is true for the performance of companies in them opportunities to grow and succeed, comprise 24% and hold them accountable for upholding of our senior managers globally the bottom quartile.1 our standards of excellence. Why the difference? Diverse teams challenge each other more, contribute broader The Challenge Minorities perspectives and experiences leading Achieving workforce diversity requires comprise 26% to more innovative solutions, and keep ongoing focus and consideration of local of our senior managers in the companies in touch with increasingly diverse norms. In some countries, cultural and United States consumers. Diverse employees encourage social values differ and we balance respect more inclusive workplaces that are sensitive for local customs, values and legislation We achieved an all-time high of with our views on diversity as business and to their needs and make them feel valued and respected, thus increasing retention social imperatives. We work with our human 81% on our and satisfaction. Research also suggests resources team, employee networks and Diversity Index companies with diverse, inclusive workforces diversity councils in each community to in our annual Voice of the are more attractive to clients and suppliers. promote our diversity programs. We also Employee Survey partner with local organizations to advance human rights. We spent We know more needs to be done. Like many $783 million global companies, we grapple with diversity with diverse suppliers hurdles created by varying business practices and inconsistent levels of awareness of the importance of diversity. We are proud of our progress and determined to keep pressing forward for positive change. 1 “Why diversity matters”, by V. Hunt, D. Layton and S. Prince, McKinsey & Company, January 2015. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT DIVERSITY 8.1 “As a global company that operates in more than 100 countries, it’s absolutely essential that our employee base reflects the populations we serve. I also think a diverse workforce encourages a range of perspectives and experiences that enable us to generate fresh ideas, innovative solutions and meaningful partnerships. A diverse workforce drives diverse thought – the more diverse we make our thinking, the better the outcomes.” Don Callahan, Global Head of Operations and Technology and Chairman, Global Employee Network Program WHAT CITI IS DOING Managing Diversity at Citi DIVERSITY MILESTONES We want all Citi employees to thrive as members of a diverse, inclusive workplace. 1994 1999 2000 2002 We want them to feel confident about their opportunities for growth and development Board of Directors First Diversity Diversity index First employee throughout their time with our company adopts oversight of Annual Report included in Voice networks and be an employer of choice for top talent. diversity matters. published. of the Employee recognized. Our approach helps us accomplish these annual opinion goals in the more than 100 countries where survey. we operate. Our Global Diversity Office sets our policies, 2009 2008 2006 2004 practices and priorities. Our Diversity Operating Committee, made up of senior Opportunity Inception of Citi Women Citi scored 100% diversity human resources leaders, ensures Now innovation Citi Women’s launched as global on the Human our programs and policies advance our award won for Leadership strategy to advance Rights Campaign culture and inclusion goals. Diversity UK maternity/ Development women. Corporate councils and senior executive champions paternity Program. Equality Index, communicate and live our diversity values programs. an achievement and standards across the company. Our repeated every year Board of Directors reviews our progress through to 2015. and priorities annually. 2013 2014 2015 “Maintaining, cultivating, CEO scorecard, Citi’s employee Citi equalized benefits for domestic and preserving a diverse linked to executive networks exceeded partners, including same-sex partners, and inclusive culture is compensation, 100 groups and in our markets in Asia Pacific, where introduces expanded into all legally permissible. paramount for us. We metric on diverse regions. Citi signed the Obergefell amicus brief, know that diversity of candidate slates urging the U.S. Supreme Court to support for top positions. thought, backgrounds same-sex marriage in Obergefell vs. Citi signed the Hodges, the Supreme Court case that and perspectives produce Windsor amicus recognized the fundamental right of better outcomes for our brief in support same-sex couples to marry across the of Edith Windsor, United States. clients and customers.” in United States Michael L. Corbat, Citi implemented employee self-service v. Windsor, Chief Executive Officer, in the United States and United Kingdom, the Supreme Citigroup Inc. allowing employees to voluntarily selfCourt case identify their personal demographic data. that ultimately overturned Section Three of the Defense of Marriage Act. See What’s Ahead to find out more 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT DIVERSITY 8.2 Citi values all of our employees, respects their backgrounds and experiences, and promotes them based on contributions and merit. We are committed to growing the number of diverse leaders across the company. DIVERSITY AT CITI • Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender Our Workplace and Our People (LGBT) colleagues: Although many places Citi values all of our employees, respects their where we do business lack legal protections backgrounds and experiences, and promotes for LGBT employees, we are proud to be them based on contributions and merit. While among the 88 percent of Fortune 500 we embrace people of all backgrounds, we companies with nondiscrimination policies emphasize those groups who have historically that include sexual orientation.3 We not been underrepresented in the workplace. only treat our LGBT employees fairly and We are committed to growing the number equally, but also extend medical, leave and of diverse leaders across the company. beneficiary benefits to same-sex partners. We support our transgender employees • Women: Women account for half the by providing medical coverage for sex world’s working-age population, yet reassignment surgery and have policies research shows that they face high or in place to assist employees in transition. extremely high levels of gender inequality in work, legal protection and other essential • People with disabilities: A significant indicators in many countries. Because of percentage of people with disabilities are these barriers, there are fewer women than unemployed – according to one study in men in the labor force globally. Closing this industrialized countries, between 50 and gap can advance global growth by at least 70 percent of persons with disabilities We have a diverse culture that we are proud $12 trillion, or 11 percent, in annual 2025 GDP.1 of working age are unemployed and this of and a range of programs that promote Over half of Citi’s employees (51.4 percent) number is as high as 80 to 90 percent in diversity and diverse leadership throughout are women and our programs supporting developing countries due to misperceptions the company. In our robust Diversity Strategy, women at all levels help unlock their that they are unable to work or effectively we outline our work across the entire tremendous potential. perform job tasks.4 We believe that qualified employment experience, from attracting and candidates with disabilities are a rich source developing talent to building a workplace • Racial/ethnic minorities: We live in a of talent that can thrive in our workplace and culture of diversity and inclusion. Our connected, global world where influences encourage job applicants and employees strategy describes how diversity plays a role and ideas from every culture are needed. to tell us if they have unique needs so we in our relationships with clients, suppliers Global companies that score high on racial can accommodate them and allow them and communities. We highlight a few of and ethnic diversity are 35 percent more to flourish. our programs throughout this report. likely to deliver financial returns above their national industry medians.2 We strive • Military veterans: Military veterans are to have a racially and ethnically diverse strong sources of talent, yet companies workforce that reflects our global footprint often have trouble making the connection and diverse customer base. We have between military skills and available jobs, dedicated programs focused on increasing and have difficulties reaching veterans minority representation and leadership through traditional recruiting methods. at Citi. We have made good progress on Citi actively recruits veterans and has minority representation and it continues a solid record of hiring veterans in key to be an area of focus. positions; we currently employ more than 2,000 military-experienced colleagues. Learn more at Citi Salutes. 1 “ How advancing women’s equality can add $12 trillion to global growth”, J. Zoetzel, et. al., McKinsey & Company, September 2015. 2 “Why diversity matters”, V. Hunt, D. Layton and S. Prince, McKinsey & Company, January 2015. 3 Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender Workplace Issues, Catalyst, May 2015. 4 Employment of persons with disabilities, United Nations Enable, November 2007. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT DIVERSITY 8.3 “The unlocking of women’s potential in the global economy may well prove to be the key factor that tips the balance from a future of weak growth to one of sustained, inclusive CASE STUDY and improving growth over time.” Women in the Economy: Global Growth Generators, a Citi GPS report Diverse Leadership We also partner with Out & Equal Workplace HERITAGE NETWORKS EVENT Citi is a complex organization requiring strong Advocates, an organization dedicated to SPOTLIGHT SPONSORSHIP leaders at all levels and in all parts of the achieving workplace equality for LGBT BENEFITS world. For us, strength comes from diversity. employees. Our engagement is led by The focus of the 2015 annual Our internal programs develop our leaders employees from Citi’s Pride Networks – joint Employee Network today and our external partnerships with both LGBT and allies – and offers them meeting of the African Heritage diverse organizations help us recruit diverse opportunities to build leadership and Network-NYC, the Asian Pacific candidates to keep the pipeline growing presentation skills. At the 2015 Out & Heritage Network-NYC and the for tomorrow. Equal Workplace Summit, which brought Hispanic Heritage Network-NYC together LGBT employees, human resources was, “Career Sponsorship – In our Institutional Clients Group, we have the professionals and executives from around Taking the Next Step in Your Diversity Leadership Program to accelerate the world to learn from each other and Career”. More than 200 development of a diverse pipeline of leaders. from experts, Citi was represented by attendees, hundreds of remote The six-month program for high-potential 27 employees from the United States and listeners, and six senior-level women and minority vice president-level United Kingdom. Our employees presented presenters discussed career talent helps participants develop confidence, on four panels throughout the Summit, succession and sponsorship as executive presence and strategic skills including a featured panel on Employee critical components of career through workshops and individualized Self-Identification alongside IBM, Target development. coaching, and gives them access to and Stonewall. senior managers who serve as sponsors, The event began with a “fireside mentors and coaches. Since it began in Globally, women comprise 24 percent of chat” with Michael (Mike) 2006, 177 employees have participated. our senior managers at the director and O’Neill, Citi’s Chairman, and Don Ten percent of alumni have been promoted managing director levels, an increase in Callahan, Head of Operations to managing director, and many others representation from last year. In addition, and Technology and Chairman, have been promoted or taken on increased 29 percent of managing director promotes Global Employee Network responsibilities. Another 30 participants were women in 2015, a new record. We now Program. Mike and Don will begin the program in Spring 2016. have 19 female Citi country officers, up from reflected on the challenges four in 2008. Minority representation at they faced before reaching their In addition to internal programs that cultivate the manager level, however, particularly for leadership positions and agreed a diverse talent pipeline, we also partner Latino and African-American employees, has managers serve as the best with external organizations to promote been flat, signaling an area where we have sponsors for employees. They diversity in our industry. For example, we more work to do. advised employees to be bold, partner with Management Leadership for Tomorrow (MLT), a U.S. career development take risks and go outside their organization that prepares high-potential comfort zones. African-Americans, Hispanics and Native Another highlight of the Americans for leadership roles in sectors event was a panel discussion where they are underrepresented. Through moderated by Carolina a grant from the Citi Foundation, MLT Caballero, Hispanic Heritage offers pre-MBA (masters of business Network-NYC Co-Chair, and administration) students Career Transition featuring Citi senior leaders. and Leadership Seminars the summer before Panelists Mark Mason, Anita they start school to explore jobs in banking. Romero, and Jagdish Rao emphasized strong performance, clear vision and working with sponsors willing to challenge their protégés. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT DIVERSITY 8.4 Citi has published our EEO-1 Employer Information Survey in our annual diversity reporting since 1999. Over the past 16 years, we have consistently provided transparency to the public regarding our workforce demographics. 2015 Consolidated U.S. Employer Information Report (EEO-1)* Native Hawaiian Native or Pacific Total by Job Categories Gender White Black Hispanic Asian American Islander Multi-racial Gender Total Male 15 1 0 2 0 0 0 18 Executive/Senior Managers 23 Female 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 Male 6,164 462 966 1,797 23 18 26 9,456 First/Mid-Level Managers 16,644 Female 4,590 674 919 944 25 11 25 7,188 Male 7,520 699 1,361 3,113 28 22 74 12,817 Professionals 22,090 Female 5,275 898 1,160 1,849 25 14 52 9,273 Male 684 121 247 152 2 1 6 1,213 Technicians 2,474 Female 704 163 272 109 1 2 10 1,261 Male 2,045 288 700 498 10 13 13 3,567 Sales Workers 8,315 Female 2,390 607 1,147 534 22 19 29 4,748 Male 3,943 1,088 1,447 445 25 21 60 7,029 Administrative Support 26,017 Female 10,531 3,481 3,709 1,012 80 38 137 18,988 Male 2 8 3 2 0 0 0 15 Craft Workers 25 Female 5 1 4 0 0 0 0 10 Male 60 42 9 28 0 0 1 140 Operatives 255 Female 52 16 4 42 0 0 1 115 Male 20,433 2,709 4,733 6,037 88 75 180 34,255 Total 75,843 Female 23,552 5,840 7,215 4,490 153 84 254 41,588 * As of July 1, 2015. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT DIVERSITY 8.5 “Including diverse people on our teams gives us the best possible chance of identifying the full range of opportunities as well as seeing risk from a variety of perspectives. And that’s ultimately what our business needs to thrive.” Jim Cowles, Citi CEO, Europe, Middle East and Africa EMPLOYEE NETWORKS Citi Employee Networks are affinity groups initiated and led by our employees. They Affinity Groups • disABILITY (focused on people with 121 networks offer professional development, mentoring, networking and community engagement disabilities and their caregivers) 10 affinities • Generations opportunities to members. Consistent with our inclusive culture, groups are open • Heritage 15,000 members to all Citi employees, whether or not they – African Heritage identify with a particular community. – Asian Pacific Heritage 30 countries – Hispanic Heritage We now have 121 networks in 30 countries – Multicultural 56 locations and 56 locations with 15,000 members in • Military Veterans 10 affinity groups. • Parents • Pride (focused on LGBT communities) • Women North America 74 Asia Pacific Europe, 11 Middle East, Africa 29 Latin America 7 disABILITY Generations Heritage Military veterans Parents Pride Women Total Total networks 6 3 22 16 9 18 47 121 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT DIVERSITY 8.6 Citi Women includes two core leadership development programs for managing directors and directors: Women Leading Citi and the Citi Women’s Leadership CASE STUDY Development Program. Employee Voices In addition to advancing female leadership at CITI WOMEN AT WORK One of the most effective ways we assess the company, Citi is also promoting greater Joyce-Ann Wainaina is proof trends in the workplace and management female representation within our Board of of the power of mentoring, practices is through our annual Voice of Directors (Board). We elected two additional networking and knowledge the Employee (VOE) Survey. We value our women to our Board in 2015, increasing sharing. She joined Citi Kenya in employees’ opinions and were encouraged female representation to five of 16 (31%). 1990, advancing to leadership that 2015 VOE results indicated continued roles in Africa’s male-dominated We also launched additional Women’s employee interest and positive progress in banking industry through Employee Networks in our Nordic countries; diversity and inclusion. The diversity index determination, mentor support Switzerland; Bangladesh; Costa Rica; Russia; in our VOE Survey, which measures four and Citi’s career development Columbus, Ohio; and Chennai, India. This items – senior manager support for diversity, programs. Wainaina was Citi brings the number of women’s networks equal opportunity for a successful career, Country Officer (CCO) in Zambia to 47 of Citi’s 121 global networks. manager support for work/life balance and from 2011 to 2014, and the first whether employees felt they were treated Citi is active in a number of women’s Kenyan and first woman Chief with respect and dignity – increased to 81 leadership initiatives, including the U.S. Executive Officer (CEO) of Citi percent favorability, an all-time high outcome, Chapter of the 30% Club, a group of business East Africa. up from 79 percent in 2014. leaders, including our CEO, committed to better gender balance at all levels “In my first role as CCO Women at Citi Zambia, there was only one of their organizations. We partner with Women make up more than half of our woman on the management organizations globally – Catalyst, the Center workforce, yet they are less represented at committee of nine seniors in for Talent Innovation, Community Business, our most senior ranks. We started Citi Women 2011”, said Wainaina. “By the Opportunity Now and Working Mother Media in 2006 as a global initiative to advance time I left in 2014, 45 percent – and champion the advancement of women women’s representation in leadership roles of the management team and diverse talent. Our executives also across our business. Two senior executives were female, all appointed on participate in national forums showcasing lead the effort with an advisory team. merit. As Citi CEO East Africa,​ our views on the importance of women in Citi Women includes two core leadership leadership and their contributions to global I had the opportunity to fill two development programs for directors and economic growth. CCO vacancies. I ensured a managing directors: Women Leading Citi (see diverse slate of candidates was feature on the next page), which graduated interviewed and was delighted 51 participants in 2015, and the Citi Women’s we hired a female CCO for Leadership Development Program, which Uganda – Sarah Arapta.” hosted 154 participants representing 32 Wainaina is especially proud countries in 2015. Thanks to these and other of the Sapphire Leadership dynamic local or business-led leadership Program, started in 2015. programs, women at Citi have made solid She co-designed this 12-week progress over the past few years. mentoring program for highperforming women assistant vice presidents, vice presidents and senior vice presidents in sub-Saharan Africa with two other Citi women leaders and the help of Human Resources. It pairs women with managing directors with experience in the region. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT DIVERSITY 8.7 7 FEATURE: WOMEN LEADING CITI SPONSORSHIP DEIRDRE DUNN AND CAREY LATHROP While we appreciate the value of “Women Leading Citi exceeded my “The Sponsor relationship is a mentoring, research by the Center for expectations. The coaching and partnership. As a first time Sponsor, Talent Innovation (CTI) shows sponsorship strong commitment from the firm and I benefited as much from working – proactive advocacy of high-potential my peers in the program opened up with Deirdre as she did from me. We employees – is much more effective in a whole new landscape of resources jointly came up with a plan, and met helping people earn pay raises, high-profile available to help me improve the regularly to discuss progress, and assignments and promotions. However, performance of my business. made adjustments as needed. research also finds that generally, fewer Beyond that, the impact of my I learned from our many women and minorities have sponsors.5 Sponsor relationship was invaluable. conversations and tailored my advice In 2009, we started Women Leading Citi, Carey provided introductions that and support based on her interests an 18-month sponsorship program helped me to more efficiently navigate and needs. I really enjoyed being a for senior level women, pairing each the firm and leverage best practices part of the program, which gave me participant with an executive sponsor across departments. The insights the opportunity to develop a strong to increase her visibility and serve as her and shared perspective of running lasting relationship with a high advocate. Since then, three classes have a business enabled me to make potential leader that lasted beyond been held, with a total of 173 women better informed and more thoughtful the program, benefiting us both.” around the world participating. decisions within my own area.” Carey Lathrop, The program is well received by Deirdre Dunn, Global Head of Credit participants and they would recommend Head of North America Markets, Citi the program to others; however, we noticed G10 Rates, Citi that participants’ relationships with their sponsors could be stronger. Before we launch the fourth class, we will refine the CECILIA RONAN AND NAVEED SULTAN program design and add components “Women Leading Citi enhanced my “Diversity is critical for organizations to strengthen relationships between confidence in my ability to be a leader and businesses to operate participants and sponsors to increase at Citi. Having Naveed as a sponsor, successfully in an increasingly global effectiveness and support the mobility, who was genuine in his feedback and complex environment. Programs development and retention of and support, and encouraged me like Women Leading Citi are key to senior women leaders at Citi. to take on new challenges, made facilitating greater diversity, especially a big difference in my career. I am at the senior levels. I enjoy being a determined to pay it forward to other Sponsor for promising talent like women in the organization.” Cecilia and encourage all managers to embrace this approach in their Cecilia Ronan, daily work beyond just participating Chief Administrative Officer, through a formal program.” Citi Ireland Naveed Sultan, Global Head of Treasury and Trade Solutions, Citi 5 The sponsor effect: breaking through the last glass ceiling, Sylvia Ann Hewlett, et. al., Center for Work-Life Policy, December 2010. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT DIVERSITY 8.8 The value of diversity to our business extends throughout the value chain, from our employees to our suppliers. CASE STUDY Client Engagement Supplier Diversity PROVIDING OPPORTUNITIES We know many of our clients value diversity The value of diversity to our business TO VETERANS as passionately as we do, and we invite them extends throughout the value chain, from Citi has a long-standing to participate in activities celebrating this our employees to our suppliers. We created commitment of supporting important part of our culture. the Citi Supplier Diversity Program to give our military veterans and Each year, Citi celebrates International maximum opportunity to diverse partners providing opportunities to Women’s Day (IWD) globally to recognize who satisfy our purchasing and contractual veteran communities. In 2015, women’s achievements and remind our standards. The program provides diverse we worked exclusively with employees and clients that the recruitment, suppliers with equal access to business veteran-owned firms for the involvement and advancement of women opportunities, financial services and first time to syndicate a is a business imperative. In 2015, we hosted technical assistance. For more details on our $1.5 billion bond issuance. 231 IWD events in 134 cities in 90 countries, supply chain, download our Sustainability We hired five veteran-owned including 35 client events that attracted Fact sheet. financial firms to distribute 1,500 guests. U.S. Procurement Spend the bonds to investors: • In Guatemala City, Guatemala, with Diverse Suppliers Academy Securities, Inc.; approximately 100 women in financial, CAVU Securities, LLC; Drexel Year Diverse Spend* professional, political and social careers Hamilton, LLC; Mischler took part in Global Mentoring Walk 2015, 2011 $426M Financial Group, Inc.; and an event we jointly hosted with Vital Voices 2012 $632M Multi-Bank Securities, Inc. Guatemala, to give women the opportunity We will continue to involve 2013 $776M to exchange experiences and share goals veteran-owned firms in similar and dreams with others who have 2014 $797M transactions in the future. achieved success. 2015 $783M In addition, through our • In Stockholm, Sweden, Eirik Winter, Citi’s * Includes both Tier One and Tier Two figures. company-wide Citi Salutes Chairman Nordic Region and Head of initiative, veterans are Nordic Investment Banking, hosted a Citi connected to Citi’s entire Women Network Lunch for clients on the range of services geared theme of “Female Purchasing Power”. to the military community, A panel of well-known business leaders including career opportunities, discussed how to attract more clients to partnerships with leading the business in the future and the impact veteran service organizations of diversified management. and innovative banking • In Hong Kong, we welcomed Yip Wing-sie, services. renowned conductor of the Hong Kong Sinfonietta, and Cissy Pao, a well-respected and passionate arts advocate to share their views in a panel discussion on today’s working women who are both independent and family-focused. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT DIVERSITY 8.9 Going forward, we hope to expand the opportunity for self-identification in more countries, understanding that local laws and customs impact identity consideration CASE STUDY and tracking. WHAT’S AHEAD Unconscious Bias WORKING WITH PRIDE: Self-Identification Everyone has preconceptions – positive CITI’S PRIDE NETWORKS In November 2015, Citi announced an and negative – that influence their decisions Over 1,000 LGBT employees expanded voluntary self-identification and actions. To help keep these unconscious and allies participate in Citi’s 18 enhancement to our employee self-service biases from affecting our recruiting and Pride Networks globally, which platform for our incumbent workforces in the hiring decisions, we currently train our now cover all regions where United States and United Kingdom. Rolling recruiting teams in North America to be we operate. Network members out self-identification can be challenging, aware of judgments based on gender, promote LGBT awareness, do as dimensions of diversity are dynamic and race, disability, sexual orientation, cultural community outreach and help identities are often complex. We partnered background, educational experience, religion recruit and retain diverse talent. with external experts and conducted internal and other factors. In 2015, we launched a Pride focus groups to determine the best process In 2016, Citi will expand this effort and Network in Sydney, our second for implementation. We will be able to more launch a global training program to educate in Asia Pacific and our first in accurately measure our population through approximately 100,000 officers on key Australia. During the launch, expanded demographic characteristics diversity and inclusion topics through online Julian Potter, Citi’s Country including sex, race, ethnicity, disability, scenario-based experiences. The training Business Manager, Australia, sexual orientation, gender identity and, will support our culture of inclusion by and the network’s executive in the United States, military veteran status. covering topics such as unconscious bias and sponsor, signed an official letter This will help us understand more about our the business case for a diverse workforce. on Citi’s behalf supporting employee community and in turn develop Participants will learn how to take actions marriage equality in Australia. more effective people strategies including to lessen the impact of their implicit biases On the other side of the hiring, promotion, mobility and retention and gain knowledge on how to promote an globe, Citi’s Pride Network in of the best talent. inclusive culture. Belfast, Ireland helped launch The way individuals define their personal Diverse Interview Panels Northern Ireland’s Regional characteristics continues to evolve as We are committed to building a diverse Network of Corporate Pride migration and attitudinal shifts in society pipeline of talent and strengthening our Networks, which currently has change population demographics and selection capabilities to ensure that we 12 member companies. influence the way people define their hire the best talent. In addition to providing identities. Going forward, we hope to expand trainings on unconscious bias globally and the opportunity for self-identification in more using diverse slates when filling senior countries, understanding that local laws and level positions, we are introducing diverse customs impact identity consideration interview panels that include at least and tracking. one woman globally and/or racial/ethnic minorities in the United States for managing director level hires. Our goal in 2016 is for at least 75 percent of managing director level hires to be interviewed by a panel with at least one diverse panel member. We intend to expand this practice into hiring decisions further down in the organization in the future. To find out more, go to: citi.com/citizenship 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT DIVERSITY 8.10 image Workforce and Talent As the financial sector becomes more digital, banks seek talent and skillsets beyond traditional finance and recruit from a variety of backgrounds. Moreover, today’s talent seeks flexible work arrangements and employers with a clear social purpose. WHAT’S HAPPENING WHAT CITI IS DOING 2015 HIGHLIGHTS Though competition for talent among banks We constantly evolve how we attract, retain and financial institutions remains high, and develop talent globally. Our talent and We launched our updated the talent landscape has shifted in recent years following the financial crisis. As the workforce programs develop and strengthen skills, communicate our expectations for Leadership financial sector becomes more digital, ethical conduct and promote an environment Standards banks seek talent and skillsets beyond of learning and leadership. traditional finance and recruit from a broad In our annual Voice of the In addition to rolling out our Mission and Employee Survey, range of backgrounds. The integration of Value Proposition this year, we rewrote the Millennial generation into the global workforce is also having a profound effect on our Leadership Standards to ensure our employee the way businesses operate. Today’s global expectations of people are clear and reflect our vision and values. The updated Leadership satisfaction talent seeks flexible work arrangements and employers with a clear social purpose. Standards demonstrate the behaviors Citi increased to 76% expects of employees. Citi’s senior leadership was involved in creating these Standards, More than and we conducted leadership meetings and focus groups to ensure they resonate across 80,000 volunteers participated in our 10th annual the company. Global Community Day More than 15,000 employees used formal flexible work arrangements 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT WORKFORCE AND TALENT 9.1 Exposure and access to Citi’s diverse businesses, products and regions are key differentiators in attracting talent, and powerful development tools for individuals once they join. CASE STUDY A Global Workforce Additionally, among our 128 employee ONBOARDING SETS UP NEW We believe the best way to develop talent is networks, we have several groups dedicated MANAGERS FOR SUCCESS through experience. Exposure and access to to fostering cross-generational awareness. For the first time Citi has Citi’s diverse businesses, products and regions These employee-led groups examine and taken a global approach to are key differentiators in attracting talent, and address challenges and opportunities that onboarding newly hired and powerful development tools for individuals exist when working with different generations newly promoted managers once they join. in the workplace, providing the means for through the launch of the open dialogue on how to improve crossNew Manager Experience We are committed to promoting from within, generational interactions. Some examples (NME). The program provides which means having a pipeline of leaders include mentoring programs and networking onboarding; leadership ready to assume leadership positions across opportunities to enhance communications expectations; an overview the firm. To achieve this, we developed an among the generations. of information, systems and end-to-end process of assessing, developing and coaching leaders against specific success Diversity of Thought resources available on Citi profiles for these roles. Diversity and inclusion are key drivers of For You, our global Human progress and success. As part of our annual Resources intranet; a path to Through short and long-term mobility building manager capabilities; talent review, we identify diverse talent programs, a centralized global recruitment and “how-to” guidance on to watch, identify opportunities for their system and ongoing training programs, we are basic management tasks. development, and track and review their leveraging our global network for our talent’s Approximately 1,600 newly progress over the course of the year. We are career growth and personal development. hired and 5,400 newly focused on ensuring diverse candidates are In our Global Consumer Bank, we have an represented on slates for open positions, and promoted managers participate Emerging Talent Accelerator Program that selection panels are comprised of diverse each year through in-person builds career management skills and facilitates leaders. Additionally, we are focused on and virtual facilitator-led cross-boundary moves within Citi. Our providing coaching and development support classrooms, social learning, Institutional Clients Group recently announced to increase diverse representation at the networking with peers and justplans to offer broader rotation options for most senior levels. In 2015, we conducted in-time digital resources. analysts and associates as well as options to Unconscious Bias training at senior levels in participate in a service year before taking a the bank, and in 2016, we will make it available full-time position. Citi Ventures, our venture to all Citi people managers. For more on capital and corporate innovation division, our efforts to create a diverse and inclusive facilitates the Catalyst program, a one to two culture, visit the Citigroup website. year placement for individuals to work with senior business leaders to design client-centric solutions and approaches identified by the business. We believe these programs driving mobility help develop breadth and more general management experience among our top talent. Case Study – Footnote 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT WORKFORCE AND TALENT 9.2 Each year, we take approximately 10,000 leaders through our core leadership curriculum to enhance management and leadership quality at Citi and strengthen our pipeline CASE STUDY of leaders. Learning and Development 35,000 employees were trained in Ethics ASIA’S INSPIRING WOMEN We believe learning is part of work. On-the-job and Leadership. Nearly 213,000 employees LEADERS PROGRAM experiences, collaboration and exposure participated in anti-money laundering, Asia’s Inspiring Women to others encourage employees to engage, sanctions and anti-bribery and corruption Leaders Program (IWLP) is a six innovate and maximize their potential. Each training. We also provided training on Citi’s month program that focuses year, we take approximately 10,000 leaders Global Consumer Banking Fairness Policy on developing high-potential through our core leadership curriculum to and Treating Customers Fairly Program to female leaders. Instituted in enhance management and leadership quality approximately 123,000 employees. For more 2015, more than 50 women at Citi and strengthen our pipeline of leaders. information, download our Conduct, Culture have participated, with great To ensure the tone from the top reinforces and Governance Fact sheet. engagement from senior our expectations of our leaders, we assess leaders across Asia Pacific. This year we partnered with Udemy, one of even those in very senior roles, and help IWLP covers topics including the largest producers of educational “how-to” them continue to develop. We closely align building presence and impact, videos, to offer more than 1,000 business our learning and development programs with authentic leadership and courses developed by industry experts Citi’s talent priorities and business strategy. risk taking and is delivered and individuals. During the four-month soft We use active learning techniques to increase through classroom and virtual launch, 4,627 Citi employees from around engagement, and technology to increase sessions. The program also the world accessed Udemy. The “Academy of access, scale and impact. has mentoring, peer coaching You” content was made available at the start Our training and development efforts this year of 2016, allowing employees to access the and career discussions with focused on areas we believe are imperative library when they want and from any Webmanagers built in. to our success as a company. As part of our enabled device, including home computers, Culture and Ethics efforts this year, more than smartphones and tablets. Summary of Training Hours 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Instructor Led 6.0M 5.2M 5.8M 5.6M 5.7M Web-Based Learning 3.9M 5.3M 5.1M 5.0M 4.8M Other 0.20M 0.16M 0.23M 0.20M 0.05M Total 10.1M 10.6M 11.2M 10.8M 10.5M Average hours per employee 38 40 44 45 46 Global Employee Training by Region Region Hours per Employee Asia Pacific 46 Europe, Middle East and Africa 26 Latin America 56 North America 44 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT WORKFORCE AND TALENT 9.3 Through shortand long-term mobility programs, a centralized global recruitment system and ongoing training programs, we are leveraging our global network for our talent’s career growth and personal development. WORKFORCE DATA* Employees by Employment Type Employees by Gender Part-Time, 4,757 Female, 118,802 Full Time, 226,343 Male, 112,298 Employees 231,100 Non-Employee Workers 16,754 Total Workforce 247,854 Total Workforce by Region North America (NAM) 81,407 Asia Pacific (APAC) Total Europe, 66,546 247,854 Middle East, Africa (EMEA) Latin 33,242 America (LATAM) 66,659 Gender Region Total Citi Male Female APAC EMEA LATAM NAM Number and rate of new employee hires # 53,353 27,088 26,265 14,612 6,157 15,433 17,151 by gender and region Rate 22% 24% 21% 23% 20% 25% 21% Number and rate of employee turnover # 52,210 25,674 26,536 12,969 5,189 17,070 16,982 by gender and region Rate 22% 23% 21% 21% 17% 27% 21% * As of December 31, 2015. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT WORKFORCE AND TALENT 9.4 Whether a flexible schedule or working remotely, different work styles have rapidly become an integral part of Citi’s culture. Workforce Wellbeing Employee Engagement We provide a positive work environment and Engaged employees – those who feel WHAT’S AHEAD offer tools and resources to support wellbeing. connected to their companies, teams and The dynamic global business environment Our Live Well programs help employees work – perform better and deliver better requires us to continually assess and and their families achieve their health goals, results. Managers account for 70 percent of strengthen our talent and workforce efforts. and our Save Well plans guide them to build the variance in employee engagement across We know competition for talent is not financial stability. business units1, so we rely on them to motivate diminishing. We also know that to maintain their teams day-to-day. We also believe, strong relationships with our clients and Since 2005, Citi has provided a common however, it is important for us to encourage partners, we must have the right people in framework for managers and employees employees to engage with their colleagues and the right roles making the right decisions, who are considering flexible work strategies. Citi in community activities in which we share a day in and day out. We made progress this Whether a flexible schedule or working common purpose. year in communicating these expectations remotely, different work styles have rapidly become an integral part of Citi’s culture. With Global Community Day, our flagship employee to our global network of employees and more than 15,000 employees using formal engagement campaign, which we have embracing our standards and values day-toflexible work arrangements last year, the held for 10 years running, symbolizes our day, but we know more needs to be done. We program is yielding measurable benefits to commitment to enabling progress through will build on these efforts to create a diverse both employees and the company in terms service. This year, more than 80,000 Citi workforce and inclusive culture that enables of increased employee satisfaction and volunteers participated in over 1,200 events in progress worldwide. retention, business continuity and more 93 countries and territories and 487 cities. To find out more, go to: efficient real estate utilization. citi.com/citizenship In 2015, Citi volunteers contributed more than Voice of the Employee Survey one million volunteer hours in the communities where we do business. From hands-on activities such as urban revitalization, environmental conservation and disaster 73% 73% 74% 73% 76% Satisfied relief, to skills-based opportunities where employees act as college and career mentors or teach financial education, Citi volunteers give back to meet the pressing needs of our 16% 16% 15% 16% 15% Neutral communities, experience personal fulfillment 11% 11% 11% 11% 9% Dissatisfied and lay the foundation for professional growth. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Response rate Volunteering 88% 89% 88% 87% 87% Year Volunteer Hours 2011 789,000 2012 1,340,433 2013 955,606 2014 961,603 2015 1,043,058 For more information about our volunteer programs and the impacts of our 2015 Global Community Day, click here. 1 Managers Account for 70% of Variance in Employee Engagement, Gallup, April 2015. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT WORKFORCE AND TALENT 9.5 Citi Foundation The Citi Foundation invests in innovative local ideas and solutions to address complex social and economic challenges around the world. We create economic opportunity and social mobility for low-income people and partner with stakeholders to bring successful solutions to scale. WHAT’S HAPPENING WHAT THE CITI FOUNDATION IS DOING 2015 HIGHLIGHTS Cities are experiencing unprecedented The Citi Foundation promotes economic population growth, which poses serious progress and creates measurable impact We gave more than challenges to governments and institutions. Economic growth has not resulted in in low-income communities where Citi has a presence. In 2015, we invested $78 million $78 million in grants to economic advancement for all, and many in 85 countries and territories to advance low-income adults and youth struggle to financial inclusion, prepare young people achieve financial stability and success. To for the 21st century economy and spur 376 NGOs eliminate roadblocks and make meaningful economic opportunity for low-income across systemic change, stakeholders from across residents in cities. industries and sectors must come together and work toward common goals and visions. Our philanthropic focus is intentionally 85 countries We think the most important role of aligned with Citi’s mission to enable progress, but we operate as an independent entity, and territories that served over philanthropy is to inspire people to believe in making grants to nongovernmental (NGO) their own futures and eliminate barriers that innovators and supporting research to stand in their way. This is not sentimentality, advance the field. We are not in the “check 1 million people but quite the opposite. Grantees can guide writing” business; we are partners and young people, for example, to secure their investors who collaborate with leading NGOs financial futures and monitor their progress, to develop local solutions for communities, but each person has to make the journey him/ support research to deepen knowledge of herself. Our job as a philanthropic foundation what works and amplify those approaches is to invest in programs and ideas that help through thought leadership activities. inspire them to get there. While we are willing to take risks, we hold ourselves and our grantees accountable for generating measurable social returns and acting as change agents. We enhance these efforts by engaging Citi employees through volunteerism. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CITI FOUNDATION 10.1 In 2015, we implemented new investment mechanisms and expanded existing ones CASE STUDIES to support programs and partners with innovative ideas and models. In 2015, Citi Foundation contributed more ASIA-PACIFIC FINANCIAL WHAT IT’S WORTH than $78 million to projects and partners INCLUSION SUMMIT What It’s Worth: Strengthening around the world. The Asia-Pacific Financial the Financial Future of 2015 Citi Foundation Giving by Focus Area Inclusion Summit played a pivotal Families, Communities and role in facilitating conversations the Nation, makes clear why Area Amount and collaboration among diverse every household’s financial Financial Inclusion $34M stakeholders. About 500 health matters for the U.S. Youth Economic Opportunities $30M representatives of government economy to thrive. The book agencies, financial services includes a chapter by the Citi Urban Transformation $13M firms, microfinance institutions, Foundation on our experience Other $1M nonprofit organizations, supporting financial inclusion technology providers and other programs that promote the 2015 Citi Foundation Giving by Geography groups gathered in Manila, financial security of lowPhilippines, in October 2015, income communities. It also Region Amount to accelerate financial inclusion shows how those working in United States $44M in the Asia-Pacific region. The education, health, housing, International $34M summit was organized by the workforce training, justice and Citi Foundation, The Foundation other sectors play a critical for Development Cooperation role in removing barriers to 2015 Citi Foundation Grant Metrics* (FDC) and the Financial Times, financial health and well-being. in partnership with the Banking It provides a 360-degree view Impact Result with the Poor Network and of the financial challenges Participants Served 1,005,991 support from host partner millions of American Individuals Adopting Positive 369,013 Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP). households face, the enormous Financial Behaviors Participants tackled inclusive creativity and innovation Youth Enrolling or Completing 103,227 finance, digital technology already happening to increase Postsecondary Education or to reach the unbanked, the financial well-being, and how Training regulatory environment, how to we can implement proven and New Jobs Created by Building or 35,147 scale microfinance institutions emerging solutions. The book Expanding over 28,000 Micro and and financial education delivery was produced in partnership Small Enterprises models. The Summit was an with the Corporation for NGOs Strengthened 1,943 important milestone in our work Enterprise Development to advance the conversation (CFED) and the Federal * Based on grantee projections. and drive action in the financial Reserve Bank of San Francisco inclusion space. and funded by the Citi Foundation. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CITI FOUNDATION 10.2 Through Pathways to Progress, we are working with community partners, government leaders and Citi volunteers globally to deliver high-impact programs to CASE STUDY help put young people on the road to economic success. Onramps to Opportunity We learned from grantees that they ACCELERATING PATHWAYS We evolve and refine our investment needed more core operating support to be To guide public and private approach as we listen and learn from our more effective. This $20 million Fund is a efforts to prepare urban stakeholders, including community partners, multiyear initiative dedicated to providing youth to thrive and to inform about what works and what more is needed. capacity building funding to NGOs working our youth work globally, we Throughout 2015, we reaffirmed and in low-income communities in six U.S. cities – commissioned Accelerating enhanced our commitment to invest in the Chicago, Los Angeles, Miami, New York City, Pathways. This global study, economic future of urban youth. Since 2014, San Francisco Bay Area and Washington, conducted by the Economist we have committed grant funds, leveraged D.C. In addition to grant funding, grantees Intelligence Unit, compares Citi volunteers’ time and talent, and used will have access to leading national experts youth perceptions of their our program team’s technical expertise and researchers, and technical support from economic prospects in 35 to deploy programs that create economic Citi volunteers, as well as opportunities to cities, and identifies factors opportunities for low-income youth. Our support and learn from one another. contributing to an enabling signature program, Pathways to Progress, economic environment for Pathways to Progress is a cornerstone of these efforts. Initially, young people. The research Through Pathways to Progress, the Citi the program targeted youth in 10 U.S. cities. is sparking a dialogue around Foundation supports programs to help Global needs led us to expand the initiative what is working well in cities and urban youth build an entrepreneurial around the world in 2015. why, and helping make the case mindset, acquire leadership, financial and Dialogue, Learning and Action workplace skills, and engage in the economy why investing in young people In addition to funding direct service through first jobs. is crucial to the economic programs, we invest and partner to competitiveness of cities. In the United States, we made a three-year, Accelerating Pathways includes accelerate promising ideas and models. $50 million commitment to connect 100,000 an interactive, comparative Through meetings, summits and research low-income young people with opportunities database to help decision initiatives, the Citi Foundation shares what to develop workplace and leadership makers, practitioners and we learn, learns from others and promotes skills. We work with community partners, scholars analyze these factors dialogue to achieve progress. government leaders and Citi volunteers in by city, region and metrics. New Investment Mechanisms 10 cities to deliver high-impact programs In 2015, we implemented new investment to help put young people on the road to mechanisms and expanded existing ones success. More than 1,000 Citi employees have to support programs and partners with engaged as volunteer mentors and coaches. innovative ideas and models. We moved into Since launching in 2014, we’ve reached more the second year of the India Innovation Grant than 70,000 young people and invested Program to accelerate and broaden financial $35 million, putting us on a path to exceed inclusion in India. In the United States, we our three-year, U.S. goal. launched the new Community Progress In 2015, we expanded Pathways to Progress Makers Fund to support and strengthen the globally. In London, for example, a unique impact of community organizations who are collaboration between the London Evening change agents in their cities. Standard newspaper and The London Community Foundation brought together community champions and groups on the Angell Town Estate to increase social cohesion, youth employability and raise their job prospects, whilst also bringing visibility to the issue and documenting the campaign’s impact. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CITI FOUNDATION 10.3 We will not only bring promising approaches and models to fruition, but also share our knowledge and results to provide economic opportunities for all. WHAT’S AHEAD PATHWAYS TO PROGRESS While progress is being made, we know THE U.S. COMMITMENT there are still many challenges facing urban populations, especially young people. Getting it right for upcoming generations means THE GOAL cities will become places of opportunity where people want to live and work, and A 3-year initiative in which we invest $50 million dollars to help businesses want to locate. We will continue 100,000 urban youth connect to economic opportunities. to generate opportunities for low-income people including youth, and collaborate closely with community partners and municipal leaders to identify and test THE JOURNEY innovative solutions at the local level. We will not only bring promising approaches and models to fruition, but also share our knowledge and results to provide economic opportunities for all. To find out more, go to: citi.com/citizenship Building an Acquiring leadership, Engaging in the entrepreneurial financial and formal economy mindset workplace skills through a first job THE PROGRESS Youth served 1,000+ Citi employees Invested have dedicated 70,000+ $35m+ served to date of our 100,000 goal 17,000+ volunteer hours invested to date of our $50m goal THE IMPACT 5,200+ 70+ 1,700+ youth engaged in businesses youth engaged in service projects started entrepreneurship training 325,000+ hours of mentorship 3,900+ summer jobs created Impact and progress numbers are inclusive of the first two years of the three year program 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CITI FOUNDATION 10.4 2015 Global Citizenship Report Global Reporting Initiative Index We are reporting in alignment with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Guidelines. The GRI Index table below assists our readers to find disclosures in our 2015 Global Citizenship Report, 2015 Annual Report, 2015 10-K, 2016 Proxy Statement and our company website. G4 Disclosure Reference and Comments STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 CEO Letter Strategy G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Strategy Sustainability 2015 10-K PDF page 79 (labeled page 77) ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Organization name Citigroup Inc. G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 2015 Form 10-K PDF page 5 (labeled page 3) Citi Website: http://www.citigroup.com/citi/about/citi_at_a_glance.html G4-5 Headquarters location 388 Greenwich Street New York, NY 10013 G4-6 Where the organization operates 2015 Form 10-K PDF page 15 (labeled page 13) Citi Website: http://www.citigroup.com/citi/about/countrypresence/ G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 2015 Form 10-K Cover Page G4-8 Markets served 2015 Form 10-K PDF pages 5-6 (labeled pages 3-4) G4-9 Scale of the organization 2015 Annual Report PDF, page 3 (labeled page 1), page 10 (labeled page 8) G4-10 Total number of employees by type Workforce and Talent No portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. No significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment). G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements Human Rights G4-12 Supply chain description Sustainability – Operations and Supply Chain G4-13 Organizational changes during the reporting period 2015 Annual Report – CEO letter to shareholders, PDF page 4-7 (labeled pages 2-5) G4-14 Precautionary principle Sustainability – Environmental and Social Risk Management G4-15 External charters, principles, or other initiatives Carbon Disclosure Project Equator Principles Green Bond Principles Natural Capital Declaration UN Global Compact Wolfsberg Principles G4-16 Membership associations http://www.citigroup.com/citi/investor/data/ccpcs.pdf IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in financial statements 2015 Form 10-K PDF pages 5-6 (labeled pages 3-4) G4-18 Process for defining report boundaries and content Strategy G4-19 Material aspects included in the report Strategy G4-20 Descriptions of material aspect boundaries within the organization Strategy G4-21 Descriptions of material aspect boundaries outside the organization Strategy G4-22 Restatements No such restatements G4-23 Changes from previous reports in terms of scope and/or boundaries No such restatements STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder groups Citi Citizenship Website – Strategy G4-25 How stakeholders were identified Strategy G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Strategy G4-27 Topics raised during stakeholder engagements Strategy 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX 11.1 G4 Disclosure Reference and Comments REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period This report covers fiscal and calendar year 2015. G4-29 Date of most recent report June 2015 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Report contact 388 Greenwich Street New York, NY 10013 citizenship@citi.com G4-32 “In accordance” option, GRI Index and report assurance This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. G4-33 Policy regarding report assurance We externally assure our Equator Principles data and Operations data annually. SGS Assurance Letter GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organization Corporate Governance Guidelines pages 1 and 5 2016 Proxy PDF pages 23-25 (labeled pages 17-19) Strategy Sustainability Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter G4-35 Process for delegating authority for sustainability topics from the Strategy board to senior executives and other employees Sustainability Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter G4-36 High-level accountability for sustainability topics Strategy G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders Strategy and the board on sustainability topics G4-38 Composition of the board and its committees 2016 Proxy Statement PDF pages 25-26 (labeled pages 19-20) and pages 37-52 (labeled pages 31-46) G4-39 Whether the chair of the board is also an executive officer 2016 Proxy Statement PDF page 22 (labeled page 16) Citi’s Chairman, Michael O’Neill, is an independent director. Citi has had an independent Chairman since 2009. G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the board and its committees 2016 Proxy Statement PDF pages 33-34 (labeled pages 27-28) G4-41 Board conflicts of interest 2016 Proxy Statement PDF pages 19-21 (labeled pages 13-15) G4-42 Board and executives’ roles in the organization’s mission statements, Strategy strategies, policies, and goals related to sustainability impacts Sustainability G4-43 Board knowledge of sustainability topics Strategy G4-44 Board performance with respect to governance of sustainability topics 2016 Proxy PDF page 18 (labeled page 12) Corporate Governance Guidelines pages 5-6 G4-45 Board role in the identification and management of sustainability Strategy impacts, risks, and opportunities Sustainability Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter G4-46 Board role in reviewing risk management processes Strategy for sustainability topics Sustainability Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter G4-47 Frequency of the board’s review of sustainability impacts, risks, At least annually and opportunities G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves Executive Vice President, Global Public Affairs the organization’s sustainability report G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the board Code of Conduct (page 12) 2016 Proxy Statement PDF page 30 (labeled page 24) Strategy G4-51 Remuneration policies for the board and senior executives 2016 Proxy Statement PDF page 24 (labeled page 18) (personnel and compensation committee). Also see Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter pages 1-4 http://www.citigroup.com/citi/investor/data/percompcharter.pdf G4-52 Process for determining remuneration 2016 Proxy Statement PDF page 24 (labeled page 18) (personnel and compensation committee). Also see Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter pages 1-4 http://www.citigroup.com/citi/investor/data/percompcharter.pdf G4-53 Stakeholders’ views on remuneration 2016 Proxy Statement PDF page 24 (labeled page 18) (personnel and compensation committee). Also see Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter pages 1-4 http://www.citigroup.com/citi/investor/data/percompcharter.pdf ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Code of conduct Code of Conduct Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals Conduct, Culture and Governance G4-57 Helplines or advice lines for employees Ask the Ethics Office (internal) Ethics Hotline (internal and external) G4-58 Mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical Ethics Hotline or unlawful behavior 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX 11.2 G4 Disclosure Location in 2015 Citizenship Report webpage (link) or external resource (link) or direct answer CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Aspect: Economic Performance G4-DMA 2015 Annual Report G4-EC1 Economic value 2015 Annual Report PDF page 131 (labeled page 129), PDF pages 300-302 (labeled pages 298-300) Financing Development Citi Foundation Performance Summary G4-EC2 Climate change risks 2015 Annual Report PDF page 79 (labeled page 77) Sustainability CDP response G4-EC3 Benefit plan coverage 2015 Annual Report https://citibenefitsonline.com/SitePages/Home.aspx Aspect: Market Presence G4-EC5 Ratio of entry level wage to local minimum wage We provide competitive levels of compensation above local minimum wage requirements. Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Inclusive Cities Financing Development G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments Inclusive Cities Financing Development Sustainability – Environmental and Social Risk Management G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts Inclusive Cities Financing Development Sustainability – Environmental Finance CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Aspect: Energy G4-DMA Sustainability – Operations and Supply Chain G4-EN3 Energy consumption Sustainability – Operations and Supply Chain (Scope 1 + 2) G4-EN4 Energy consumption Sustainability – Operations and Supply Chain (Scope 3) G4-EN5 Energy intensity Sustainability – Operations and Supply Chain G4-EN6 Energy reductions Sustainability – Operations and Supply Chain Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA Sustainability – Operations and Supply Chain G4-EN15 GHG emissions Sustainability – Operations and Supply Chain (Scope 1) G4-EN16 GHG emissions Sustainability – Operations and Supply Chain (Scope 2) G4-EN17 GHG emissions Sustainability – Operations and Supply Chain (Scope 3) G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity Sustainability – Operations and Supply Chain G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Sustainability – Operations and Supply Chain Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Sustainability – Operations and Supply Chain G4-EN23 Waste by type and disposal method Sustainability – Operations and Supply Chain Aspect: Products and Services G4-DMA Sustainability – Environmental and Social Risk Management G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services Sustainability – Environmental and Social Risk Management Aspect: Transport G4-DMA Sustainability – Operations and Supply Chain G4-EN30 Environmental impacts from product distribution and employee travel Sustainability – Operations and Supply Chain 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX 11.3 G4 Disclosure Location in 2015 Citizenship Report webpage (link) or external resource (link) or direct answer CATEGORY: SOCIAL Sub-Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment G4-DMA Workforce and Talent G4-LA1 Number and rate of new employee hires and turnover Workforce and Talent G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees https://citibenefitsonline.com/SitePages/Home.aspx Aspect: Training and Education G4-DMA Workforce and Talent Diversity G4-LA9 Average hours of training for employees Workforce and Talent G4-LA10 Programs for skills management managing career endings Workforce and Talent Diversity G4-LA11 Employees receiving performance and career development reviews We hold year-end performance reviews for all employees, including executives, as well as less formal midyear development conversations. Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA Diversity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and employees 2016 Proxy Statement PDF pages 37-52 (labeled pages 31-46) Diversity Aspect: Investment G4-DMA Sustainability – Environmental and Social Risk Management G4-HR1 Investment agreements and contracts that include human rights Sustainability – Environmental and Social Risk Management clauses or underwent screening G4-HR2 Employee training on human rights Citi’s ESRM and Code of Conduct trainings includes training on human rights-related issues. Aspect: Local Communities G4-DMA Inclusive Cities G4-SO1 Local community engagement, impact assessments and development Inclusive Cities programs Stakeholder Engagement Table FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas Inclusive Cities by type FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for Inclusive Cities disadvantaged people Financing Development Citi Website: http://www.citigroup.com/citi/microfinance/data/global_financial_inclusion_ brochure_4p.pdf http://www.citigroup.com/citi/citiforcities/home_articles/n_spotlight_on_financial_ inclusion.htm Aspect: Anti-Corruption G4-DMA Conduct, Culture and Governance G4-SO3 Risks related to corruption We conduct an annual anti-bribery and corruption risk assessment of all global business lines. Conduct, Culture and Governance G4-SO4 Communications and training on anti-corruption Conduct, Culture and Governance G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption None during the reporting period. Aspect: Public Policy G4-DMA Corporate Political Activities Statement G4-SO6 Political contributions Corporate Political Activities Statement U.S. Lobbying Disclosure Websites U.S. Political Contributions Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior G4-DMA 2015 10-K G4-SO7 Anti-competitive behavior 2015 10-K PDF pages 288-298 (labeled pages 286-296) Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA 2015 Annual Report G4-SO8 Fines for non-compliance with laws 2015 Annual Report 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX 11.4 G4 Disclosure Location in 2015 Citizenship Report webpage (link) or external resource (link) or direct answer Sub-Category: Product Responsibility Aspect: Product And Service Labeling G4-DMA Trust G4-PR3 Product and service information required for labeling Citi has policies in place that ensure accurate product and service information in compliance with applicable laws and regulations G4-PR5 Surveys measuring customer satisfaction Trust Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-DMA Trust G4-PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses Trust of customer data FINANCIAL SECTOR SUPPLEMENT Aspect: Product Portfolio FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, 2015 10-K PDF pages 13-14 (labeled pages 11-12) size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver Sustainability – Environmental Finance a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX 11.5 2015 United Nations Global Compact Table Citi joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2010. As part of this initiative, Citi embraces and reports on core values pertaining to human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. The table below acts as our communication on progress on the UNGC’s 10 principles. UNGC Principle Reference “Citi supports the HUMAN RIGHTS ten principles of Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human Human Rights the United Nations rights; and Global Compact as an Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit Human Rights in human rights abuses. Sustainability – Environmental and Social Risk Management important part of its LABOR business strategy and Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Human Rights ethical culture. Our association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; participation in this Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Human Rights Sustainability – Environmental and Social Risk Management important initiative, Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; Human Rights which binds signatories and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Sustainability – Environmental and Social Risk Management from around the world to a common ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Sustainability – Environmental and Social Risk Management set of principles approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater Sustainability – Environmental and Social Risk Management of responsibility, environmental responsibility; and Sustainability – Operations and Supply Chain reinforces our Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Sustainability – Environmental Finance commitment to ANTI-CORRUPTION corporate citizenship Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms Conduct, Culture and Governance and sustainability.” of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Michael L. Corbat Chief Executive Officer, Citigroup Inc. 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX 11.6 Assurance 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ASSURANCE 12.1 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ASSURANCE 12.2 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ASSURANCE 12.3 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ASSURANCE 12.4 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ASSURANCE 12.5 2015 CITI GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ASSURANCE 12.6 Citigroup 388 Greenwich Street New York, NY 10013 citi.com/citizenship
