2015 ANNUAL REVIEW PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Homepage 1 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW 2015: A TRANSFORMATIONAL YEAR 2015 was a transformational year for Pfizer in our journey to achieve our stated mission: to be the premier, innovative biopharmaceutical company in our industry by the end of this decade. Ian C. Read Chairman & CEO TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS: Innovation, commitment, quality and integrity are the hallmarks of our business, from the development of innovative new products to the delivery of new therapies to patients. Thanks to the more than 97,000 Pfizer colleagues around the world we met our yearly commitments and continued to build the company’s capabilities toward our goal to become the world’s premier, innovative biopharmaceutical company by the end of this decade. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter > Letter to Stakeholders 2 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW Notably, in 2015, Pfizer achieved its first year of operational revenue growth since 2009. This occurred largely due to the strong performance of new product launches and OUR PURPOSE despite facing several difficult challenges including overcoming another $3.2 billion in losses of exclusivity, the slowdown in several global markets, and the continued pressure on access and pricing for our medicines. Our return to operational revenue growth is a INNOVATE TO BRING THERAPIES TO PATIENTS THAT SIGNIFICANTLY IMPROVE THEIR LIVES sign that our efforts to speed up innovation are taking hold. In 2015, we also took transformative steps to position Pfizer for the future with the acquisition of Hospira, Inc. and our pending combination with Allergan. OUR MISSION TO BE THE PREMIER INNOVATIVE MAINTAINING OUR STATED IMPERATIVES BIOPHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY Our strong operational results — detailed in this review — were OUR VALUES rooted in four strategic imperatives that have remained constant since we began in 2011 to transform Pfizer. These imperatives are CUSTOMER FOCUS COLLABORATION the pillars of our long-term strategy and the guideposts for the COMMUNITY RESPECT FOR PEOPLE LEADERSHIP INTEGRITY decisions made by thousands of colleagues in the course of their PERFORMANCE QUALITY everyday work. INNOVATION They are: • Improving the performance of our innovative core • Making the right capital allocation decisions • Earning greater respect from society • Creating an ownership culture IMPROVING THE PERFORMANCE OF OUR INNOVATIVE CORE BY TRANSFORMING R&D Our purpose at Pfizer is to bring therapies to patients that significantly improve their lives. That, essentially, has been our goal since our founding in Brooklyn in 1849 and remains at the heart of our business. Biomedical research and development is arguably one of the world’s riskiest, most complex processes and generally spans years to bring a new product to patients. But it is also a process that is very rewarding because, at its core, it is about enhancing the quality of life for patients around the world. Since 2011, our first priority has been to improve the performance of our innovative core — the engine that powers Pfizer and provides hope for those with unmet medical needs. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter > Letter to Stakeholders 3 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW To achieve this goal of greater R&D productivity meant that we had to: OUR STRATEGIC IMPERATIVES • S harpen our focus on the core therapeutic areas where we have the highest probability of success. This meant expanding in some areas • S and deprioritizing others  trike innovative, often groundbreaking, collaborations with others to speed scientific progress and share the risks and rewards of developing the most 1 INNOVATE & 2 MAXIMIZE promising ideas LEAD VALUE The re-engineering of Pfizer’s global research and development function during 2011 Improve Pfizer’s ability Invest and allocate our and 2012 is now paying off. Since 2011, Pfizer has had 15 new drug approvals, all to innovate in biomedical resources in ways that of them addressing important, unmet medical needs, often through first-in-class R&D and develop a new create the greatest generation of high value, long-term returns for our mechanisms of action. highly differentiated shareholders. . medicines and vaccines . In 2015, we advanced some 39 proposed therapies in our R&D pipeline, which is now among the strongest in Pfizer’s history. Here are the highlights: 3 EARN GREATER 4 OWN OUR Oncology RESPECT CULTURE Cancers of all types continue to be among the leading causes of death and disability Earn society’s respect by Build and sustain a around the world. Significant progress is being made in understanding cancer and using generating breakthrough culture where colleagues this understanding to develop new therapies to moderate it. Pfizer has made oncology a therapies, improving view themselves as access, expanding the owners, generating priority area for our research efforts. dialogue on health new ideas, dealing care and acting as a with problems in a In 2015, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Ibrance® for certain responsible corporate straightforward way, cases of metastatic breast cancer in women. We anticipate a decision by the end of citizen. investing in open and 2016 regarding its approval in the European Union. We also continue to invest in candid conversations and Xalkori® and have received approval from the FDA in March of this year for it as a working as teammates potential treatment for a molecular subgroup of non-small cell lung cancer, referred on challenges and to as ROS-1. opportunities. We now have a broad portfolio of compounds that we believe can support the expansion of a strong, deep, competitive position in oncology. This portfolio is anchored in a partnership with Germany’s Merck KGaA and focuses on the field of immuno-oncology, investigational therapies that harness the body’s immune system to fight cancer. We have five immuno-oncology assets in human studies, the most advanced being avelumab, which may be effective against cancers of the bladder, kidney, head and neck, and stomach. We believe the breadth of our novel portfolio assets, such as 41BB and OX40 antibodies that support potential combination therapies with avelumab, can be a competitive advantage in this market. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter > Letter to Stakeholders 4 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW Inflammation & Immunology TOP TEN MEDICINES AND VACCINES Inflammation is the root cause of many diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis, REVENUES FOR PRODUCTS IN 2015 psoriasis and ulcerative colitis. Building on our heritage, we are pioneering an approach to inflammation involving the use of janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors, which interfere with the inflammation process. Starting with Xeljanz,® our first-in-class JAK inhibitor PREVNAR® FAMILY (PNEUMOCOCCAL 13-VALENT CONJUGATE VACCINE $6,245 M [DIPHTHERIA CRM197 PROTEIN]) introduced in 2012 for rheumatoid arthritis, Pfizer has built a world-leading capability in JAK science and is now pursuing the development of a promising JAK3 and dual acting JAK1/TYK2 compounds to address inflammatory bowel disease as well as exploring their LYRICA® (PREGABALIN) $4,839 M use against lupus. We continue to invest in Xeljanz, filing in 2015 for a once-daily treatment for patients ENBREL® OUTSIDE THE U.S. AND CANADA (ETANERCEPT) $3,333 M with moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis. LIPITOR® (ATORVASTATIN) $1,860 M Cardiovascular & Metabolic Diseases Pfizer has a longstanding history of expertise in heart disease and metabolic disorders. VIAGRA® (SILDENAFIL CITRATE) $1,708 M In cardiac care, our development efforts center on bococizumab, a monoclonal antibody that targets a protein interfering with the removal of low density lipoproteins (LDL) — commonly known as the “bad cholesterol.” Bococizumab’s extensive lipid-lowering SUTENT® (SUNITINIB MALATE) $1,120 M clinical trials continued on pace in 2015 and are expected to complete in 2016. Many patients are unable to have their LDL cholesterol lowered optimally, despite statin PREMARIN® FAMILY $1,018 M therapy or diet and exercise. With bococizumab, we aim to prove that lowering LDL to (CONJUGATED ESTROGENS) levels not possible through any other means will have a clear cardiovascular benefit. NORVASC® (AMLODIPINE BESYLATE) $991 M Type 2 diabetes, the adult onset type, is growing at an epidemic pace. Pfizer and Merck & Co., Inc. have a collaboration to develop ertugliflozin, a new class of diabetes medicines called SGLT2 inhibitors. Now in Phase 3 trials, both as a single agent and in ZYVOX® (LINEZOLID) $883 M combination with other commonly prescribed diabetic medications, ertugliflozin enables the kidneys to remove and excrete excess glucose from the body. CELEBREX (CELECOXIB) $830 M Neuroscience & Pain For more information on any of these medicines and The good news that people are living longer also means that people are more prone to vaccines, visit: Pfizer Pharmaceutical Products age-related neurological diseases such as Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s disease. We are advancing promising compounds for Parkinson’s, a disease state that has not seen an innovative new treatment in three decades. We also are exploring the concept of trans-diagnostic domains, where the same treatment principles may apply across a range of mental disorders. For example, understanding the workings of the brain’s AMPA receptors may open the doors to a new class of potential medicines suitable for treating serious mental conditions ranging from Alzheimer’s to depression. Our most advanced AMPA receptor program is focused on treating the difficulties in learning and memory associated with schizophrenia, a devastating disease for patients and society. Chronic pain is a high need area with one in five American adults affected by chronic pain. In 2015, Pfizer and our partner, Eli Lilly, were cleared by the FDA to continue late stage clinical testing on tanezumab, a non-narcotic treatment aimed at chronic pain. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter > Letter to Stakeholders 5 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW Rare Disease More than 350 million people around the world suffer from one of the more than 7,000 rare diseases identified to date. Building on our 20 years of experience in rare disease therapies, Pfizer’s pipeline includes potential treatments for those affected by sickle cell disease, TTR-cardiomyopathy, growth hormone deficiency, Duchenne muscular dystrophy, Huntington’s disease, cystic fibrosis and other rare diseases, four of which are in late-stage registration-seeking trials. Rivipansel,® for sickle cell crises, entered Phase 3 studies in 2015. An example of our commitment to rare disease patients is Rapamune,® approved previously for the prevention of organ rejection in kidney transplantation. In 2015, through Pfizer’s work with the FDA, the clinical investigation team, and the LAM Foundation, the FDA approved Pfizer’s Rapamune as a treatment of lymphangioleiomyomatosis, an ultra-rare but often fatal disease that affects fewer than 1,000 people in the U.S. Vaccines Immunization is one of the most successful and cost-effective public health interventions. 2015 marked the manufacture of the billionth dose of Prevenar/Prevnar 13,® our vaccine for the prevention of pneumococcal disease in babies and adults. Additionally, we continued to advance the preventative and therapeutic vaccines in our pipeline and strengthened our vaccines portfolio. In 2015, we began enrolling patients in a Phase 2 clinical trial of our investigational Staphyloccus aureus vaccine, designed to prevent this widespread but increasingly drug-resistant bacterium. We also restarted the Phase 2 program for our Clostridium difficile vaccine, aimed at the bacteria responsible for 29,000 U.S. deaths each year and generally found among the frail and elderly. In addition, given the lack of licensed vaccines that specifically protect the lives of pregnant women and newborns, Pfizer is looking into maternal vaccinations to protect against dangerous infections like Group B streptococcus, respiratory syncytial virus and cytomegalovirus, a virus that can lead to serious disabilities in infants. Biosimilars Biosimilars — highly similar versions of already approved biologics — are poised to play an increasingly important role in health care. Biosimilars may offer safe and effective treatment options for patients and savings for health care systems. Biosimilars represent an attractive global opportunity and we anticipate the global biosimilars market may approach $20 billion by 2020. With the acquisition of Hospira this year, our biosimilars pipeline is now one of the largest globally, with nine molecules under development. We are gaining experience in making and marketing biosimilars with three products already available in select markets and more than eight years of experience in Europe. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter > Letter to Stakeholders 6 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW MAKING THE RIGHT CAPITAL ALLOCATION DECISIONS, DELIVERING VALUE TO SHAREHOLDERS In 2015, in addition to achieving operational revenue growth, we again met or exceeded our revenue and adjusted earnings per share* guidance. Pfizer returned $13.1 billion to shareholders in 2015 through share repurchases and dividends. We sustained our seven-year record of increasing our dividends and are now in our 77th consecutive year of paying dividends. Since 2011, we have returned $78 billion to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividends and the price of Pfizer shares has increased about 70.7%, exceeding the S&P 500. Pfizer’s commercial business operates as two businesses — an innovative products business and an established products business. This has enabled us to make more precise capital allocation decisions for each, and to provide flexibility in managing our operations. Today, the innovative products business is organized into two operating segments: Global Innovative Pharmaceuticals and Global Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare. Much of Pfizer’s R&D investment is directed to these segments. We demonstrated in 2015 our ability to grow new products and sustain sales of older but still exclusive medicines and vaccines. We saw strong growth from the products early in their lifecycles. Specifically, the Prevnar family grew 46% operationally, primarily due to the growth in the adult indication in the U.S.; Ibrance has been prescribed by over 5,000 physicians in the U.S. and over 20,000 metastatic breast cancer patients have received this new therapy; and the blood-thinning treatment Eliquis continues to gain significant momentum within the cardiologist and primary care physician community across the globe. Other significant products that grew included Xeljanz, Lyrica,® and Nexium® 24HR, the over-the-counter medication designed to reduce stomach acid. Our Global Established Pharmaceutical business (GEP) manages more than 600 generic or late-lifecycle branded pharmaceuticals and biologics. It has a robust portfolio with strong margins and good cash flows, along with a reliable supply chain and an excellent reputation for quality. This business was strengthened in 2015 with the acquisition of Hospira, which we believe will help to accelerate the growth trajectory of the GEP business through its leading market positions in injectable medicines and biosimilars. We are seeing the benefits we anticipated for this combination and have bolstered its scientific foundation with a dedicated research and development function. We continue to pursue other business development deals that enable our strategy. In 2015, we added high quality, complementary vaccines to our portfolio by acquiring two vaccines, Nimenrix® and Mencevax,® from GlaxoSmithKline. Late in 2015, we announced an agreement with Allergan to bring our two companies together. This transaction is about accelerating our existing strategy through each of the imperatives that guide our strategy. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter > Letter to Stakeholders 7 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW A combination with Allergan has the potential to drive growth in our Innovative business, strengthen our Established business and enable us to more efficiently allocate our capital around the world. Both companies bring a great deal of scientific and product expertise to the proposed combination, and shared philosophies on our approaches to research and development. Following the closing of the transaction our commercial business will continue to operate as two businesses — an innovative products business and an established products business. The two operating segments of the innovative products business will be Global Innovative Pharmaceuticals and Global Specialty and Consumer Brands. A more complete discussion of how this combination will bring together two great companies that have a strong strategic fit and the benefits it will bring to both patients and investors can be found at our website www.premierbiopharmaleader.com. We are confident that we are taking the appropriate steps to achieve the milestones for closing the transaction in the second half of 2016. Building Trust by Helping Millions of People Around the World Earning the respect of society is fundamentally grounded in trust. Regulators have to trust our integrity, health care providers have to trust our quality, and patients have to trust us to provide them safe and effective medicines. In 2015, our robust compliance programs continued to guide how we operate in everything we do everywhere in the world to meet the needs of the patients we serve and their families. Building on our commitment to an ownership culture, in the fourth quarter the company launched the “Integrity is...” campaign, which emphasizes individual accountability by encouraging our colleagues to explore what integrity means to them and to consider how conducting their daily business with integrity is fundamental to Pfizer’s success. Beyond the expectations for all businesses — among them honesty, integrity and good corporate citizenship — society expects companies like Pfizer to take an active role in ensuring that those who cannot afford their medicines have access to them. This is an expectation almost unique in global business and is one that we take very seriously. Of particular note, our U.S. patient assistance program, Pfizer RxPathways,® helped more than 250,000 people access our medicines during 2015. We greatly expanded the eligibility of this program to those making up to four times the federal poverty level and provided those eligible Pfizer medicines for free or at a savings. For more information on this program, go to www.PfizerRxPathways.com. In 2015, we also continued our long-term relationship with the International Trachoma Initiative (ITI), which we helped found in 1998. The goal of ITI is to eliminate blinding trachoma by 2020; this is a devastating but completely preventable disease with more than 230 million people at risk in 58 nations. In November 2015, we marked the donation to the ITI of our 500 millionth dose of Zithromax,® our oral antibiotic effective in the treatment of blinding trachoma. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter > Letter to Stakeholders 8 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW We also have several other corporate responsibility partnerships including a partnership with GAVI — the global vaccines alliance — to help provide pneumococcal vaccines to children in GAVI countries through 2025 and with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the Children’s Investment Fund Foundation to bring Sayana® Press, Pfizer’s longacting contraceptive, to women in 69 countries in the developing world. We continue to share information that may be valuable to all people on preventing disease and maintaining health and wellness at all stages of life. Our “Get Healthy Stay Healthy” platform for health information, which includes television and online content, has reached tens of millions of people, with more than 90 million views of the program’s content in 2015. We also continued our efforts to improve our reputation in the communities in which we operate, with regulators, lawmakers, our shareholders, consumers, the media and the investor community. Our Get Old program continues to foster a candid conversation about aging, redefining what it means to get “old” and encouraging individuals to adopt healthy behaviors in order to live longer and more productive lives. In 2015, we saw a significant increase in visits to GetOld.com, higher social engagements and more than 300,000 consumers become part of the Get Old social community. Key to Fulfilling Our Mission: An Ownership Culture In 2011, we set an imperative to build an ownership culture, where colleagues fully understand their role in driving Pfizer’s success. We take building an ownership culture as seriously as we take building our business. Each year, we survey our colleagues to determine their viewpoints on the business and to find out what concerns them as they execute their work. In 2015, our colleagues told us through our annual survey that we are making significant progress in encouraging them to take thoughtful risks and that they can be open and raise tough issues, have constructive debates and act with speed and decisiveness. A significant part of successfully bringing together Pfizer and Hospira’s businesses was due to the efforts by both companies to engage employees’ support of a unified culture based on the tenets of ownership. We are encouraged by the changes we have seen in the past few years, with more diversity in thinking and action, greater empowerment among colleagues, and increased enthusiasm for the mission and purpose of our company. The progress we have made in embedding an ownership culture is providing the momentum for our strong performance, and I believe that Pfizer’s ownership culture will become a sustainable competitive advantage for us. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter > Letter to Stakeholders 9 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW Positioned for Long-Term Success 2015 was a transformational year for Pfizer. We enter 2016 with a much stronger business compared to five years ago. We achieved operational revenue growth and have a solid portfolio of market-leading products and a healthy R&D pipeline. We completed the Hospira acquisition and strengthened the future potential of the company through the proposed Pfizer-Allergan combination. We have set rigorous goals for 2016 and beyond. Thank you for your confidence as we continue to drive Pfizer towards achieving our mission of becoming the world’s premier biopharmaceutical company. Sincerely, Ian C. Read Chairman and CEO We encourage you to read our 2015 Financial Report, which includes our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015, which can be found here. *Adjusted diluted earnings per share (EPS) is defined as reported U.S. GAAP diluted EPS excluding purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items. See Pfizer’s 2015 Financial Report for a discussion of “Adjusted Income” and for reconciliations of 2015 “GAAP Reported to Non-GAAP Adjusted Income Information — Certain Line Items.” “Non-GAAP adjusted diluted EPS” is an income-statement line item prepared on the same basis as, and is a component of, the “Non-GAAP adjusted net income attributable to Pfizer Inc.” measure. NO OFFER OR SOLICITATION This communication is not intended to and does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to subscribe for or buy or an invitation to purchase or subscribe for any securities or the solicitation of any vote or approval in any jurisdiction, nor shall there be any sale, issuance or transfer of securities in any jurisdiction in contravention of applicable law. This communication is not intended to be and is not a prospectus for the purposes of Part 23 of the Companies Act 2014 of Ireland (the “2014 Act”), Prospectus (Directive 2003/71/EC) Regulations 2005 (S.I. No. 324 of 2005) of Ireland (as amended from time to time) or the Prospectus Rules issued by the Central Bank of Ireland (“CBI”) pursuant to section 1363 of the 2014 Act, and the Central Bank of Ireland has not approved this communication. IMPORTANT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION HAS BEEN AND WILL BE FILED WITH THE SEC In connection with the proposed transaction between Pfizer Inc. (“Pfizer”) and Allergan plc (“Allergan”), Allergan has filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) a registration statement on Form S-4 that includes a Joint Proxy Statement of Pfizer and Allergan that also constitutes a Prospectus of Allergan (the “Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus”). The registration statement has not yet become effective and the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus included therein is in preliminary form. Pfizer and Allergan plan to mail to their respective shareholders the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus in connection with the transaction. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF PFIZER AND ALLERGAN ARE URGED TO READ THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED OR TO BE FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN OR WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT PFIZER, ALLERGAN, THE TRANSACTION AND RELATED MATTERS. Investors and security holders may obtain free copies of the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC by Pfizer and Allergan (when available) through the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. In addition, investors and security holders may obtain free copies of the documents filed with the SEC by Pfizer by contacting Pfizer Investor Relations at Bryan.Dunn@pfizer.com or by calling (212) 733-8917, and may obtain free copies of the documents filed with the SEC by Allergan by contacting Allergan Investor Relations at investor.relations@actavis.com or by calling (862) 261-7488. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter > Letter to Stakeholders 10 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW PARTICIPANTS IN THE SOLICITATION Pfizer, Allergan and certain of their respective directors, executive officers and employees may be considered participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be deemed participants in the solicitation of the respective shareholders of Pfizer and Allergan in connection with the proposed transactions, including a description of their direct or indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be set forth in the Joint Proxy Statement/ Prospectus. Information regarding Pfizer’s directors and executive officers is contained in Pfizer’s proxy statement for its 2015 annual meeting of stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on March 12, 2015, and certain of Pfizer’s Current Reports on Form 8-K. Information regarding Allergan’s directors and executive officers is contained in Allergan’s proxy statement for its 2015 annual meeting of shareholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 24, 2015, and certain of Allergan’s Current Reports on Form 8-K. Pfizer Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This communication contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the proposed transaction between Pfizer and Allergan. These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements often use future dates or words such as “anticipate,” “target,” “possible,” “potential,” “predict,” “project,” “forecast,” “outlook,” “guidance,” “expect,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “goal,” “believe,” “hope,” “aim,” “continue,” “will,” “may,” “might,” “would,” “could” or “should” or other words, phrases or expressions of similar meaning or the negative thereof. Such forwardlooking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the proposed transaction, including anticipated future financial and operating results, synergies, accretion and growth rates, Pfizer’s, Allergan’s and the combined company’s plans, objectives, expectations and intentions, plans relating to share repurchases and dividends and the expected timing of completion of the transaction. There are several factors which could cause actual plans and results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forwardlooking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals (and the risk that such approvals may result in the imposition of conditions that could adversely affect the combined company or the expected benefits of the transaction) and shareholder approvals or to satisfy any of the other conditions to the transaction on a timely basis or at all, the occurrence of events that may give rise to a right of one or both of the parties to terminate the merger agreement, adverse effects on the market price of Pfizer’s common stock and on Pfizer’s operating results because of a failure to complete the transaction in the anticipated time frame or at all, failure to realize the expected benefits and synergies of the transaction, restructuring in connection with the transaction and subsequent integration of Pfizer and Allergan, negative effects of the announcement or the consummation of the transaction on the market price of Pfizer’s common stock and on Pfizer’s operating results, risks relating to the value of the Allergan shares to be issued in the transaction, significant transaction costs and/or unknown liabilities, the risk of litigation and/or regulatory actions, the loss of key senior management or scientific staff, general economic and business conditions that affect the companies following the transaction, changes in global, political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax and other laws, regulations, rates and policies, future business combinations or disposals, competitive developments and the uncertainties inherent in research and development. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future. The factors described in the context of such forward-looking statements in this communication could cause Pfizer’s plans with respect to Allergan, actual results, performance or achievements, industry results and developments to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. Persons reading this communication are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as at the date of this communication. Pfizer assumes no obligation to update or revise the information contained in this communication (whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise), except as required by applicable law. A further description of risks and uncertainties can be found in Pfizer’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, and in its subsequent reports on Form 10-Q, including in the sections thereof captioned “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results,” as well as in its subsequent reports on Form 8-K, all of which are filed or will be filed with the SEC and are available at www.sec.gov and www.pfizer.com. Statement Required by the Irish Takeover Rules The directors of Pfizer accept responsibility for the information contained in this communication. To the best of the knowledge and belief of the directors of Pfizer (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case), the information contained in this communication for which they accept responsibility is in accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information. All content in these materials may be subject to completion of works council and/or trade union consultations and other local legal requirements. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter > Letter to Stakeholders 11 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE THREE-YEAR SUMMARY AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31(a) % CHANGE Millions (Except Per Common Share Data) 2015 2014 2013 '15/'14 '14/'13 Revenues(a) $ 48,851 $ 49,605 $ 51,584 (2) (4) Research and development expenses(a) 7,690 8,393 6,678 (8) 26 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs(a) 1,152 250 1,182 * (79) Income from continuing operations(a) 6,975 9,119 11,410 (24) (20) Discontinued operations — net of tax(b) 11 48 10,662 (77) (100) Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc.(a) 6,960 9,135 22,003 (24) (58) Diluted earnings per common share attributable to Pfizer Inc. shareholders 1.11 1.42 3.19 (22) (55) Weighted-average shares — diluted 6,257 6,424 6,895 (3) (7) Number of common shares outstanding 6,175 6,291 6,399 (2) (2) Total assets(d) 167,460 167,566 170,415 — (2) Total Long-term obligations(a), (c), (d) 73,064 74,357 73,801 (2) 1 Total Pfizer Inc. shareholders’ equity 64,720 71,301 76,307 (9) (7) Shareholders’ equity per common share 10.48 11.33 11.93 (8) (5) Net cash provided by operating activities 14,512 16,883 17,684 (14) (5) Property, plant and equipment additions 1,397 1,199 1,206 17 (1) Purchases of common stock 6,160 5,000 16,290 23 (69) Cash dividends paid 6,940 6,609 6,580 5 — *Calculation not meaningful (a) In accordance with our domestic and international reporting periods, amounts for 2015 reflect four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations. Amounts for 2013 reflect the June 24, 2013, disposition of Zoetis, Inc. and its presentation as a discontinued operation. (b) Includes the Animal Health (Zoetis, Inc.) business through June 24, 2013, the date of disposal. (c) Defined as Long-term debt, Pension benefit obligations, net, Postretirement benefit obligations, net, Noncurrent deferred tax liabilities, Other taxes payable and Other noncurrent liabilities. Our short-term borrowings are rated P-1 by Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) and A-1+ by Standard & Poor’s (S&P). Our long-term debt is rated A1 by Moody’s (Outlook: Stable) and AA by S&P (Outlook: Negative Watch). Moody’s and S&P are major corporate debt-rating organizations. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and the rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. (d) All amounts reflect the retrospective adoption of a new accounting standard as of December 31, 2015, that requires all deferred tax assets and liabilities to be classified as noncurrent in the balance sheet. Detailed information on our financial and operational performance can be found in the 2015 Financial Report, which is filed as Exhibit 13 to our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter > Performance 12 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ACCESS TO MEDICINES GLOBAL PROGRAMS AND COMMERCIAL TOP 20 GLOBAL BURDENS TRANSACTIONS TO INCREASE ACCESS TO OF DISEASE ADDRESSED MEDICINES IN EMERGING MARKETS1 BY PRODUCTS AND PIPELINE2 WE CURRENTLY HAVE THIS COVERS OF THESE IN TOTAL, THESE COVER 51ACTIVE PROGRAMS 3 27COUNTRIES. 8PROGRAMS 55DIFFERENT PRODUCTS FOR LAUNCHED MEDICINES COVER MULTIPLE THERAPIES IN OUR PORTFOLIO. IN MARKETS THAT HAVE WHILE THE REST ARE A GDP PER CAPITA LESS PRODUCT SPECIFIC. THAN PORTUGAL. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter > Performance 13 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW COLLEAGUES INJURIES PER 100 COLLEAGUES TOTAL INJURY RATE4 IN 2015 WAS 11% LOWER THAN IN 2014. PROGRESS ON OUR 2020 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY GOALS5 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS WASTE DISPOSED TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 GHG EMISSIONS TOTAL HAZARDOUS AND NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE IN MILLION METRIC TONS CO2EQ IN THOUSAND METRIC TONS PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter > Performance 14 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW WATER WITHDRAWAL EXCLUDING NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER IN MILLION CUBIC METERS (1) Program/commercial transaction defined as a Pfizer investment or dedicated contract of over $250,000 with a national government or procurement agency, multilateral organization, non-governmental organization, private institution or aid agency. Represents multi-country initiatives only and does not include numerous local initiatives to address access. (2) As defined by the World Health Organization. Burdens of illness not addressed include road traffic accidents, prematurity and low birth weight, and self-inflicted injuries. (3) The number of patient access programs with pricing tailored to different patient segments (for at least one product), allowing access for more patients. (4) Hospira injury data is not included. Combined company data will be provided in the 2016 Annual Review. (5) Applies to facilities within Pfizer’s operational control as compared with a 2012 baseline. Hospira environmental sustainability data is not included. Combined company data will be provided in the 2016 Annual Review. Data are baseline adjusted, reported absolute, using reporting boundaries per the WRI GHG Protocol. The 2012–2014 GHG data was independently verified to the limited assurance level. The verification of the 2015 GHG data will be accomplished in 2016. Expanded environmental reporting will be posted on www.pfizer.com later this year. PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL GUIDANCE1 REPORTED REVENUES (IN BILLIONS) ADJUSTED COST OF SALES4 AS A % OF REPORTED REVENUES 2015 GUIDANCE2 2015 GUIDANCE2 $47.5 – $48.5 18.7% – 19.2% 2016 GUIDANCE3 2016 GUIDANCE3 $49.0 – $51.0 21.0% – 22.0% 2015 ACTUAL 2015 ACTUAL $48.9 18.5% PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter > Performance 15 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW ADJUSTED SI&A EXPENSES4 (IN BILLIONS) ADJUSTED R&D EXPENSES4 (IN BILLIONS) 2015 GUIDANCE2 2015 GUIDANCE2 $13.6 – $14.1 $7.5 – $7.8 2016 GUIDANCE3 2016 GUIDANCE3 $13.2 – $14.2 $7.3 – $7.8 2015 ACTUAL 2015 ACTUAL $14.3 $7.7 ADJUSTED OTHER (INCOME)/DEDUCTIONS4 (IN MILLIONS) EFFECTIVE TAX RATE ON ADJUSTED INCOME4 2015 GUIDANCE2 2015 GUIDANCE2 APPROX. ($500) OF INCOME APPROX. 25.0% 2016 GUIDANCE3 2016 GUIDANCE3 APPROX. ($300) OF INCOME APPROX. 24.0% 2015 ACTUAL 2015 ACTUAL ($409) OF INCOME 24.0% PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter > Performance 16 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW REPORTED DILUTED EPS5 ADJUSTED DILUTED EPS4 2015 GUIDANCE2 2015 GUIDANCE2 $1.37 – $1.43 $2.16 – $2.20 2016 GUIDANCE3 2016 GUIDANCE3 $1.54 – $1.67 $2.20 – $2.30 2015 ACTUAL 2015 ACTUAL $1.11 $2.20 (1) Please refer to Pfizer’s 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the sections captioned “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results,” for a description of the substantial risks and uncertainties related to the forward-looking statements, including our 2016 Financial Guidance, included in this Annual Review. (2) Our 2015 financial guidance was at exchange rates that reflected a blend of the actual exchange rates in effect through September 27, 2015, and the midOctober 2015 exchange rates for the remainder of the year and excluded the potential impact of a devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar. Our 2015 guidance did not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of September 27, 2015, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions, and excluded the potential effects of the resolution of litigation-related matters not substantially resolved as of September 27, 2015. Guidance for Reported Revenues reflected the anticipated negative impact of $3.3 billion due to products that have recently lost patent protection. Reported and Adjusted Diluted EPS guidance assumed diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of ~6.25 billion shares. Additional disclosures and assumptions regarding our 2015 financial guidance can be found in Pfizer’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 28, 2015. (3) The 2016 financial guidance was issued in February 2016 and reflects the following: • Does not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of December 31, 2015, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions. 2016 financial guidance excludes any impact from the pending combination with Allergan. The transaction is expected to close during the second half of 2016. • Excludes the potential effects of the resolution of litigation-related matters not substantially resolved as of February 12, 2016. • Exchange rates assumed are as of mid-January 2016. • Guidance for 2016 reported revenues reflects the anticipated negative impact of $2.3 billion due to recent and expected generic competition for certain products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. • Guidance for 2016 reported revenues also reflects the anticipated negative impact of $2.3 billion as a result of unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar compared to foreign exchange rates from 2015, including $0.8 billion due to the estimated significant negative currency impact related to Venezuela. The anticipated negative impact on reported and adjusted diluted EPS resulting from unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates compared to foreign exchange rates from 2015 is approximately $0.16, including $0.07 due to the estimated significant negative currency impact related to Venezuela. • Guidance for reported and adjusted diluted EPS assumes diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of ~6.2 billion shares. (4) “Adjusted Income” and its components and “Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS)” are defined as reported U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) net income(5) and its components and reported diluted EPS(5) excluding purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items. Adjusted Revenues, Adjusted Cost of Sales, Adjusted Selling, Informational and Administrative (SI&A), Adjusted Research and Development (R&D) expenses and Adjusted Other (Income)/Deductions are income statement line items prepared on the same basis as, and therefore components of, the overall Adjusted income measure. As described under “Adjusted Income” in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, management uses Adjusted income, among other factors, to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company. We believe that investors’ understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing this measure. Reconciliations of certain U.S. GAAP Reported to Non-GAAP Adjusted information for 2015, as well as reconciliations of full-year 2016 guidance for Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted EPS to full-year 2016 guidance for Reported net income(5) and Reported diluted EPS,(5) are provided in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. The Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted EPS measures are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for U.S. GAAP net income and its components and diluted EPS. Despite the importance of these measures to management in goal setting and performance measurement, Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted EPS are Non-GAAP financial measures that have no standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP and, therefore, have limits in their usefulness to investors. Because of the non-standardized definitions, Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted EPS (unlike U.S. GAAP net income and its components and diluted EPS) may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted EPS are presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses performance. (5) “Reported Net Income” in accordance with U.S. GAAP is defined as net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. in accordance with U.S. GAAP and “Reported Diluted EPS” is defined as reported diluted EPS attributable to Pfizer Inc. common shareholders in accordance with U.S. GAAP. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter > Performance 17 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW BOARD OF DIRECTORS DENNIS A. AUSIELLO, M.D. W. DON CORNWELL JOSEPH J. ECHEVARRIA FRANCES D. FERGUSSON, Ph.D. Director, Center for Assessment Founder and Retired CEO, President Emeritus, Technology and Continuous Retired Chairman and CEO, Deloitte LLP Vassar College Health (CATCH). Physician-inGranite Broadcasting (1,4,5) (3,4,5) Chief Emeritus, Massachusetts Corporation General Hospital and Jackson (1,2,4,5) Distinguished Professor, Harvard Medical School (5,6) HELEN H. HOBBS, M.D. JAMES M. KILTS SHANTANU NARAYEN SUZANNE NORA JOHNSON Investigator, Founding Partner, President and CEO, Retired Vice Chairman, Howard Hughes Medical Centerview Capital Adobe Systems Incorporated Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Institute and Professor, (2,5) (1,3,5) (1,2,5) University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center (3,4,5) IAN C. READ STEPHEN W. SANGER JAMES C. SMITH Chairman and CEO, Retired Chairman and CEO, President and CEO, Pfizer Inc. General Mills, Inc. Thomson Reuters Corporation (1,3,5) (2,4,5) (1) Audit Committee (2) Compensation Committee (3) Corporate Governance Committee (4) Regulatory and Compliance Committee (5) Science and Technology Committee (6) Lead Independent Director PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter > Board of Directors 18 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM IAN C. READ Chairman and CEO ALBERT BOURLA, D.V.M., Ph.D. FRANK A. D’AMELIO MIKAEL DOLSTEN, M.D., PH.D. RADY JOHNSON Group President, Executive Vice President, President, Executive Vice President, Global Innovative Pharma and Business Operations and Chief Worldwide Research Chief Compliance and Global Vaccines, Oncology and Financial Officer and Development Risk Officer Consumer Healthcare Businesses CHUCK HILL DOUG LANKLER FREDA C. LEWIS-HALL, M.D. ANTHONY J. MADDALUNA Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Worldwide Human Resources General Counsel and Chief Medical Officer and President, Pfizer Global Supply LAURIE OLSON SALLY SUSMAN JOHN YOUNG Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Group President, Strategy, Portfolio and Corporate Affairs Global Established Pharma Commercial Operations Business PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual CEO Letter > Executive Leadership Team 19 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW I’M WORKING ON... WATCH VIDEO BOB ABRAHAM HEAD OF ONCOLOGY RESEARCH AND DRUG DISCOVERY ADVANCES IN ONCOLOGY We understand the urgency that cancer patients face. Our scientists are hard at work seeking to turn promising research into important medicines and making strides in innovative fields such as immunooncology as we build a pipeline of potential next-generation therapies so people with cancer may live longer, fuller lives. IBRANCE® REACHES PATIENTS 20,000 We continue to invest in research at the forefront of developing new treatment options for people living with breast cancer. In early 2015, we received U.S. Food and Drug Administration accelerated approval for Ibrance® (palbociclib), in combination with letrozole, for the treatment of postmenopausal women with estrogen receptor-positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative (ER+/HER2−) advanced breast cancer as initial endocrine-based therapy for their metastatic disease. Ibrance has been approved in several other countries around the world based on results from the Phase 2 PALOMA-1 clinical trial. Results from the first Ibrance Phase 3 trial, PALOMA-3, were reported in 2015 and additional Phase 3 studies are ongoing. We filed a marketing application in IN THE FIRST 10 MONTHS FOLLOWING Europe in mid-2015, and we have also initiated plans for additional global submissions in order to U.S. APPROVAL, IBRANCE REACHED bring this innovative medicine to patients worldwide. 20,000 PATIENTS. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Advances in Oncology 20 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW Seeking Additional Indications In addition to demonstrating efficacy in treating a relatively common type of metastatic breast cancer (ER+/HER2−), palbociclib is being tested in numerous clinical trials in other subsets of breast cancer and in other cancers such as head and neck cancer and pancreatic cancer, both on its own and in combination with other therapies. The largest breast cancer trial for Ibrance to date, the PALbociclib CoLlaborative Adjuvant Study, or PALLAS, launched in August 2015. This Phase 3 trial for patients with early stage hormone receptor-positive (HR+)/HER2− breast cancer is designed to evaluate whether the addition of palbociclib to adjuvant endocrine therapy will improve disease-free survival and prevent the disease from recurring when compared with endocrine therapy alone (standard-of-care). A clinical research collaboration, the PALLAS trial is being conducted along with multiple research entities across Europe and other regions, including the Austrian Breast & Colorectal Cancer Study Group, Breast International Group, German Breast Group, National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project, PrECOG, LLC and Alliance Foundation Trials, LLC. Approximately 4,600 people with early breast cancer are expected to enroll in the trial. GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP TAKES ON METASTATIC BREAST CANCER In a first-of-its-kind partnership, the Union for International Cancer Control and Pfizer have launched the SPARC initiative to encourage sustainable change for metastatic breast cancer (MBC) worldwide. SPARC stands for Seeding Progress and Resources for the Cancer Community. The program will support projects that address challenges in metastatic breast cancer by providing funding, mentorship and access to best practices to improve unmet needs for the global MBC patient population. The project topics range from raising awareness to addressing systematic gaps in health and public policies, patient access to information, and patient support, with the core focus being improving the lives of patients with MBC around the world. Ultimately, the SPARC initiative aims to empower advocacy groups, hospital networks, support groups and other organizations worldwide as they initiate projects to close the gap in SPARC MBC Challenge: “SPARCing” information, support, awareness and policy between MBC and early disease, as well Change for Metastatic Breast Cancer as help reduce the number of women diagnosed at the metastatic stage of breast Globally cancer. From a large pool of 82 applicants from 46 countries, 20 organizations from 18 countries were selected to receive grants amounting to $760,000 (USD) in funding provided by Pfizer. The organizations will share progress and outcomes at the World WATCH VIDEO Cancer Congress in 2016. 150K-200K METASTATIC BREAST CANCER AFFECTS AN ESTIMATED 150,00060% A PFIZER SURVEY OF THE GENERAL PUBLIC REVEALED 60% OF ~1.7 MILLION NEW CASES OF BREAST CANCER ARE DIAGNOSED GLOBALLY EACH YEAR. 250,000 WOMEN IN THE U.S. ALONE. AMERICANS REPORTED THEY KNOW LITTLE TO NOTHING ABOUT METASTATIC BREAST CANCER. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Advances in Oncology 21 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW “Breast Cancer: A Story Half Told” We have partnered with multiple breast cancer advocacy groups to chronicle the lives of women with metastatic breast cancer through the lenses of prominent photographers, in order to tell a fuller story of this poorly understood disease and its effects on patients, their families and the larger community we all share. This photo essay initiative is the next chapter of Breast Cancer: A Story Half Told, which was covered in the 2014 Annual Review. Its aim is to identify public misperceptions and gaps in knowledge surrounding metastatic breast cancer, the most advanced form of breast cancer. The women profiled in this initiative are advocates, bloggers, working professionals, mothers, daughters and/or wives who have shared personal stories. A diverse group of breast cancer advocacy organizations provided counsel and support to bring these very human profiles to life. These include BreastCancer.org, Cancer Support Community, Living Beyond Breast Cancer, Metastatic Breast Cancer Network, and Young Survival Coalition. This photography-based effort encourages the public to share photos and messages of hope using the hashtag #StoryHalfTold, and is featured on the @StoryHalfTold Instagram, Facebook and Twitter accounts, as well as on www.StoryHalfTold.com. Khadijah Carter, pictured here with her daughter Deja, shares a message of hope, faith and fortitude in the face of adversity on www.StoryHalfTold.com. “Pfizer is proud to be working with our advocacy partners and Story Half Told participants to dispel misperceptions, combat stigma and foster a more inclusive metastatic breast cancer conversation going forward.” — Liz Barrett President and General Manager, Pfizer Oncology PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Advances in Oncology 22 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW Global Status of Metastatic Breast Cancer: A Decade Report In order to support the hundreds of thousands of women living with metastatic breast cancer around the world, we worked collaboratively with the European School of Oncology, within the scope of the Advanced Breast Cancer Third International Consensus Conference (ABC3), to release the Global Status of Metastatic Breast Cancer (MBC): A 2005–2015 Decade Report. This report was developed with guidance from a global steering committee of multidisciplinary leaders in the MBC community. The report is the most comprehensive analysis to date of the global landscape for advanced and metastatic breast cancer over the past decade and revealed both areas of improvement and substantial gaps in care, access to resources and support, and treatment outcomes for women with MBC. In response to these findings, the European School of Oncology and members of the breast cancer community are calling for policymakers, advocates and the medical community to unite to develop a global charter as a call-to-action toward changing and improving MBC outcomes by the year 2025. For more information on the Global Status of Metastatic Breast Cancer (MBC): A 2005–2015 Decade Report, including methodology, please visit: www.BreastCancerVision.com. NO CURE YET Global Status of Metastatic Breast Cancer (MBC): A 2005–2015 Decade Report found that 48%–76% of respondents from the general public in 14 countries believe that metastatic breast cancer is curable. However, there is currently no cure for metastatic disease. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Advances in Oncology 23 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW OUR ONCOLOGY STRATEGY — REDEFINING LIFE WITH CANCER We intend to be acknowledged leaders in the fight against cancer, developing medicines that provide meaningful impact and help to restore patient health and well-being. We look to bring I’M WORKING ON... these medicines to patients as quickly and safely as possible, and to establish their value so patients everywhere can access them. By bringing potentially life-changing therapies and support to patients, we aim to redefine life with cancer until we cure it. Today we have eight approved cancer medicines, four of them launched in the last four years. Our large and growing investigational portfolio takes a multi-pronged attack on cancer, including drug candidates designed to kill tumor cells and immunotherapies designed to stimulate the immune system to mount a stronger defense against cancer. Research continues. Our goal: launch at least one new Barbra Sasu Senior Director, T-cell Engineering cancer therapy each year from 2017 WATCH VIDEO through 2022. BREAKTHROUGH THERAPY DESIGNATION FOR ACUTE LYMPHOBLASTIC LEUKEMIA (ALL) Our investigational antibody-drug conjugate, inotuzumab ozogamicin, received Breakthrough Therapy designation in the U.S. for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). The designation was based on the results of the Phase 3 INO-VATE ALL trial, which compared inotuzumab ozogamicin to standard-of-care chemotherapy. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Advances in Oncology 24 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW IMMUNO-ONCOLOGY — BROAD PORTFOLIO OF ASSETS IN CLINICAL DEVELOPMENT We are particularly encouraged by our growing strength and presence in immuno-oncology, with a broad investigational portfolio that spans numerous mechanisms of action. At the close of 2015, we had five immunotherapeutic agents in the clinic and plan to have up to 10 by the end of 2016. Key targets for these agents include PD-1, PD-L1, OX40, 4-1BB, CCR2 and Vaccine Based Immunotherapy Regimen (VBIR) pathways that either stimulate or inhibit the immune system’s response to tumors. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Advances in Oncology 25 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW IMMUNOTHERAPY ASSETS IN THE CLINIC PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Advances in Oncology 26 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW In 2015, avelumab, an investigational fully human anti-PD-L1 IgG1 monoclonal antibody being co-developed with Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany (Merck KGaA) was granted Orphan Drug designation in the U.S. and the EU, and Fast Track and Breakthrough Therapy designations in the U.S. for the treatment of metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma, a rare and aggressive type of skin cancer. If successful, the first potential commercial launch of avelumab is anticipated in 2017. As of December 31, 2015, the clinical development program for avelumab included more than 1,500 patients who had been treated across more than 15 tumor types, including breast cancer, gastric/ gastro-esophageal junction cancers, head and neck cancer, Merkel cell carcinoma, melanoma, nonsmall cell lung cancer, ovarian cancer, renal cell carcinoma and urothelial (i.e., bladder) cancer. The alliance has initiated six pivotal trials, reaching its goal for 2015, with additional trials expected to initiate in 2016. Pfizer and Merck KGaA presented data from six studies evaluating the potential role of PD-L1 inhibition and avelumab’s safety and efficacy at the European Cancer Congress 2015. Combination therapy holds perhaps the greatest potential within immuno-oncology. Our broad portfolio of immuno-oncology, small molecule and antibody-drug conjugate oncology assets affords us the opportunity to test a wide range of combination regimens on our own and with one of our current collaborators, Merck KGaA, and others. We continue to grow our footprint in immuno-oncology through such collaborations, including a CAR-T with Cellectis and Servier, and an IDO1 with iTEOS. Our collaboration with Kyowa Hakko Kirin to combine our 4-1BB with their antiCCR4 antibody has already led to a Phase 1 study. We believe our immuno-oncology portfolio, along with our skilled scientists and focused partnerships, should help enable Pfizer to be a formidable player in this vital, high opportunity area going forward. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Advances in Oncology 27 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW I’M WORKING ON... WATCH VIDEO ALEJANDRA GURTMAN PROGRAM LEAD, STAPH AUREUS VACCINE BROADENING THE VACCINES PORTFOLIO At Pfizer, we believe in the promise and value of vaccines to improve people’s lives. Leveraging leading technology in vaccine design and conjugation, we are pursuing preventative solutions to complex, difficult-to-treat bacterial pathogens — across the lifespan. We are also exploring the power of novel therapeutic vaccines to treat chronic conditions, and diseases such as cancer. “We’re working on bringing our vaccines to more people everywhere they are needed. When I envision our world in 2030, I imagine one in which everyone — no matter where they’re born — has access to vaccines that help prevent illnesses and save lives.” — Susan Silbermann President, Pfizer Vaccines PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Broadening the Vaccines Portfolio 28 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW TAKING ON MENINGOCOCCAL MENINGITIS 4,000 DOSES Trumenba® is the first vaccine approved in the United States to protect against meningococcal meningitis serogroup B, and we are in the process of filing with regulatory authorities in other countries around the world. Building Out Our Meningitis Vaccines Portfolio During 2015, we acquired from GlaxoSmithKline two quadrivalent (ACWY) meningitis vaccines, Nimenrix® (meningococcal serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y conjugate vaccine) and Mencevax® (meningococcal polysaccharide serogroups A, C, Y and W-135 vaccine), currently marketed in a WERE DELIVERED TO PROVIDENCE number of countries outside the U.S. In 2014, we acquired NeisVac-C® (meningococcal group COLLEGE IN LESS THAN 24 HOURS. C-TT conjugate vaccine, adsorbed) from Baxter, a vaccine for protection against serogroup C meningococcal disease, marketed primarily in Europe. With the addition of these complementary vaccines, we have created a comprehensive portfolio that is focused on helping to prevent 22,STUDENTS000 meningococcal disease and for controlling outbreaks. Trumenba® Supplied in Campus Outbreaks In Trumenba’s first year of availability, we have already helped respond to outbreaks of serogroup B meningococcal meningitis at colleges and universities within the U.S. Following a public announcement by the Rhode Island State Department of Health that two students at Providence College contracted the disease, Pfizer worked with the college’s officials to supply the vaccine for the on-campus vaccination clinic. We delivered the doses in less than a day and supported more than fifty health care providers who administered them. At the University of Oregon, when four students were confirmed to have contracted the disease, it took us only one day to put together a unique partnership with two local pharmacy chains to ultimately supply mass vaccination events PFIZER RESPONDED QUICKLY TO targeting more than 22,000 students. SUPPLY MASS VACCINATION EVENTS TARGETING MORE THAN 22,000 STUDENTS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF OREGON. “Pfizer colleagues jumped in at a moment’s notice to respond to these urgent public health situations. Thanks to the team’s focused actions, we helped to protect thousands of students from this rare but devastating disease.” — John Schutta Pediatric and Adolescent Lead, U.S. Vaccines PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Broadening the Vaccines Portfolio 29 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW PREVNAR 13® REACHING ACROSS THE LIFESPAN Our Prevnar franchise (known as Prevenar outside the U.S.) continues to expand. We recently manufactured our billionth dose. And with Prevnar 13® (pneumococcal 13-valent conjugate vaccine [diphtheria CRM197 Protein]) we are reaching more people, at more stages of life, around the world. In 2014, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended Prevnar 13 for routine use to help protect adults age 65 and over against pneumococcal disease. Additional adult recommendations are under consideration by health authorities in countries around the world. We continue to work in close collaboration with global partners, such as the International Federation on Ageing, to raise awareness of the importance of adult vaccination. Global Efforts to Reach People We have pledged to supply up to 740 million doses of Prevenar 13® (pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine, 13-valent, adsorbed) through 2025 to infants and young children throughout the developing world at a non-commercial price, through Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance. Multi-Dose Vial for Prevenar 13® To help address the practical constraints experienced by health workers operating in many Gavi countries, Pfizer has developed Prevenar 13® in a multi-dose vial (MDV) presentation and added the preservative 2 phenoxy ethanol to reduce vaccine wastage. The MDV presentation will contain four doses of Prevenar 13, and will be the same size as the current single dose vial. This will result in a smaller environmental footprint with a 75 percent reduction in cold chain and shipping material requirements. The dossier for the new MDV presentation is subject to approval by the European Medicines Agency and WHO prequalification. Pfizer’s ongoing investments to ensure high quality vaccines in adequate and reliable supply, as well as the first preserved PCV multi-dose vial presentation, will help ensure more children have access in communities whose health care systems are still developing. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Broadening the Vaccines Portfolio 30 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW INVESTIGATIONAL VACCINES ADVANCING IN PIPELINE 11,000 We have two prophylactic vaccines for hospital-acquired infections in Phase 2 trials, one to help prevent Clostridium difficile (C. difficile) disease and one to help prevent Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) infections. Both of these investigational vaccines have been granted Fast Track status by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. C. difficile is a bacterium that can cause symptoms ranging from diarrhea to life-threatening inflammation of the colon. Pfizer is currently investigating a vaccine that targets the two main disease-causing toxins produced by C. difficile (Toxin A & B) and initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial to investigate the safety, immunogenicity and tolerability of Pfizer’s C. difficile vaccine in healthy older adults. ACCORDING TO THE U.S. CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND S. aureus infections persist as a major cause of life-threatening hospital-acquired infections. PREVENTION, S. AUREUS RESULTS IN To date, there is no licensed vaccine available to prevent invasive S. aureus disease. Our new NEARLY 700,000 HOSPITALIZATIONS investigational, multiantigen S. aureus vaccine is uniquely designed to help prevent a wide range of clinical disease manifestations by potentially facilitating pathogen killing at early stages of AND 11,000 DEATHS ANNUALLY. invasive infection. “The development of the C. difficile and S. aureus vaccines has real potential to reduce the suffering and mortality associated with bacterial infections contracted in health care settings. If successful, these vaccines would provide additional tools to positively impact human health.” — William Gruber, M.D. Senior Vice President, Vaccine Clinical Research and Development “Vaccines generate tremendous social value by helping to prevent disease and sustain healthy communities.” — James Wassil Global Health and Value Lead, Pfizer Vaccines PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Broadening the Vaccines Portfolio 31 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW SELECTED VACCINE CANDIDATES IN CLINICAL DEVELOPMENT MATERNAL VACCINATION To deliver on our promise to bring immunizations to people across all stages of life, we are exploring the development of maternal vaccination candidates to protect newborns I’M WORKING ON... from dangerous infections such as Group B streptococcus, respiratory syncytial virus, and cytomegalovirus (CMV), a herpes virus. Our acquisition of Redvax GmbH, a spin-off from Redbiotec AG, a privately held Swiss biopharmaceutical company, provides access to a preclinical human cytomegalovirus vaccine candidate, as well as intellectual property and a technology platform related to another vaccine program. The CMV vaccine program will complement our robust research portfolio of investigational vaccines and help place Pfizer among the leaders in CMV research and development. The Institute of Medicine has ranked the development of a CMV vaccine as the highest priority because of the lives it would save and the disabilities it would prevent. A large segment of young adults, especially women of childbearing age who remain CMV negative, are at high risk of Kena Swanson CMV infection during pregnancy and of passing the infection on to the unborn child (congenital infection). There are potentially serious and lifelong consequences for babies born with the disease. Senior Principal Scientist, Vaccine Research and Development More children have disabilities due to congenital CMV than other well-known infections and syndromes, including Down syndrome, fetal alcohol syndrome, spina bifida and pediatric HIV/AIDS. WATCH VIDEO “We are dedicated to developing innovative vaccines that help prevent and treat serious diseases. Through the acquisition of Redvax, we obtained an innovative CMV vaccine platform and expertise to develop a vaccine to prevent a difficult disease that can have a devastating and lifelong impact on young children.” — Kathrin U. Jansen, Ph.D. Senior Vice President, Head of Vaccine Research Development PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Broadening the Vaccines Portfolio 32 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW ~5,000 CHILDREN 2B BABIES EACH YEAR IN THE U.S. DEVELOP LASTING HEALTH PROBLEMS CAUSED BY CMV, SUCH WILL BE BORN BETWEEN NOW AND 2030 WORLDWIDE. AS HEARING OR VISION LOSS, AND SEVERE NEUROLOGIC DISORDERS. THE VALUE OF VACCINES THE IMPACT OF VACCINES ON INFECTIOUS DISEASE MORBIDITY IN THE UNITED STATES, PRE-VACCINES – 2014 PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Broadening the Vaccines Portfolio 33 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW WE’RE WORKING ON IMPROVING PEOPLE’S LIVES THROUGH FOCUSED, COLLABORATIVE, ACCELERATED R&D. THERAPEUTIC AREAS OF FOCUS We are advancing novel science and accelerating potential breakthrough therapies with the goal of delivering transformative medicines and vaccines, and possibly even cures, to patients in need. We focus our efforts in areas where we believe we are best positioned to utilize our expertise and bring unique, needed therapies to patients. More and more, our scientists are reaching into a dynamic R&D ecosystem to find the right partners to improve and accelerate our efforts. This focus and effort are helping to drive our long-term growth. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Therapeutic Areas of Focus 34 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW PATENTS ISSUED TO PFIZER IN 2015 129* IN THE U.S. 1,807* OUTSIDE OF THE U.S. * Includes Hospira patents. Does not include licensed-in patents. FOCUSING ON SCIENCE AND PATIENT IMPACT ONCOLOGY We’re investigating precision-guided therapies targeting novel signaling and epigenetic pathways, and cancer immunotherapies aimed at modulating the immune system. I’M WORKING ON... I’M WORKING ON... Puja Sapra Jeremy Bartlett Senior Director, Oncology Research Associate Research Fellow, Drug Product Design WATCH VIDEO WATCH VIDEO PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Therapeutic Areas of Focus 35 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW VACCINES We are tackling some of the most deadly pediatric, adult and adolescent infectious diseases, as well as evaluating therapeutic vaccines across a variety of cancer types. I’M WORKING ON... I’M WORKING ON... Karin Joos Alejandra Gurtman Senior Director, Biology, Vaccine Program Lead, Staph Aureus Vaccine Immunotherapeutics and Head of Cancer Vaccine Development WATCH VIDEO WATCH VIDEO PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Therapeutic Areas of Focus 36 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW NEUROSCIENCE & PAIN We are exploring Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s and Huntington’s disease, as well as conducting research into trans-diagnostic domains, where we explore how cognition, anxiety and motivation correlate to the manifestation of a neuropsychiatric disorder, and their impact on a patient’s quality of life. A View into Treating Brain Conditions I’M WORKING ON... I’M WORKING ON... WATCH VIDEO Anabella Villalobos David Gray Vice President, Neuroscience and Pain Senior Director, Parkinson’s Drug Medicinal Chemistry Development Team Leader WATCH VIDEO WATCH VIDEO I’M WORKING ON... Matt Howe Postdoctoral Research Fellow, Neuroscience Research Unit WATCH VIDEO PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Therapeutic Areas of Focus 37 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW CARDIOVASCULAR & METABOLIC Our clinical-stage pipeline of potential therapies for patients covers a range of metabolic and cardiovascular risk factors, as well as exploring the areas of heart failure and nonalcoholic liver inflammation and damage. Pfizer’s Legacy and Expertise in I’M WORKING ON... I’M WORKING ON... Cardiovascular Diseases WATCH VIDEO Albert Kim Ann Marie Richard Global Clinical Lead, Cardiovascular and Principal Scientist, Metabolic Disease Metabolic Disease WATCH VIDEO WATCH VIDEO PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Therapeutic Areas of Focus 38 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW IMMUNOLOGY & INFLAMMATION We are looking to transform the treatment of chronic inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and gastrointestinal disorders, while investigating potential therapies with application in medical dermatology. I’M WORKING ON... I’M WORKING ON... Iain Kilty Janet Buhlmann Senior Director, Rheumatology and Senior Principal Scientist, Immunology Dermatology and Autoimmunity WATCH VIDEO WATCH VIDEO PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Therapeutic Areas of Focus 39 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW RARE DISEASE Our researchers in rare disease are working to unlock the scientific opportunity of gene therapy for people living with hemophilia, as well as investigating potential therapies for blood and neuromuscular diseases, which are devastating to patients, their families and the larger community. I’M WORKING ON... I’M WORKING ON... Joseph Nabhan Kena Swanson Principal Scientist, Rare Disease Senior Principal Scientist, Vaccine Research Unit Research and Development WATCH VIDEO WATCH VIDEO BIOSIMILARS With our acquisition of Hospira, we are now a leading global biosimilars company with a robust pipeline, best-in-class development capabilities and extensive real-world commercialization experience. We are working hard to extend that leadership by advancing high quality biosimilars to address the evolving needs of patients, payers and health systems. I’M WORKING ON... Lisa Skeens Head of Global Regulatory Affairs, Global Established Pharma WATCH VIDEO PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Therapeutic Areas of Focus 40 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW EXPANDING THE R&D ECOSYSTEM Our strategy looks to foster collaboration across the biomedical ecosystem to deliver innovation to patients. We are working to bring the best science, wherever it resides, into our efforts to find and develop needed therapies. We attempt to establish flexible collaborations that can have an amplifying and accelerating effect — optimizing shared assets and capabilities and making it possible to pursue more research avenues or de-risking the earlier stage research that may provide the foundation for true medical breakthroughs. In these new forms of collaboration, we are sharing in the risks and rewards and attempting to expedite the pace of innovation and enhance the R&D ecosystem for the benefit of patients. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Therapeutic Areas of Focus 41 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW I’M WORKING ON... WATCH VIDEO RITA BALICE-GORDON VICE PRESIDENT, NEUROSCIENCE AND PAIN RESEARCH UNIT PIPELINE Our pipeline from Phase 1 to registration includes 90 investigational therapies, which are focused in areas where we have the potential to bring differentiated, high value therapies and vaccines to patients faster. PROGRAMS IN CLINICAL TRIALS OR REGISTRATION Our clinical research activities are focused on translating novel science into therapies and vaccines. Today, our clinical pipeline includes targeted immunotherapies, which have the potential to be part of the next generation of cancer therapy; first-in-class vaccines with the potential to help prevent two deadly hospital-acquired infections; antibodies that may be potentially useful in treating lupus and inflammatory bowel disease; and, a potential new therapy for Parkinson’s disease. We are also applying our expertise in developing safe and effective biologic medicines to develop high quality biosimilars that may provide patients with access to alternative biologic therapies. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Pipeline 42 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW Pfizer Pipeline as of February 2, 2016 I’M WORKING ON... I’M WORKING ON... I’M WORKING ON... James Rusnak Brenda Cooperstone Lovisa Afzelius Development Lead, Cardiovascular Vice President, Category Development Head of Computational Precision Metabolic Disease Lead, Rare Disease Medicine, Inflammation and Immunology WATCH VIDEO WATCH VIDEO WATCH VIDEO PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Pipeline 43 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW I’M WORKING ON... WATCH VIDEO DAVE NICKERSON BUSINESS PROCESS OWNER, QUALITY RISK MANAGEMENT FOR CLINICAL TRIALS CLINICAL TRIALS Clinical trials and the people who participate in them play a vital and critical role in bringing new breakthroughs to society. Pfizer is committed to improving the effectiveness and efficiency of clinical trials, while protecting the safety, well-being and interests of clinical trial volunteers. 338 ACTIVE STUDIES PHASE 1–4 INVOLVING 60,870 ACTIVE PATIENTS ACROSS 9,191 SITES IN 66 COUNTRIES AS OF DECEMBER 2015 PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Clinical Trials 44 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW RAPID UPTAKE OF MOBILE TOOLS Mobile health applications, social media and health information technology offer new ways to capture data and insights from patients, enhance the patient experience, and coordinate the clinical trials conducted in partnership with thousands of independent researchers. We are seeing a rapid uptake in the use of mobile tools that may support participation and facilitate a larger breadth of clinical data. We continue to expand our digital toolkit. Pfizer mClinical initiatives seek to improve the patient experience and provide investigators with advanced tools that streamline information access and maintain compliance using a flexible and modular approach. Modular components may include electronic informed consent, sensors and wearable tools, retention and visit reminders, video and remote visits, bring-your-own-device applications, electronic labels, and digital tools for clinical study start-up activities. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Clinical Trials 45 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW ONE PARTICIPANT’S EXPERIENCE WITH PFIZER LINK INVESTIGATING WITH INTEGRITY Pfizer Link is a unique online patient tool and “alumni program” We conduct all of our clinical trials to global standards for study participants who have completed participation in for human subject research protection programs, comply a Pfizer-sponsored clinical trial (available in the U.S.) which with applicable laws and regulations, and fully protect patients have the option of consenting to participate in. the rights and welfare of trial participants. We integrate Pfizer Link provides information on diseases and conditions quality management principles into the clinical trial process, of interest, suggestions and tools for disease management, maintaining oversight over all trials, including those conducted general information about clinical trials, and access to study for us by contract research organizations. To assure patient results including the Pfizer Blue Button Project (launched by the safety, data integrity, protocol adherence and good clinical U.S. Departments of Veterans Affairs and Health and Human practice regulatory compliance, clinical trial sites are monitored Services) for select studies to access individual electronic data. and subject to an audit program and the data generated in A participant in a recent Pfizer clinical trial said this about studies is subject to quality checks. the value of joining the Pfizer Link community: “I joined the trial out of a desire to advance diabetes research, and had a satisfying experience as a research participant. After I completed the study, I joined Pfizer Link and Blue Button because I was curious about my clinical trial data, and because I wanted to have a community where I can participate and share my experiences. I look forward to learning more from Pfizer about breakthroughs in medical research and to identify other opportunities to participate in research and clinical trials.” TRANSCELERATE® COLLABORATION DRIVING IMPROVEMENTS IN CLINICAL TRIALS ~200,000 TransCelerate Biopharma has been a great industry collaboration success story. Founded to generate industry-wide efficiencies with an initial focus on clinical trials, its supporting membership has grown in just three years from 10 global pharmaceutical companies (including Pfizer) to 20. Its original five workstreams have grown to 14. The initial work that TransCelerate has delivered is being used to improve efficiency in clinical trials across the industry and across the world. The nonprofit consortium has created a comparator drug sourcing network, new data standards for several disease areas, mutual recognition for good clinical practice (GCP) training for approximately 200,000 investigators, a shared investigator registry (helping study investigators find research opportunities with sponsors), a model approach for removing identifiers from individual patient data in clinical studies, and, most recently, the Shared Investigator Platform — a single web portal INVESTIGATORS WORLDWIDE HAVE for investigators with single sign-on regardless of whether the investigator is working on a study RECEIVED RECOGNITION ACROSS with Pfizer or any industry peer members. THE CONSORTIUM FOR THEIR GCP TRAINING, REDUCING THE BURDEN “TransCelerate is an unprecedented collaboration amongst some of the world’s most successful biopharmaceutical companies,” said Dalvir Gill, Ph.D., TransCelerate’s CEO. “As one of ON INVESTIGATORS AND GIVING TransCelerate’s founding members, Pfizer is committed to finding solutions to common drug THEM BACK TIME TO SUPPORT development inefficiencies. Through this collaboration, we believe we can help transform the R&D PATIENTS AND STUDY PARTICIPANTS. landscape and implement solutions to drive efficient, effective and high quality delivery of new medicines to patients around the world.” PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Clinical Trials 46 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW “I’m working on new multivitamin formulations and forms that are changing the way consumers think about and take dietary supplements.” JUTTA HAARER DIRECTOR, PRODUCT DESIGN WELLNESS, PFIZER CONSUMER HEALTHCARE CONSUMER HEALTHCARE SOLUTIONS At Pfizer Consumer Healthcare, we have a passion to improve the lives of people around the world by empowering them to take health and wellness into their own hands. Our over-the-counter medicines, dietary supplements and personal care products are trusted brands for consumers around the world. 8 PFIZER CONSUMER HEALTHCARE BRANDS WERE VOTED NUMBER ONE IN THEIR RESPECTIVE CATEGORIES, INCLUDING ADVIL, CENTRUM, ROBITUSSIN AND EMERGEN-C. Source: 2014 edition of yearly survey of pharmacists across the U.S. conducted by U.S. News & World Report and Pharmacy Times. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Consumer Healthcare Solutions 47 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW PUTTING HEALTH AND WELLNESS SOLUTIONS INTO EVERYONE’S HANDS ADVIL® The No. 1 selling branded over-the-counter analgesic in the world and trusted by consumers for three decades. More than 80 million people in more than 40 countries use Advil® to treat headaches, backaches, muscle aches, minor arthritis pain, menstrual pain, fever and the aches and pains of the common cold. Learn more at advil.com CALTRATE® Caltrate® is the No. 1 selling brand of calcium supplements in the U.S. and China and is sold in 57 countries. In the U.S., no other leading brand offers a higher amount of vitamin D3 per tablet — which aids in the absorption of calcium. Caltrate 3-in-1 provides UC-II, a form of collagen, plus calcium, other minerals and vitamins D and C to support collagen production. Caltrate is available in four formulas and in a variety of forms to suit an individual’s needs. Learn more at caltrate.com PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Consumer Healthcare Solutions 48 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW CENTRUM® Centrum® is the most doctorand pharmacist-recommended multivitamin brand in the U.S., and the most preferred and most clinically-studied multivitamin brand in the world. Available in 86 countries, Centrum provides men, women and children a range of scientifically advanced multivitamins to help fill dietary gaps. Our latest innovation is Centrum VitaMints® — a multivitamin you enjoy like a mint for the on-the-go consumer. Learn more at centrum.com CHAPSTICK® The leading lip care brand in the U.S., ChapStick® is sold in 25 countries. Consumers’ favorite ChapStick products include Moisturizer, Classic Cherry and Classic Original. With a history of more than 125 years, the brand continues to evolve, incorporating new technologies to meet consumer demands for a product that replenishes, rehydrates and protects lips while providing exciting flavors. We continue to refresh ChapStick through co-creation with our consumers — using their insights to take the product in new directions, such as ChapStick Total Hydration, a new line positioned in the beauty space. Learn more at chapstick.com PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Consumer Healthcare Solutions 49 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW EMERGEN-C® A leading health and wellness lifestyle brand, Emergen-C® is a vitamin supplement sold in more than 15 flavors, including its Original Formula, which is a drink mix that has 1,000 mg of vitamin C and other immunesupporting antioxidants such as zinc and manganese, seven B vitamins to enhance energy naturally, and electrolytes to replenish post-workout. Emergen-Zzzz® is a new product that includes melatonin to help you fall asleep naturally. In its more than 30 years on the market, Emergen-C has built a loyal customer base and has shown strong performance as a Pfizer brand. Learn more at emergenc.com NEXIUM® 24HR Nexium® 24HR launched in the U.S. in mid-2014 and in a little over one year rose to become the leader in the U.S. over-the-counter heartburn relief category — an unprecedented achievement for a fourth-to-market product. Products for gastrointestinal conditions are the fourth largest global OTC category. We continue to launch Nexium OTC in countries around the world. Learn more at nexium24hr.com Nexium® is a registered trademark of AstraZeneca AB. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Consumer Healthcare Solutions 50 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW ROBITUSSIN® Robitussin® has been providing effective relief from cough and cold symptoms for more than 50 years. It is available in 41 countries and offers an extensive lineup of cough, cold, congestion and flu products for adults and children that can be taken during the day or at night. Learn more at robitussin.com THERMACARE® Available in more than 20 countries, ThermaCare® Heatwraps deliver deep-penetrating heat that warms the muscles right where they hurt — to relax, soothe and unlock tight muscles. Portable and long-lasting, ThermaCare HeatWraps have transformed the field of heat therapy. Learn more at thermacare.com PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Scientific Innovation > Consumer Healthcare Solutions 51 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW I’M WORKING ON... WATCH VIDEO JEAN-FRANCOIS MARTINI SENIOR DIRECTOR, EARLY DEVELOPMENT, TRANSLATIONAL AND IMMUNO-ONCOLOGY PEER COLLABORATIONS Collaborating in new and dynamic ways with innovators across the health landscape is very important in our efforts to improve patients’ lives. Our approach is creative yet disciplined, focusing on specific opportunities and the right partners to accelerate innovative science, improve operations and find better ways to deliver needed therapies. Increasingly, this has led to unique, focused alliances with our global pharmaceutical peers. “Over the last several years the health care landscape has seen tremendous scientific breakthroughs happening at Pfizer and beyond our walls. There are exciting opportunities to collaborate in new ways to augment our own discovery efforts. We look to bring together the best resources so that we can get the most impactful treatments and vaccines to patients, faster — it’s what motivates us every day.” — Mikael Dolsten, M.D., Ph.D. President, Worldwide Research and Development PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Partnerships > Peer Collaborations 52 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW BREAKING THROUGH WITH MERCK KGaA, DARMSTADT, GERMANY Our immuno-oncology alliance with Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany continues to move forward quickly and demonstrate how effectively we are working together. Our co-development of avelumab, the fully human anti-PD-L1 IgG1 monoclonal antibody, continues to reach and surpass new milestones. Investigational Antibody Avelumab Designated Breakthrough Therapy, Advances in Trials In 2015, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration granted Breakthrough Therapy, Orphan Drug, and Fast Track review designations for avelumab as a potential treatment for patients with metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma who have progressed after at least one previous chemotherapy regimen. These designations represent significant milestones in helping us bring this potentially important therapy to patients as quickly as possible. There is currently no therapy approved specifically for the treatment of metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma, a rare and aggressive type of skin cancer. If approved, the first potential commercial launch of avelumab, for Merkel cell carcinoma, is anticipated in 2017. We anticipate approval of indications in other tumor types at the rate of at least one each year through 2022. The alliance initiated six pivotal trials in 2015 including: NSCLC 2L, NSCLC 1L, metastatic gastric cancer 3L, metastatic gastric cancer 1L, platinum-resistant or refractory ovarian cancer, and urothelial cancer 1L maintenance. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Partnerships > Peer Collaborations 53 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW Co-promoting Xalkori® 20,000 As part of the agreement with Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, the alliance is co-promoting Pfizer’s anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) inhibitor Xalkori® (crizotinib) in a number of markets including the U.S., Canada, Japan and five European Union countries (France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the U.K.). The agreement showcases our shared commitment to establishing a combined oncology sales organization in key markets in advance of the potential launch of avelumab-based treatment regimens in the future. Xalkori is the first ALK inhibitor approved in the U.S., Japan and the European Union and is supported by three positive global randomized trials in the firstand second-line ALK-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer treatment settings. XALKORI IS WIDELY RECOGNIZED AS A STANDARD OF CARE FOR PATIENTS WITH ALK-POSITIVE ADVANCED NSCLC. TO DATE, MORE THAN 20,000 PATIENTS HAVE BEEN TREATED WORLDWIDE. DEVELOPING NEXT-GENERATION MANUFACTURING: PORTABLE, CONTINUOUS, MINIATURE AND MODULAR We have entered into a multi-year collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline PLC (GSK) to develop a nextgeneration design of our portable, continuous, miniature and modular (PCMM) prototype for oral I’M WORKING ON... solid dose pharmaceutical development and manufacturing. Pfizer’s current PCMM prototype is an autonomous pod that may be quickly shipped from location to location and readily brought online to create a fully functional module that is compliant with industry-standard good manufacturing practice guidelines. Together with GEA Group, G-CON Manufacturing and GSK, which have notable technical and regulatory experience in continuous processing, we will conduct coordinated experiments to create the next-generation design of our current PCMM prototype. This collaboration expands upon Pfizer’s existing collaboration with GEA and G-CON Manufacturing, which resulted in the design of the prototype unit currently at Pfizer’s labs in Groton, Connecticut, U.S. Michael O’Brien The pharmaceutical industry has been trending toward lower volume products, driven by an Vice President, Technology and increased focus on precision medicine approaches to develop and commercialize new therapies. Innovation, Pharmaceutical Sciences This creates a need for smaller, more flexible continuous processing technologies. PCMM has the potential to transform the current biopharmaceutical industry standard of using batch processing to manufacture tablets and capsules from powders — an oftentimes complex WATCH VIDEO process that requires large, dedicated manufacturing facilities. The PCMM continuous process takes only minutes from the addition of raw materials to the completion of finished tablets or capsules. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Partnerships > Peer Collaborations 54 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW “We believe coupling Pfizer’s industry-leading development and manufacturing capabilities with GSK’s experience and expertise in continuous processing has the potential to lead to a superior technology, thereby allowing us to more quickly and efficiently bring therapies to patients.” — Rod MacKenzie Senior Vice President, PharmaTherapeutics Research and Development TRANSFORMING THE WAY THE PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY MAKES TABLETS PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Partnerships > Peer Collaborations 55 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW IN PHASE 3 WITH ELI LILLY ~1 IN 5 Pfizer and Eli Lilly and Company have resumed the Phase 3 clinical program for tanezumab, following a decision by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to lift the partial clinical hold that had been in place for tanezumab and all other anti-nerve growth factor antibodies since 2012 due to adverse changes in the sympathetic nervous system of mature animals. (Studies in terminal cancer pain were allowed to proceed.) The decision followed a review of a robust body of nonclinical and clinical data characterizing the sympathetic nervous system response to tanezumab. Tanezumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody that selectively targets and binds to nerve growth factor, a regulator of pain processing and sensitivity, thereby inhibiting this protein from NEARLY 1 IN 5 ADULTS SUFFER FROM activating pain-signaling neurons. Prior clinical studies of more than 11,000 patients compared CHRONIC PAIN. tanezumab to placebo and other select commonly used pain medicines. “We’re pleased to work with Eli Lilly to advance the Phase 3 program for tanezumab. If approved, tanezumab may offer an innovative, non-narcotic treatment for patients with certain pain conditions.” — Ken Verburg, Ph.D. Senior Vice President and Head of Global Medicines Development PROJECT DATA SPHERE COLLABORATION IN ONCOLOGY Sharing data to speed cancer research, Pfizer is helping to usher in a new era of data transparency. We have joined with industry and research partners to challenge traditions and collaborate in new ways to help cancer patients get the greatest possible benefit from our vast collection of clinical trial data. Project Data Sphere is an independent not-for-profit data-sharing initiative led by the CEO Roundtable on Cancer Life Sciences Consortium. The overarching goal is to foster collaboration across companies and academia to advance research that has the potential to improve outcomes for cancer patients. Pfizer has contributed data from studies in breast, lung, prostate and colon cancer that had already been analyzed and used. Doing so gives the data a second life, allowing other researchers to use them in different ways that may lead to important potential new insights and discoveries. Researchers around the world will have access to these platforms, with the hope that they will then generate new research hypotheses and accelerate innovation. “Aggregating these data sets empowers cancer researchers to formulate novel research hypotheses and interrogate data in new ways.” — Ronit Simantov Vice President, Oncology Global Medical Affairs PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Partnerships > Peer Collaborations 56 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW NEXT-GENERATION SEQUENCING-BASED COMPANION DIAGNOSTICS COLLABORATION With the rise of targeted therapies, a practical method for matching cancer patients with specific drug candidates is needed to enable the evolution of precision medicine. As such, Pfizer has entered into a long-term collaboration with Thermo Fisher Scientific and Novartis to develop a multi-marker, universal next-generation sequencing (NGS) oncology test panel that will serve as a companion diagnostic (CDx) initially for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) followed by other cancer indications across multiple development programs. NGS enables testing of multiple genes simultaneously from a single tumor sample to help to identify their unique genetic profile. The ultimate goal is to use this information to guide the appropriate therapy choice among multiple drug candidates. NGS also has the potential to improve safety, effectiveness and health outcome of patients via targeted risk stratification and tailored treatment approaches. The collaboration, focused on a universal testing approach, could also accelerate the development and registration of several new NSCLC drugs and other drug indications, with the ultimate goal of providing patients greater access to more targeted treatments and appropriate clinical trials as quickly as possible. It is anticipated that the NGS test panel being developed may have the potential to receive simultaneous approval for several genes from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and will be used as a CDx for multiple drugs. GO AIM CONFERENCE CONVENES CANCER PATIENT ADVOCATES AND INDUSTRY With scientific progress moving at an ever-accelerating pace, how can we ensure that the patient perspective and patient needs stay front and center? To find out, Pfizer hosted the Global Oncology Advocacy Innovators Meeting (GO AIM), a first-of-its kind event that brought together cancer patient advocacy leaders from around the globe. Patient advocates shared with Pfizer that they are looking for a true partner. From helping to design clinical trials to educating policymakers on the value of potential new cancer innovations, patients and their advocates can provide important perspectives and direction at even the earliest stages of research and development. “We are at a point where research is flourishing, and we are bringing new thinking and hope to cancer patients. However, we must not stop there. We must continue to innovate. Partnering with patient organizations is critical to further explore the needs of cancer patients around the world and together find potential solutions to address the challenges they face.” — Albert Bourla, D.V.M., Ph.D. Group President, Global Innovative Pharma and Global Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare Businesses PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Partnerships > Peer Collaborations 57 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW SUPPORTING THE DEMENTIA DISCOVERY FUND Pfizer has signed on to the Dementia Discovery Fund, a new initiative that aims to boost investment in developing novel treatments for dementia. The fund is managed by I’M WORKING ON... SVLS Venture Partners and brings together Alzheimer’s Research UK, the U.K. government and six pharmaceutical companies (Pfizer, Biogen, GSK, Eli Lilly, Johnson & Johnson and Takeda) with the goal of financing early stage drug development projects. More than $100 million has already been raised to develop pioneering new medicines. Neuroscience research has been a particularly challenging area for significant advances, due to the brain’s complexity. The science required to deeply understand its function is daunting and difficult. Yet we are seeing important scientific momentum in advances that are helping us unravel the underlying molecular disease pathophysiology of dementia and other neurological conditions. Cross-sector collaboration is a critical success factor to deliver unique and transformative potential therapies for patients. Matt Howe Postdoctoral Research Fellow, Neuroscience Research Unit “Because of the significant social, financial and WATCH VIDEO scientific challenges that dementia-related illnesses pose, we believe that it will be most beneficial for patients if we create, identify and support innovative ways to partner with other pharmaceutical companies to help tackle dementia.” — Douglas E. Giordano Senior Vice President, Worldwide Business Development 47 MILLION 3 PROGRAMS 10 PROGRAMS PEOPLE IN THE WORLD HAVE DEMENTIA, AT AN ESTIMATED IN LATE-STAGE DEVELOPMENT IN NEUROSCIENCE AND PAIN IN PHASE 1 AND PHASE 2 CLINICAL TRIALS IN NEUROSCIENCE AND PAIN COST TO THE GLOBAL ECONOMY OF MORE THAN $604 BILLION A YEAR, ACCORDING TO THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Partnerships > Peer Collaborations 58 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW I’M WORKING ON... WATCH VIDEO ANTHONY J. COYLE CHIEF SCIENTIFIC OFFICER, PFIZER’S CENTERS FOR THERAPEUTIC INNOVATION RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS In our pursuit of science for life-changing impact, we collaborate on focused research programs to advance innovation quickly and effectively. Our research partners include academic institutions, foundations, government institutions, other biopharmaceutical companies and physicians — expanding the R&D ecosystem to better serve the needs of patients. “We are working on identifying the best scientific expertise across the globe, and we are actively engaging in partnerships to leverage that expertise in mutually beneficial ways. It is imperative that we stay on the leading edge of science to deliver the most impactful medicines and vaccines to patients in need.” — Dr. Uwe Schoenbeck Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer, External Research and Development Innovation PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Partnerships > Research Collaborations 59 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW Pfizer Partnering: Bringing Therapies to Patients Faster WATCH VIDEO SPARK THERAPEUTICS — POTENTIAL GENE THERAPY FOR HEMOPHILIA B MOVES FORWARD Our collaboration with Spark Therapeutics, Inc., has entered the clinic, testing with human subjects a potential gene therapy, SPK-FIX, for the treatment of hemophilia B. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has designated this therapy an Orphan Drug. The investigational therapy incorporates a bio-engineered Adeno-Associated Virus (AAV) vector — in practical terms, a carrier for therapeutic genes. Such vectors use a disarmed virus redesigned with the genetic instructions to produce a missing enzyme or therapeutic protein. Advances in the technology to harness disarmed viruses as gene delivery vehicles, coupled with increased understanding of the biology of hereditary rare diseases, provide a ripe opportunity to investigate the next wave of potential life-changing therapies for patients. Pfizer at the Forefront of Gene Research WATCH VIDEO PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Partnerships > Research Collaborations 60 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW 23ANDME — FOCUS ON PATIENT COMMUNITIES GENERATING INSIGHTS Our collaboration with 23andMe, Inc., a leading personal genetics company, enables us to study demographic and phenotypic data from nearly a million genotyped, de-identified individuals who have consented to participate in genetic research. Through this robust collaboration, we have been able to explore the links between genetic variation and disease phenotypes to identify new targets of potential therapeutic value. We believe this approach has strong potential for the future of drug discovery. In 2014, 23andMe and Pfizer combined forces to enroll 10,000 people with inflammatory bowel disease in a research initiative designed to explore the genetic factors associated with the onset, progression and severity of the disease, as well as response to treatments. In 2015, in a similar but more expansive effort, we collaborated with 23andMe to create a community for people with lupus, incorporating their medical records, genetic information and disease history to help better understand the etiology of the disease. Pfizer Partnerships: Technology WATCH VIDEO AARP® — PROJECT CATALYST HELPING DEVELOPERS IMPROVE HEALTH TECHNOLOGY FOR OLDER AMERICANS Pfizer has teamed up with longtime partner AARP and other health care innovators on an AARP-led program to help technology product developers gain insights into how mature consumers use, or potentially could use, technology devices to improve and manage their health — a unique opportunity to help inform the design and usability of future products. “Project Catalyst — The Power of We” involves consumers aged 50+ in the innovation process by obtaining their feedback on product functionality and design as they incorporate new technology into their daily lives. The first studies have focused on tracking activity and sleep using wearable fitness trackers. Subsequent studies will focus on technology related to topics such as medication management and adherence, caregiving needs, and behavioral and emotional health. “With the 50-plus population representing a large portion of the patients who depend on our medicines, we recognize the importance of finding innovative solutions to challenges such as medication management and adherence. Project Catalyst has the potential to enable collaboration across multiple stakeholder groups with the common goal of delivering valuable, innovative solutions.” — Wendy Mayer Vice President, Worldwide Innovation PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Partnerships > Research Collaborations 61 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW PFIZER’S CENTERS FOR THERAPEUTIC INNOVATION Our Centers for Therapeutic Innovation (CTI) continue to build on an open innovation model for collaborating with academic researchers, foundations and the U.S. National Institutes of Health CTI COLLABORATORS (NIH). CTI is designed to bridge the gap between early scientific discovery and its translation 25 into new medicines, with Pfizer scientists working side by side with researchers from academia. Currently, CTI has 34 projects ongoing across five therapeutic areas. ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS 6 FOUNDATIONS Pfizer Partnerships: Bringing the Best Minds Together WATCH VIDEO 1 GOVERNMENT AGENCY (THE U.S. NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH) I’M WORKING ON... I’M WORKING ON... Irina Apostolou Janet Buhlmann Director, Biology, Pfizer’s Centers for Senior Principal Scientist, Immunology Therapeutic Innovation and Autoimmunity WATCH VIDEO WATCH VIDEO PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Partnerships > Research Collaborations 62 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW NEW CTI COLLABORATIONS The Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery Foundation CTI’s collaboration with The Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery Foundation (ADDF) is designed to advance the development of potential new drugs for Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias. The collaboration allows investigators in CTI’s academic network to submit research proposals to be considered by CTI, in collaboration with Pfizer’s Neuroscience Research Unit and ADDF. Investigators whose proposals are selected receive joint funding from Pfizer and ADDF, as well as access to Pfizer’s unrivaled drug discovery resources and ADDF’s expertise in Alzheimer’s disease research. Jeffrey Modell Foundation The Jeffrey Modell Foundation (JMF), a foundation that honors Jeffrey Modell, a boy who died of complications from an immunological disease, is collaborating with CTI to advance therapies for patients like Jeffrey. His parents, Vicki and Fred Modell, founded JMF to champion and facilitate early diagnosis, meaningful treatment and, ultimately, cures for immunological diseases. Working Together to Find Cures for Immunological Diseases WATCH VIDEO Creating a Single Pfizer Cambridge Campus Pfizer has expanded a lease agreement with a Massachusetts Institute of Technology subsidiary for the Kendall Square Research Facility, enabling us to consolidate our Cambridge research centers to create a single Pfizer Cambridge campus. This should allow for stronger collaborations in the Boston/Cambridge bioscience community and open new doors to unique partnerships, in the interest of expediting discovery and development efforts in this hub of life science innovation. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Partnerships > Research Collaborations 63 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW CREATIVE COLLABORATION THAT PRESERVES THE CULTURE OF OUR BIOTECH PARTNERS We continue to find creative ways to collaborate with innovators in biotech and biopharma that allow both sides to work together to accelerate the pace of innovation. This includes structuring relationships such that our collaborators are able to continue their efforts as they have been, but with access to resources of a leading, global health care company. AM-Pharma — Taking an Equity Stake in Innovation Pfizer acquired a minority equity interest in AM-Pharma B.V., a privately held Dutch biopharmaceutical company, and secured an exclusive option to acquire the remaining equity in the company. The arrangement allows the companies to leverage certain Pfizer resources that could potentially enable faster clinical development. AM-Pharma is focused on the development of recombinant human alkaline phosphatase (recAP) for inflammatory diseases — and is currently running a Phase 2 trial of recAP in the treatment of acute kidney injury related to sepsis. Pfizer’s option becomes exercisable upon completion of the Phase 2 recAP trial, and until such time, AM-Pharma remains responsible for all aspects of the execution and analysis of the study. There are no drugs currently approved for this condition. Heptares® — Gaining Access to StaR® Technologies Pfizer has entered into a strategic drug discovery collaboration with Heptares Therapeutics to research and develop potential new medicines directed at up to ten G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) targets across multiple therapeutic areas. Heptares will use its proprietary GPCR structure-guided platform to help deliver stabilized GPCRs (StaR® proteins), high resolution crystal structures and other technologies to support the discovery of potential novel agents directed to the GPCR targets selected by Pfizer. Pfizer will be responsible for developing and commercializing any potential therapeutic agents (small molecules or biologics derived from StaR technology) for each target and will have exclusive global rights to any potential resulting agents. Heptares is a wholly owned subsidiary of Sosei, a global biopharmaceutical company based in Japan. In addition to the collaboration agreement, our Japanese subsidiary Pfizer Seiyaku KK has made an equity investment in Sosei. Gliknik® — Licensed Biologic Receives Orphan Drug Designation In August 2015, Orphan Drug status was granted by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to GL-2045, a recombinant intravenous immuno-globulin mimetic licensed by Pfizer from Gliknik Inc., a privately held biopharmaceutical company, for the treatment of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, a rare neurological disorder. The designation makes available numerous incentives to develop the autoimmune drug candidate to address an unmet need. As a recombinant (not blood derived) biologic, it is hoped that GL-2045 may eventually provide patients an alternative that is at least as effective as blood-derived intravenous immunoglobulin therapies that others are developing. Evotec® — New Approaches for Potentially Treating Multi-Organ Fibrosis Pfizer and German biotech Evotec AG are collaborating to explore potential novel mechanisms for treating multi-organ fibrosis. The four-year license and collaboration agreement will see Evotec contribute its drug discovery platform while Pfizer will provide key technologies and industrial scope as well as pharmaceutical development and marketing expertise. Fibrosis is a non-physiological wound healing process that can lead to scarring and ultimately organ failure. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Partnerships > Research Collaborations 64 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW “We’re working on making sure that more people than ever have access to our innovative medicines and vaccines. With an accountability mindset, where each colleague is committed to success and seizes opportunities to deliver value, we believe we will see great business results and meet the needs of our patients and society.” JONATHAN EMMS SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND HEAD, GLOBAL HEALTH & VALUE PARTNERING TO EXPAND ACCESS At Pfizer, we believe that all individuals deserve access to quality health care and the opportunity to lead healthy lives. We combine traditional philanthropic methods with novel approaches that create an enduring and meaningful impact on public health systems to facilitate access to health care for underserved communities around the world. This includes working in partnership with multilateral aid organizations, non-governmental organizations, government agencies and other global health stakeholders to address the complex challenges around improving health for the underserved. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Partnerships > Partnering to Expand Access 65 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW GAVI, THE VACCINE ALLIANCE Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, through its Advanced Market Commitment, provides vaccines to the world’s poorest countries on an accelerated, affordable and sustainable basis. Pfizer has committed to supply up to 740 million doses of Prevenar 13® (pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine, 13-valent adsorbed) through 2025. Prevenar 13 is available in more than 40 Gavi-eligible countries, with additional launches planned. We are committed to helping meet the Advanced Market Commitment’s primary goal of reducing morbidity and mortality from pneumococcal disease and, specifically, to prevent an estimated seven million childhood deaths by 2030. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Partnerships > Partnering to Expand Access 66 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW SAYANA® PRESS AND FAMILY PLANNING John Young, Group President, Global Established Pharma, discussing family planning options in rural Uganda. Addressing the specific family planning needs of women in the developing world is a key priority for Pfizer. Through tremendous efforts and ongoing key collaborations, we have made great progress in bringing our injectable contraceptive, Sayana® Press (medroxyprogesterone acetate), to thousands of women living in the developing world. In late 2014, Pfizer entered into a collaboration with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the Children’s Investment Fund Foundation to help broaden access to Sayana Press for women most in need in 69 of the world’s poorest countries. The agreement is supported by a consortium of private sector donors and aid organizations, which include PATH, the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development, the United Nations Population Fund and the U.S. Agency for International Development. Through this collaboration, Sayana Press is being sold for US$1 per dose to qualified purchasers in selected countries, which helps enable the poorest women in these countries to have access to the contraceptive at reduced or no cost. Sayana Press combines a long-acting, reversible contraceptive with an all-in-one prefilled, singleuse, non-reusable Uniject™ injection system, eliminating the need to prepare a needle and syringe. Injectable contraceptives are a widely used family planning method, particularly among women in developing countries. They are discreet, eliminate the need for a daily pill regimen and, for some women living in remote areas, they can alleviate the deterrent of having to frequently travel long distances to get to a clinic. Accordingly, experts have identified the need for a contraceptive method that can be administered in low resource, non-clinic settings. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Partnerships > Partnering to Expand Access 67 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW SAYANA PRESS AVAILABLE IN U.K. FOR ADMINISTRATION BY SELF-INJECTION Building on momentum towards broadening access to this contraceptive option for women across the globe, Sayana Press is the first injectable contraceptive in the United Kingdom available to women for administration by self-injection when considered appropriate by a health care professional. This new method of administration is also approved in additional European Union markets, including Austria, Belgium, Hungary and The Netherlands. We will continue our efforts to help bring this updated label to more countries across the globe, with an initial focus on those in the developing world — such as Burkina Faso, Senegal and Uganda — where data show unmet need and demand for injectable contraceptives. Sayana Press is not yet approved for self-injection outside of the EU. WIPO RE:SEARCH To address the gap in early stage neglected tropical disease research, the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), BIO Ventures for Global Health (BVGH), and the biopharmaceutical industry came together in 2011 to develop WIPO Re:Search — a creative platform dedicated to developing new solutions, including medicines, vaccines and diagnostics, for neglected tropical diseases, as well as malaria and tuberculosis. With over 100 members from 27 countries, the consortium has facilitated over 95 partnership agreements and has arranged various research sabbaticals whereby scientists from both developed and developing countries are hosted by members of WIPO Re:Search to learn from world-class laboratories. As a founding member of WIPO Re:Search, Pfizer continues to play a leading role and is involved in several agreements where we are making specific contributions to advance external research programs targeting tuberculosis, acute diarrhea, liver stage malaria, cerebral malaria, leishmaniasis, lymphatic filariasis and fascioliasis. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Partnerships > Partnering to Expand Access 68 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW I’M WORKING ON...  WATCH VIDEO SALLY SUSMAN EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, CORPORATE AFFAIRS ACCESS TO MEDICINES In seeking to improve health around the world, we strive to make the best use of Pfizer’s resources — our people, products and funding — to help build health care capacity and expand access to medicines. Our multiple approaches to social investments apply novel, wellresearched and sustainable approaches to meet the health needs of the underserved while investing in the health of our communities and of our business. Because at Pfizer we understand that every individual deserves to lead a longer, healthier, more productive life. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Access to Medicines 69 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW BUILDING HEALTH CARE CAPACITY AROUND THE GLOBE Where health care infrastructure is weak or non-existent, so is access to medicines. We continue to explore and implement models and approaches to build capacity, including programs that tie together sustainable approaches with social good. Seeking holistic approaches, we work closely with governments, non-governmental organizations, health service providers, social enterprises and other stakeholders to address the complex challenges around improving health for the underserved, tailored to the diverse needs of patients in different geographies and at different income levels. HEALTH DELIVERY AND SOCIAL INNOVATION 15 In 2013, the Pfizer Foundation1 established a Health Delivery and Social Innovation portfolio to help catalyze and scale potential high impact innovations that aim to improve health for underserved populations in lowand middle-income countries. Along with key partners, the Pfizer Foundation invests in numerous organizations that are focused on advancing social innovation and opening opportunities within communities at the local level. Investments and grants are made with the goal of generating social impact and growing sustainable organizations that support health care delivery. We currently have four focus areas of investment: primary health care, women’s and children’s health, health care technologies for low GRANTEES IN 8 COUNTRIES IN resource settings and innovative health care financing mechanisms. We believe that by focusing on AFRICA, ASIA AND LATIN AMERICA these areas we will be able to help support sustainable health impacts for communities, in part by SUPPORTED BY GHIG developing entrepreneurs and enterprises that have a high potential to deliver improved health care and social impact. An example of this is the StartHealth Program, an initiative by Unitus® Seed Fund, in partnership with Pfizer Inc. and the Pfizer Foundation, Narayana Health, Manipal hospitals and PATH, targeted towards identifying, mentoring and investing in early stage health care technology startups in India and Southeast Asia. The program identifies promising technologies and combines philanthropic grant funding, for-profit seed investing and technical assistance to accelerate the pace of development of health-tech startups and help improve health care systems for patients at the base of the pyramid. Global Health Investment Grants (GHIG), a newly launched Pfizer Foundation program, partners with nonprofits and social enterprises in the developing world to support innovative health products and services for underserved populations. This program builds on our Health Delivery platform and helps to extend health impact and foster local innovation at the country level. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Access to Medicines 70 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW WOMEN’S AND CHILDREN’S HEALTH The Pfizer Foundation’s1 Women’s and Children’s Health portfolio aims to reduce key barriers in health care delivery for women and children, with a focus on improving access to immunization and family planning information, products and services. We have launched partnerships in several countries in Africa and Asia including Benin, Ethiopia, Indonesia, Kenya, Laos, Malawi and Uganda. As part of this work we are excited to partner with several organizations to pilot innovative approaches to integrate the delivery of immunizations and family planning services, strengthening health care capacity and creating system efficiencies that can improve access. Our support has helped to pioneer research and early implementation of this approach and improve health systems as they relate to the needs of women and children. ADDRESSING NONCOMMUNICABLE DISEASES (NCDS) WORLDWIDE We are supporting innovative approaches to enhancing capacity to prevent and manage noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) — the leading cause of death and disability worldwide. Proven cost-effective interventions to prevent and control NCDs exist; however, sufficient infrastructure is needed to ensure they reach the individuals, families and communities in need. For under-resourced communities, our efforts range from innovative pilot programs through the Pfizer Foundation1 to working with non-governmental organizations such as HelpAge International and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC). The Pfizer Foundation is supporting The George Institute in India and Indonesia to launch a novel primary care platform to support communities and health care providers in the prevention and management of common NCDs. The program, using affordable digital technologies, is designed to improve access to health care and reduce burden and cost on the health care system, partly by supporting the transfer and training of routine clinical procedures from doctors to non-physician health care workers. We are also working with FHI 360 in Vietnam to establish a communitybased, integrated hypertension and diabetes prevention and control program; a novel team-based approach will be used to integrate NCD awareness and prevention activities in the community with strengthened hypertension and diabetes screening, treatment and management at community health centers. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Access to Medicines 71 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW GLOBAL HEALTH FELLOWS AND TEAMS 344 Global Health Fellows is Pfizer’s signature international skills-based volunteering program. This program places Pfizer colleagues in individual, threeto six-month assignments with international development organizations to work together to bring about meaningful and systematic improvements in health service delivery. Fellows transfer their biopharmaceutical and business expertise in ways that promote access, quality and efficiency of health care. Fellows work handin-hand with community-based partners to help improve health care systems while gaining new perspectives on global health challenges as well as how the public and private sector can work together to address them. COLLEAGUES HAVE BEEN GLOBAL Focusing on similar goals, our Global Health Teams initiative offers a short-term, team-based HEALTH FELLOWS. volunteer option, expanding and diversifying opportunities for colleagues beyond our individual 340,000 fellowships. Since 2010, more than 60 colleagues have served on cross-functional teams with 19 nonprofit organizations across six countries in Latin America. In 2015, our team programming expanded to Africa, with colleagues working on projects in Tanzania and Uganda. HOURS ESTIMATED CONTRIBUTION IN SKILLS-BASED VOLUNTEERING SERVICE $50 MILLION + IN VALUE DELIVERED TO LOCAL PARTNERS THROUGHOUT THE DEVELOPING WORLD “I was touched by the warmth of the Ghanaian people and it was a privilege to develop tools to help deliver quality medicines and health care to those who need it most.” —Stacy Aguilar Senior Manager, Strategy Portfolio and Commercial Operations, Pfizer Inc. (center) on her 2015 Fellowship with PharmAccess in Ghana. Also pictured: Fellow Francie Rawlings, Global Innovative Pharma BT Regional Lead, Pfizer Inc. (right). PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Access to Medicines 72 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW “Every day, I’m grateful for the GHF experience. I have gained an appreciation for the power of mobile technology as a tool for developing countries to support their efforts in health care sustainability.” —Nicolas Such Customer Planning Manager, Pfizer France (right) on his 2015 Health Fellowship with IntraHealth International in Senegal. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Access to Medicines 73 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW PROGRAMS TO IMPROVE ACCESS TO OUR MEDICINES We continue to work to increase access to our medicines in both developed and developing countries. Pfizer has a long history of prescription assistance programs that continue to this day. Pfizer RxPathways® Pfizer RxPathways® helps eligible patients in the U.S., Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands get access to their Pfizer medicines by offering a range of support services, including insurance counseling, co-pay help, providing Pfizer medicines for free or at a savings, and more. In 2015, in response to the ongoing challenges patients face in paying out-of-pocket costs for their prescription medicines, Pfizer doubled the income eligibility level. With this change, more than 40 brands are now offered for free through the program to eligible patients earning up to four times the Federal Poverty Level (FPL) adjusted for family size ($47,080 for a single person; $97,000 for a family of four). While patient assistance is not a permanent solution, we hope that this change will help bridge the gap for patients in need. We are actively building partnerships with nonprofits, advocacy groups, practitioners and community health centers to help raise awareness of the support that is available for patients through patient assistance programs such as Pfizer RxPathways, and fill the gap for people who need help in getting quality health care. 2 MILLION + UNINSURED OR UNDERINSURED PATIENTS HAVE RECEIVED ACCESS $20 MILLION 25 YEARS + TO CO-PAY FOUNDATIONS IN THE U.S. DEDICATED TO HELPING PATIENTS + PFIZER HAS OFFERED PRESCRIPTION ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS TO HELP TO OVER 25 MILLION PFIZER OBTAIN THE LIFE-SAVING MEDICINES ELIGIBLE PATIENTS GET THEIR PRESCRIPTIONS SINCE 2011. THEY NEED PFIZER MEDICINES. Diflucan® Partnership Through this partnership, Pfizer provides, free of charge to government and non-governmental organizations in developing countries, Diflucan® (fluconazole) for the treatment of two fungal opportunistic infections associated with HIV and AIDS — cryptococcal meningitis and esophageal candidiasis. Since the launch of the program in 2000, Pfizer has donated over $1.8 billion in medicine to more than 6,700 sites in 63 countries in Africa, Asia, the Caribbean and Latin America. Fifteen years into the program, Pfizer has clearly demonstrated its commitment to addressing public health issues in the developing world by helping improve the quality of life of people living with HIV and AIDS. In the 15 years of the Diflucan Partnership Program, Pfizer has donated over $1.8 billion in medicine to more than 6,700 sites in 63 countries. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Access to Medicines 74 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW INTERNATIONAL TRACHOMA INITIATIVE CELEBRATES 500 MILLIONTH DOSE Marking exceptional progress to help alleviate the suffering from blinding trachoma, the International Trachoma Initiative (ITI) and its global partners, Pfizer and the International Coalition for Trachoma Control, celebrated Pfizer’s donation of the 500 millionth dose of Zithromax® (azithromycin), an antibiotic used to treat trachoma. The milestone marks significant achievement in global efforts to help eliminate this infectious and preventable eye disease as a public health threat by the year 2020. Trachoma is the world’s leading cause of preventable blindness and is one of the oldest diseases known. An infectious eye disease, it is spread by contact with an infected person’s hands or clothing, and can develop into a condition in which eyelids turn in and eyelashes scrape the eyeball, causing great pain, corneal ulcers and irreversible blindness. The end of trachoma in sight ITI, a global program Pfizer helped to found, has been working since 1998 to eliminate the disease. ITI and its partners today are working as part of The World Health Organization-led Alliance for the Global Elimination of Trachoma by 2020 (GET 2020). This alliance is a unique collaboration of more than 100 governments, non-governmental organizations and private sector partners implementing a WHO-recommended strategy called SAFE that combines: Surgery to treat the blinding stage of the disease; Antibiotics to treat infection; Facial cleanliness to help reduce transmission; and, Environmental improvement, particularly improving access to water and sanitation. While progress has been great, further efforts are needed to reach the 2020 global elimination goal. Join the online conversation by using #500MillionDoses. Tackling Trachoma WATCH VIDEO PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Access to Medicines 75 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW 80 % + OF THE GLOBAL BURDEN OF THE DISEASE IS CONCENTRATED IN 14 2.2M PEOPLE 100M PEOPLE ARE VISUALLY IMPAIRED BY TRACHOMA, 1.2 MILLION OF WHOM HAVE BEEN TREATED FOR TRACHOMA SINCE ITI WAS FORMED. COUNTRIES, MOSTLY IN AFRICA. ARE IRREVERSIBLY BLIND. (1) The Pfizer Foundation is a charitable organization established by Pfizer Inc. It is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Access to Medicines 76 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW WE’RE WORKING ON EXPANDING OUR PRESENCE AND IMPACT WORLDWIDE. GLOBAL REACH Everywhere we work and live, Pfizer is a vital force for improving people’s lives through the business of life science — fostering human health and well-being in multi-faceted countries and unique markets around the world. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Global Reach 77 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW CHINA #1 Pfizer has long been a leading foreign biopharmaceutical company in China, and has been doing business in the country since the 1980s. We have launched over 50 innovative drugs in the country and maintain strong positions in cardiovascular and antibiotic therapies. We employ over 10,000 colleagues and maintain business operations in over 300 cities, including two R&D centers and four state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities. “Bending the Curve” in Cardiovascular Health THE CORPORATE RESEARCH Pfizer has helped to improve the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of cardiovascular FOUNDATION HAS NAMED PFIZER A diseases across China. The “Bending the Curve” project aims to stem the rising tide of TOP EMPLOYER IN CHINA FOR THE cardiovascular diseases, enhance the vascular health of the Chinese population and reverse FIFTH YEAR IN A ROW. the alarming trend of mortality caused by cardiovascular diseases in the country. We have #1 done so through large-scale screening programs in high risk populations, efforts to improve diagnosis and treatment standards and the continuous education of physicians, patients and the general public on cardiovascular disease management. The project is advocated by the Ministry of Health and conducted by the Cardiovascular Physician Branch of the Chinese Medical Doctor Association, and the Stroke Prevention and Control Society within the Chinese Preventive Medicine Association, with support from Pfizer China. “The Navigator Project” Takes On Antimicrobial PFIZER CHINA WAS RATED THE TOP Resistance (AMR) CHOICE FOR THE FOURTH YEAR Pfizer is working to address the significant public health risks posed by misuse of antibiotics IN A ROW BY MORE THAN 55,000 in China. Our Navigator Project supports the Chinese Government’s efforts to accelerate the STUDENTS FROM TOP UNIVERSITIES development of a system to help Chinese patients on antibiotics receive appropriate therapy, IN AN ANNUAL SURVEY. while also encouraging the rational use of antibiotics and discouraging the growth of antimicrobial resistance (AMR). Pfizer supports the extensive monitoring of antimicrobial resistance in hospitals countrywide, and also supports the creation in hospitals of anti-infection teams that include microbiologists, medical specialists in anti-infective work and pharmacists. The teams focus on supporting standardized processes for treatment, cultivating professional talent and supporting hospitals with establishing reliable indicators and data for guiding doctors’ rational use of antibiotics. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Global Reach 78 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW Consumer Healthcare Manufacturing Site in Suzhou Expands To meet growing demand for Consumer Healthcare brands in China and across the Asia Pacific region, Pfizer broke ground on a $95 million expansion to our Suzhou, China manufacturing site. Pfizer began producing medicines in Suzhou in 1994. The Suzhou facility has expanded several times to keep pace with growth in demand for Caltrate® and Centrum.® China is the second-largest market for Consumer Healthcare globally, and is the largest market in the Asia Pacific region. Building on Pfizer’s commitment to environmental sustainability and social responsibility, the site will incorporate advanced technologies to minimize energy and water consumption. The site also will eventually include a new research and development facility to support local innovation. Leading Consumer Products: Both Caltrate and Centrum are ranked among the leading consumer health products in China and are first and second in their respective categories. mHealth Initiative Spurs Innovation across China Pfizer China created a mHealth competition in partnership with leading venture capital funds, startup incubators and medical experts. The initiative inspired the country’s innovators to work on improving treatment quality through mHealth mobile technology, to bring better treatment services to underserved areas. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Global Reach 79 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW INDIA Pfizer began its operations in India in the 1950s and has the distinction of being the first pharmaceutical company that started clinical research in the country. Headquartered in Mumbai, Pfizer operates across 100 cities through five regional offices and has over 7,500 colleagues committed to working with health care providers and governments to help improve patients’ lives. With five manufacturing facilities and four R&D centers, India is now the largest manufacturing hub for Pfizer in Asia. Pfizer Limited, the entity listed on the stock exchanges in India, is ranked among the top 10 pharmaceutical companies in the country. Pfizer has a portfolio of over 150 products across nine therapeutic areas. Hospira Acquisition With the acquisition of Hospira, Pfizer in India is recognized as a multinational biopharmaceutical company that has the complete value chain in India including research and development centers, global manufacturing facilities and commercial operations. The acquisition has brought important assets to Pfizer in India, including a state-of-the-art greenfield manufacturing facility located in Vizag, Andhra Pradesh, for the production of sterile injectables. Recognition 2015 was a year of recognition and awards for Pfizer in India. First, Pfizer was recognized for its Outstanding Sales Force Excellence Project i-connect, by the Organization of Pharmaceutical Producers of India (OPPI), followed by our Goa manufacturing plant receiving the “Future Ready Factory” (Platinum Award) by the India Manufacturing Excellence Awards (IMEA) presented by Frost & Sullivan. The year ended on a high with the company being honored with the consumer-validated award, “India’s Most Trusted Brand,” in the medical company category instituted by IBC Infomedia Ltd. Rankings — Three of the Top 20 Three of Pfizer’s brands — Corex® (cough formulation), Prevenar 13® (pneumococcal vaccine) and Becosules® (multivitamins) — rank among India’s Top 20 pharmaceutical drug brands as per the December 2015 IMS data. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Global Reach 80 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW Reach — Over 55 countries With our expanded footprint through acquired Hospira facilities, Pfizer now exports quality pharmaceutical products to over 55 countries across the world. Responsibility Pfizer India launched its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy and demonstrated its commitment to society through various programs. The CSR policy encourages stronger commitment from its colleagues to address the health care challenges faced by the country. As part of its community outreach program, Pfizer India has partnered with Habitat for Humanity India, a non-governmental organization, to build/refurbish 84 sanitation facilities in 18 schools across Thane and Raigad districts in Maharashtra. Incubating New Solutions — The Pfizer-IIT Delhi Innovation and Intellectual Property (IP) Program Across the world, Pfizer calls for an environment that fosters innovation and an intellectual property rights regime that encourages creative endeavors. In India, as in the rest of the world, Pfizer wants to be a catalyst for the development of ecosystems that allow innovators to bring their health care solutions to life for the benefit of patients. To that end, Pfizer has partnered with the Foundation for Innovation and Technology Transfer (FITT) at the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi (IIT Delhi) to create the Pfizer-IIT Delhi Innovation and Intellectual Property (IP) Program, a collaborative incubation accelerator initiative. The program is open to Indian nationals — individuals and startup companies — and comprises two components. First, for innovators seeking comprehensive support to translate their health care ideas into patents, the program will provide two years of residential incubation at IIT Delhi, funding of up to Rs. 5,000,000 for each innovator, mentoring support from IIT Delhi’s faculty, access to infrastructure and prototyping laboratories, IP search and filing services, guidance from Pfizer’s global experts, and access to venture capitalists and other industry linkages. Second, for innovators who already have a ready proof of concept and are seeking to obtain a patent, the program will provide access to IP attorneys and services and cover the patent fee. Aligning with Pfizer’s ethos of bringing innovative solutions that significantly improve lives, the Pfizer IIT-Delhi Innovation and IP Program is an example of an industry-academia collaboration that also supports the country’s national priority of “Startup India Standup India.” The Startup India Standup India launch event organized by the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion saw Pfizer participate and showcase the Pfizer-IIT Delhi Innovation and IP Program to the honorable Prime Minister of India, Mr. Narendra Modi. This program demonstrates Pfizer’s commitment towards fostering health care innovations in the country. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Global Reach 81 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW “Our innovation and IP program with IIT Delhi will promote, celebrate and reward innovations and advancements in health care that are born and brought up in India for the benefit of our people. In doing so, our effort aligns with the government’s stated priority of creating a vibrant innovation ecosystem in the country.” — S. Sridhar Executive Director, Pfizer India UNITED KINGDOM Pfizer plays an integral role in people’s lives across the U.K., from the doctor’s office to hospitals and homes. Around one in seven people in the U.K. took a Pfizer medicine last year. We know improving the nation’s health needs is a team effort and we partner with stakeholders across the National Health Service, with health care professionals and with patients, to improve the delivery of health care to address the needs of people in the U.K. and beyond. The U.K. has a world-leading science base and is an important place for us to conduct research and development, working alongside the best in British science to find and develop new vaccines and medicines to improve people’s lives. “I Am Science” Pfizer U.K.’s “I Am Science” initiative was created to remind people that science is a vital part of everyone’s life, and to help nurture the next generation of British science leaders. “I Am Science” was launched at an event for colleagues and their families, taking them on the journey from molecule to medicine to learn about the challenges and successes each medicine and vaccine faces on its journey to market. Making a medicine or vaccine is a challenging but hugely rewarding enterprise — for ourselves and for society. In a separate event co-sponsored with the Royal Society of Chemistry, students and teachers were invited to learn about the role of scientific discovery in our daily lives. By provoking thought about the role that science plays, from the food that we eat to the medicines we take, the highly interactive event helped encourage students to consider what a career in science might mean for them. Students benefited from live experiments and active learning led by Dr. Maggie Aderin-Pocock MBE, one of the U.K.’s leading female scientists — gaining first-hand insights into the lives of scientists and learning about the cutting-edge techniques being used in laboratories today. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Global Reach 82 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW Miles for Haemophilia Campaign The launch of the second Miles for Haemophilia campaign, demonstrating Pfizer’s ongoing commitment to the hemophilia community, was supported by professional cyclist and hemophilia patient Alex Dowsett. It was timed to coincide with Alex’s world record attempt for the most kilometres covered in one hour, in which he successfully became the world record holder. Miles for Haemophilia aims to advance the physical activity of hemophilia patients’ daily lives, which has been shown to be clinically beneficial in the management of their disease. The campaign is regional — launched in more than 14 countries since 2014 — and joint efforts across the region have contributed to its success. Pneumonia Awareness Campaign To coincide with World Pneumonia Day on November 12, Pfizer U.K. launched an awareness campaign supported by rugby star Gareth Thomas. The campaign’s aim was to raise public awareness of pneumonia, encouraging people to be aware that it can affect anyone, even someone as rugged and strong as Gareth, who discussed his own experience with pneumonia. The campaign highlighted the symptoms of pneumonia, who is at greatest risk and how the public can protect themselves against the disease. MEXICO Pfizer began operations in Mexico in 1951 with five sales representatives and a small group of administrative employees. Today, thanks to the dedication and talent of our collaborative teams, constant innovation and our commitment to the highest ethical, quality and sustainability standards, we have consolidated Pfizer Mexico as the biopharmaceutical company with the best corporate reputation in the country according to one indicator, the Corporate Reputation Monitor (MERCO). Our mission continues to be providing patients with better access to our treatments and meeting the health needs of Mexican society. We understand that in order to fulfill our commitments to society we need to build strong, trusting relationships with key stakeholders. It is only through the joint effort of patients, doctors and health care authorities that we will achieve the goal of a healthier Mexico. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Global Reach 83 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW Pfizer Mexico Ranked #1 Pharma in Corporate Reputation Every year, the Corporate Reputation Monitor (MERCO), in alliance with multi-platform business news service El Financiero | Bloomberg, publishes its Corporate Reputation list of the Top 100 companies in Mexico. MERCO is the first audited ranking which reflects the perception from companies, corporate executives, financial experts, journalists, academics, NGO representatives and the general public. The ranking methodology includes a multistakeholder approach that, in 2015, involved over 2,000 personal interviews, including interviews with 594 local executives across all industry sectors. In 2015, Pfizer Mexico obtained the following rankings: #1 RANKED FIRST AMONG THE PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY FOR TOP 15 +10 RANKED AMONG THE TOP 15 COMPANIES WITH THE BEST IMPROVED 10 POSITIONS (#26) ON THE MORE RESPONSIBLE AND THE SECOND CONSECUTIVE YEAR CORPORATE REPUTATION OF ALL BETTER CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDUSTRY SECTORS COMPANIES RANKING “The results reflect how Pfizer Mexico has earned the respect of society through our social initiatives, the integrity of our people and the way we do business. Building the reputation of a company is no longer a matter of image, but a matter of facts.” — Aldo Rees Country Manager, Pfizer Mexico 1 ST “Construyendo Lazos” (“Strengthening Ties”) “Construyendo Lazos” (“Strengthening Ties”) is a forum supported by the Pfizer Mexico Foundation and conducted as a joint effort with the Ministry of Health of Mexico and its National Volunteer Service. This initiative, which serves both as a networking opportunity and education session, seeks to enhance the management skills and operational capabilities of over 400 civil society organizations and patient groups throughout the country. By participating in the event, organizations receive training to enhance their skills in areas such THE FIRST PHARMACEUTICAL as social media, fundraising and government support programs. COMPANY TO LAUNCH A CORPORATE TWITTER ACCOUNT IN MEXICO. 835,800 PEOPLE VIEWED PFIZER MEXICO TWITTER MESSAGES IN 2015. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Global Reach 84 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW State-of-the-Art Facility in Toluca Our plant in Toluca supplies the domestic market and exports to 34 countries in Central America, South America and the Caribbean. The Toluca plant manufactures oral solids, semisolids and liquids and has four state-of-the-art laboratories for chemical testing, microbiology, analytical support and stability, as well as Mexico’s first fully automated distribution center. Raising Awareness of Metastatic Breast Cancer Pfizer supports two significant organizations in their efforts to raise awareness across Mexico of advanced breast cancer and the importance of early detection and treatment. We are proud to be able to work closely with such civil society organizations dedicated to giving essential support to women and their families facing a diagnosis of breast cancer. • The traditional competition “Huellas” (“Footprints”), a combined race and walk fundraiser, has celebrated its eighth annual edition. • The Avon Breast Cancer Crusade has been working for 21 years in Mexico and remains at the forefront of the fight against breast cancer worldwide. Pfizer Scientific Institute The Pfizer Scientific Institute has supported over 600 Mexican scientists since its creation 11 years ago, providing over 100 million pesos to promote research on the main diseases afflicting Mexico’s population and to support medical training for Mexican doctors. In addition to scientific research and advances, the Institute makes available to the public free scientific information, electronic books and magazines and offers medical education courses. The Institute supports five major program areas: • Research Fund — Research support for Mexican physicians • Summer Internships — Support for medical students to learn from top researchers in Mexico (up to 40 students per year) • Short Stays Abroad — Support for 10 physicians to conduct training and research (two months) in foreign hospitals • Academic Excellence Award — Support for the Mexican Academy of Medicine and the Mexican Association of Medical Schools to honor accomplished medical students (approximately 40) • Promedicum — A website that allows Mexican physicians to access the most updated medical information from recognized electronic libraries PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Global Reach 85 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW SOUTH AFRICA Pfizer South Africa’s new vision, “living our full potential in striving for a healthier southern Africa,” forms part of our ethos whereby every southern African should have access to quality health care. This vision reflects the continuing journey that Pfizer started in the 1950s when we adopted a long-term investment strategy. By the early 2000s, Pfizer became one of the top 10 pharmaceutical companies in the country and was ranked highly among physicians with regard to trust in the company, trust in product and communications service by representatives. Today Pfizer is rated among the top five American companies in South Africa and continues to achieve accolades in its quest to lead the field in the improvement of human life and the battle against disease. 1 MILLION Cape Town Plant to Manufacture Prevenar 13® Pfizer is partnering with the Biovac Institute, a public-private partnership between the South African government and the Biovac Consortium, to locally manufacture Prevenar 13® (pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine, 13-valent adsorbed). Under the agreement, Pfizer will transfer the manufacturing technology that will enable Biovac to manufacture Prevenar 13 at its facility in Cape Town. Biovac will perform contract manufacturing using a Rapid Deployment Model (RDM) provided by Pfizer. Similar agreements for the manufacture BABIES IN SOUTH AFRICA ARE of Prevenar 13 previously have been made in Argentina, Turkey and Russia. This is the first in EXPECTED TO BE VACCINATED the Africa and Middle East Region. Prevenar 13 is indicated in South Africa for the prevention of invasive disease, pneumonia and acute otitis media caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae ANNUALLY WITH A PFIZER VACCINE in infants and young children from six weeks to five years of age. MANUFACTURED LOCALLY ONCE THE PLANT IS FULLY OPERATIONALIZED. “Preventing pneumococcal disease is a priority in South Africa, and Pfizer is committed to ensuring the sustainable supply of our pneumococcal vaccine to continue to impact public health positively.” — R. Nolan Townsend Regional Head, Vaccines, Africa Middle East, India and Gavi PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Global Reach 86 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW Pfizer South Africa Named Top Employer for the Fifth Time For the fifth consecutive year, Pfizer South Africa has received the “Top Employer South Africa” award for the pharmaceutical industry. The certification from the Top Employers Institute of Africa and Benelux is given only to organizations that achieve the highest standards of excellence in employee conditions. The first step of the certification process involved Pfizer South Africa’s participation in the HR Best Practices survey — a comprehensive analysis of the workplace environment that assessed our organization’s management and employee conditions. The results were validated and we passed an external audit. Finally, performance scores were rated against an international standard and we were certified as a Top Employer. “It is rewarding to see us once again recognized through the rigorous process of the Top Employers Institute. I’m really proud of the systems and processes that we have in place; they are part of what makes Pfizer South Africa a great place to work. And that is a goal worth striving for — every single day.” — Jennifer Power Country Manager, Pfizer South Africa PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Global Reach 87 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW “I’m working on connecting what we do to improve people’s lives with the Sustainable Development Goals, and finding ways to amplify, measure and report our impact.” CHRIS GRAY SENIOR DIRECTOR, GLOBAL INSTITUTIONS, CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY THE GLOBAL GOALS The United Nations has adopted 17 Global Goals for sustainable development. At Pfizer, we believe that good health is fundamental to advancing all of them. We are encouraging everyone to take action between now and 2030 to support these goals and help build a better world for all at all ages. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > The Global Goals 88 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW EMBRACING THE 2030 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Pfizer has embraced the Global Goals, also known as the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We see our purpose of improving people’s lives through scientific innovation to be aligned with such goals for a better future, and believe that companies have a key role to play in supporting and advancing the SDGs. Pfizer and other companies are exploring innovative and sustainable commercial approaches to addressing the new development goals, including new models of publicprivate and cross-industry partnerships, as well as other forms of multi-stakeholder collaboration. Goal #17 explicitly calls on stakeholders to advance the goals through such partnerships. IMPACT 2030 is a global, private sector-led collaboration that has come together to mobilize employee volunteers to advance the achievement of the SDGs. Pfizer is a founding partner in this effort. We bring a long history of tapping the passion and ingenuity of our colleagues, in programs such as Pfizer Global Health Fellows, to help build health care capacity and improve access to essential health services around the world. Health, the Goal That Underlies All The Global Goals — 17 Ways to a Health is explicitly included as the third goal among the 17 SDGs, yet health is also inextricably Better Future linked to the other 16 goals, each of which enable or is enabled by advances in population health. As a contributor to development as well as a beneficiary, health is directly and indirectly intertwined with goals such as education, economic growth, infrastructure, climate change, finance WATCH VIDEO and governance, and gender equality. SDG / Health Implication and Impact PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > The Global Goals 89 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > The Global Goals 90 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW WE’RE WORKING ON INSPIRING PEOPLE AND SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES TO EMBRACE HEALTHY AGING AROUND THE WORLD. HEALTHY AGING For Pfizer, helping people age well is both a business priority and a social responsibility. Our efforts in this regard — from supporting age-friendly cities to taking on non-communicable diseases in the developing world to continually evolving our groundbreaking Get Old campaign — help to inspire individuals, strengthen communities and further our position as innovators in health and wellness. AGE-FRIENDLY CITIES UPDATE Pfizer is helping support age-friendly cities with community-based programs across the world, specifically in Ireland, France and the French-speaking regions of the Caribbean and the Indian Ocean. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Healthy Aging 91 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW AGE-FRIENDLY IRELAND Age-Friendly Ireland continues to work on embedding a sustainable network of age-friendly towns (currently, 22) across Ireland. To enable towns to become age-friendly, the program has successfully created a toolkit and appendix of templates and examples of age-friendly town methodologies. There has been particular interest in the “walkability audit” and the “on street” survey as stand-alone modules. A related suite of videos describes the age-friendly enabling process and how it has been used successfully. Other efforts in 2015 focused on encouraging older adults to take lead roles in enhancing their communities, creating an Age Impact Assessment tool/checklist appropriate to the Irish environment, and promoting the benefits of a multi-stakeholder approach in municipal planning. RÉSEAU FRANCOPHONE DES VILLES AMIES DES AÎNÉS This French network of age-friendly cities, known by its French acronym RFVAA, focuses on creating and sustaining age-friendly communities throughout France and French-speaking regions of the Caribbean and the Indian Ocean, with support from the Pfizer Foundation.1 In 2015, all cities affiliated with the RFVAA network were invited to apply for the initial Age-friendly Cities Award, launched by RFVAA and the association Efferve’Sens to recognize efforts to reduce isolation. There were 55 applicants. RFVAA continues to promote the need for and value of age-friendly cities through its national communications platform and recognition events, while collaborating on practical policy advances and providing workshops and analyses that help seniors to become advocates for their own community needs. RFVAA and the University of Burgundy have signed a CIFRE (Convention of Industrial Research through Training) convention to support research by postgraduate students of the University, to be conducted over a period of three years, on the theme of “adapting French society to the issue of aging and the contribution of age-friendly cities to their elderly citizens” with an eye towards integration, combating discrimination, and public policy. In 2016, Efferve’Sens plans to launch a widely applied research program. (1) The Pfizer Foundation is a charitable organization established by Pfizer Inc. It is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Healthy Aging 92 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW HELPAGE INTERNATIONAL CONTINUES THE FIGHT AGAINST NON-COMMUNICABLE DISEASES 4 IN 5 DEATHS FROM NCDS OCCUR IN LOWAND MIDDLE-INCOME COUNTRIES. In Tanzania, community-based activities and active-aging groups organized by HelpAge International are spreading the word about healthy aging. HelpAge International and Pfizer have worked together since 2012 to reduce the impact of noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) among older people in Tanzania. During its first two years, the initiative focused on raising awareness among older people and health providers, contributing to the Government of Tanzania’s efforts to provide appropriate health services to older citizens. NCDs included in the scope of the initiative consist of chronic conditions that include cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and hypertension, as well as Alzheimer’s and other dementias. They are commonly thought of as “diseases of affluence,” whereas, in reality, four-fifths of deaths from NCDs are in lowand middle-income countries, and older people in developing countries are particularly at risk. Prevention through an active and healthy lifestyle can turn some of these debilitating diseases into manageable conditions. Ongoing HelpAge project work focuses on developing an intergenerational approach to health messaging and strengthening community-based initiatives such as active aging groups. These initiatives stress the role of healthy lifestyles in preventing and managing NCDs; facilitate collaborations with health providers at local and national levels to improve prevention, early diagnosis, follow-up and treatment of NCDs; and help improve data collection and analyses to inform appropriate policies. Community-based activities are being carried out in the Kibaha district. At the national level, the project supports health advocacy that includes curriculum reform, increasing access to essential NCD drugs, and working with the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare to improve health information management. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Healthy Aging 93 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW HEALTH OUTCOMES TOOL TESTING EXPANDS HelpAge has developed a robust tool to monitor healthy aging and well-being in older age in a broad range of contexts. Building on current field-testing in Bolivia, Colombia and Tanzania, the Health Outcomes Tool is now being tested in India and in Uganda. Defining and measuring healthy aging poses a significant challenge. As people age, a progressively delicate balance has to be struck between medicalizing care (when appropriate) to extend life, managing symptoms and disabilities, and maintaining or improving autonomy and quality of life. HelpAge believes that the new tool could address shortcomings of existing measurement tools and enable a redefinition of health outcomes in older age by focusing on health status and functional ability of older people as well as their access to health services. PARTNERING WITH THE INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF RED CROSS AND RED CRESCENT SOCIETIES (IFRC) TO PREVENT NON-COMMUNICABLE DISEASES Pfizer and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC), the world’s largest humanitarian network, have joined forces to address non-communicable diseases (NCDs). The project leverages our respective expertise and resources in three areas: to further disseminate the IFRC’s 4HealthyHabits tools for NCD prevention, to develop and test evidence-based tools to support healthy and active aging at the community level, and to advocate jointly for NCD prevention and control and for healthy and active aging. Healthy aging is incorporated into the IFRC 2016–2020 strategic plan and programming, aimed at providing improved health for all communities, with a focus on underserved populations. IFRC has a consolidated vision for healthy aging, which provides a potential for additional partnerships and, therefore, increased capacity to do more and reach further in this area. BUILDING AWARENESS OF THE IMPORTANCE OF ADULT IMMUNIZATION WITH THE INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION ON AGEING Recognizing that vaccination uptake rates for older people continue to remain well below those recommended, the International Federation on Ageing (IFA) has committed to raising awareness about adult vaccinations globally in the next five years. The IFA, an international non-governmental organization (NGO) with a membership base made up of governments, NGOs, industry, academia and individuals in 70 countries, aims to educate the public and key stakeholders about how adult vaccination contributes to global public health by helping to reduce unnecessary infections and associated complications, helping to lower public health costs and hospitalizations, and supporting family caregiving. The IFA’s goal is to build and mobilize networks that comprise agencies and experts in the fields of vaccine, infectious disease, ageing and public health. Together, academia, industry and civil society are working to help influence and shape adult vaccination policies and practices worldwide. In 2015, Pfizer helped IFA begin to achieve its objectives by supporting three multi-stakeholder summits of scientists, academia and NGOs aimed at building consensus on the importance of adult immunization as part of healthy aging. The partnership is consistent with IFA’s vision of achieving a world of healthy older people whose rights and choices are both protected and respected. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Healthy Aging 94 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW “GET READY. GET SET. GET OLD.” 2.MILLION4 VISITS + TO GETOLD.COM Commencement Day WATCH VIDEO 4.MILLION5 VIEWS + Get Old continues to challenge how people think about aging and encourage them to take an active role in their health and wellness. We continue to evolve Get Old, launching new initiatives on OF THE COMMENCEMENT VIDEO an ongoing basis that foster and engage a community of health-activated consumers to elevate their engagement with Pfizer and, ultimately, strengthen our reputation as a company that helps people live longer, healthier lives. 6MILLION ENGAGEMENTS + Pfizer’s latest Get Old campaign encourages people to embrace aging not as an end, but as a beginning — a time to fulfill old dreams and make new ones a reality. As the 2015 graduation season closed, the campaign launched with a video that challenges perceptions about how people age. “Commencement Day” inspires people of all ages to see each day as a new beginning. The tag line, “Every day is a commencement day. Get Ready. Get Set. Get Old.,” embodies the theme of cherishing milestones and challenging traditional roadmaps of when personal experiences and achievements should occur. WITH GET OLD ON FACEBOOK AND TWITTER PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Healthy Aging 95 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW 169, 0 00 + “LIFE FORECAST” LAUNCHES ON GETOLD.COM “Life Forecast” takes a fun approach to “predicting” future experiences based on current ages and interests — revealing everything from how many books you might read to how much you might travel or, if you volunteer, how many hours you might give to your cause by the time you are 100 years old. The tool serves as a reminder that there is no prePEOPLE determined age to start something new and every day can be viewed as a new beginning and an opportunity for adventure and accomplishment. JOINED GET OLD’S SOCIAL MEDIA COMMUNITY (348,000 TOTAL COMMUNITY SIZE) PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Healthy Aging 96 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW “We’re working on keeping pace with patients. They aren’t waiting around to be ‘empowered.’ They’re taking power into their hands, and they expect us to be with them on that journey.” FREDA LEWIS-HALL, M.D. CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER PATIENT ENGAGEMENT Our patients want more than medicine. They want to know that their medicines have been developed with their needs in mind, and that we are willing to share health and disease information that can help them and their doctors make the best decisions. Today, Pfizer is among the leaders in patient-centered health care, notably, in patient-centered drug development. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Patient Engagement 97 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW RESTORING THE PATIENT TO THE CENTER OF HEALTH CARE People today are able to find and exchange more health information than ever before. As patients and their families become more informed, they also become more involved — more active in their own care, starting with the biomedical research that results in new therapies. We welcome an era where patients are willing to say, “Nothing about us, without us.” We are taking action to dive much more deeply into learning what patients really want from their medicines and vaccines. Patient voices, directly and through advocates, increasingly inform how our clinical trials are designed and what “value” in a new medicine or vaccine means to them. Pfizer is deploying a host of new approaches to patient-centered drug development, from crowdsourcing to medical ethnology. Patient concerns matter. Beyond listening more closely, we are sharing information we gather with patients in ways that are more relevant for them and, importantly, we are working to act on what we hear from patients and their families and from patient advocates. This can only help in our concerted efforts to improve people’s lives. THRIVE APP The THRIVE app (Teen Health Resources, Information and Vaccine Education) encourages parents to begin a dialogue with their teens or young adults on important health topics, and help them manage their own health. Parents can create profiles for each child and keep track of their health records, including vaccinations and well-visits, and checklist items. The app features an extensive library of teen health and wellness topics relevant to this transformative and often complex stage of life. It also provides conversation starters for difficult or sensitive topics, such as drinking, smoking, sexual health, social media and more. THRIVE was developed in partnership with the Society for Adolescent Health and Medicine and the UNITY Consortium. Available on Apple and Android products, THRIVE can be downloaded for free. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Patient Engagement 98 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW PARTNERING WITH YOUTH ADVISORY GROUPS: PFIZER’S PARTICIPATION IN ICAN To help Pfizer and others learn more about what children need from us, the head of our Pediatric Center of Excellence, Charles A. Thompson, M.D., FAAP, participates in the International Children’s Advisory Network (iCAN) — a worldwide consortium of youth advisory groups working together to provide a voice for children and families in health, medicine, research and innovation through synergy, communication and collaboration. The network has been under development since 2013, when the KIDS (Kids and Families Impacting Disease through Science) program was launched as a broad collaboration with pediatric stakeholders, including Pfizer, the American Academy of Pediatrics Section on Advances in Therapeutics and Technology, and the Hezekiah Beardsley Connecticut Chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics. iCAN officially launched in June 2015 with a global research summit held in Washington, D.C., which was attended by more than 130 youth advisors, parents, leaders and partners from Australia, North America and Europe. Along with Pfizer, partners include the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Health Canada, the European Medicines Agency, the National Institutes of Health/National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, and the Children’s National Medical Center, as well as other biopharma companies and contract research organizations that learn from and offer feedback on pediatric issues. “iCAN gives children and their parents a voice in the innovation process. Their experiences and perspectives can inform the industry and policymakers about advancements that can improve pediatric medicine.” — Charles A. Thompson, M.D. Global Lead, Pfizer Pediatric Center of Excellence PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Patient Engagement 99 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW COMPASSIONATE USE AND EXPANDED ACCESS Pfizer receives numerous requests for compassionate use of experimental drugs to treat patients with life-threatening diseases or conditions who have exhausted all other treatment options. To streamline the process and to ensure fast, fair review of requests, Pfizer has launched a compassionate use portal at PfizerCAReS.com. Here, treating physicians can readily request compassionate use considerations for their patients, with assurances that such requests will be reviewed thoroughly but expeditiously by Pfizer’s medical experts. EMPOWERING PATIENTS Pfizer has stepped up its engagement with patients, caregivers and the health care community through the public outreach of our Chief Medical Officer, Freda Lewis-Hall, M.D., Pfizer Medical and research organizations. Dr. Lewis-Hall’s appearances on popular television shows such as Dr. Phil and The Doctors, together with medical information offered on the Get Healthy, Stay Healthy website, connect U.S. audiences with medical resources and useful tools for managing personal and family health. GetOld.com and social media engage audiences to think positively about aging and to take active and mindful ownership of their lives. In 2015, this program surpassed 90 million views of Pfizer medical content. 90 MILLION + Facing Breast Cancer in the Workplace On Dr. Phil, Pfizer’s Chief Medical Officer, Freda Lewis-Hall, M.D., offers advice for balancing health and career after a cancer diagnosis. WATCH VIDEO VIEWS OF PFIZER MEDICAL CONTENT PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Patient Engagement 100 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW “We’re working on engaging our key suppliers in delivering our environmental sustainability goals. This is critical as we have an extensive external network and delivering on our commitments to sustainability will require action from all.” SUNIL S. GHOGRE TEAM LEADER, OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE, EXTERNAL SUPPLY OPU, PFIZER GLOBAL SUPPLY ENVIRONMENT At Pfizer, we continue to work for a sustainable future, recognizing that embedding environmental sustainability into our business can bring significant value to our company, the people who use our products and the communities we touch. PROGRESS ON OUR 2020 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY GOALS* Building on the successful achievements of our carbon emission reduction and green chemistry programs, we are working to contribute meaningfully to global efforts to reduce human impact on the environment. In 2015, Pfizer’s greenhouse gas emissions reduction goal was recognized as a Science Based Target by the initiative led by the Carbon Disclosure Project, the UN Global Compact, the World Resources Institute and the World Wildlife Fund. This recognizes that Pfizer has established targets consistent with the level of decarbonization required by science to limit global warming to less than 2°C compared to pre-industrial temperatures. Throughout the lifecycle of our products, our aspiration is to further reduce our carbon footprint and increase energy efficiency, decrease dependence on limited resources and reduce waste in order to help ensure a sustainable future for our patients, our global community and our company. Our longstanding efforts on environmental sustainability align with the UN’s newly released 2030 Sustainable Development Goals, which Pfizer has embraced. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Environment 101 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS WASTE DISPOSED TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 GHG EMISSIONS TOTAL HAZARDOUS AND NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE IN MILLION METRIC TONS CO2EQ IN THOUSAND METRIC TONS WATER WITHDRAWAL EXCLUDING NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER IN MILLION CUBIC METERS * Applies to facilities within Pfizer’s operational control as compared with a 2012 baseline. Hospira environmental sustainability data is not included. Combined company data will be provided in the 2016 Annual Review. Data are baseline adjusted, reported absolute, using reporting boundaries per the WRI GHG Protocol. The 2012–2014 GHG data was independently verified to the “limited assurance” level. The verification of the 2015 GHG data will be accomplished in 2016. Expanded environmental reporting will be posted on www.pfizer.com later this year. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Environment 102 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW Pfizer Issues Supply Chain Environmental Sustainability Goal In 2015, Pfizer developed and approved the following supply chain goal that aims to result in meaningful environmental improvement across our key suppliers. By the end of 2020 our goal is that: 1. 100% of key suppliers support Pfizer’s Supplier Code of Conduct and are aligned with the Principles of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative 2. 100% of key suppliers manage greenhouse gas emissions, water use and waste generation responsibly 3. 90% of key suppliers establish reduction goals for greenhouse gas emissions, water use and waste generation Key suppliers are defined as major contributors to our external environmental footprint, strategic collaborators with our global research and development organization and those suppliers we anticipate having continued involvement with. Pfizer benefits from adopting such supplier goals as they strongly align with our strategic imperative of gaining respect from society. Environmental management of the supply chain is emerging as a concern of governmental tenders, retailer scorecards, hospital group procurement organizations and investors. >1, PROJECTS 0 00 3. 3 MEGAWATTS ADDED TO OUR RENEWABLE ENERGY CAPACITY WITH 137 KEY SUPPLIERS IDENTIFIED AS STRATEGIC COLLABORATORS A SECOND WIND TURBINE AT OUR AND MAJOR CONTRIBUTORS TO SINCE 2010, MORE THAN 1,000 PUURS FACILITY IN BELGIUM AND OUR EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY AND WATER PROJECTS HAVE A SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEM AT OUR FOOTPRINT ACHIEVED ANNUALIZED SAVINGS OF GUAYAMA FACILITY IN PUERTO RICO $38.7 MILLION AND 215,475 METRIC TONS OF CO2. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Environment 103 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW OUR GREEN JOURNEY 2015 marked the five-year anniversary of our Green Journey, an environmental sustainability program launched in 2010. Our environmental sustainability program is integral to Pfizer’s larger purpose of “working together for a healthier world” and is guided by the following four key components: 1. Optimizing processes to reduce our environmental footprint across our three goal areas (climate, water and waste) 2. Responding to our customers’ desire for innovative, sustainable packaging designs and materials 3. Expanding sustainability efforts across our manufacturing supply chain 4. Increasing our understanding of our impact on the environment We also evaluate environmental, health and safety risks, including risks related to climate change, across our operations, as part of our ongoing risk review processes. For a comprehensive view of our contributions to a sustainable future, see here. Pharmaceuticals in the Environment (PIE) We are committed to minimizing potential impacts on human health and the environment from the manufacture, use and disposal of our medicines — across our supply chain and the lifecycle of our products. Pfizer works directly and in partnership with other member companies on trade associations such as PhRMA, the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations, and the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative to ensure relevant science is understood and, where necessary, further advanced to help mitigate such risks. We encourage proper disposal of unwanted medicines, working with stakeholders through education and awareness programs. Actions to reduce improper disposal of expired or unwanted prescription and non-prescription medicines lessen the potential for diversion, reduce the potential for improper use of medication and help protect our water. Although studies have indicated that only a small portion of medicines enter the environment through waste disposal, it is important to consider environmental impacts from all sources. The Pfizer Responsible Disposal Advisor website has seen encouraging usage by institutions and health care professionals. This online resource contains recommended disposal practices in the U.S. for all Pfizer products. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Human Health Impact > Environment 104 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW “We’re working on constantly analyzing trends in the marketplace, from emerging technologies and the rise of ‘big data’ to changes in how health care is delivered. We are using that knowledge to improve our scientific and commercial capabilities so that we can bring innovative medicines to patients that have a significant impact on their health.” LAURIE OLSON EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, STRATEGY, PORTFOLIO AND COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS GLOBAL COMMERCIAL BUSINESSES The evolution of our operating structure has enabled greater independence, focus and responsiveness for our commercial businesses, helping us maximize the use of our capital to deliver value to patients and our shareholders. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Global Commercial Businesses 105 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW GLOBAL ESTABLISHED PHARMA Creating a World Leader in Established Brands, Sterile Injectables and Biosimilars In 2015, Global Established Pharma (GEP), a large, highly diverse business with unique opportunities across portfolios and geographies, was composed of three product I’M WORKING ON... segments with different market dynamics: • Peri-Loss of Exclusivity products in developed countries — products that have recently lost or are approaching loss of marketing exclusivity • Legacy established products in developed countries — composed of mature brands that have lost marketing exclusivity • Emerging countries — composed of all GEP products sold in emerging countries where the quality of our legacy brands provides significant value to patients and health care professionals Lisa Skeens The acquisition of Hospira expands our leadership position in sterile injectable products, Head of Global Regulatory Affairs, Global Established Pharma adding Hospira’s leading portfolio of generic sterile injectable products to Pfizer’s legacy branded sterile injectables. This helps accelerate growth in potential key areas of focus in both developed and emerging countries, and enhances our specialized manufacturing capability on a global basis. We are now the number one sterile injectables company WATCH VIDEO globally and number two in biosimilars. GEP is also focused on growth opportunities in both developed and emerging markets including organic and inorganic initiatives, such as partnerships, product enhancements and innovative delivery technology. We have also incorporated Hospira’s leading Infusion Systems and large volume solutions portfolio which provides vital products to hospital customers in the U.S. and a number of international markets. Creating a World Leader in Sterile Injectables and Biosimilars The combination of Pfizer and Hospira greatly enhances our Global Established Pharma business. GEP now has one of the broadest and most diverse portfolios of generic and branded difficult-to-manufacture sterile injectable medicines, which are critically important for patients. And we are also now a leading biosimilars company, with Pfizer’s best-in-class capabilities in monoclonal antibody development and manufacturing combined with Hospira’s robust portfolio of proprietary and in-licensed products and extensive commercialization experience. We also gained significant global manufacturing infrastructure with the acquisition of Hospira, including one of the largest manufacturing facilities in the world at Rocky Mount, North Carolina, and a state-of-the-art sterile injectable facility in Vizag, India. The Vizag facility received U.S. FDA approval in June and has commenced commercial operations. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Global Commercial Businesses 106 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW Global Established Pharma’s legacy portfolio remains a significant component of Pfizer’s business. It includes approximately 600 medicines in the later stages of their lifecycle in therapeutic areas including cardiovascular, anti-infectives, and women’s health and includes some of the world’s best-known pharmaceutical brands. A Commitment to Improving Global Public Health Many GEP medicines can be found on the WHO’s essential medicines list and are widely used in global public health programs focused on helping patients in need across the developing world. We took yet another step in support of this commitment in November 2014 with the announcement of a collaboration with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the Children’s Investment Fund Foundation, and other private donors and aid organizations, to help broaden access to the contraceptive Sayana® Press for women in 69 of the world’s poorest countries. We continue to work on new product delivery systems that could expand the reach of this important product. We also continue to explore areas beyond family planning where GEP medicines can be an important part of efforts to improve global public health. In 2015, we expanded focus into anti-infectives and are currently assessing additional therapeutic areas, such as cardiovascular, where we can reach a large number of patients and maximize public health impact through a sustainable business model. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Global Commercial Businesses 107 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW GLOBAL INNOVATIVE PHARMA Global Innovative Pharma (GIP) is focused on developing, registering and commercializing novel medicines in areas where Pfizer can lead by delivering medicines I’M WORKING ON... that significantly impact patients’ lives. The business is focused on the therapeutic areas of Cardiovascular Metabolic, Inflammation & Immunology, Neuroscience & Pain and Rare Disease. Key brands include the blood thinner Eliquis® (apixaban), the first-in-class oral JAK-inhibitor for rheumatoid arthritis, Xeljanz® (tofacitinib citrate), and the leading treatment for certain neuropathic pain, Lyrica® (pregabalin) (U.S. and Japan). The business is advancing a differentiated, scienceand value-driven pipeline with several medicines in Phase 3 development. In Cardiovascular Metabolic disease, Pfizer is building on long-standing and deep experience to develop bococizumab, a monoclonal antibody that targets a protein interfering with the removal of low density lipoproteins (LDL) cholesterol. With bococizumab, we aim to prove that lowering LDL to levels not Brenda Cooperstone possible through any other means will demonstrate a significant cardiovascular benefit. Also in Phase 3 development, Pfizer and Merck & Co., Inc. are collaborating to develop Vice President, Category Development Lead, Rare Disease ertugliflozin, a member of a class of diabetes medicines called SGLT2 inhibitors. In the area of Inflammation & Immunology, we continue to develop Xeljanz for ulcerative colitis and psoriatic arthritis, as well as to investigate an early stage portfolio including a JAK 3 inhibitor and other combination approaches to treating inflammatory diseases. WATCH VIDEO In Neuroscience & Pain, Pfizer and our partner, Eli Lilly, were cleared by the FDA to continue clinical testing on tanezumab, a non-narcotic treatment aimed at chronic pain, a condition that affects one in five Americans. In Rare Disease, Pfizer’s late-stage pipeline includes Rivipansel for those affected by sickle cell disease, tafamidis for TTRcardiomyopathy, and a long-acting treatment for growth hormone deficiency. In all our development programs and with all our medicines, our goal is to drive both patient and health care system value. This is supported by our Global Health & Value team, which includes experts from the areas of access, health economic and outcomes research, real-world data and pricing. While providing rapid access for new medicines and applying real-world data to identify the right patients for our medicines, the team is also focused on new pricing systems and the exploration of new models to address cost challenges in the health care system. By focusing on the best science to the best customer experience, the real benefits of leadership will be realized by patients, with faster delivery of breakthrough medicines that fulfill unmet needs. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Global Commercial Businesses 108 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW GLOBAL VACCINES, ONCOLOGY AND CONSUMER HEALTHCARE Global Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare (VOC) are three global businesses that are unique and have distinct specializations, go-to-market strategies, R&D priorities I’M WORKING ON... and operating models. Poised to have strong organic growth over time, this structure, in 2015, provided each business with the focus, growth culture and dedicated resources required to further strengthen and position them as global market leaders. “People are counting on us to deliver innovative therapies, vaccines and products that enable them to live longer, healthier and fuller lives. This is something Jean-Francois Martini we are incredibly proud of.” Senior Director, Early Development, Translational and Immuno-Oncology — Albert Bourla, D.V.M., Ph.D. Group President, Global Innovative Pharma and Global Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare Businesses WATCH VIDEO Vaccines Pfizer Vaccines combines unrelenting passion, global impact and an enduring quest for progress to unlock the value and promise that vaccines hold for our world. Our passion for science, for delivering excellence and for people’s health drives bold advancements in R&D and high quality manufacturing to consistently make the greatest public health impact. Our mandate is to take on bacterial, viral and infectious diseases that threaten people across all stages of life. Bolstered by the talent and experience of our global partners and suppliers, we aspire to help protect as many people as possible from serious, life-threatening illness. Our unique technologies and longstanding know-how help us develop advances in areas of high unmet medical need that affect newborns, infants, adolescents and adults alike. Collectively, the Pfizer Vaccines team has the experience and steadfast dedication to help protect lives with innovative vaccines that fight serious diseases worldwide. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Global Commercial Businesses 109 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW Oncology The goal of Pfizer Oncology is to cure or control cancer by developing breakthrough medicines that represent great value to patients, their caregivers and society. We have made great strides over the past two years making Ibrance® (palbociclib), Xalkori® (crizotinib), Inlyta® (axitinib) and Bosulif® (bosutinib) available to patients around the globe. Our promising late-stage pipeline includes: Ibrance for both early and advanced breast cancer and additional solid tumor indications beyond breast cancer through both Pfizer-sponsored and investigator-initiated studies; inotuzumab ozogamicin, for which the FDA has granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation for acute lymphoblastic leukemia; and, avelumab, for which the FDA has granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation for Merkel cell carcinoma which is being studied in more than 15 tumor types. Working to advance the science in immuno-oncology, we are actively exploring a variety of novel approaches, including checkpoint modulating antibodies, CAR-T therapies, bi-functional monoclonal antibodies and vaccine-based immunotherapy regimens. We are also exploring the full potential of combining immunotherapies with our broad oncology portfolio through our own efforts, as well as in collaboration with other partners, working together to improve outcomes for patients with cancer. Consumer Healthcare Pfizer Consumer Healthcare helps consumers around the world take health and wellness into their own hands. Our trusted brands, such as Centrum,® Advil,® Caltrate,® ChapStick,® Emergen-C,® Nexium® 24HR, Robitussin® and Dimetapp,® are used by consumers around the world to improve and maintain their health and well-being. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Global Commercial Businesses 110 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW “We’re working on new ways to address the evolving reporting environment to support the needs of our broad range of stakeholders and determine how key non-financial indicators are impacting our financial performance.” CAROLINE ROAN VICE PRESIDENT, CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY, AND PRESIDENT, PFIZER FOUNDATION STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We greatly value our stakeholders and their perspectives on our responsibilities as an enterprise and on how we execute on our business strategies. All Pfizer units engage with stakeholders on relevant issues throughout the year in our continuing efforts to serve all stakeholders well, and to advance our business by earning and keeping society’s trust. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Stakeholder Engagement 111 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW PARTNERING WITH STAKEHOLDERS Our efforts to reach more people with more medicines would not be possible without our partnerships with non-governmental organizations (NGOs), governments, foundations and other stakeholders. An important part of Pfizer’s corporate responsibility and commercial strategy is to focus on building and advancing relationships with large international organizations, civil society and foundations to help ensure communities in need get the health care they deserve. Our strategy regarding global stakeholders and institutions is to focus on finding common objectives to advance public health and build sustainable programs that create solutions with a measurable impact. We are also committed to the transparency and accountability of our programs, and aim to report on significant activities for a wide array of external stakeholders, including socially responsible investors and analysts. GATHERING INSIGHT FROM SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTORS In mid-2015, we convened a small group of key independent socially responsible investors to gain their insight on our performance and on non-financial reporting expectations. We have used their valuable feedback to help shape the content of this report. We greatly value our stakeholders’ perspectives, and all Pfizer units globally and locally engage with stakeholders on relevant issues throughout the year. Pfizer Corporate Responsibility has a strong tradition of working with multilateral organizations, NGOs and civil society organizations to help develop and deliver the interventions and information that cover global health-issue areas including access to medicines, active and healthy aging, and non-communicable diseases. In addition to working with partners directly on issues regarding access, we work with various organizations based in Geneva and around the world to help inform governments and multilateral organizations and shape positive global health and policy environments for the industry. Multilateral organizations have significant influence in the global health field and can open opportunities or impose challenges and obstacles for private sector health companies like Pfizer. For example, Pfizer colleagues are engaging with multilateral organizations like the World Health Organization and global NGOs such as the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies to proactively share insights, knowledge and best practices, and to identify and communicate areas for shared investment and collaboration around global health issues. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Stakeholder Engagement 112 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Stakeholder Engagement 113 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW “I’m working on increased organizational focus on the O of OWNIT! — own the business — which engages colleagues in taking risks and being accountable for their actions. With an accountability mindset, where each colleague is committed to success and seizes opportunities to deliver value, we will see great business results and meet the needs of our patients and society.” PAMELA PURYEAR, Ph.D. SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF TALENT OFFICER COLLEAGUES Our OWNIT! culture empowers all colleagues to try new things, invest in candid conversations, build collaborative relationships, reinforce positive behaviors and deliver on commitments. With OWNIT! we continue to build a culture that positions Pfizer for long-term success. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Colleagues 114 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW A WINNING COMBINATION OF CULTURES We all know that the success of a merger or acquisition frequently hinges on the integration of the legacy cultures of the two organizations to create a winning culture for the combined company. When Illinois-based Hospira became part of Pfizer in September 2015, we knew from the start that significant similarities between the two cultures would create a strong foundation for success. How did we know? Because several aspects of Hospira’s Cultural Anchors exhibited a close similarity to Pfizer’s OWNIT! culture dimensions. “Our new colleagues from Hospira are familiar with and consistently demonstrate key cultural traits like entrepreneurship, accountability and flexibility. Most importantly, colleagues from both companies believe in what Pfizer calls ‘straight talk’ and what Hospira called ‘direct and authentic communication.’ This ability and willingness to speak candidly to address challenges, issues and opportunities will enable us to create a unified and effective culture across GEP and Pfizer.” — John Young Group President, Global Established Pharma (GEP) DRIVING INCLUSION THROUGH COLLEAGUE ENGAGEMENT 13 OF 13 Pfizer supports seven Pfizer Colleague Councils (PCCs) aligned to Veterans, Asians, Blacks, Latinos, LGBT, women, and colleagues with disabilities and those who are caregivers. Each of these PCCs works, in partnership with our enterprise Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) team, to expand access to diverse talent pools; to engage, develop and retain diverse talent; and, to advance Pfizer’s business. The following are examples of the initiatives undertaken by our D&I team and our PCCs. Unconscious Bias Awareness In a global effort across Pfizer, we are raising awareness of the unconscious biases we may have OF THE PFIZER-WIDE CATEGORIES and how they can get in the way of making the best business and talent decisions. Our multi-year MEASURED BY THE PFIZERVOICE unconscious bias awareness strategy has produced tools and learning that help build a more inclusive culture. These resources include: a series of videos, discussion guides and tip sheets that ANNUAL SURVEY OF COLLEAGUES address some of the most common types of unconscious biases; a behaviorally based interviewing SHOWED IMPROVEMENT, WITH THE module; and, forums and opportunities for our senior leaders to embed messages of inclusion in GREATEST INCREASES IN LEADERSHIP, their communications. Focusing on inclusion allows all colleagues to bring their “whole selves” to STRATEGY AND CULTURE. work and is reinforced in our OWNIT! culture. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Colleagues 115 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW Inclusion for Individuals with Disabilities and Caregivers The disAbility PCC drove several initiatives, including a disAbility Awareness Day event and a journal of colleagues’ personal stories. The annual disAbility and Caregiver Awareness Day event and webcast engaged colleagues in a discussion of the rewards and challenges of caregiving for a loved one, and encouraged colleagues to become involved in efforts to increase employment opportunities for individuals with disabilities and to offer flexibility and support to caregivers. The group also collected and published a journal filled with colleague’s stories about their experiences having a visible or invisible disability or caring for a loved one. Some stories are humorous, some sad, but all ultimately speak to acceptance, courage and contribution — qualities that connect us to our mission to help patients and advance global health care. “Caring for my father has given me insight into “We become advocates, therapists, specialists the patient side of drug pricing — insight and educators, but most of all we are that helps me in my role at Pfizer.” the parents of amazing children. Our son —Virginia Vu undertakes marvelous challenges every Team Lead, Europe Oncology, Global Health & Value Payer Insights and a caregiver for her father as he single day. We fully support his unique battles a rare form of lymphoma abilities and embrace the fact that we know he will do great things in this world.” —Lori Barrett Senior Manager, Process Optimisation — Canada and mother of twin 9-year-old sons, one of whom was diagnosed with Asperger’s five years ago PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Colleagues 116 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW PFIZER REACHES ONE MILLION FOLLOWERS ON LINKEDIN Passing a rare milestone in the social media world, Pfizer, in July 2015, became one of only 16 companies at that time to reach one million followers on LinkedIn and the first biopharmaceutical company to do so. Our followers hail from nearly every country in the world. The top three countries represented are the U.S., Brazil and India. COLLEAGUES “DARE TO TRY” TO SPUR GROWTH Dare to Try is a company-wide program supporting a creative mindset among colleagues — one in which they feel empowered to think like entrepreneurs, challenge conventions and take thoughtful risks to unlock opportunities for growth. For our biannual Dare to Try awards, winners were selected via an internal crowdsourcing system. In 2015, more than 17,000 colleagues reviewed 540 nominations to select finalists. Some of the award winners included a team of colleagues from the Global Established Pharma business in Venezuela, which won two awards, one for creating a digital channel connection with important pharmacy customers, and one for developing a virtual education system for hospitals. Another team from the Global Established Pharma business in Canada was recognized for developing a new approach to co-pay support that connects Pfizer directly with patients. The Dare to Try awards also recognized Worldwide Research and Development’s biopharma team for experiments with a new freeze-dry technology that is pioneering cost-effective manufacturing and transport of biotherapeutics, and its neuroscience team for collaboration with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration on dose exposure guidance to allow for more comprehensive testing in clinical trials. “It is critical we constantly recognize and communicate the experiences of innovative colleagues and teams to inspire a culture that seeks to nurture ideas and share learnings. This will help drive more innovation at Pfizer.” — Wendy Mayer Vice President, Worldwide Innovation PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Colleagues 117 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW COLLEAGUE HEALTH AND SAFETY 0.47 Pfizer’s ownership culture is based upon trust and integrity — qualities essential to the health and safety culture. We encourage colleagues to get involved in proactively assessing health and safety risks and creating effective solutions, so that our health and safety culture aligns with and supports growth of Pfizer’s ownership culture. In 2015, teams of colleagues across all Pfizer business units collaborated to drive enhancements in higher hazard work activities including Working at Heights, Electrical Safety, Contractor Safety and Process Safety among other areas. Key Performance Indicators in these areas indicated that program performance was good but could be better. Refreshed guidance was issued, global training events were held and, consistent with our health and safety mission, colleagues across INJURIES PER 100 COLLEAGUES Pfizer were motivated to proactively apply health and safety risk management practices to IN 2015 their work. 11% LOWER Within Worldwide Research and Development, the dynamic nature of our business means that colleagues are working at the leading edge of scientific research, often involving the use of novel materials. We have established internal risk assessment processes and developed innovative risk control strategies to protect our scientists as they work with these novel and oftentimes potent materials. Furthermore, we actively share these learnings to build capability with third parties also working with such materials. TOTAL INJURY RATE* IN 2015 WAS 11% LOWER THAN IN 2014. * Hospira injury data is not included. Combined company data will be provided in the 2016 Annual Review. “I am proud to work with Pfizer researchers to integrate health and safety risk reduction principles into the scientific approaches being used to discover and develop new medicines. These efforts are critical as our researchers work with highly active compounds as they develop the potential next-generation antibodydrug conjugates for the treatment of cancer.” —Sarah Jones Senior Manager, Industrial Hygiene, Research and Development PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Colleagues 118 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS At Pfizer, we understand that good governance is essential to the success of our business and we conduct ourselves accordingly. Board of Directors Compliance Pfizer’s Board of Directors is responsible for the oversight of We believe that compliance with all applicable laws is integral to our management, including the overall strategic direction of the company, ability to serve society. We train colleagues extensively in compliance and for the company’s policies on governance, executive compensation and have an organizational structure designed to ensure good oversight and compliance. In addition, the Board is committed to enhancing of our colleagues, vendors and business partners. shareholder value. Read more about our Compliance. Read more about our Board of Directors. Disclosing Payment to Health Care Professionals Ethical Sales and Marketing We do not pay health care professionals for prescribing our medicines We are committed to promoting our products responsibly, educating or as an inducement for promoting our products. We believe it is patients and providers about their appropriate use, and reporting about appropriate and ethical to fairly compensate health care professionals our business practices in a fashion that promotes transparency. for work they do on our behalf. Read more about our Ethical Sales and Marketing. Read more about our Disclosing Payment to Health Care Professionals. Direct-to-Consumer Advertising in the U.S. Human Rights Our strict internal standards, going beyond compliance with the law, Pfizer supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the have been developed to ensure that the information we share with International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental patients is scientifically sound, balanced, easy to understand and helpful Principles and Rights at Work. We were an early signatory to the U.N. in encouraging them to consult with a health care professional. Global Compact — a document that asks companies to embrace universal principles and to partner with the U.N. — that endorses 10 Read more about our Direct-to-Consumer Advertising. principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Read more about our Human Rights. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Governance and Ethics 119 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW I’M WORKING ON... WATCH VIDEO MICHAEL O’BRIEN VICE PRESIDENT, TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION, PHARMACEUTICAL SCIENCES MANUFACTURING AND SUPPLY CHAIN Through a global supply network, Pfizer ensures supply of quality products that potentially significantly improve patients’ lives, and that these products are available whenever and wherever they are needed. Through consistent high standards for quality, compliance and supply reliability, and by delivering value without compromising quality or compliance, Pfizer’s supply network provides fast, flexible solutions across the full manufacturing and supply chain spectrum and delivers safe, effective medicines around the world. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Manufacturing and Supply Chain 120 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW “We’re working on bringing Prevenar 13® to patients around the world, every day. Our Prevenar manufacturing network can be best described as a finely tuned ecosystem, where quality, compliance, technical capability and world-class facilities with highly skilled and dedicated colleagues come together to make that happen.” — Enda Doyle Vice President, Pfizer Global Supply, Vaccines Product Portfolio Management FOOTPRINT AND CAPABILITIES GROW WITH HOSPIRA ACQUISITION The Hospira acquisition enhances our ability to address global demand for specialized medicines, adding global talent and significant global manufacturing infrastructure — 11 biopharma manufacturing sites including two of the largest and most advanced sterile injectable manufacturing facilities in the world. The integration also adds two facilities for the manufacture of proprietary IV sets and infusion pumps to support the Infusion Systems business. We are well-practiced in integrating acquired assets and bringing them to our global, uncompromising standards of quality and compliance. This is accomplished through continually improving our integration playbook, rapid alignment of operations, clear alignment of colleague reporting lines and sharing of best practices. Our global supply network reflects the successful aggregation of more than 30 merged companies over the last 15 years. Pfizer’s facility at Vizag in India is one of the largest sterile injectable manufacturing units in the world. OUR CURRENT EXPANDED FOOTPRINT* *As of 2/9/2016. Does not reflect pending transactions. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Manufacturing and Supply Chain 121 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW QUALITY Our quality management systems and processes drive quality-focused behaviors and ensure decision making based on what is best for patient and consumer safety, product quality, and Pfizer’s reputation and business. PREVENAR® MANUFACTURING — GLOBAL NETWORK 1 BILLION Prevenar 13® (pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine, 13-valent adsorbed) is one of the most technically complex vaccines to manufacture, and to optimize logistics and local supply, we produce it in many parts of the world. Our robust manufacturing process is applied globally, ensuring exceptional quality across all markets and patients. Consistently producing such a highly complex vaccine at high quality and getting it to patients relies on our manufacturing colleagues’ experience, technical skills, dedication and passion for making a difference in people’s lives. WE RECENTLY PRODUCED OUR “We put tremendous focus on each dose, as what we BILLIONTH DOSE IN THE PREVNAR/ do needs to be perfect every time. I am proud of the PREVENAR FRANCHISE. team’s commitment to changing lives and celebrate our work to manufacture the one billionth dose of Prevnar and Prevenar 13® this year.” — Enda Doyle Vice President, Pfizer Global Supply, Vaccines Product Portfolio Management ONE DOSE OF PREVENAR 13 FROM START TO FINISH TAKES THE WORK OF 1,700 EMPLOYEES 678 QUALITY TESTS 400 DIFFERENT RAW MATERIALS 580 STEPS IN 2.5 YEARS TO MANUFACTURING MANUFACTURE PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Manufacturing and Supply Chain 122 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT In our global manufacturing, within our distribution network and in our work with external partners, we produce and distribute technically complex formulations, packaging and entire lines of medicines that meet exacting standards for quality and effectiveness. Our Highly Orchestrated Supply Network (HOSuN) is designed to align inventory and supply chain planning, transportation management, temperature control management, logistics and logistics security, environmental health and safety, dangerous goods compliance, global trade compliance and trade management. It also supports business continuity and proactive issue identification and resolution. Pfizer is an industry-recognized leader in supply chain security. Our dedicated security program encompasses every part of the manufacturing and delivery process, starting with the procurement of raw materials and continuing through to the delivery of product to our customers. Our serialization program is designed for additional control and authentication across the supply chain while our trade programs manage partnerships with our distributors to help protect our products and ensure integrity. Pfizer is committed to responsible supply chain management and holds all manufacturing and supply partners to high standards of excellence. We partner with external suppliers who are committed to operating their businesses in a responsible and ethical manner, respecting the rights of the individuals they employ and helping to protect the environment. Pfizer strongly encourages its supply partners to support our Supplier Conduct Principles or adopt their own codes with expectations similar to ours. ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (EHS) IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN Pfizer operates within a framework of principles aligned with ethical, social and environmental responsibilities to help ensure the sustainability of our business and the communities in which we operate. To that end, our Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) team and our plant site colleagues oversee efforts and perform risk-based reviews to help ensure that our chemical and biological product suppliers effectively manage risk. Directly Supporting Our Suppliers Pfizer has an established EHS supplier review program to ensure our suppliers’ EHS performance meets or exceeds our expectations. This program includes supplier assessments and, where necessary, capacity building to supplement EHS understanding and performance. Pfizer has a strong history of providing EHS support to help our suppliers enhance their performance. In 2014, Pfizer evaluated this program and, as a result, in 2015, we modified the program to increase our focus on elevated risk suppliers and performed in-depth reviews in key risk areas such as process safety and environmental management. In 2016, we will increase the number of reviews we perform of suppliers in locations such as India and China, where the country EHS infrastructure continues to develop. The supplier review program has enabled a balanced approach that considers business, product, reputational and process risks, and because of the enhancements, introduced better focus on mitigating key risks. Preliminary outcomes indicate that the focused assessments are driving further continual improvement at elevated risk suppliers. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Manufacturing and Supply Chain 123 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW “I am working with suppliers in Asia to ensure they have sound EHS practices, consistent with Pfizer expectations, in place. I do this by leading on-site supplier reviews that help lower the reputational and business continuity risk to Pfizer. More importantly, I do this to help our suppliers build their own capabilities in EHS management.” — YS Tan Director, EHS Asia Taking a Leadership Role in the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative The Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI), an industry-wide trade association, creates a common platform to drive continuous improvement across the supply chain to improve labor, ethics, environmental, and health and safety practices. Pfizer is an active PSCI member with a Pfizer colleague serving as Vice Chair of the Board in 2015 and Chair of the Board in 2016. We played a leadership role on the committee that was instrumental in developing the agenda and conducting the PSCI India conference held in Mumbai, India, where more than 150 supplier representatives took part in learning opportunities. In 2015, a new audit sharing model and commitment was agreed to by all PSCI members. The pace of shared audits is increasing, with a total of 50 new audits anticipated by the middle of 2016. Upcoming PSCI efforts include holding a webinar on pharmaceuticals in the environment; analyzing labor practices requirements (e.g., the U.K. Modern Slavery Act) and developing guidance material; developing common “response templates” for inquiries from third party organizations; and, developing reporting criteria for supplier sustainability performance. The work that Pfizer is doing with suppliers, either directly or through PSCI, helps us make the right decisions in terms of selecting new suppliers and improving EHS performance at our existing suppliers. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Manufacturing and Supply Chain 124 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW CORPORATE AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Stock Listings reports are available on our website at www.pfizer.com and on the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) website at www.sec.gov. The principal market for our Common Stock is the New York Stock The forward-looking statements in this Annual Review speak only as of Exchange (NYSE). Our stock is also listed on the London Stock Exchange the original date of this Annual Review and we undertake no obligation and the SIX Swiss Stock Exchange, and is traded on various United to update or revise any of these statements, except as required by law or States regional stock exchanges. the rules and regulations of the SEC. Stock Transfer Agent and Registrar Political Action Committee (PAC) Computershare To review our most recent PAC and corporate political contributions P.O. Box 30170 report, go online at www.pfizer.com/pac. College Station, TX 77842-3170 Telephone: 1-800-733-9393 Outside the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico: 1-781-575-4591 Helplines Internet: www.computershare.com/investor Patients, customers and health care professionals who have questions about any of our products should call 1-800-438-1985. Shareholder Services and Programs Patients in the U.S. who need help getting access to their Pfizer Please contact our Stock Transfer Agent and Registrar, Computershare, medicines should contact Pfizer RxPathways.® The program provides with inquiries concerning shareholder accounts of record and stock eligible patients with a range of support services including insurance transfer matters, and also for information on the following services counseling, co-pay help, providing Pfizer medicines for free or at a and programs: savings, and more. Pfizer RxPathways is a joint program of Pfizer Inc. and the Pfizer Patient Assistance Foundation.™ Visit • Computershare Investment Program www.PfizerRxPathways.com or call 1-866-706-2400 to learn more. • Direct purchase of Pfizer stock • Dividend reinvestment • Automatic monthly or bi-monthly investments Additional Information You can find more information about Pfizer online at • Book-entry share ownership www.pfizer.com. You can follow us on Twitter at • Direct deposit of dividends www.Twitter.com/Pfizer. You can also visit us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/Pfizer and on LinkedIn at Forward-Looking Information www.linkedin.com/company/Pfizer. This Annual Review includes forward-looking statements about, among This Annual Review is produced by Pfizer’s Corporate Affairs group. other things, our anticipated future operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, and products and product candidates Unless otherwise noted herein, the trademarks, logos and service marks that are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause appearing in the Annual Review, whether or not appearing with the actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by trademark symbol, are owned or licensed by Pfizer Inc. or its affiliates. such statements. Please refer to Pfizer’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, and Pfizer’s subsequent reports on Form 10-Q, including the sections thereof captioned “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results,” as well as Pfizer’s subsequent reports on Form 8-K for a description of the substantial risks and uncertainties related to the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Review. These PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Our Business > Corporate and Shareholder Information 125 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW ABOUT THIS REVIEW This integrated Annual Review discusses many dimensions of our performance — financial, social and environmental — in one review. It demonstrates the integral relationship between our responsibilities as an enterprise and our core business strategies and their execution. We produce this review to give all of our stakeholders an overall picture of how we are doing and the progress we are making. Scope of Reporting This review covers Pfizer’s worldwide business and provides information on our activities for the year ending on December 31, 2015. This review describes key dimensions of both financial and non-financial performance. It also describes critical challenges in society — from expanding access to health care to our environmental impact — and our strategies for managing them. Corporate Responsibility Materiality The content of this report is based on two key factors — the importance to stakeholders and the potential to influence business strategy. Our Corporate Responsibility team works with colleagues across the organization and engages with external stakeholders to help identify the critical issues we need to focus on in order to meet our commercial goals and society’s expectations. These include the following specific, non-financial corporate responsibility material issues: • Access to Medicines • Partnering to Expand Access • Environment (sustainability) • Colleagues (employees) • Patient Engagement • Manufacturing and Supply Chain • Governance and Ethics Stakeholder Engagement We greatly value our stakeholders’ perspectives, and all Pfizer units globally and locally engage with stakeholders on relevant issues throughout the year. Additionally, in 2015, we convened a small group of key independent socially responsible investors (SRIs) to gain additional perspectives on our corporate responsibility performance and on reporting expectations. We have used their valuable feedback to help shape the content of this report. We continue to explore new ways of engaging with a broad range of stakeholders to better understand the evolving reporting environment and determine how key non-financial indicators are impacting our financial performance. PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual About This Review 126 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW Corporate Responsibility Management This review was developed by a core group of Pfizer colleagues representing each business unit and other key functions. The core group is managed by Pfizer’s Corporate Affairs department, whose leader is a member of the Executive Leadership Team and reports directly to the CEO. Pfizer’s commitment to society is embedded in our business strategy and vision, and our business units and functional groups share the commitment to integrate such values in our daily work. The Corporate Responsibility team sets the strategic direction for meeting our commitment to society and supports the integration and implementation of programs and non-financial reporting throughout the company. The team is also responsible for Pfizer’s flagship global health social investment programs and providing annual updates to Pfizer’s Board of Directors on progress in achieving corporate responsibility goals. Global Reporting Frameworks Pfizer continues to evaluate our approach to non-financial reporting, including adherence to several existing, globally recognized external frameworks. These include the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). We have relied on elements of each framework in developing this year’s annual review while adhering to none in its entirety. Based on feedback we received in 2015 from a few key stakeholders, we decided to include a GRI Reference Table in this Annual Review as a reference tool to help readers more readily locate relevant information across Pfizer’s web-based resources. We also take into account elements of other Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) indices and sustainability indicators, in particular the Access to Medicines Index and the UN Global Goals (also known as the Sustainable Development Goals). PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual About This Review 127 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW HIGHLIGHTS “2015 was a transformational year for Pfizer. We achieved operational revenue growth and have a solid portfolio of market-leading products and a healthy R&D pipeline. We completed the Hospira acquisition and strengthened the future potential of the company through the proposed Pfizer-Allergan combination.” — Ian Read, Chairman and CEO READ CEO LETTER $49B IN REVENUES IN 2015 7 PRODUCTS WITH SALES GREATER THAN $1B IN 2015 64 MANUFACTURING SITES WORLDWIDE PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Annual Review Highlights 128 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW SCIENTIFIC INNOVATION ADVANCES IN ONCOLOGY BROADENING THE VACCINES PORTFOLIO Our scientists are hard at work seeking to turn promising research into Leveraging leading technology in vaccine design and conjugation, potentially important medicines and making strides in innovative fields we are pursuing preventative solutions to complex, difficult-to-treat such as immuno-oncology as we build a pipeline of potential nextbacterial pathogens — across the lifespan. We are also exploring the generation therapies so people with cancer may live longer, fuller lives. power of novel therapeutic vaccines to treat chronic conditions and By bringing potentially life-changing therapies and support to patients, diseases such as cancer. Stories include: Taking on Meningococcal we aim to redefine life with cancer until we cure it. Stories include: Meningitis; Investigational Vaccines Advancing in Pipeline; and, Redefining Life with Cancer; and, Immuno-Oncology — Broad Portfolio Maternal Vaccination. of Assets in Clinical Development. READ MORE READ MORE PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Annual Review Highlights 129 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW PARTNERSHIPS PEER COLLABORATIONS RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS Collaborating in new and dynamic ways with innovators across the Our research partners include academic institutions, foundations, health landscape is very important in our efforts to improve patients’ government institutions, other biopharmaceutical companies and lives. Increasingly, this has led to unique, focused alliances with our physicians — expanding the R&D ecosystem to better serve the needs global pharmaceutical peers. Stories include: Breaking Through with of patients. Stories include: Pfizer’s Centers for Therapeutic Innovation; Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany; Developing Next-Generation Creative Collaboration That Preserves the Culture of our Biotech Partners; Manufacturing: Portable, Continuous, Miniature and Modular; In and, accounts of partnerships with Spark Therapeutics, Inc., 23andMe, Phase 3 with Eli Lilly; Project Data Sphere Collaboration in Oncology; Inc. and AARP.® Next-Generation Sequencing-Based Companion Diagnostics Collaboration; GO AIM Conference Convenes Cancer Patient Advocates and Industry; and, Supporting the Dementia Discovery Fund. READ MORE READ MORE PARTNERING TO EXPAND ACCESS At Pfizer, we believe that all individuals deserve access to quality health care and the opportunity to lead healthy lives. We combine traditional philanthropic methods with novel approaches that create an enduring and meaningful impact on public health systems to facilitate access to health care for underserved communities around the world. Stories include: Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance; and, Sayana® Press and Family Planning. READ MORE PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Annual Review Highlights 130 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW HUMAN HEALTH IMPACT GLOBAL REACH THE GLOBAL GOALS Everywhere we work and live, Pfizer is a vital force for improving people’s The United Nations has adopted 17 Global Goals for sustainable lives through the business of life science — fostering human health and development. At Pfizer, we believe that good health is fundamental to well-being in multi-faceted countries and unique markets around the advancing all of them. Stories include: Embracing the 2030 Sustainable world. Countries profiled include China, India, Mexico, South Africa and Development Goals; and, Health, the Goal That Underlies All. the United Kingdom. READ MORE READ MORE ENVIRONMENT At Pfizer, we continue to work for a sustainable future, recognizing that embedding environmental sustainability into our business can bring significant value to our company, the people who use our products and the communities we touch. Stories include: Progress on Our 2020 Environmental Sustainability Goals; Our Green Journey; and, Pfizer Issues Supply Chain Environmental Sustainability Goal. READ MORE PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Annual Review Highlights 131 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW OUR BUSINESS MANUFACTURING AND SUPPLY CHAIN COLLEAGUES Footprint and Capabilities Grow with With OWNIT! we continue to build a culture that positions Pfizer for Hospira Acquisition long-term success. Stories include: A Winning Combination of Cultures; Driving Inclusion through Colleague Engagement; Pfizer Reaches One The Hospira acquisition enhances our ability to address global demand Million Followers on LinkedIn; Colleagues “Dare to Try” to Spur Growth; for specialized medicines, adding global talent and significant global and, Colleague Health and Safety. manufacturing infrastructure — 11 biopharma manufacturing sites including two of the largest and most advanced sterile injectable manufacturing facilities in the world. The integration also adds two facilities for the manufacture of proprietary IV sets and infusion pumps to support the Infusion Systems business. READ MORE 97,000* MORE THAN 97,000 COLLEAGUES AROUND THE WORLD *As of December 31, 2015 READ MORE PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual Annual Review Highlights 132 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW GRI REFERENCE TABLE GLOBAL REPORTING FRAMEWORKS Pfizer continues to evaluate our approach to non-financial reporting, including adherence to several existing, globally recognized external frameworks. These include the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). We have relied on elements of each framework in developing this year’s annual review while adhering to none in its entirety. Based on feedback we received in 2015 from a few key stakeholders, we decided to include a GRI Reference Table in this Annual Review as a reference tool to help readers more readily locate relevant information across Pfizer’s web-based resources. We also take into account elements of other Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) indices and sustainability indicators, in particular the Access to Medicines Index and the UN Global Goals (also known as the Sustainable Development Goals). GRI INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REFERENCE STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 CEO/Chair Statement CEO Letter — To Our Stakeholders ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Company name Pfizer Inc. G4-4 Company brand, products CEO Letter — To Our Stakeholders and services G4-5 Location of headquarters New York, New York (U.S.) G4-6 Main countries of operation Global Commercial Businesses G4-8 Markets served Global Commercial Businesses (e.g. sectors, customers) G4-9 Scale of company Performance (e.g. employees, sales) G4-10 Employee profile Colleagues PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Reference Table 133 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW G4-12 Description of company Manufacturing and Supply Chain supply chain G4-14 Precautionary approach / principle Pfizer manages and reports on our risks and impacts in consideration of the precautionary principle. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in About This Review financial statements G4-18 Process for defining report content About This Review G4-19 Material issues / aspects identified About This Review G4-23 Significant changes in Pfizer footprint and capabilities scope / boundaries grew with Hospira acquisition, which was included in the 2015 Annual Review. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholders engaged Stakeholder Engagement G4-25 Basis for identification Stakeholder Engagement of stakeholders G4-26 Approach to stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement engagement G4-27 Issues raised in stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement engagement REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period About This Review G4-29 Date of previous report See Previous Annual Review G4-30 Reporting cycle About This Review G4-31 Reporting contact point Chris Gray, Senior Director, Corporate Responsibility G4-32 In accordance option chosen GRI Reference Table PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Reference Table 134 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure Governance and Ethics G4-37 Governance and stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement engagement G4-38 Composition of the Board Meet the Pfizer Board of Directors G4-39 Chair of the Board Meet the Pfizer Board of Directors G4-40 Nomination of Board Members The Pfizer Board: Board Policies G4-41 Conflict of interest and the Board The Pfizer Board: Board Policies ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Values, principles and codes Pfizer Compliance ECONOMIC DMA Disclosures on Management The Global Goals Approach G4-EC1 Direct economic value Global Reach: China G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments Global Reach: India and services G4-EC9 Local supplier spending Global Reach: South Africa ENVIRONMENTAL DMA Disclosures on Management Our Green Journey Approach G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water Withdrawal G4-EN23 Total waste Waste Disposed G4-EN27 Mitigation of product impacts Pharmaceuticals in the Environment (PIE) G4-EN32 Supplier environmental screening Manufacturing and Supply Chain G4-EN33 Supply chain environmental impacts Pfizer Issues Supply Chain Environmental Sustainability Goal PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Reference Table 135 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK DMA Disclosures on Management Colleagues: OWNIT! Culture Approach G4-LA5 Health and safety committees Employee Health and Safety G4-LA6 Injuries and work related fatalities Colleagues G4-LA9 Employee training Driving Inclusion through Colleague Engagement G4-LA10 Employee skills and learning Colleagues “Dare to Try” to Spur Growth SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS DMA Disclosures on Management Governance and Ethics Approach G4-HR2 Human rights training Colleagues: Unconscious Bias Awareness G4-HR3 Discrimination Colleagues: Inclusion for Individuals with Disabilities and Caregivers SOCIAL: SOCIETY DMA Disclosures on Management Governance and Ethics Approach G4-SO1 Local community engagement Partnering with Youth Advisory Groups G4-SO2 Impacts on local communities Empowering Patients G4-SO3 Anti-corruption risk Practical Ethical Sales and Marketing G4-SO6 Political contributions Corporate and Shareholder Information PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Reference Table 136 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DMA Disclosures on Management Clinical Trials Approach G4-PR1 Health and safety impacts Manufacturing and Supply Chain of products G4-PR5 Customer satisfaction Access to Medicines G4-PR8 Customer privacy breaches Investigating with Integrity PFIZER 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Reference Table 137
