SITA GROUP CSR REPORT 2015 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE CONTENTS United Nations Global Compact ten principles 2 SITA and the environment 20 CEO statement 3 Our people 24 SITA by numbers 4 Recruitment & retention 26 About us 6 Diversity 27 Our structure 7 Working at SITA 28 Stakeholders 8 Training & education 29 Governance 10 Employee engagement 30 Our performance 11 Community giving 32 Innovation 12 Supporting education 34 Doing business the right way 14 About this report 36 CSR at SITA: an integrated approach 16 GRI index 38 CSR priorities and targets 18 Feedback 40 CSR REPORT 2015 1 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. By doing so, business, as a primary driver of globalization, can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. HUMAN RIGHTS • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOR • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2 CSR REPORT 2015 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE WELCOME TO OUR FOURTH CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) REPORT It is with great pleasure that I present our fourth annual Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report and reaffirm SITA’s long-term commitment to operate responsibly across all our locations. Its title, “Acting locally, on a global scale”, encapsulates the direction and scale of our CSR vision and the positive actions we take to manage the economic, environmental and social impacts of an organization that operates in nearly every country and territory around the world. Since starting our CSR program we have made steady advances in our three strategic areas: integrating CSR into our business, managing our environmental impact, and bringing value to our communities. I would like to highlight a few exceptional achievements from 2015 among the many detailed in this report. The remarkable growth of the air transport industry in Africa has provided an important focal point for a number of CSR activities throughout the year, including a Women in African Air Transport networking event held in South Africa in November in conjunction with BARSA (Board of Airline Representatives of South Africa). The event brought together over 40 women from senior positions in airlines, airports and related operations to discuss the role, challenges and opportunities for women in the industry. The conversations started here will continue through the next 12 months and beyond. 2015 marked the first full operational year of the SITA Air Transport Community Foundation, our new SITA Council commitment to provide $500,000 annually for IT and education projects in Africa. During the year the Foundation supported charities including PEAS (Promoting Equality in African Schools) and ComputerAid International – providing funds to create and equip computer labs in schools in Uganda and Ethiopia. Other beneficiaries of the SITA Foundation included university students in South Africa who received scholarships and grants towards completing their studies through the University of the Witwatersrand Foundation. Over the past two years we have met our goals in gaining certification for our environmental management system. As of Q1 2015 SITA earned ISO14001 (Environmental Management Systems) certification in its five largest employee sites, representing around 45% of the office-based employee population. In terms of our environmental impact we have seen an increase in our emissions related to air travel – a challenge that we continue to face when working with almost every airline and airport around the world. Nonetheless I was pleased to see continued reductions in energy and emissions intensity in our offices. We will continue our endeavours in this area. Another important area has been the roll-out of SITA’s integrity, compliance and ethics (ICE) program, with our Code of Conduct that defines how we act to ensure that SITA sustains its excellent reputation. By launching ICE, we are demonstrating our continuing commitment to doing the right thing . I have been pleased this year to review and reconfirm our commitment to the recently updated United Nations Global Compact ten principles. Together with my colleagues on the CSR Executive Review Board and across our organization, I look forward to further strengthening SITA’s commitment to CSR through this framework, as well as the recently released UN Sustainable Development Goals. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the many SITA staff who reflect and extend these CSR commitments through their inspiring engagements with local community and charitable causes. We encourage and welcome your feedback on our CSR Report via csr@sita.aero. Francesco Violante CEO, SITA CSR REPORT 2015 3 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE SITA BY NUMBERS 70% 4,792 of the world’s top 20 airports use SITA employees SITA services 60+ languages spoken 1,000 airports where SITA has a presence 7,000 suppliers Connecting 13,5000 air transport industry sites 140+ nationalities 200 countries and 2,800 territories served customers – including airlines, airports, aircraft, governments, ground handlers, air traffic control, aerospace and travel distribution 4 CSR REPORT 2015 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE 30+ Customer Advisory Board members 35+ air transport CIOs on SITA’s Council and Board 20 committees to set standards 430 SITA Air Transport Industry members 100% owned by and dedicated to the air transport industry Largest provider of cargo management systems in 7% 180+ of revenue committed to R&D innovation and collaboration countries Customer satisfaction rated 4.15 out of 5 46% customer service focused staff Nearly every passenger trip relies on our technology Leader in common use (CUTE) systems at 365+ airports – that’s 35,000 2,000+ workstations and strong global 2,000 65+ service team kiosks years industry experience Specialists in SITA supports almost every airline air transport IT and airport in the world CSR REPORT 2015 5 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE SITA is the world’s leading specialist in air OUR SOLUTIONS transport communications and IT solutions. SITA and its three subsidiaries – SITAONAIR, CHAMP We have been providing air transport Cargosystems, and SITA Bureau Services (SBS) – provide industry communications and IT solutions solutions across all air transport industry sectors through our seven business divisions: for more than 65 years. • Communications & Infrastructure: Global and local Our global presence and deep roots in the community mean services for all air transport sectors that our services and solutions are used for nearly every air passenger trip across the globe, and nearly every airport and • Airport: Passenger, baggage, operations airline in the world does business with us. • Passenger: Passenger management and distribution Headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, SITA is also one of the • Government: Border management world’s most international companies. Our global reach is based • SITAONAIR: In-flight connectivity on local presence, with 2,800 customers in 200+ countries and territories. We employ approximately 4,500 people of more than • CHAMP Cargosystems: Cargo management, community 140 nationalities, speaking over 60 different languages in more integration, eCargo than 135 countries. See the Our People section for further detail • SITA Bureau Services: ANSP Billing and on our diverse global workforce. revenue management. SITA also operates a joint venture, Aviareto, which provides aircraft asset management to the air transport community. 49% Airline Our portfolio addresses the IT and communications needs of the air transport industry with more than 120 products and solutions. A full breakdown of SITA’s products and services can be found 2% online: www.sita.aero/solutions-and-services/solutions Aerospace OUR 26% BUSINESS 2% Airport Travel Distribution BY SECTOR 2% Air Cargo 6% Other 13% Government 6 CSR REPORT 2015 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE SITA’s corporate structure comprises SITA SC, a Belgian Office premises relocations during 2015 included the following: co-operative, and SITA N.V., a Dutch commercial company. • 200 UK staff were relocated from Godalming, The majority of SITA’s activities are today undertaken through Surrey to two floors at the Royal Pavilion complex in SITA N.V., although SITA’s network services are housed in the Aldershot, Hampshire, SITA co-operative. The SITA Trust Foundation is an Employee Share Plan Trust. SITA Group Foundation’s shareholding is fixed, • 148 Republic of Ireland staff moved from Windyhall to with companies holding certificates in the Group Foundation, three floors at the IDA Business & Technology Park, which represent the economic interest in the N.V. shares. There Carnamuggagh Lower, is a very large overlap between the members of SITA SC and the • 560 US staff moved to two newly refurbished floors at our certificate holders of the SITA Group Foundation. In practice, Atlanta Cumberland site, and although SITA N.V. has two main shareholders – SITA SC and the • 70 SITAONAIR staff in Switzerland were moved to SITA Group Foundation – they function as one governing body for refurbished office space at our Geneva Joinville site. SITA N.V. Other than those noted above, there have been no major changes SITA SC is wholly owned by its members. Shares in SITA SC are to the organization’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain reallocated to members each year based on their use of all SITA since the last report, issued in June 2015. Detailed information services in the previous year. This means that the shareholding on the composition and structure of our organization as it structure of the co-operative is variable, rather than fixed. pertains to financial and other annual reporting requirements ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGES is included within the SITA Group Financial Statements and SITA Group Annual report. These are available on request A change to the organization of our former subsidiary OnAir from the Board Secretariat after their approval at SITA’s AGA came into effect in January 2015. The newly named SITAONAIR on 25 May 2016. continued operations as a standalone subsidiary incorporating OnAir in-flight connectivity solutions, SITA’s Aircraft Solution Line (ACS) and Connected Aircraft program, as well as the CrewTablet solution and Gatelink capabilities also previously operated by SITA. Around 265 staff comprise the new SITAONAIR business organization. The Royal Pavilion Complex in Aldershot – a new SITA location in 2015. CSR REPORT 2015 7 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE We’re owned by the air transport community, Employees: We engage with our 4,500+ employees as talented partners contributing to our success and growth as a business. and we collaborate closely with all our Individual development plans and performance rewards help stakeholders – members, customers, and our employees stretch their capabilities and those of the industry bodies, as well as employees and organization. Formal feedback channels include a 360 degree local communities worldwide. upward feedback process and an annual employee survey conducted by an independent third party. 25 of our larger offices Members: SITA is a membership owned organization with over benefit from on-site functional leadership to engage with local 430 active members from across the air transport industry priorities and concerns through a Locations Leader program. (ATI). Through our cooperative structure we provide high-speed Read more about these and a range of local and global employee network communications to and between members on a not-forengagement activities in the Employee Engagement section of profit basis and drive the IT agenda in the industry by researching this report. and investing in the latest technology innovations. SITA’s Suppliers: SITA works with around 7,000 suppliers around members benefit from SITA’s neutrality and independence and the world. Supplier selection is based on the value for money can plan and operate their services in the knowledge that SITA principle. While price is important, we always consider quality, offers services everywhere, including remote and challenging timely delivery, reliability, warranty, safety, security, corporate locations. In turn our members guide our direction and strategy social responsibility and after-sales services and support when through the SITA Council, which has reserved seats for both making a procurement decision. We expect all our suppliers to airport and ICT provider representatives. See our membership comply with SITA Security Requirements and to embrace the pages for more information: social and environmental principles set forth in our Supplier www.sita.aero/about-us/sita-membership Code of Conduct. More information on our supplier requirements Customers: More than 2,800 B2B customers use SITA is available at: www.sita.aero/others/supplying-sita solutions in all ATI sectors including airlines, airports, aircraft, Industry associations: SITA has working partnerships with governments, ground handlers, air traffic control, aerospace, over 50 air transport industry associations, international and travel distribution. We engage with our customers regularly organizations and institutions. 2015 saw an important through SITA events such as the annual Air Transport IT Summit collaborative development as SITA signed a new Memorandum open to our members and customer representatives. We hear of Understanding with IATA to define a framework for continued from our customers through forums including our Customer cooperation. A fuller description of our industry engagements Advisory Board (CAB), which helps shape our strategy and is available at www.sita.aero/about-us/working-forportfolio, and the Communications and Infrastructure Advisory the-community Board (CIAB), which acts as the voice of the community with respect to our network services. We operate formal feedback Local communities: All our employees are encouraged and channels, such as our annual Customer First Feedback Survey, empowered to take part in community and charitable projects and engage regularly with customers through committees and events through our Value in Volunteer Action (VIVA) program and user groups specifically dedicated to airports, baggage, which gives each employee a full day’s paid leave for volunteer passenger, aircraft, and AIRCOM services. For more information activity each year. 2015 VIVA activities are included in the please visit: www.sita.aero/about-us/working-for-theCommunity Giving section of this report. community/customer-forums 8 CSR REPORT 2015 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE VOICE OF THE CUSTOMER SITA has been formally collecting customer feedback since CUSTOMER 1998 through an annual relationship survey known as Customer First Feedback (CFF). Through this process we aim to understand 528 FIRST surveys and measure customer experience with our products and completed FEEDBACK services and better understand customer perception of our business relationship. The survey results receive a high level record high of management visibility across the organization and right up Customer to the level of the SITA Board. Satisfaction Index: 63.3% record high Net To assure objectivity, CFF data is collected by a third party organization, Satmetrix, and includes a weighted average 4.15 Promoter score Customer Satisfaction Index and a proprietary Net Promoter score which measures how likely customers are to recommend 98.5% percentage satisfied, SITA’s services. In 2015 we launched a new, much shorter very satisfied or questionnaire to improve the experience and reduce the effort absolutely satisfied of customer contacts completing the online survey. The results are shown right. SITA’S INDUSTRY PUBLICATIONS Air Transport IT Review Passenger IT Trends Survey Published three times a year, our Nearly 6,000 passengers completed widely read review explores the latest the 2015 online survey, co-sponsored IT and telecommunications issues for by Air Transport World, which the air transport industry. focused on passenger satisfaction with industry technology adoption. Airline IT Trends Survey Working with Airline Business, SITA Baggage Report publishes this analysis of the views Every year SITA reports on statistics, of senior IT executives of the top 200 innovations and important trends in passenger carriers, providing clear the baggage world. insight into industry IT strategic 360 Report thinking and developments. SITA regularly publishes in-depth Airport IT Trends Survey reports on specific ATI topics and This annual survey, co-sponsored by trends. A report entitled The Future Airports Council International (ACI) is Personal , released in February and Airline Business, analyses IT 2015, delved into the personalization trends through responses from more expectations of the modern passenger. than 200 airports worldwide. IT Trends Hub: SITA makes over 200 charts from the surveys available for use through its Trends Hub, available at www.sita. aero/resources/it-trends-hub CSR REPORT 2015 9 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE SITA BOARD As of 31 December 2015 the SITA Board comprised 13 Directors including the SITA CEO. Board Directors are nominated by the SITA Council for appointment by the General Assembly of Members. The term of office for Board Directors, except the SITA CEO, is three years, with one-third of the Board seats being available for re-election each year. Members from our top 20 customers CEO Member Directors Non-Member (independent) Directors Airline geographical group representatives Industry-specific group representatives The SITA Board supervises the activities of the SITA Group to ensure its effective operations. The role of the Board has The SITA Council has two standing committees. The Nomination been modeled on best practice for both cooperative and Committee recommends SITA Board Directors and SITA Council commercial organizations. President and Deputy President for appointment by the Annual General Assembly. The Membership Committee addresses The SITA Board has two standing Committees which report into membership policy and rules. the SITA Board. The Audit and Risk Management Committee advises the Board on matters relating to financial policy and SITA SENIOR LEADERSHIP TEAM control, as well as risk management of SITA. The Remuneration Committee advises the Board on matters relating to SITA-wide SITA’s CEO leads our Senior Leadership Team (SLT), which takes remuneration policies. responsibility for defining and setting SITA’s corporate strategy (including economic, environmental and social aspects), policies, SITA COUNCIL and organizational structure. The Senior Leadership Team comprises our most senior executives from across the business The SITA Council represents and safeguards the interests of areas, functions, geographies and the CEO Office. our membership with the right of final approval over specific and important matters relating to the high-level direction of SLT composition by gender Age range of SLT members the organization. The SITA Council is also consulted on any other matter having a material impact on services provided to 1 SITA members. Finally, and very importantly, the SITA Council 4 is tasked with gathering community opinions and reporting back on their actions. Formed in 2012, the SITA Council is composed of up to 13 10 34 member-representatives. The Council President, who is a representative of a member organization, chairs the Men Women 30–49 50+ SITA Council. GENDER SPLIT AND AVERAGE TENURE ACROSS SITA’S GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE SITA Board SITA Council Audit & Risk Remuneration Nomination Membership Management Committee Committee Committee Committee Average Tenure 5.0 2.4 3.9 5.5 2.4 6.1 Men 11 30 4 5 8 4 Women 2 1 1 1 0 0 Total 13 31 5 6 8 4 % Men 85% 97% 80% 83% 100% 100% % Women 15% 3% 20% 17% 0% 0% More information on our governance and management structure can be found online at: www.sita.aero/about-us 10 CSR REPORT 2015 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE Sustainable and profitable growth remains COMMUNITY VALUE a critical part of SITA’s 2020 business plan In 2015 SITA started a program to identify, measure, promote and evolution. and grow the value we deliver for the Air Transport Community. We describe Community Value as the benefits derived for the air Our results continue to show steadily rising revenues. SITA’s transport community as a whole by virtue of the unique industry 2015 revenue figure grew by 3.2% to US$1.7bn, including overgovernance, commitment, expertise, innovation and partnership recovery. This compares to figures of 4.3% (US$1,710m) in 2014, that SITA delivers on behalf of its members and customers. The and 4.0% (US$1,633m) in 2013. program is supported by 10 value drivers: For more detailed financial information – including revenues, 1. Actively engaging with the Air Transport Industry to bring operating costs, employee compensation, retained earnings, about positive change payments to capital providers and governments, and coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations – refer to the 2. Delivering ICT solutions to meet the needs of the community SITA Group Financial Statements for the same reporting period, 3. Creating a more price competitive market environment that January 1 to December 31, 2015. These are available on request results in greater customer choice from the Board Secretariat at SITA after their approval at SITA’s AGA on May 25, 2016. 4. Collaborating with the industry to develop and implement global standards With regard to government financial assistance, SITA benefits from a number of tax relief and other subsidy schemes at specific 5. Delivering innovation which directly responds to Air Transport locations. These business incentives totaled US$3.1 million in 2015 Industry challenges and included the Atlanta, Georgia tax relief for high technology 6. Reducing the total cost of ownership through delivery of companies, the Montreal CDAE (credit for the development of shared infrastructure and community solutions e-business) and the Prague subsidy for business activity. 7. Ensuring presence with staff and infrastructure wherever airlines fly 8. The skills, experience and contribution of SITA’s employees 9. Supporting and servicing the community beyond business as usual 10. Being owned and governed by the Air Transport Community 900+ respondents COMMUNITY including VALUE customers INDEX and Council representatives Target 3.5 out of 5 94% agreed, strongly agreed, Result or absolutely agreed that SITA adds 3.55 value to the air transport industry Photo: Photo competition entry “Night activity” by Massimiliano Pescatori CSR REPORT 2015 11 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE SITA spends millions of dollars on research In-flight Wi-Fi Voucher API: SITAONAIR and the Developer.aero team launched an innovative new API which allows airlines, GDSs and development every year – around 7% and other agents to sell Wi-Fi sessions as part of the booking of our revenue. The result is an innovation process. Passengers receive a promotional code which can be culture focused on creating the solutions used to activate their internet session once they’re on the plane. that benefit the entire industry and keep it Boarding Pass API: One of the first APIs developed by SITA Lab, moving forward. Boarding Pass API allows airlines to create and distribute mobile boarding passes. In 2015 around 2.5 million boarding passes This year, for the second time in the past four years, the were issued every month via the API which recorded a truly Air Transport News (ATN) Awards recognized SITA as the impressive 100% uptime for the entire year. ‘IT Company of the Year’ for its influential leadership, innovation and industry achievements. Here are a few of the innovation Day of Travel APIs: SITA’s new Day of Travel Services solution areas where SITA leads the way. connects real-time airport, flight, itinerary and related data, enabling airports to provide contextually aware mobile SITA Lab: SITA's strategic technology research arm, SITA Lab, applications to passengers such as walk times and wait times. aims to stimulate technological innovation in the air transport industry and bring emerging technologies into SITA's portfolio iTravel: SITA’s iTravel solution enables passengers to book, and works in collaboration with airlines, airports, and technology pay, check-in, review their frequent flyer account, search flight specialists globally. Lab projects in 2015 explored using drones schedules and check status, and track lost and mishandled for aircraft inspection and maintenance, the development luggage using their mobile phone. In 2015 MHMobile, the of a sales platform for ancillary airline services, operational Malaysian Airlines mobile app powered by iTravel, reached a applications of the Apple Watch and other wearable computing, major milestone, surpassing 1 million downloads on Android ongoing development of our a Common Use iBeacon Registry devices and more than 700,000 on IOS. and further research into passenger experience applications of Day of Operations BI: Airports can now turn data into knowledge beacon technology. with SITA’s new Day of Operations business intelligence and Innovation Day: An annual SITA Lab event since 2007, SITA’s data visualization solution. With a unique BI portal called Innovation Day 2015 featured an exciting lineup of presentations AirportPulse, our airports and airlines proactively respond to on autonomous vehicles, drone ports, blockchain, the internet of potential issues before they happen by sharing clear information things and more. Presentations are available at to the right teams. dayofoperations.sita.aero www.sita.aero/events/events-listing/sita-innovation-day-2015 Media Station kiosks: Up to 100,000 kilograms of newspapers Hackathons: In October 2015 Singapore’s main airport welcomed and magazines go onboard with passengers every day. That hundreds of students and tech enthusiasts at inaugural uses up valuable fuel and costs the industry significantly to hackathon events hosted by Singapore Airlines and the Changi supply, collect and dispose of it all. SITA’s new Media Station Airport Group. SITA’s contributions included a simulation of our kiosk – developed in partnership with Orange Business Services Common Use Beacon Registry for the hacking teams to use as – provides a solution, enabling passengers to choose from a well as access to some of our APIs. SITA’s APIs provide a channel selection of hundreds of newspapers, magazines, films, TV into the vast amounts of rich data generated and required by series, city guides, and more for download to mobile devices. airlines, airports and travelers. Read more about our growing range of APIs at www.developer.aero 12 CSR REPORT 2015 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE CSR REPORT 2015 13 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE We operate in diverse cultural, political In 2015 our Legal, Regulatory and Compliance team provided face-to-face training sessions on anti-bribery and corruption and economic environments around in a number of locations around the world. Our Chief Ethics the globe. and Compliance Officer also delivered face-to-face sessions on compliance and ethics to the Senior Leadership Team and to the Wherever we are in the world, we are committed to SITA Board. doing business the right way by acting honestly and fairly, complying with laws and regulations and adhering to policies All employees are required to complete mandatory e-learning and procedures. on our Code of Conduct. Targeted mandatory e-learning on antibribery and corruption is provided to employees on a risk-based OUR APPROACH TO approach, which is further supported with face-to-face training. ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE In 2014 SITA created a dedicated compliance team which reports EFFECTIVENESS into the General Counsel and is accountable to the Ethics Ofﬁce. The Ethics Ofﬁce is responsible for oversight of compliance with The initial priority for the team was the establishment of the our Code of Conduct, which includes the review of investigations Integrity, Compliance and Ethics (ICE) Program, which was into potential violations. The Ethics Ofﬁce will periodically successfully launched in March 2015 with endorsement from engage Internal Audit to assist in this role. the CEO and the SITA Board. There are a number of different ways our employees can report a ICE acts as an umbrella program bringing together compliance concern, including through their line manager, another manager activities on anti-bribery and corruption, trade controls, in their function or a member of the Compliance or HR teams. data protection and competition. The governance of ICE is Alternatively, an online report can also be made directly to the based on best practice guidance which identiﬁes the following Ethics Ofﬁce, anonymously if preferred. ﬁve key elements of a successful program: leadership, All reports are investigated promptly and thoroughly and risk assessment, standards and controls, training and feedback on results of the investigation is provided in a timely communication and monitoring. manner. Where appropriate, disciplinary action up to and including dismissal is taken and/or additional guidance and ETHICS TRAINING AND COMMUNICATION training provided. Standards are mandated across the business and apply to all SITA does not tolerate retaliation against anyone making reports our employees and contractors. The company intranet is the in good faith and/or assisting in an investigation. Any retaliation primary means of making each of the standards available to will be treated as a violation of our Code of Conduct. employees. Education on the standards is also built into each of the e-learning modules and all face-to-face materials. Our standards currently include the new Code of Conduct, AntiBribery and Corruption Policy, Agents and Intermediaries Policy and Hosting and Gifting Guidelines. These and related resources are available on our company intranet site. Our Supplier Code of Conduct, together with summaries of our standards, is available on the public website. These standards also apply, to the extent appropriate, to our third parties and business partners. Raising awareness of and educating employees on our standards and the applicable laws and regulations is a fundamental part of our compliance governance. There are a number of challenges in delivering a program of this nature across more than 200 countries and territories, including language, culture and logistics. 14 CSR REPORT 2015 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE RISK ASSESSMENT DATA PROTECTION AND Since 2013 we have carried out annual standalone compliance INFORMATION SECURITY risk assessments to identify those business operations which At SITA we respect and protect the privacy of our people, have the higher risk of a compliance breach, those areas often customers, third parties, business partners and others, only identified because of the type and location of the activities using personal data when needed to operate effectively or to carried out. These areas receive additional focus and support comply with the law. Our expectations of our people in this including further training and guidance. Compliance and ethics regard include: risks are also reviewed as part of our annual corporate risk • safeguarding, on a need to know basis, any SITA, third party management process. or other confidential information, Risk management is also addressed in a new Standard • knowledge of and compliance with data protection laws and Commercial Process (SCP) launched in 2015. The aim of regulations regarding the collection, processing and use of SCP is to document ways of working on every SITA commercial personal data in our products and services, and opportunity in order to meet customer requirements while supporting SITA’s corporate objectives with regard to commercial, • taking reasonable measures to protect such information financial, governance and risk management criteria. from unauthorized access. Employees are supported to meet these expectations by a GOING FORWARD comprehensive Corporate IT Policy, newly revised and approved early in 2015, which outlines the rules, standards and guidelines In 2016 we plan a number of initiatives under the ICE program for the use and management of SITA’s Corporate IT resources. umbrella including: In April 2015 a briefing for all staff regarding Security Threat • A roll out of the new Code of Conduct and Intelligence & Risk Management Capability provided further supporting e-learning to SITAONAIR and our subsidiary support and information on the current and changing risk CHAMP Cargosystems environment for information security threats that have the • Targeted e-learning modules and face-to-face training potential to affect our operations and those of our customers. on anti-bribery and corruption, trade controls and data Also during the year a new two-factor SSL VPN solution was protection on a risk-based approach rolled out to all staff which enables and greatly enhances the • A new externally hosted speak up facility to provide an security of remote corporate networking. additional way for our people to seek advice on compliance with, and raise concerns on any potential breach of, our INTERNAL AUDIT Code of Conduct SITA’s Internal Audit & Risk Management is an independent • Enhanced communications to raise awareness assurance and consulting function within the business. They • A Global Integrity, Compliance & Ethics (ICE) week of support the Senior Leadership Team in the fulfillment of their events and activities enterprise risk management responsibilities, by managing, monitoring, and refining the corporate risk management framework, and by supporting the associated processes. The Internal Audit & Risk Management also provide the SITA Board members with independent assurance over all audited areas of the company’s operations. Vancouver Office International Women’s Day CSR REPORT 2015 15 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE SITA’s CSR office is managed by dedicated the reports are shared with our Senior Leadership Team as well as the Audit and Risk Management Committee (see About SITA). resource and reports into the Senior In addition, the SITA Board conducts an annual review of the Leadership Team. corporate risk register. It is complemented by a CSR Steering Group made up of The economic and operational aspects of the business are representatives from across the business. Their role includes reviewed monthly at a minimum by SITA’s Senior Leadership proposing targets, and tracking and reviewing progress. team. Issues related to environmental and social factors are Additionally, the CSR Executive Review Board, comprising assessed throughout the year by SITA’s CSR Office, and on at key members of our Senior Leadership Team, reviews and least a quarterly basis, through the CSR Steering Group and approves strategy and supports integration of CSR throughout CSR Executive Review Board. the business. In 2015 we reviewed our position against the recently updated The Review Board comprises the Senior Vice Presidents of the United Nations Global Compact 10 principles and associated Sales and Marketing, Corporate and Technology Services, indicators. Steady progress has been made in all areas, Human Resources and SITA’s General Counsel. A change of demonstrating our ongoing commitment to being a responsible General Counsel midway through 2015 was reflected in the business. In the short to medium term we will continue to build Review Board membership. on these sustainability priorities and the progress we have made. MANAGEMENT APPROACH OUR SUPPLY CHAIN We make reference throughout this report to the management SITA’s procurement reaches across the globe – with around 7,000 approach to addressing SITA’s material issues – detailed in the suppliers providing goods and services to the company. Around About this Report section. Many of the aspects are incorporated 95% of spend is with 1,300 key suppliers. Supplier selection is into standard business practice such as corporate policies primarily based on the value for money principle. However, while and established processes. These ensure that we always act price is important, we always consider quality, timely delivery, responsibly and in compliance with all national and local laws reliability, warranty, safety, security, CSR and after-sales services in areas such as labor, health and safety, anti-bribery and and support when making a procurement decision. corruption, ethics and the environment. In addition, local country A clear Supplier Code of Conduct is published on our website policies are implemented where required. for organizations wishing to work with SITA that outlines our SITA adopts a precautionary approach with regards to Principle expectations on vendors and service providers. 15 of the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. In 2014 we developed Responsible Procurement courseware for Through alignment to the UNGC and adoption of ISO 14001, our people which details our commitments as a signatory to the ongoing review and a corporate risk register, the company United Nations Global Compact specifically as they relate to our addresses a number of areas and includes aspects related to supply chain. The course is mandatory for all purchasing staff the environment. SITA’s Internal Audit and Risk Management and recommended to all staff alongside our other ethics and team conduct reviews of the register on a quarterly basis, and compliance training courses. 16 CSR REPORT 2015 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE HUMAN RIGHTS Forced labor and anti-slavery: We do not consider there to be a high risk of child labor, forced or compulsory labor, or loss of The nature of our business means that while we are ever freedom of association and collective bargaining in any of our cognizant of the risks of human rights abuses, they are an area operations. All employees have contracts in place, and SITA of low risk for our organization. Our responsible supply chain does not retain any original identification documents for any self-certification references human rights – specifically in the purpose. Freedom of movement is exercised for all employees areas of non-discrimination and harassment, child labor and across all sites and countries. Following an analysis of countries, human rights, and sourcing from conflict countries – as well as an initiative in 2016 will add standard clauses to our supplier disclosure of penalties related to these issues. To date we have contracts to address labor practice risks. Our Ethics Office is received no responses that have given us concern. available for any employee wishing to raise a concern in this area. Appropriate behaviors: SITA’s Code of Conduct clearly states the Training: Through our online Learning Portal, all employees expected behaviors of those who work with us. Harassment in are able to access a number of training courses that cover content the workplace is strictly prohibited. This includes any behavior in all areas of human rights including SITA-specific courses toward another person based on that person’s race, color, on the Code of Conduct: Best Practices and Ethics and gender, age, disability, religion, nationality, or sexual orientation, Compliance Training. which is unacceptable and personally offensive to the recipient. Our SITA office in India has a sexual harassment policy and complaints committee to deal with any concerns, with all employees in the country notified of the policy, the committee, and the requirements on behavior. They have the company’s assurance that any complaints will be handled promptly and thoroughly. CSR REPORT 2015 17 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE The global nature of our business brings • Supporting responsible supply chain practices and reviewing our supply chain for environmental with it unique sustainability opportunities and social performance and challenges. • Innovating to create high quality products and services that We respond to these through our corporate social responsibility meet the evolving needs of our customers, supporting their (CSR) strategy, aligned under three key themes: sustainability challenges and contributing to the future prosperity of society • Integrating CSR practices into our business, • Enhancing the workplace as a fair, diverse and equitable • Managing our environmental impact, and; employer, providing professional developmental and • Providing value to our communities. learning opportunities in a safe working environment. Our strategy is underpinned by our CSR Charter and its six SITA’s CSR Steering Group set a number of targets in 2014 guiding principles that drive our approach to CSR. which we have continued to track and measure through 2015. • Reducing our environmental impact by measuring, The following table shows the status as of year-end. reporting and minimizing the use of energy and resources • Conducting business responsibly in compliance with applicable laws, and supporting fair, open and free competition • Engaging with our communities by addressing industry-wide issues for air transport, and acting philanthropically in the countries where we operate CSR TARGETS Indicator 2015 Target Status Year end % of corporate hardware managed through our disposal 100% 100% achieved process in 10 largest offices Increase reporting scope to include energy and emissions 73% 72% measurement that represents 73% of SITA population Water usage baseline across key sites (ATL/SIN/PRG) Baseline 3 sites now reporting Track paper consumption in major sites Track in 10 sites 23 sites Create environmental statements for key sites and publish Current metrics 23 locations Air travel emissions capture 90% of all travel 90% No increase in electricity consumption in offices where the 0% increase 4.9% decrease against same ability is present for measurement sites measured 2014-2015 Energy intensity per square metre 0% increase 0.8% reduction over prior year Emissions intensity per square metre 0% increase 1.2% reduction over prior year Volunteering days 200 159 days Achieved or exceeded Within 5% of target Not achieved Photo: Photo competition entry “Taking a Rest” by Erika ter Borch 18 CSR REPORT 2015 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE c CSR REPORT 2015 19 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE SITA has a responsibility to understand • Singapore (December 2014) and manage its environmental impacts. • London Gate (September 2014) • Rome (April 2013; recertified in 2015) We do this in a number of ways: through our corporate environment policy, through our adoption of ISO14001 Our own EMS was implemented in 2011, and captures (Environmental Management Systems) and by reporting information on SITA's environmental aspects – such as energy on our progress. use, videoconferencing, paper use, and emissions from travel and energy use. We use business intelligence in the EMS to help ENVIRONMENTAL FRAMEWORKS normalize the figures. For example, we calculate and report on SITA has been working towards ISO 14001, the international intensity for our energy and emissions per SQM. This allows us standard for Environmental Management Systems (EMS), at to track and compare annual variations and is the source of the a number of our locations since 2013. The standard specifies energy usage and related data in this report. the process for controlling and improving an organization's Through the year we implemented environmental statements environmental performance, and its adoption forms a core at 23 of our locations, and made them available to all staff via element of SITA’s CSR strategy. Work will begin in 2016 to review our intranet. In these we shared information directly from our and align SITA’s environmental measurement and reporting to the environmental management system on energy consumption, updated standard ISO 14001:2015, with the aim to recertify in 2017. energy and emissions intensity, paper consumption, and water Our five largest locations, plus Rome, are now ISO 14001: consumption (where available). The statement also lists the 2004 certified: material recycling available at the location and outlines any ways that environmental impacts are reduced at the site, such as video • Montreal (March 2015) conferencing, motion sensitive lighting, use of multifunction • Atlanta (March 2015) printers, and similar related activities. • Geneva (December 2014) ISO 14001:2004 CERTIFIED LOCATIONS COVER London Gate Montreal Atlanta Geneva Rome 45% OF SITA’S WORKFORCE 6 LOCATIONS ARE NOW Singapore ISO 14001:2004 CERTIFIED 20 CSR REPORT 2015 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE WATER CONSUMPTION VIDEO CONFERENCING In 2015 we began collecting metrics for water consumption at The total number of hours of reported videoconferencing in sites where we have the capability. These are Atlanta (our largest our 15 dedicated conferencing rooms at 12 locations was site), Singapore and Prague. The consumption from these three reduced in 2015. This decrease can be attributed to the fact sites was 42,158m³. that while the videoconferencing hours reported are from fixed systems in dedicated videoconference rooms, SITA also uses PAPER CONSUMPTION alternative approaches such as desktop-based video calling. We also extended our capability for recording paper consumption In the second half of 2015, we implemented Skype for to 23 (76.6%) of our offices. Overall we saw a 8.3% decrease Business which has given video capability to everyone and in total reams used in 2015. Some of this decrease can be enabled more collaboration than before. While we do not track attributed to the continued implementation of multifunction usage of the system informal data capturing reveals a high printers requiring a passcode for printing – leading to less level of use. unnecessary printing. Paper consumption (reams) 34% VIDEO decrease CONFERENCING 8.3% on 2014 decrease 2,024 46% total video conferencing of staff have access hours in 2015 to dedicated video 2014 2015 100% conferencing suites of staff with desktop videoconferencing CSR REPORT 2015 21 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE ENERGY AND EMISSIONS DATA ENERGY CONSUMPTION SITA's energy data is recorded in our environmental SITA’s main environmental impacts have been identified as management system throughout the year. It includes actual energy consumption and subsequent emissions related to energy consumption, as well as estimated consumption based normal business operations, use of materials (such as paper, on pro-rata occupancy of locations as a tenant. All calculations print toners) and emissions from business air travel. In addition, are made through the environmental management system. SITA has some locations with on-site diesel storage and this is Details of flights and the related emissions are provided annually recorded as an environmental aspect. by our travel services provider. This is less that reported in the previous year. While we were not able to collect data for some sites that were included in the 2014 MANAGING END-OF-LIFE IT EQUIPMENT data when we consider the overall intensity factors a decrease is In line with the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment shown. Throughout the year the benefits of the implementation (WEEE) Directive to promote reuse, recycling and recovery of of low energy lighting, reduced floorspace and more energy end-of-life equipment, SITA is committed to the responsible efficient equipment continue to be realized. In July we completed disposal of corporate hardware. We do this by using a carefully a refresh on our offices in Atlanta which saw our floorspace selected roster of recycling service providers who in turn ensure reduce. This floorspace reduction has not been calculated in the our IT equipment is re-used or disassembled and recycled/ overall intensity reports, but will be applied in the 2016 report disposed of in an environmentally responsible manner and within against the full year data. all applicable legislation. In 2015 we met our target of 100% responsible disposal at our 10 largest offices, and we continue to Energy intensity (kWh per square metre) work toward our aim of zero electronic waste to landfill. We also engage in responsible recycling when dealing with 5% 0.8% end-of-life equipment on behalf of our customers. Using our since 2011 since 2014 recycling providers, we aim to ensure that IT equipment is managed responsibly – wherever it is in the world. 533 529 525 510 506 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 SITA's offices in Atlanta have benefited from a refurbishment that includes low energy smart lighting 22 CSR REPORT 2015 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE EMISSIONS EMISSIONS FROM AIR TRAVEL SITA reports on indirect emissions – those covered by scope 2 Our reporting on emissions from air travel has increased, now and scope 3 of the GHG protocol – including those related to the including circa 90% of all flights booked – thanks to emissions consumption of purchased electricity, and transport-related data collection from our sites in Dubai and South Africa. vehicles outside our control. The figure of 13,960.77 CO₂e for 2015 is 17.7% more than 2014 due to this additional reporting. We use DEFRA (2014) GHG factors to calculate the emissions from energy consumption from our operations, with the The flight emissions intensity figure of 0.000228 represents a exception of UAE, Lebanon and Jordan where the International 10% increase on the previous year, as a result of the expanded Energy Agency (2014) factors were used. We break down the reporting capability. When comparing the 2014 and 2015 flight greenhouse gases into carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and information (excluding the data from the new sites) a decrease nitrous oxide (N2O).The emissions breakdown of our energy of 0.5% in emissions is recorded. consumption for all sites is as follows: Scope 2 emissions intensity (tonnes CO2e per square metre) 12% 1.2% 13,960.77 since 2011 since 2014 Tonnes Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO₂e) from air travel 0.275 0.262 0.264 0.245 0.242 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 13,009.40 13,017.70 Tonnes Tonnes Carbon Dioxide Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO₂e) (CO₂) 7.62 0.68 Tonnes Nitrous Oxide (N₂O) Tonnes Methane (CH₄) CSR REPORT 2015 23 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE 1000 Total number of permanent employees by employment type, contract and gender Fixed Term (27) Part Time (60) 800 Full Time (976) Women (1,063) Men (3,729) Full Time (3,683) 600 Part Time (20) SITA employees Fixed Term (46) Unless indicated, employee data on this page includes all active and inactive employees as of 31 December 2015 in SITA and its subsidiaries SITAONAIR and SBS. It does not include employees of our subsidiary CHAMP Cargosystems or students employed through our educational programs. Non-employee workers (self-employed, contractors) 400 377 individuals worked for SITA and SITAONAIR as contractors as at 31 December 2015. No gender breakdown is available. 4,792 2,123 FTE (full time equivalent) resources worked for SITA SITA Employees through our Technical Offshore and Outsourcing program as at 31 December 2015. These resources are employed through our five offshore partners NIIT, Mindtree, and IGT based in India, Cinq based in Brazil, and Luxoft based in Ukraine. No gender breakdown of these resources is available. 200 377 2,123 Contractors Offshore FTE 0 United States (942) United Kingdom (593) India (331) Switzerland (306) Canada (287) Singapore (269) France (200) Czech Republic (190) Ireland (116) United Arab Emirates (98) Australia (97) Germany (91) Brazil (84) South Africa (82) China (79) Jordan (76) Lebanon (65) Mexico (58) Italy (53) Egypt (47) Netherlands (42) Hong Kong (40) Russian Federation (36) Denmark (35) Malaysia (33) Indonesia (30) Spain (29) Belgium (27) Bangladesh (22) Taiwan, Province of China (22) Argentina (20) Pakistan (20) Thailand (18) Colombia (18) Japan (17) Turkey (17) Oman (15) Chile (15) Saudi Arabia (14) Korea, Republic of (13) Morocco (12) Norway (12) Poland (11) Nepal (10) Costa Rica (10) Malta (10) Romania (9) Jamaica (9) Peru (9) Sweden (9) Viet Nam (8) Philippines (8) Bulgaria (8) Ghana (8) Kenya (8) Nigeria (7) Qatar (7) New Zealand (7) Kazakstan (7) Trinidad and Tobago (7) Ethiopia (7) Ecuador (6) Tanzania, United Republic of (6) Austria (5) Kuwait (5) Curaçao (5) Sri Lanka (4) Employees by location* *Note: This bar graph visualization includes SITA, SITAONAIR, SBS and CHAMP Cargosystems employees for a total of 4,887 people employed globally by SITA and its three subsidiaries. 24 CSR REPORT 2015 Zambia (4) Iran (Islamic Republic Of) (4) Azerbaijan (4) Supervisors Hungary (4) Women Venezuela (4) Sint Maarten (Dutch Part) (4) 344 15% (157) Israel (4) aCtive values French Polynesia (3) We uphold the highest standards of Americas Angola (3) Mauritius (3) Paraguay (3) Tunisia (3) Myanmar (3) CUSTOMER FIRST Mongolia (3) Portugal (3) Non-supervisors ACT WITH INTEGRITY Ukraine (3) Malawi (2) 1,138 Aruba (2) El Salvador (2) We focus on our customer’s needs. 85% (906) Papua New Guinea (2) Total workforce by gender, by region professionalism and ethical behavior. Americas Mozambique (2) Greece (2) Cameroon (2) Republic of Serbia (2) Antigua and Barbuda (2) Slovakia (2) Maldives (2) Women Sudan (2) Cape Verde (2) Togo (2) We generate new ideas and Yemen (2) Men Men Uganda (2) Supervisors INNOVATE Algeria (2) We work as a team and treat others with Uzbekistan (2) Workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender Libya (1) 18% (685) Grenada (1) Guinea (1) Bahrain (1) Guyana (1) creative solutions. Brunei Darussalam (1) 1,242 Korea, Democratic People's Rep (1) Europe Burundi (1) TEAMWORK & RESPECT Lao People's Democratic Rep (1) Non-supervisors Chad (1) Mali (1) Congo, The Democratic Republic (1) 90 openness and respect. Mauritania (1) MEIA 82% (3,044) Cyprus (1) Namibia (1) Fiji (1) Niger (1) Gambia (1) 809 Panama (1) MEIA 513 Benin (1) Reunion (1) EMPOWERMENT & Europe Cambodia (1) Rwanda (1) Croatia (1) Senegal (1) Gabon (1) Sierra Leone (1) VALUE CREATION Burkina Faso (1) ACCOUNTABILITY Suriname (1) 540 Eritrea (1) Syrian Arab Republic (1) Congo (1) Turkmenistan (1) Asia/Paciﬁc Zimbabwe (1) 116 We deliver results that create value. CSR REPORT 2015 Vanuatu (1) We take ownership and are accountable. ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE 25 Asia/Paciﬁc ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE SITA's success is dependent on the skills PARENTAL LEAVE AND RETURN TO WORK and know-how of our people. Parental leave entitlement varies from country to country, Our HR team works hard to attract and retain the highlyextending to several years in some countries, making reporting skilled and engaged workforce we need in a fast-moving on this indicator something of a moving target. However, the technological environment. graph below summarizes the data we have gathered as of the time this report was compiled in March 2016. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY SITA is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) employer and, in 2014 2015 2016 line with UNGC principles, does not discriminate based on age, 70 race, color, creed, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, 58 (Women 42, Men 16) gender identity, disability, marital status, age, protected Veteran 60 54 (Women 40, Men 14) status, or any other characteristic protected by state or federal law. SITA's equal employment opportunity policy applies to all 50 employment practices and actions, including, without limitation, 41 (Women 32, Men 9) recruitment, application process, examination and testing, hiring, 40 training, disciplinary actions, rate of pay or other compensation, 40 (Women 31, Men 9) advancement, classification, transfer, reassignment and promotions, and during the year 25.6% of roles were filled by 30 employees moving to new roles within the business. 20.7% of leadership roles were also filled internally. 20 In keeping with this policy, hiring at SITA follows a best fit for Started parental leave role model, with clear corporate policy and guidance in place Still employed after 1 year (or as of May 2016) for people-related procedures. Internal hires and employee referrals are encouraged. As a global principle there is no distinction made between benefits provided to full-time employees as to part-time employees. Our voluntary attrition rate was 5.3% in 2013 and 4.5% in 2014. It continued to drop in 2015 to 4% for the year. Number of leavers and joiners by gender, region and age 503 393 57 123 323 191 Joiners 70 110 123 119 27 103 106 Leavers 53 252 153 370 267 91 58 Men Under 30 Americas Women 30–49 Asia Pacific 50+ Europe 26 CSR REPORT 2015 MEIA ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE We strive to build and maintain a productive, motivated workforce WOMEN REPRESENT by treating all employees fairly and equitably. As a result we benefit from an exceptional range of knowledge, perspectives and insights deriving from workforce diversity. The gender balance and age diversity of our workforce is reported in detail in 22% of our workforce the charts on pages 24 and 25. Note that aside from gender and AND age, our HR systems do not capture other measures of diversity. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION At SITA we do not discriminate on the basis of trade union 19% of our senior roles membership or non-membership, and 14% of our workforce (grade 8 or higher) are covered by collective bargaining agreements in 16 countries. Employees in five additional countries receive statutory annual AND RECEIVE pay increases as required by law. EMPLOYMENT EQUITY IN CANADA 22.7% of our total annual base pay In 2015, SITA entered the third year of an Employment Equity program in Canada which monitors how four designated groups – women, Aboriginals, persons with disabilities, and visible minorities – are represented. An annual report on 2014 activities to support this program was accepted by the Canadian government in July 2015, and a similar report is anticipated this year. WOMEN IN AFRICAN AIR TRANSPORT SITA and BARSA (Board of Airline Representatives of South Africa) hosted the inaugural Women in African Air Transport forum on 9 November 2015 in Johannesburg. Speaker topics included trends and prospects in the African air transport industry, passenger growth in the region, insights into the perspectives of women in the sector. The forum also served as an introduction to the SITA Air Transport Community Foundation, an initiative between SITA and its Members to provide IT and education to communities in Africa. Speakers at the Women in African Air Transport Forum CSR REPORT 2015 27 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE HEALTH & SAFETY PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT SITA’s workforce mostly operates from an office environment, Everyone in SITA benefits from clear job descriptions, objectives, meaning the risks of accident and injury are relatively low. and regular performance and development reviews. Roles at As a business-to-business services organization, our employees SITA are mapped to a Career Framework, which defines the do not have a high risk of diseases related to their occupation. 13 ‘professions’ or areas of functional expertise which make up We nonetheless take all steps practical to provide a healthy, our organization. Career streams and roles are defined within safe and secure working environment for all personnel under each profession, giving staff clarity on the skills and knowledge our direct supervision. required to fulfil their role and to progress to others. In order to manage health and safety issues effectively across In 2015, a new Technology Management profession was the 137 countries and territories where we operate, SITA has developed and launched, bringing together some 800 people documented a Master Health, Safety and Security Policy which across the business with common competencies, professional details the minimum standards for all SITA sites. This policy development requirements, and collaborative opportunities. serves as a basis on which our local facilities teams create SITA supports and encourages employees to develop skills and and document policies and procedures that comply with participate in lifelong learning opportunities, as outlined in the local regulations. training and education pages following. All of our major locations We also comply with local regulations where required regarding and most of our medium and small locations engage outplacement formal joint management-worker health and safety committees. services to support employees’ continued employability. These are currently in place in major countries including the UK, France, Canada, South Africa, and Australia. Globally, all new Employees by profession hires are required to undertake mandatory e-learning on health Service Management 42.4% and safety upon joining. Technology Management 18.3% SITA employees are entitled to sick leave as per local laws Customer Solutions 8.1% in all territories where we operate, and in most countries we Finance 6.7% significantly exceed statutory allowances. In addition in 2015, Project Management 8.6% we recorded three lost workdays by one employee due to injury at work and two incidents requiring medical treatment at work. Other professions 6.2% (HR, Administration, The total number of days lost due to sickness in 2015 was Facilities, Legal, etc.) 13,557, taken by 1,622 employees. The breakdown by gender Sales and Marketing 6.3% is shown below. Product Management 3.4% Employees who took sickness absence in 2015 by gender 419 1,622 Total employees 1,203 Men Women 28 CSR REPORT 2015 A new look for SITA premises in Geneva ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE Operating in a technologically intense • Our 2,000 strong SITA Global Services team of aviation IT customer service specialists are supported through the industry, SITA needs to adapt rapidly to SGS Academy, a continuous learning framework and formal change. The ability of our people to learn curriculum covering technical and process knowledge. new skills and apply knowledge in real The program includes training on service management, time is critical to our success. compliance and culture as well as relevant higher technical and internationally recognized certifications. SITA’s global annual performance and reward cycle supports • In 2015 we launched a training portal dedicated to Airport professional growth and ensures high performance is rewarded. Solution Line (ASL) product education for our 300+ ASL The cycle includes annual objective setting with twice-yearly reviews, monthly 1-2-1 meetings between employees and their staff. The portal provides access to online and on-site line managers, and formal individual development plans (IDPs) training via computer, smartphone, tablet or other device to ensure training and development activities are well supported for training in the office or on the go. and recognized. Formal documentation, mid-year, and year-end • A program of online and situational Security Awareness review of objectives is required for all active SITA employees. training continued with courses and content to help staff improve their vigilance on passwords, phishing, risks In 2015, our employees recorded, on average, 31 hours of formal training per person. Major learning and development programs associated with remote working and more. available throughout the year included the following: • People want to work with, buy from and partner with companies that have a good reputation. Employees learned • More than 680 managers took part in our multi-levelled about protecting SITA’s value through an online reputation Management and Leadership Excellence (MLX) program in management course launched in 2015. 2015 ranging from 90-minute trainings to 9-month in-depth development programs. • More than 450 classroom-based and virtual training sessions attended by more than 4,000 SITA staff helped us • SITA's STARS program won a Diamond Award at the 2015 prepare for a major migration to Office 365 at the end of ITMSA Marketing Excellence Awards in recognition of its the year, bringing new and improved communication and outstanding strategic approach to marketing. The STARS collaboration capabilities to the organization. program supports more than 250 SITA sales and marketing staff with a full roster of learning and development opportunities including go-to-market strategy, sales Average training hours excellence, in-depth portfolio knowledge sharing, and more. Supervisor Non-supervisor 36 hours 24.4 hours 36 hours 32.1 Hours Women Men Note: Training figures exclude mandatory code of conduct training for all employees. CSR REPORT 2015 29 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE SITA engages actively with its employees GLOBAL INITIATIVES to help make life at work fulfilling, sociable VIA: Our Values in Action (VIA) Award Program allows our people and inspiring. to nominate and recognize fellow employees who demonstrate our aCtive Values. VIA awards include a location-specific We do this through formal company-wide award and recognition payment, a letter of congratulations, and a certificate signed schemes and also by supporting initiatives devised and driven by by the CEO. The VIA program was refreshed in 2015 to simplify local teams and individuals. payment processing and make it consistent around the world. EMPLOYEE FEEDBACK SITA Sales Awards: We celebrate the success of our sales teams throughout the year at our annual SITA Sales Kickoff awards. Each year our staff are invited to participate in a global Employee We also take the opportunity to recognize the contributions of Survey which provides a forum to feed back on a range of aspects the sales support teams. of life and work at SITA. The survey is strictly confidential, hosted by our external partner, Towers Watson, and open to all active SGS Distinction Awards: Our customer service organization, SITA employees in position for three months or more. SITA Global Services (SGS), expanded its annual Distinction Award scheme in the year. Gold, silver, and bronze awards Based on feedback from previous years, the design of the 2015 are given on an annual basis to employees nominated for Employee Survey was reviewed and streamlined to reduce the achievements in three categories: Commercial Services, number of questions and clarify wording in areas. The participation Every Dollar Matters, and Every Minute Counts. rate improved from 73% in 2014 to 81% in 2015. Scores show improvement overall, and when we compare our results to other Team of the month: Each month we recognize an exceptional high technology companies, we are mostly above benchmark. team within SITA, often virtual and cross-functional, whose efforts have made a big impact on the organization and by The top five questions in the survey highlight the committed extension its customers. Winners are announced in our and passionate nature of SITA's employees. monthly Together newsletter to all staff. Remote Locations Improvement Program: Started in 2014, 95% of people are willing to work 90% report that their team this program aims to provide a fresh and consistent look and a positive working space for our people working in small and medium sized SITA locations. In the last half of 2015 we invited beyond what is required to constantly look for better our smallest airport and remote locations to order a Brand help SITA succeed; ways to deliver value to Makeover Pack and use it to transform their sites into up-to-date our customers; and SITA workspaces. BWE Braunschweig in Germany and India's 92% understand how their 89% Ahmedabad airport were just two of the locations who undertook local makeover projects. work contributes to SITA's say that people in their SITA Photo Competition: For the second year in a row we business objectives; team are held accountable invited employees to show off their creative sides and submit for delivering what they their best air transport industry themed photographs to a photo competition. With over 400 entries, the contest was a hit with 91% say their manager involves have promised. our people. Monthly winners were published in our regular newsletters, and the best 12 images of the year featured in our annual calendar. them in solving problems related to their work; The 2015 survey also helped identify and characterize areas requiring attention, and these have been used as the basis for a formal corporate action plan agreed by our Senior Leadership Team to address root causes and continue to improve employee satisfaction. 30 CSR REPORT 2015 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE LOCAL ACTIVITIES SITA is built on the principle of community. All around SITA, our people are encouraged to find ways to get involved in their communities, at the office and beyond. Here are just a few of the local initiatives that took place in 2015. Brazil: One of our interns in Rio had an inspiring Mother’s Day 159 fully-paid volunteer idea: bring your mother to work. Many mothers joined in and spent an engaging few hours learning more about what their days recorded in 2015 sons and daughters do all day. Geneva: Casual Friday went ultra casual in Geneva in August with a special ‘above the knee’ dress code for men and women. Donning shorts lowered temperatures on the day and raised nearly US$2,000 for women's charity Solidarité-Femmes. Jordan: Local management in Amman organized a day out for staff on a farm near the old Roman city of Jarash. The event included a welcome for new joiners, a barbeque, team-building games and a perfect sunset view. Madrid: Many of our locations use Town Hall meetings as a communication channel for local staff, but attendance can be difficult for staff based at the airport who are responsible for monitoring operations on-site. Our Madrid town office solved the problem by taking the meeting to the airport and turning it into an engaging tour of operations for staff at both sites. Prague: More used to seeing SITA in numbers, our accounting team in Prague took a day out to explore SITA in its real world context during a special guided tour of the Václav Havel International Airport. The day included role play at the check-in counters, a tour of baggage systems in action, and a demonstration of the remote monitoring systems used by SITA colleagues working at the airport. USA: At our office in New York the newly created Bohemia Social Committee organized a special Flag Day to celebrate the diversity of our national origins. The office was decorated with flags of the world, and a pot-luck ‘Taste of the World’ luncheon raised US$137 for the Make A Wish Foundation. See the map overleaf for more examples of local voluntary, community and charity fundraising activities organized at our locations in 2015. Members of SITA's accounting team in Prague visiting the airport for a guided tour. CSR REPORT 2015 31 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE Since 2011, SITA employees have been enabled and encouraged to take a fully-paid day out each year to support charitable and community causes through our Value London: Staff from our London in Volunteer Action (VIVA) program. Heathrow Compass Centre location set up an IT suite for the Green Local charity committees and/or designated contacts help to Corridor Learning and Development Centre youth charity. promote and organize volunteering and fundraising events in 14 of our larger locations. A selection of the VIVA activities reported in 2015 is shown in the map below. More can be Brussels: 15 Brussels staff spent a found online at www.sita.aero/about-us/corporate-socialDIY day painting and decorating the local ‘Zest for Life’ children’s shelter. responsibility/community-involvement Prague: A busy charity community in Prague organized fundraisers throughout the year for Thomeyerova Hospital and other Montreal: A bake sale, donation local causes. drive and “Run for the Cure” events raised US$768 for the Breast Cancer Foundation. Letterkenny: Staff at our Letterkenny office filled 50 backpacks with school supplies for international charity Mary's Meals. New York: A team from our Paris: 32 from SITA Paris Bohemia, New York office collected used their volunteer nearly 100 pounds of litter from the days to support Le Cami beach at Robert Moses State Park. Sport et Cancer and other cancer charities. Atlanta: SITA Atlanta’s third annual paintball event raised Malta: Malta staff took part in US$676 for the Pets for Vets the annual President's Bike Georgia chapter. Ride to raise funds for the Malta Community Chest Fund. Beirut: 13 from our Beirut office joined more than 37,000 runners from 84 nations at the BDL Beirut Marathon Brasilia: SITA Brasilia employees contributed approximately 1.6 litres of blood during May Month of Health . Rio de Janeiro: 20 from our Rio office joined the Race Against Breast Cancer and raised US$377. Sao Paulo: SITA São Paulo staff, family and friends raised US$170 in the 15th GRAACC Run/Walk supporting children with cancer. 32 CSR REPORT 2015 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE INTERNATIONAL WOMEN'S DAY, US$120,942 raised by staff since 2011 for community-based projects 8 MARCH 2015 • Montreal, Burlington and Vancouver marked the day with a women’s shelter donation drive, a champagne buffet, US$500,000 invested each year from 2015 in IT and education in Africa and awareness events. • Singapore organized an afternoon tea to raise funds for local women's organizations. through the SITA Air Transport Community Foundation • An empowerment workshop promoted S.U.C.C.E.S.S. US$20,000 donated in 2015 at a corporate level to assist with disaster for women in Atlanta. • Sydney held a bake-off to raise funds for a women's refuge. • Beirut donated sewing machines to a local NGO. relief in Nepal • Gift-giving in SITA Amman showed appreciation for women's work and achievements. Rome: SITA Rome staff joined a volunteer rota at the Comunita di Sant' Egidio soup kitchen, serving food to the poor and in need. Kathmandu: Our offices in Montreal, Rome, and Dubai raised more than US$6,800 towards earthquake disaster relief, adding to a corporate donation of US$20,000 and US$2,092 in direct online donations from SITA staff. Panjim: Our India management team and staff raised US$300 to sponsor and serve lunch to 70 ashram residents in Panjim, Goa. Chennai: A day visit from SITA staff and a collection of US$800 brought ughtt cheer brough che c to the Anandam ndam care Ananda Ana home h re ho in Chennai. Che C nna nn i. Singapore: Si Sin 20 from our Singapore office ic raised US$700 and prepared offfice 3,000 3,0 0 meals m for the Soup Kitchen of o Willingng Hearts. Willin CSR REPORT 2015 33 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE A major theme in SITA’s engagement with INDIA local communities is our involvement in Beginning in 2014, SITA India created a committee and policy education initiatives. to implement CSR requirements specific to the new India Companies Act. The result has been an education sponsorship in Our focus is on the training needs of young people starting out the amount of US$23,000 to SOS Children’s Villages to support 75 and equally on higher education collaborations where we share orphaned children in four locations across India – 15 in Alibaug, and develop deep knowledge of the air transport industry. 15 in Chennai, 15 in Cochin and 30 in Jaipur. Here are a few highlights from our first annual sponsor report: IRELAND • All 75 children are enrolled in full-time education 2015 marked the fourth year of the Skills @ Work partnership appropriate to their age between SITA and the local Finn Valley College. The aim of the program is to encourage students at risk of leaving school early • All students have been provided new books, stationery, to stay and complete their state examinations. This year’s intake school bags and uniforms of students produced a special stop-motion animated video • 59 (79%) are girls, 16 (21%) are boys for SITA which included a charming interpretation of our • Attendance record was 97% during the reporting period biometric systems. • 53 children had received their final grades as of report time, SITA Letterkenny also operates a number of graduate and fully with 49 (93%) of these attaining grades A to C paid intern placement programs aimed at higher education We wish these 75 children and all the kids at SOS Children's students. Our internship scheme with the University of Ulster Villages the very best continued success in the future. (Magee) employs third year students for nine to 12 months as a bridge to their final year of studies. Paired with SITA mentors, Read more about how SITA invests in the future through interns take part in real projects, building on their classroom education at: www.sita.aero/about-us/corporate-socialeducation and preparing them for eventual employment. In 2012, responsibility/education 2013, 2014 and again in 2015 SITA’s office in Letterkenny was highly commended for their efforts as a Placement Employer in A FOUNDATION FOR THE FUTURE the Ulster Placement Employer of the Year Awards. Over 10,000 students have benefited from access to computers and education thanks to the work of the SITA Air Transport RUSSIA Community Foundation. Established in 2014, the creation of In 2015, SITA completed its first full year of a cooperative initiative the Foundation was driven by the SITA Council who wanted to with Moscow State Technical University of Civil Aviation (MSTU contribute to projects that would benefit the broader community CA). Our contributions include expert lectures and collateral beyond aviation. During 2015 their plans were realized with material for students, giving real world insights into the workings the roll-out of three new initiatives focused on IT and education of our industry. Several students have prepared final coursework in Africa. based on SITA data, and it is clear from student feedback and Uganda: Working with the charity Promoting Equality in African queries that interest in the program is high and increasing. Schools (PEAS), a project based in Uganda received a grant from the Foundation that has enabled seven new computer labs to be SOUTH AFRICA built at secondary schools. It also funded brand new equipment In 2012, we committed to a program of school computer lab for students and teachers. In addition, solar power has been sponsorship in South Africa, and in November 2015 we installed implemented into two of the schools. The schools are already lab number four, this one at Ikusasa Comprehensive School in benefiting from access to technology with student learning the township of Tembisa. The school was in need of a computer improvements underway, while teachers are gaining new skills lab in order to continue offering Computer Applications through training assistance. Technology (CAT) as a subject. The new lab will help to address an ICT skills shortage in South Africa among previously disadvantaged groups, as will SITA’s commitment to making scholarships available to the school’s top performers. Ikusasa students are the cover stars of this year's CSR Report. 34 CSR REPORT 2015 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE Ethiopia: The availability of access to computers is a challenge in the region of Amhara, in Ethiopia, where communities often struggle to maintain a regular power supply. However, 25 schools are now able to use newly equipped computer labs that are giving children and teachers alike the opportunity to learn computing skills. The primary school students are getting familiar with the technology, while teachers are able to use the computers to better plan school timetables, classes and reporting. Ongoing support from the charity partner ComputerAid International and local staff from the Amhara Development Agency means that the schools will continue to have support and training. South Africa: The Foundation is also supporting students in South Africa at the University of the Witwatersrand studying in the IT, engineering and aeronautical schools. To date, eight students are receiving grants to assist their education, with seven postgraduates and one undergraduate. In addition, 16 funded student memberships to the new Tschimologong Precinct in Johannesburg (due to open early 2016) will give access to young people to help develop knowledge, gain technology experience and build essential skills. The Foundation aims to help build skills capability in the next generations of young people in Africa. In a continent that is growing economically and has huge potential, the SITA Council recognized the need to create access and opportunities in IT. By selecting programs that look at three levels of education, it is building a sustainable approach to learning and broadening the horizons of students who may not otherwise have the opportunity. During 2016, the Foundation’s work will continue with additional teaching resources such as projectors, screens, e-learning capsules and headphones for the schools currently in the program in Ethiopia, plus four more computer suites to be built and equipped with IT, internet access and solar power in Uganda. Further student funding will be available in South Africa for both graduate and precinct students, and a new initiative for the year will see women students in Zimbabwe receive dedicated computer facilities and skills training at their university to enable safe and secure access to computing. Students at our new computer lab in Uganda CSR REPORT 2015 35 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE MATERIALITY SITA issues an annual CSR Report, with the last one published in June 2015 to coincide with our Annual General Assembly. This The internal and external material aspects included in this report report covers the corporate social responsibility activities of the have been identified following a materiality analysis conducted SITA Group from January to December 2015. It has been prepared early in 2015 and which will be continuously refined over time. in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 12 key material aspects (shown below) were selected as having Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. It is not SITA’s policy to assure importance to the organization and its stakeholders, grouped non-financial reports, and thus the report has not been externally under three overarching themes: assured. A full GRI index can be found on pages 38 and 39. • Business REPORT BOUNDARIES AND METHODOLOGY • Environment The CSR group requests and consolidates GRI reporting data and • Society information from relevant departments, individuals and systems Our internal stakeholder group included members of our within SITA, and these have been reported to the best of our Senior Leadership Team and over 700 SITA employees. External knowledge as of March 2016. feedback was gathered through sessions with our Council and All the material issues included in this report are considered Board, our Customer Advisory Board, and through additional relevant within the boundary of the SITA Group organization. This external research. was assessed by reviewing whether the impacts occur inside or We also consider the requests for information made to SITA outside the organization as per the GRI4 guidelines on defining from customers throughout the year. These have remained boundaries. The reported data includes SITAONAIR which joined consistent with the areas currently addressed in the materiality the SITA Group formally in 2015. For the most part it excludes assessment below. SITA’s subsidiaries CHAMP Cargosystems and SITA Bureau Services (SBS) and its joint venture Aviareto, except in cases which are explicitly noted, such as reporting on premises where SITA and its subsidiaries are co-located. There have been no significant changes to the organization regarding size, structure or ownership since the last report, nor to the scope or boundaries of this report. No feedback has been received as a result of previous reports or from stakeholders. Economic Environmental Business Integrity Social Employees: talent, Operational excellence Importance to Stakeholders acquisition & retention & customer satisfaction Data protection & information security Labor & working practice Working Local economic Responsible with local contribution Environmental Management Procurement communities & compliance Electronic waste Product & service innovation Reducing greenhouse gas emissions Importance to business 36 CSR REPORT 2015 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE RESTATEMENTS There are a number of restatements required that relate to the information provided in the report for the 2014 period. These are as follows: • A visualization of the number of employees receiving regular performance reviews (G4-LA11) was incorrectly drawn indicating a total of 110%. The figures accompanying the visualization were, however, correct. • The figures for the energy and emissions consumption have been recalculated to represent the following changes; at London Gate the 2014 energy consumption was an estimated figure. The 2011 energy and emissions intensity figures contained an error, with energy consumption from the Cairo office being included but not floorspace. These have been corrected and implemented in the report on overall energy intensity and emissions intensity in this report. The GRI Index reference to G4-EN15 was incorrect; the information referred to was relevant to G4-EN16 instead. • In the 2014 CSR Report we stated that 37 employees took parental leave during the year, 36 of whom were still employed one year after leave started. The scope of locations reporting this data have changed in the intervening period. The graph on page 26 corrects this information with the latest HR system data available as of March 2016. CSR REPORT 2015 37 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE GRI G4 DISCLOSURE UNGC COP LINKAGE LOCATION COMMENTARY Strategy and analysis G4-1 No COP requirement Page 3 G4-2 No COP requirement Page 18 Organizational profile G4-3 No COP requirement Page 4 G4-4 No COP requirement Page 6 See www.sita.aero/solutionsG4-5 No COP requirement Page 6 and-services/solutions G4-6 No COP requirement Pages 24-25 G4-7 No COP requirement Page 6 G4-8 No COP requirement Pages 6 Pages 4-6, 24-25, page 4 SITA Group Employment numbers do G4-9 No COP requirement Consolidated Financial Statements 2015 not vary seasonally G4-10 Principle 6: Labor Page 24-25 G4-11 Principle 3: Labor Page 27 See www.sita.aero/others/ G4-12 No COP requirement Page 16 orders-and-deliveries G4-13 No COP requirement Page 7 G4-14 No COP requirement Page 16 G4-15 No COP requirement Page 16 See www.sita.aero/about-us/ G4-16 No COP requirement Pages 8-10 working-for-thecommunity/ Identified material aspects and boundaries Page 7, page 4 SITA Group Consolidated G4-17 No COP requirement Financial Statements 2015 G4-18 No COP requirement Page 36 G4-19 No COP requirement Page 36 G4-20 No COP requirement Page 36 G4-21 No COP requirement Page 36 G4-22 No COP requirement Page 37 G4-23 No COP requirement Page 36 Stakeholder engagement G4-24 No COP requirement Pages 8-9, 36 G4-25 No COP requirement Pages 8-9, 36 G4-26 No COP requirement Pages 8-9, 36 G4-27 No COP requirement Pages 8-9, 36 Report profile G4-28 No COP requirement Page 36 G4-29 No COP requirement Page 36 G4-30 No COP requirement Page 36 See www.sita.aero/resources/ G4-31 No COP requirement Page 40 sita-social G4-32 No COP requirement Pages 38, 39 G4-33 No COP requirement Page 36 Governance See www.sita.aero/about-us/ G4-34 No COP requirement Page 10 sita-board-council-members G4-35 No COP requirement Page 10 See www.sita.aero/about-us/ G4-36 No COP requirement Page 10 sita-management 38 CSR REPORT 2015 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE GRI G4 DISCLOSURE UNGC COP LINKAGE LOCATION COMMENTARY G4-37 No COP requirement Pages 10, 36 G4-38 No COP requirement Page 10 G4-39 No COP requirement Page 10 G4-40 No COP requirement Page 10 Partial disclosure G4-42 No COP requirement Page 10 G4-45 No COP requirement Page 10 Partial disclosure G4-46 No COP requirement Page 15 G4-47 No COP requirement Pages 10, 16 G4-48 No COP requirement Page 16 G4-49 No COP requirement Page 14 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Principle 10: Anti-corruption Pages 14-15 MATERIAL ASPECTS LOCATION UNGC COP LINKAGE G4-57: Pages 14-15 Business integrity G4-58: Pages 14-15 Principle 10: Anti-corruption G4-SO4: Pages 14-15 Data protection and Page 15 No COP requirement information security Electronic waste Page 23 No COP requirement Employees: talent acquisition G4-LA9-11: Pages 27-31 Principle 6: Labor and retention G4-EN3: Page 22 G4-EN5: Page 22 Environmental management G4-EN6: Page 22 Principle 7 & 8: Environment and compliance 1 G4-EN29 G4-EN342 G4-LA1-3: Page 26 G4-LA5-7: Page 28 Labor and working practices G4-LA12: Page 10 Principle 6: Labor G4-LA13: Page 27 G4-HR4-6: Page 17, 26-27 G4-EC1: Page 11, pages 4-9, 25 SITA Group Consolidated Financial Statements 2015 Local economic contribution G4-EC3: Pages 8-9, 22-23, 25, 40-49 SITA Group Consolidated Financial Statements 2015 Principle 1: Human Rights G4-EC4: Page 11 Operational excellence and G4-EC1: Page 9 No COP requirement customer satisfaction Product and service Page 12 No COP requirement innovation G4-EN16: Page 22 Reducing greenhouse gas G4-EN18-19: Page 22 No COP requirement emissions G4-EN21: Page 23 G4-EN30: Page 23 Responsible procurement Page 16 Principle 7 & 8: Environment Working with local G4-SO1: Pages 32-35 No COP requirement communities 1. No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations were received in the reporting period. 2. No grievances about environmental impacts were filed in the reporting period. CSR REPORT 2015 39 ACTING LOCALLY, ON A GLOBAL SCALE Feedback and questions on this report are welcomed and encouraged. They can be directed to the Director, Corporate Social Responsibility at SITA via e-mail: csr@sita.aero, via the corporate website at www.sita.aero, or through our social media channels at www.sita.aero/resources/sita-social 40 CSR REPORT 2015 Geographic Offices For further information, please contact SITA by telephone or e-mail: Americas +1 770 850 4500 info.amer@ sita.aero Asia Pacific +65 6545 3711 info.apac @ sita.aero Europe +41 22 747 6111 info.euro @ sita.aero Middle East, India & Africa +961 1 637300 info.meia @ sita.aero www.sita.aero/CSR CSR@sita.aero Follow us on www.sita.aero/socialhub © SITA 2016
