MOVING FORWARD GIVING BACK 2014-2015 Sustainability Report International Institute for Learning, Inc. Think sustainably. Act differently.™ 1 Report Contents A message from our CEO 1. About IIL a. Mission and Global Presence b. Leadership & Governance c. Commitment to Inclusion and Diversity 2. About this Report a. Report Description, Chosen Reporting Elements b. Our Commitment: UN Global Compact & the GRI 3. Sustainability a. Environmental Policy b. Recycling c. GHG Mitigation/Carbon Footprint d. Virtual Conferencing 4. Stakeholder Engagement & Community Impact a. WeSpire & Sustainability Blog b. IIL Cares: City Harvest c. PMIEF d. Animal Shelter e. Weathering the Storm f. Change for Trees 5. The Future of Sustainability at IIL a. Next Steps b. 2017 Goals c. 2020 Goals d. 2030 Goals 2 Message from CEO Three key values define IIL and guide us in all that we do: Intelligence, Integrity and Innovation. We recognize that there is no “one size fits all” recipe for our clients’ success, and so we take a partner-driven philosophy in fully understanding both individual and organizational needs. From your first point of contact with us, we work with you to assess your training needs and help you choose a course or design a curriculum that meets your unique goals and learning preferences. We have a dedicated team of content and course development specialists whose purpose – and passion – is to transform learning into results. As industry leaders in customized course development, we are constantly pushing ourselves to move forward, resulting in learning solutions that translate seamlessly into the workplace and deliver more than the original intent. There is no place in our organization that this is truer than in our Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Practice Area. We are committed to being a responsible partner to our clients, and a responsible company on the world stage. We have committed to the UNGC and the 2030 Sustainable Development goals, as well as being members of the GRI and IEMA. We look forward to forming more partnerships that will help us achieve our Sustainability goals, as well as those of our clients. We must all embed Sustainability at every level of the Enterprise. IIL is now in its third decade of doing business. We pride ourselves in creating customer loyalty and building long-term relationships with our clients, which has helped us grow from one small company into a network of wholly-owned global operating companies throughout the Americas, EMEA, and Asia. New divisions have been added to the IIL family as well, providing a range of products and services that go far beyond training: • IIL Media – Full-service video production for businesses and corporations • IIL Speakers – Industry experts in Leadership, Sustainability, Project Management and Business Analysis • IIL Printing – Sustainable, custom digital printing, binding and fulfillment • IIL Publishing – Professional development-focused books for practitioners, executives and students Thank you for your interest in IIL and for reading our inaugural Sustainability report. I invite you to communicate any questions or comments to us, and to let us know how we can assist you on your journey toward a more Sustainable future. With warmest regards, E. LaVerne Johnson Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer International Institute for Learning, Inc. 3 ABOUT IIL About IIL 4 Our Mission IIL is a global leader in training, consulting, coaching and customized course development, and is proud to be the educational provider of choice for many top global companies. Three key values define IIL and guide us in all that we do: Intelligence, Integrity and Innovation. Intelligence We believe in the fundamental importance of learning and strive to continually increase our own knowledge. We do this by listening, asking questions and integrating what we learn into our everyday lives. We learn from and respect the cultures in which we work, and we know that every person’s voice is important. Integrity We place a premium value on honesty and integrity. Taking responsibility for our actions and learning from our mistakes drives us to continually improve our performance. We believe in collaboration and know that it is built on trust and mutual respect. We run our business in an ethical, sustainable and socially responsible way. Innovation We are thinkers and strategists as well as creative problem solvers. We see challenges as opportunities, striving always to do our work as efficiently and effectively as possible. We know that discovery drives innovation and are not satisfied with the status quo. We keep our finger on the pulse of the global marketplace, seeking to anticipate our customers’ needs and exceed their expectations. 5 Course Offerings Project, Program and PMI® Certification Prep Agile Project Management Scrum Portfolio Management PRINCE2®, ITIL®, AgilePM™, Business Analysis Leadership and Interpersonal Sustainability and Corporate MoP®, MSP®, M_o_R®, P3O®, Skills Social Responsibility Change Management™ and Managing Benefits™ In addition to its work in Corporate Consciousness and Sustainability, IIL’s core competencies include Project, Program and Portfolio Management, Business Analysis, Microsoft® Project and Project Server, Lean Six Sigma, PRINCE2®, ITIL®, Agile, and Leadership and Interpersonal Skills. IIL also offers training sessions to New York University as an affiliate program. IIL and NYU School of Professional Studies now offer joint programs programs for project management and business analysis professionals. The joint offerings feature both certificate programs and individual courses in Project Management, Lean Six Sigma, Microsoft® Project and Project Server, and Business Analysis. Courses are available in both a traditional classroom setting, with instruction in major cities worldwide, and a virtual classroom setting, providing the flexibility of study at home or in the office. Global Governance U.S. Team Global Leadership E. LaVerne Johnson, President and CEO Jennifer Sabine, PMP, Managing Director, IIL France George Hackett, Chief Financial Officer Cathryn Chee, PMP, Managing Director, IIL Asia Lori Milhaven, Executive Vice President Mona Rosenberg, IIL Germany Barry Schnell, Executive Vice President Maximilien Laussu, PMP, Managing Director, IIL Australia Jennifer Thompson, Director of Human Resources Vilca Damiani, PMP, MSF-AD, General Manager, IIL Brasil David Roderick, Senior Producer, IIL Media Linda Acton, Business Development Manager, IIL Canada Chris Gregg, Senior Vice President, Enterprise Solutions Inna Halminen, Managing Director, IIL Finland Leon Herszon, Senior Vice President, Global Enterprise Solutions Sophie Ma, Managing Director, IIL China Gregory Johnson, Senior Vice President, Global Learning Solutions Lauren Ling, General Manager, IIL Europe Steve Osborn, Chief Operating Officer, IIL Global Distribution Center Carrie Ng, General Manager, IIL Hong Kong Apoorva Segu, Managing Director, IIL India Toshi Hirano, General Manager, IIL Japan Allen Jung, Country Manager, IIL Korea Anna Luz, PMP, Managing Director, IIL Mexico Rodolfo Ambriz, PMP, Managing Director, IIL Dubai Cristina Garcia de la Santa, Managing Director, IIL Spain 6 IIL’s Commitment to Inclusion & Diversity We strive to have an inclusive work environment where all employees have equal access to opportunities, resources and support. We promote ongoing professional development for all of our staff so that each person may contribute equally to IIL’s success. We understand that our ability to engage, develop, motivate and advance employees from a variety of cultures, backgrounds and perspectives contributes directly to our success as a company. Our commitment to inclusion and diversity drives innovation and promotes creativity throughout IIL’s network of global companies. We believe that in order for us to best serve our clients all over the world, the diversity of the IIL global team must reflect the diversity of the communities and organizations in which we operate. We have deep experience working in different languages, cultures, countries and industries, and we seek to constantly improve our cross-cultural competency. IIL is certified as a Women’s Business Enterprise (WBE) by the Women’s Business Enterprise Council (WBENC). 7 ABOUT THIS REPORT 8 Scope of Report We are thrilled to be publishing our first bi-annual sustainability report on our activities between the years 2014 and 2015, therefore all data is to date through December, 2015. All measurements and claims in our report are accurately collected and reported, organized according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. Goals and Measurement Every year, we will strive to make our Sustainability Report even more robust and forthcoming than the previous years, as we continue to build out our corporate responsibility and sustainability initiatives at IIL. While we collected as many metrics and data as were available for this first report, we will be implementing continual data collection strategies to better streamline the reporting process for our worldwide team. a) Our Commitment: The UN Global Compact and Global Reporting Initiative 9 IIL SUPPORTS THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT As of July 2014, IIL joined the United Nations Global Compact and supports its ten principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to making the global compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the UN, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. To implement the Global Compact principles, we plan to undertake the following key practical actions: • Develop and publish an internal sustainability policy framework that reflects the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. • Focus on activities in the context of Millennium Development Goal (MDG) #7: creating literacy, awareness and sensitivity to Ensure Environmental Sustainability The 10 Principles of the UNGC Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We are excited to receive the (17) 2030 Sustainability Goals from UN Secretary General, H.E. Ban Ki-moon, and will do our best to assist our clients and our team members in embracing and reaching these critical social, environmental and economic goals. IIL is a GRI Organizational Stakeholder. We are committed to improving our economic, environmental and social performance and advancing the sustainability reporting agenda. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within two years of joining the Global Compact, and bi-annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. Reports will adhere to guidelines from UNGC and the GRI. 10 SUSTAINABILITY 11 Sustainability Learning Resources by IIL Sustainability and corporate consciousness are critical elements of organizational success and, ultimately, organizational survival. IIL believes so much in this that it supported the development of its own book on sustainability and corporate responsibility. Organizational Survival: Profitable Strategies for a Sustainable Future, written by Gregory Balestrero and Nathalie Udo, Strategic Advisors on Leadership, Sustainability & Corporate Consciousness presents a rational, research-based approach to developing a strategy to integrate sustainability into core business goals. Social responsibility. The client company will open its doors to a new stakeholder mentality, starting internally with its own labor force, the supply of future labor, the communities supporting the creation of the organization, and most importantly, the global social fabric of which we are all a part. Economic performance. The company must generate surplus money to support and maintain its investors, its employees, and its enterprise, and it must reduce costs and eliminate waste—not only in the office or on the shop floor but also throughout its supply chain, in partnership with all of its suppliers. Environmental responsibility. The company must focus on protecting the environment in all that it does throughout its value and supply chains, whether in the direct investment in products and services or in the creation of the indirect infrastructure to support the creation of value in its product and service line, including the utilization of raw materials and the removal of carbon from the atmosphere. Ethical behavior. Finally, the company will thrive on extreme transparency and accountability to a set of stakeholders far larger than the traditional list of stakeholders and customers. It will have to define its brand by ethical behavior throughout its value and supply chain, not just in the internal processes that define its direct work content. IIL has also published educational books focused on the leadership that is required to effect positive change toward organizational survival. In 2015, we started developing The Sustainability Leader in You, in which our partner presenter Fulya Kocak, Director of Sustainability for Clark Construction, provides a roadmap for individuals who wish to leverage their passion for sustainability and become leaders for positive change in their organization. Topics covered include gaining the financial knowledge that is necessary for a successful sustainability strategy, and building a culture that acts for the future from the inside out through strong communication and forming a green team of colleagues to support leadership efforts. Publication date will be the end of 2016. 12 Sustainability Consulting & Sustainability Training IIL is a global leader in training, consulting, coaching and customized course development, and is proud to be the educational provider of choice for many top global companies. IIL is proud to offer client-specific sustainability consulting and training sessions on Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability. At the present time, we embrace a 4-pronged strategy for our CSR and sustainability work: 1 OFFERINGS – BECOME A GLOBAL LEADER IN SUSTAINABILITY SOLUTIONS 2 OPERATIONS – USE THE SEEE MODEL TO INSPIRE AND TRANSFORM OTHER ORGANIZATIONS SUPPLY CHAIN – IMPLEMENT PLANS TO MEASURE AND DRAMATICALLY REDUCE IIL’S CARBON 3 FOOTPRINT COMMUNICATIONS – MODEL TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY IN OUR PROGRESS WITH 4 STAKEHOLDERS USING THE GRI G4 FRAMEWORK. IIL’s Environmental Policy As a global organization with offices in 18 countries, and clients in more than 140 countries, IIL is aware that the way we choose to operate our business has a direct impact on the environment. As part of the value that we deliver to customers, it is our policy to: • Comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations. • Conserve natural resources by reusing and recycling materials, as well as purchasing and using recycled materials whenever possible. • Promote relevant environmental initiatives by our partners, vendors and suppliers. • Support employee engagement activities that are helping to reduce our energy and water use, our environmental impact and carbon footprint. • Regularly evaluate the aspects of our operations that impact the environment. Additional actions include: • Hosting a number of virtual training sessions and conferences to offset our GHG emission. • Regularly working with our building managers to reduce energy consumption of our lighting and computing systems. • Monitoring the water usage in our restroom and kitchenette facilities for leaks and waste. IIL is an International Environmental Management Association (IEMA) corporate member. We are committed to improving environmental management practices. 13 Sustainability Consulting & Sustainability Training IIL is certified in accordance with the Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC®) Chain of Custody Standard which ensures that forest products (in our case, paper) can be traced from their final manufactured product all the way back to the well-managed forests from which the raw materials were harvested. FSC (FSC-STD-40-004 V2-1 Standard for COC Certification – October 2011, Certificate number SGSNA-COC-000354). Last audit was performed May, 2015. We have SGS supply chain management systems and documentation in place to ensure that our paper continues to be sourced from sustainable vendors, and we have clear labeling systems in place to indicate such. Recycling Policy IIL believes that our number one priority is to simply use as little resources as possible while delivering to its customers the highest value. It reduces our impact on the planet, reduces work, and reduces costs. Where materials currently being used are not recyclable, we actively seek to find replacement materials that are recyclable and made with recycled content. IIL recycles paper waste and also uses recycled products in production of its offerings to our clients. FSC (FSC-STD-40-004 V2-1 Standard for COC Certification – October 2011, Certificate number SGSNA-COC-000354). Our Practice • In our production facility we recycle 100% of waste used in printing processes including incoming paperboard packaging, internal office waste, and production tailings. Given the rising costs of waste disposal, we find this practice to be both practical and economical, given the rising costs of waste disposal. • To produce less waste during printing, we use the Xerox Digital Production Press. Our Xerox toner waste is captured and sent back to the supplier for recycling, along with consumable drums used in the printing process. • Starting in 2015 we also started to transition our hard-bound learning materials to soft-bound, as well as making more of our content available for online downloading, decreasing the need for printed materials and their shipping. • All sanitary paper products in our offices are made from recycled materials. IIL’s Carbon Footprint/GHG Emissions As part of our inaugural 2016 Sustainability Report, IIL aggregated internal data about our energy use and carbon footprint in terms of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. Our calculations included the air and ground travel mileage and energy use of our employees and trainers, as well as the emissions which are offset by the number of employees that work remotely. (We recognize that there may be a margin of error as great as 15%) We use calculations derived by the BlueSky Model. (1) Air mile = 53lbs of CO2, (1) gallon of gas = 18lbs CO2. 14 INPUT RESULTS Air Travel Miles 2014 = 2,413,037 = 64,845 tons of CO2 Air Travel Miles 2015 = 1,998,561 = 52,961 tons of CO2 Total Kwh used by IIL Globally 2014/2015 2014 = 637,760 Kwh = 318.88 tons CO2 emitted 2015 = 628,520 Kwh = 314.26 tons of CO2 emitted # of Employees telecommuting = (30) = savings of 196.2 tons of CO2 VIRTUAL CONFERENCES In addition, each year since 2003 we have held an event called International Project Management Day (IPM Day). IPM Day has been conducted virtually since 2010. Our conference interface partner, InterCall, utilizes a formula provided by Conservation International to calculate the GHG offset of a virtual conference versus a live conventional conference model. We use calculations derived by the BlueSky Model. (1) Air mile = 53lbs of CO2, (1) gallon of gas = 18lbs CO2, (1) KwH = 1 lb CO2. Carbon Footprint Offset Calculation for IPM Day (2014) 37,052 people = 467,392 tons of CO2 saved (not emitted into the atmosphere as compared to traditional conference) • Assuming 50% of the attendees drive 150 miles at 25MPG, 50% fly 950 miles, and most stay in local hotel for 2 nights. • Does not include costs to heat and light facility. (2015) 14, 481 people = 182,658 tons of CO2 saved (not emitted into the atmosphere as compared to traditional conference) • Assuming 50% drive 150 miles at 25MPG, 50% fly 950 miles, most stay in local hotel for 2 nights. • Does not include costs to heat and light facility. 15 COMMUNITY IMPACT & STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 16 At IIL it is vital that we practice what we preach and internalize the culture of sustainability that we teach our clients. Crucial to any successful initiative is communication and a spirit of teamwork. Because of this, in 2014 we chose to partner with “WeSpire,” an online engagement and knowledge sharing platform through which IIL employees and stakeholders worldwide can increase their environmental management awareness. IIL’s WeSpire platform also affords our team a chance to share their own ideas about topics such as energy efficiency, waste management, sustainable lifestyle tips, and best practices for the triple bottom line. There are always new suggested actions to take, like “donate food to a food bank,” “take a hike,” or “try a food or cosmetic product with sustainable palm oil.” We also create specialized long-running programs like our Earth Day activities pictured above. Through these initiatives, we are both talking and walking sustainability from the inside out. @IIL Sustainability Blog & Employee Blog In addition our WeSpire engagement platform, we regularly contribute sustainability content to IIL’s blog which is available to our team as well as the public. Topics include why capacity building is important to business sustainability, trends in the CSR space, and highlights of how issues like climate change are being discussed in popular culture. We also have an employee profile blog that engages employees and enables a more personal understanding of our senior staff. 17 IIL CARES At IIL, giving back to the communities where we live and work is part of our culture – part of our lifeblood. Our corporate social responsibility policy is more than just words on a page. We take those words off the page and translate them into action. We listen, we reach out and we DO. We walk our talk. Because IIL cares. Volunteer Work with City Harvest Nearly two million New Yorkers live in poverty, struggling to afford basic necessities such as rent and medical care while trying to put food on their tables. As more people are affected by the recession and high unemployment in New York City, the need for emergency food has increased dramatically. To help meet their needs, IIL regularly volunteers with City Harvest, the world’s first and New York’s only food rescue organization, to distribute thousands of pounds of fresh fruits and vegetables to families who qualify. PMI Scholarship Fund Every year in lieu of sending our clients holiday gifts we choose to donate funds to the PMI Educational Foundation (PMIEF). The mission of the PMIEF, a charitable organization, is to inspire and empower people to realize their potential, transforming their lives and their communities through the use of project management knowledge. This aligns strongly with the mission of IIL and is an opportunity for us to provide learning for everyone who seeks it, no matter what their income or circumstances may be. In 2010, IIL pledged $1M over four years, from 2011-2014. In 2015 we donated $35,000 additional dollars to PMIEF and we plan to continue our dedication and partnership with the PMIEF in the coming years. IIL CARES FOR ANIMALS Our leadership values the positive impact of a mutual bond between humans and our furry friends, so in 2015 IIL made a donation of $25,000 to the Monett Animal Shelter in Monett, Missouri. The funds are being used to expand the shelter and improve its conditions for the health of the animals, staff, and the natural environment surrounding it. As seen in the news clipping to the left, construction has begun on this project that will be a gift to the town of Monett and our neighbors. 18 “Weathering the Storm” Hurricane Sandy Support During the first weeks after Hurricane Sandy struck the East Coast on October 29, 2012, IIL Media visited a number of devastated areas, interviewing small business owners and documenting the impact on their businesses and communities. The result was IIL’s Original Series Weathering the Storm, which told compelling stories of crisis and recovery; loss and resiliency; community and connection. In 2014, on the second anniversary of Hurricane Sandy, IIL Media revisited some of those communities to see how the recovery effort is going. Their stories are a testament to the fortitude of small business owners. They were shared with our clients and the public on our website and social media channels. CHANGE FOR TREES 2015, our CEO LaVerne Johnson, launched the Change for Trees initiative in our NYC headquarters. Through this program we have collected change in a centrally located “Change for Trees” bucket that will be used for a tree planting project on the property of our offices in Monett, Missouri, followed by global tree planting activities in the long term. We will enlist the help of international tree-planting organizations like The Arbor Day Foundation. The name of this initiative has a double meaning: we are using our spare change to create lasting positive change for the planet. The trees we plant will help to offset our Carbon Footprint, meaning the greenhouse gases we emit as a company, from trainer and sales air travel to utilities and more. A sustainable future depends on every individual employee having a personal commitment to a lifestyle that incorporates sustainable practices that IIL emphasizes for its clients and stakeholders. Change for Trees serves as a daily reminder to our staff to think sustainably and act differently and to give back to our natural world that sustains us. We aim for each of our offices worldwide to take up this fun and impactful initiative, competing with one another for the most trees planted between 2016 and 2017. 19 NEXT STEPS 2017 Conservation Easement IIL owns 7 acres of pristine forest near our operational headquarters in Monett, Missouri as well as a large piece of open ranchland. By the year 2017 we will establish portions of these pieces of property as Conservation Easements, ensuring their protection from development indefinitely. This not only contributes to greenhouse gas mitigation, but is also a service to our community by creating a visual sanctuary in an increasingly commercialized landscape. have also committed to having 100% of those be soft-bound and printed on 2020recycled 100% Zero Waste Learning paper with natural dyes, limiting our impact on the environment We have while set a goal still delivering for to ourhave all of our learning materials available for customers. download, saving on the number of trees, chemicals, and materials 2030 Sustainable needed Development to produce Goals materials. We must also realize that our printed We have set a goal to … some customers will continue to prefer a printed copy of our course materials, so we have also committed to having 100% of those be soft-bound and printed on 100% recycled paper with natural inks, limiting our impact on the environment while still delivering for our customers. 2030 Sustainable Development Goals We have set a goal to become a carbon neutral company to reduce and ultimately offset 100% of our GHG emissions. This is a bold and ambitious goal, as a small to medium enterprise. IIL wants to be an example of a successful woman-owned responsible business that cares about the future of our employees, our clients, our families and stakeholders. 20 GRI REPORT GRI has published ten Sector Supplements that are compatible with the G3 and G3.1 Guidelines, and have been used by hundreds of organizations. The content of these Sector Supplements has been re-organized for use with G4, and re-titled as GRI Sector Disclosures. LINKS WITH UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT ‘TEN PRINCIPLES’, 2000 TABLE 6 UN Global Compact Principles, 2000 GRI Guidelines Sub-Category: Human Rights (all Aspects) Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the Sub-Category: Society protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • Local Communities Principle 2. Businesses should make sure they are not Sub-Category: Human Rights (all Aspects) complicit in human rights abuses G4-11 Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of Sub-Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work association and the effective recognition of the right to • Labor/Management Relations collective bargaining Sub-Category: Human Rights • Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms Sub-Category: Human Rights of forced and compulsory labour • Forced and Compulsory Labor Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of Sub-Category: Human Rights child labour • Child Labor G4-10 Sub-Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of (all Aspects) discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Sub-Category: Human Rights • Non-discrimination Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary Category: Environmental (all Aspects) approach to environmental challenges Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to Category: Environmental (all Aspects) promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development and Category: Environmental (all Aspects) diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Sub-Category: Society Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its • Anti-corruption forms, including extortion and bribery • Public Policy 21 LINKS WITH OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES, 2011 TABLE 7 OECD Guidelines GRI Guidelines Sub-Category: Human Rights (all Aspects) Sub-Category: Society IV. Human Rights • Local Communities • Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society • Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-11 Category: Economic • Economic Performance Sub-Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work (all Aspects) Sub-Category: Human Rights V. Employment and Industrial Relations • Non-discrimination • Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining • Child Labor • Forced and Compulsory Labor Sub-Category: Society • Local communities Category: Environmental (all Aspects) Sub-Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work • Occupational Health and Safety • Training and Education Sub-Category: Society VI. Environment • Local Communities • Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society • Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Sub-Category: Product Responsibility • Customer Health and Safety Sub-Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work • Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms Sub-Category: Society VII. Combating Bribery, Bribe Solicitation and Extortion • Anti-corruption • Public Policy • Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society • Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society VIII. Consumer Interests Sub-Category: Product Responsibility (all Aspects) IX. Science and Technology None Sub-Category: Society • Anti-competitive Behavior X. Competition • Compliance • Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society • Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Category: Economic • Economic Performance XI. Taxation Sub-Category: Society • Anti-competitive Behavior • Compliance 22
