Sustainability Report 2015 China Huaneng Group About This Report Reporting Period Jan. 01, 2015-Dec. 31, 2015. This report also includes additional content and information that pre-dates the stated reporting period. Reporting Cycle Our report is annually published around the month of June; This edition is the tenth report released since 2006. Main Contents This report outlines our intentions, actions and performance in 2015 on economic, environmental, and social issues; It includes information, data and typical cases from the Company’s relevant documents, statements and its grassroots-level enterprises. Compilation Conformance Declaration on Sustainable Development Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises (CASS-CSR 3.0); The Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4) from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI); ISO 26000: Guidance on Social Responsibility (2010); Persist in serving national interests and development strategies, so as to set an Guidelines on Social Responsibilities of Chinese Industrial Enterprises and Industrial example in promoting economic and social development in all respects. Associations. References to China Huaneng Group Persist in scientific development and technological innovation, so as to set an In this report, Huaneng Group , Huaneng , CHNG , the Company and we example in building a resource-conserving and environmentally-friendly society. refer to the China Huaneng Group . Online Access to the Report Persist in pursuing operational performance in a rational way, so as to set an example in promoting harmony between enterprises and society. The report is prepared and released in Chinese and English. For more information, please go to our website: http://www.chng.com.cn. Persist in relying on employees and working with the public to develop the Tel: +86-10-63228800/8811 enterprise so as to set an example in putting people first and sharing benefits. Email: hncsroffice@chng.com.cn Address: NO. 6, Fuxingmennei Street, Xicheng District, Beijing Postcode: 100031 Persist in contributing to society and benefiting the people, so as to set an example in practicing social ethics. Scan QR code to access to the introduction pages of this report on WeChat CONTENT Message from Company Leaders┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈04 Management Team┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈06 Sustainable Development Mode┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈07 Key Performance┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈08 Sustainable Development of China Huaneng Group During the Twelfth Five-Year Plan Period┈┈┈┈┈┈10 Strengthening Party Self-discipline by Adhering to the Party's Leadership┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈12 Our Commitment to Responsibility During the Thirteenth Five-Year Plan Period┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈74 01 Innovative 02 Harmonious 03 Green 04 Open 05 Shared Appendix Development Development Development Development Development About Us Technology Stabilizing Growth and Green Action to Create an Adopting the OBOR Huaneng Lighting the Breakthrough on Improving Economic Ecological Huaneng 37 Initiative 49 Island 59 Double Reheat 15 Benefits 25 Pushing International Operations 52 Contributing to Social Welfare 62 Company Profile 68 Promoting Reform and Vigorously Pursuing Strengthening Overseas Project Caring for Employees 65 Industrial Distribution 68 Innovation 18 Developing Clean Energy 40 Improvement in Income and Management 53 Joining Hands with Partners to Organization Structure 69 Promoting Management Benefit 28 Improving Clean Production 42 Deepening Open Development and Achieve a Win-win Outcome 67 Development Strategy 70 Innovation 20 Coordinating Industrial Saving Energy Resources 44 Exchange and Cooperation 54 Promoting Technological Development 29 Responsibility Management 70 Protecting Ecological Environment 46 Training International Talents 56 Innovation 22 Consolidating Foundation for Safety Management 32 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Message from the Company Leaders President Xi Jinping stresses that the implementation of the five development concepts is a profound change in our country's overall development, and leading the transformation of development modes by the transformation of development concepts and promoting development quality and benefit by the transformation of development modes are the important policy we must adopt in the long-term development of the national economic and social development, as well as the important rule for Huaneng in promoting sustainable development in the new situation. Electricity market supply-demand imbalance is We'll promote innovative development, deepen increasingly outstanding, and the market competition enterprise reform, perfect system and mechanism, continues to intensify. Construction of ecologically promote technological progress, and lead the civilized society and the resource and environment development by relying on innovation. We'll promote constraints urge the Company to further speed up coordinated development, strengthen problem-oriented restructuring and transformation and upgrading. The principle, strive to make up for the weakness, and state-owned enterprises constantly deepen the reform, promote balanced development in all aspects. We'll and comprehensively promotes power regime reform, promote green development, further implement the which have higher requirements for solving the Action Plans on Green Development, intensify lowoutstanding problems, making up for all kinds of carbon clean energy development, and continuously disadvantages, and promoting the Company's scientific enhance the level of energy conservation and production and sustainable development at the new starting point. based on environmental protection. We'll promote open development, make full use of international and domestic The Fifth Plenum of the 18th CPC Central Committee markets and resources, and promote the Company to pointed out that we must firmly establish and implement go global . We'll promote shared development, be the concepts of innovated, coordinated, green, open, responsible for the society and stakeholders, share the and shared development, in order to realize the development achievements, and create a good internal development objectives during the Thirteenth Five-Year and external environment. Plan period, solve development problems and Responsibility creates bright future. We will always Cao Peixi Huang Yongda strengthen development advantages. President Xi adhere to the mission of three-color Company , Jinping stresses that the implementation of the five seriously implement the five development concepts, President of China Huaneng Group and Vice Secretary of the CPC Huaneng Committee and development concepts is a profound change in our and grasp the development opportunity. We will Secretary of the CPC Huaneng Committee Vice President of China Huaneng Group country's overall development, and leading the strengthen the development advantages, continue to transformation of development modes by the be a stronger and better and bigger enterprise, and transformation of development concepts and promoting strengthen management and promote development. State-owned enterprises are the backbone of the national development quality and benefit by the transformation While joining hands with stakeholders for the protection Glancing at the performance of Huaneng during the Twelfth economic development, shouldering significant responsibilities of development modes are the scientific understanding of national energy security and promotion of energy Five-Year Plan Period, we deeply feel that we must in the journey of building a well-off society. As an important of the Party and nation about development rule and revolution, we will be committed to being a responsible unswervingly adhere to and strengthen the leadership of the national backbone enterprise primarily engaged in power theory, a major strategic decision to follow the trend of corporate citizen and the practitioner and promoter of Party in state-owned enterprises and keep highly consistent generation, and since the Twelfth Five-Year Plan , China the times and grasp the development opportunity, as sustainable development, and making efforts to create with the CPC Central Committee in thoughts and actions, in Huaneng Group has persevered in our objective of building an well as the important policy we must adopt in the longeconomic, social and environmental values. By doing order to promote enterprise sustainable development. We internationally competitive company focusing on better term development of the national economic and social so, we will make new and greater contributions towards must unswervingly implement the Company’s overall development quality and benefit and faster industrial development, and the important rule for Huaneng in the Chinese Dream. requirements in recent years, strive to create new advantages transformation and upgrading, as well as scientific mastering promoting sustainable development in the new and make new breakthroughs, and keep improving profitability, of the regulation of market economy and general law of situation. competitiveness and sustainability. We must also promote a corporate growth, accelerated the transformation of stronger, better and bigger Company; unswervingly promote development pattern, and promoted a stronger, better and reform and innovation, give impetus for enterprise sustainable bigger enterprise. Consequently, we have stepped forward development and unswervingly agglomerate mental efforts to In the face of the new normal, new reform requirements firmly towards building a world-class enterprise with stimulate the enthusiasm, initiative and creativity of all and new market changes, we'll earnestly implement the international competitiveness. At the end of 2015, the employees to build a world-class enterprise. guiding principles of the Eighteenth National Congress of Company's wholly-owned and holding installed capacity the Communist Party of China and the Third, Fourth and exceeded 160GW, with its comprehensive strength entering At present, China's economic development enters into a new Fifth Plenary Sessions of 18th CPC Central Committee, into the world's advanced level; achieved outstanding results in normal, with intertwined difficulties in economic growth study and implement the spirit of the important speeches the restructuring, including multiplied installed capacity of lowadjustment, restructuring and conversion of driving force. of President Xi Jinping, strive to improve profitability, carbon clean energy which was a sharp increase in the Power generation enterprises are faced with profound competitiveness and sustainable development proportion of installed gross capacity, and significantly capabilities focusing on improvement of development June, 2016 changes in the external environment. optimized power sources structure, industrial structure, and quality and benefit, adhere to the objective of building a regional layout; greatly improved the levels for saving and world-class enterprise with international competitiveness producing clean energies, with the specific coal consumption in accordance with the requirements for five-in-one and station service power consumption rate keeping industrial overall layout and four comprehensive strategic layout advanced level and emission performance of major pollutants and the enterprise’s actual condition, and try to establish 04 keeping industrial leading level; markedly enhanced its a new mechanism with focus on the improvement of core / profitability, reaching a record level; continuously strengthened competitiveness in management, clients in operations, the ability for Party building and team building, etc., which and market demands in development. 05 provided a solid foundation for healthy and harmonious development of the Company. 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Management Team Sustainable Development Mode Transformation and Upgrading · Striving to Create the Best Safety Responsibility Innovative Development Shared Development Governmen Staff t and Investors Social Groups and Clients Culture Manag Organizatio ns ement Economic Environmental Responsibility Responsibility Strategy Community Harmonious and the Partn Open Development Public ers Development Counte rparts Green Development Cao Peixi, President of CHNG and Vice (third from left in the Sun Zhiyong, Vice President of CHNG and (second from left in the Secretary of the CPC Huaneng Committee front row) Member of the CPC Huaneng Committee back row) Social Huang Yongda, Secretary of the CPC Huaneng (third from right in the Responsibility Committee and Vice President of CHNG front row) Zhao Jianming, Member of the CPC Huaneng (second from right in Committee and Discipline Inspection Group the back row) Zhang Tingke, Vice President of CHNG and (second from left in the Leader Member of the CPC Huaneng Committee front row) Building a world-class company with international competitiveness that Ye Xiangdong, Vice President of CHNG and (first from left in the focuses on power generation with coal production as its foundation, Guo Junming, Chief Accountant of CHNG and (second from right in finance as its supporting business, and technology as the driving force Member of the CPC Huaneng Committee back row) Member of the CPC Huaneng Committee the front row) while being oriented at industrial collaboration Kou Wei, Vice President of CHNG and (first from left in the (first from right in the front row) Liu Wencheng, Chief Economist of CHNG Member of the CPC Huaneng Committee back row) Liu Guoyue, Vice President of CHNG and (first from right in the Member of the CPC Huaneng Committee front row) 06 / 07 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Key Performance Environmental Responsibility Safety Responsibility Performance 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Performance Low-carbon clean energy installed Major equipment accident (times) 0 0 0 0 0 2397 2830 3504 4100 4619 capacity (10MW) Proportion of low-carbon clean 19.12 20.95 24.64 27.10 28.80 Ordinary equipment accident (times) 6 1 3 2 2 energy (%) Specific coal consumption (g/kWh) 318.68 316.52 312.89 310.00 305.78 Station service power consumption Casualty-causing accident (times) 1 1 2* 6* 3* 5.08 4.83 4.59 4.40 4.24 rate (%) Slag and ash utilization rate (%) 76.34 77.08 78.14 79.50 77.62 First class equipment failure (times) 62 52 55 40 23 Water consumption per unit power 1.28 1.25 1.22 1.15 1.04 generated (kg/kWh) Unplanned outages (times) 91 89 86 71 63 Total number of technicians 1170 2017 2202 2325 1977 (People) Number of experts from Recruitment Equipment utilization ratios (%) 94.17 94.46 94.58 94.52 94.35 6 7 8 7 7 Program of Global Experts (People) National patents (items) 45 96 83 166 306 Including: Patent for invention Economic Responsibility 22 28 29 27 64 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (items) Performance Scientific achievement award at or 9 9 20 10 21 Installed capacity (10MW) 12538 13508 14224 15149 16063 above provincial level (items) Including: Hydropower 1133 1417 1835 2045 2089 Social Responsibility Performance 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (10MW) Thermal power (10MW) 10672 11235 11356 11867 12348 Number of staff (People) 133270 136510 137779 139780 140989 Wind power (10MW) 726 848 973 1151 1508 Number of female staff (People) 31384 32636 32696 35047 33537 Solar PV (10MW) 6 8 60 85 117 Signing rate of labor contracts (%) 100 100 100 100 100 Power output (100GWh) 6046 6092 6493 6461 6146 Signing rate of collective contracts (%) 100 100 100 100 100 Coal production capacity 6817 7817 8464 8660 8330 (10 thousand tons/year) Rate of participation in the Labor Union (%) 100 100 100 100 100 Coal output (10 thousand 6406 6858 7156 7418 6515 tons/year) Rate of physical examinations (%) 100 100 100 100 100 Total assets (100 million 7532 7950 8552 9282 9719 Yuan) Donations (10,000 Yuan) 4603 7439 11425 8188 6519.5 Total revenue (100 million 2682 2798 2932 2921 2682 Number of volunteers among employees Yuan) 43500 51000 63800 71700 76500 (person-times) Tax paid (100 million Yuan) 196 261 328 332 357 (Note: means no statistics of that year, * means the data from coal business sector is Total profit (100 million included.) 61 140 236 268 306 Yuan) Performance evaluation by 08 A A A A A SASAC (Grade) / 09 Special Feature Sustainable Development of China Huaneng Group During the Twelfth Five-Year Plan Period Since the Twelfth Five-Year Plan , we have striven to build a world-class enterprise with international competitiveness, emphasized more the transformation of development mode, the improvement of development quality and benefit, and accelerated transformation and upgrading, and restructuring. We have created new development advantages and made efforts to strengthen the Company. We have achieved connotative development, and sustainable development, and thus completed the objectives of the Twelfth Five-Year Plan. Comprehensive Strength Towards Excellence Haimen Power Plant The total installed capacity reached World's largest installed capacity The Supreme performance in a number of installed capacity has reached 160GW, 1.4 indicators During the 11th five-year plan, the 160 GW times that of 2010, of which the installed capacity of hydropower, wind power, and cumulative power generation attained 3100TWh and the consolidated revenue and profit hit the Specific coal consumption Installed capacity of lowsolar power numbered 20.89GW, record high, representing 1.6 times, 1.8 times and Continued Good Business Performance decreased for five years by carbon and clean energy 15.08GW, and 1.17GW respectively. 3.5 times those of the previous five years reached respectively. The third term (2010-2012) During the term, performance was evaluated 16.94 g/kWh Dramatic growth in total assets The total assets stood at 971.9 billion yuan during the 12th Fiveby the SASAC as Grade A, and annual performance was evaluated as 46 GW Year Plan (FYP) period, an increase of 309.5 billion yuan from the 2010 level. The five-year cumulative Grade A in 2010, 2011 and 2012. Station service power consumption rate Proportion of low-carbon contribution to national tax revenue registered 147.4 billion yuan, up by 100.9% compared with the 11th The fourth term (2013-2015) Annual performance was evaluated as Grade decreased for five years by installed capacity five-year plan. A in 2013 and 2014; the first prize of Outstanding Contribution Award in 0.98 % 28.8 % Constant Structural Optimization 2014 Economic Benefits; the advanced unit of evaluation of business performance of central enterprises in 2015. Compared with 2010, the Energy Conservation and Environmental emission of pollutants achieved decrease Total assets Substantial increase in installed All-round optimization of development Protection Reaching a New Stage capacity of low-carbon clean energy network The energy bases and large-scale The emission of SO2 971.9 billion Yuan The installed capacity of clean energy has hydropower projects have achieved full Increased investment in retrofit The five-year investment in retrofit totaled 34.7 billion yuan, supporting all thermal power units to achieve emissions dropped by Accumulative power generation during the Twelfth expanded by 11% to 46.19GW over the five years. coverage of the domestic 31 provinces, with overseas installed capacity in 8 countries on 4 standards. Improved performance in energy efficiency The coal consumption for power supply declined by 16.94 g/kWh and station service power 71 %, Five-Year Plan period continents. Continued restructuring of thermal Steady development of collaborative consumption rate by 0.98%. Industry leading performance is also seen in 3100 TWh power plants Up to 73% of the thermal power units are CHP, supercritical, and industries The total assets in trust and under management and the total profits of the the coal consumption for power supply by coal-fired units and six main types of generating units. The emission of NOx dropped by ultra-supercritical units. financial business became 5.6 times and 3.3 times that of 2010 respectively. The technology Reduced total emissions In 2015, the sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and soot emissions fell by 71%, 83% and 69% from the 2010 levels 83 % business has generated profits 4.5 times that of The emission of dusts respectively, maintaining the industry leading performance. dropped by 2010. 69% Huaneng is the product of reform and development. In the development of more than 30 years, Huaneng has striven to be better and continuously innovated to develop and grow stronger. Huaneng has created many No. 1s in the development history of China power. Continuous innovation has become Huaneng's gene, flowing in the blood of Huaneng. It is a source of vitality and power for the Company to Innovative Development Stories in 2015 01 Innovative Development maintain competition and grow stronger. In 2016, Huaneng will unswervingly implement the innovative development strategy, unswervingly promote reform innovation, management innovation and technological innovation, and forge ahead and strive to move on the path of innovative development. Huaneng is the product of reform and development. In the development of more than 30 years, Huaneng has striven to be better and continuously innovated to develop and grow stronger. Huaneng has created many No. 1s in the development history of China power. Continuous innovation has become Huaneng's gene, flowing in the blood of Huaneng is the product of reform and development. During the development process of more than 30 years, Huaneng has striven to be better and continuously innovated to grow stronger. Huaneng Huaneng. It is a source of vitality and power for the Company to maintain competition and grow stronger. In 2016, has created many No. 1 in the development process of China’s power industry. Continuous Huaneng will unswervingly implement the innovative development strategy, unswervingly promote reform innovation, innovation has become Huaneng's gene, flowing in the blood of Huaneng. It is a source of vitality management innovation and technological innovation, and forge ahead and strive to move on the path of innovation and driving force for the Company to maintain competitive and grow stronger. and development. Innovative Development Stories in 2015 Technology Breakthrough on Double Patent licensing Provincial science and technology ERP coverage rate Reheat achievements There are always technological summits in the power generation industry to be climbed with dauntless 306 Items 21 Items Above 90 % courage, the double reheat technology of thermal power plants being one of them. The technology under the same steam pressure and temperature conditions enables the heat efficiency to be 2% higher than that of single reheat units, corresponding CO2 emission reduced by about 3.6%, giving prominence to energy saving and emission reduction benefits. The double reheat technology has many technical advantages, but it also has complexity and particularity which cannot be matched by other technologies. However, staff of Huaneng challenge the technology with fearless innovation. Innovative Development Stories in 2015 Brave to take on heavy responsibilities and dare to be the first No. 2 Unit of Anyuan Power Plant Since its establishment, Huaneng has always regarded national demands as its own duty, been Average coal consumption for power dedicated to scientific and technical innovation, and constantly striven for efficient and clean supply utilization of coal-fired power. Huaneng has actively explored new power generation technologies to promote innovation of China's large clean and efficient coal power technologies, and promote 272.66 g/Kwh progress in China's equipment manufacturing technologies. In 2012, we decided to build 600MW Station service power and 1000MW scale ultra-supercritical double reheat power generation units in Anyuan Power consumption rate Plant and Laiwu Power Plant, through thorough preliminary studies and scientific decision3.57 % making. With concerted efforts, we certainly will reach the heights of technology in the power industry. Be bold and innovative to tackle tough challenges As it is the first double reheat power generation unit in China without experience for reference, the most common problems in the construction of conventional thermal power plant will become No. 6 Unit of Laiwu Power Plant large problems in the construction of the double reheat unit. Each step is beset by difficulties. We Double Reheat Power Generation Unit of Anyuan Power Plant have set up a leading group for researches of the double reheat application technology, Coal consumption for designed power supply mobilized scientific research strength, established 10 research groups at different stages in combination with equipment manufacturing, commissioning and other aspects, and carried out researches on key technical issues, providing technical guarantee for the construction of the unit 266.75 g/Kwh Technology Achievements of Huaneng After nearly three years of efforts, staff of Huaneng finally gave the The completion of commissioning of No. 2 Unit (660MW) of Huaneng as well as safe and steady operation. world a satisfactory answer by getting over so many difficulties. No. 1 Unit of Anyuan Power Plant was put into operation on June 27, 2015. Anyuan Power Plant marks the completion of China's first ultraIn the face of problems and challenges, staff of Huaneng have solved the key technical issues Station service power consumption rate Key points of installation and commissioning of the unit succeeded at supercritical power plant with double reheat. The two historical on dynamic response analysis, steam temperature control and coordinated control strategy of the first time. No. 2 Unit was completed and put into operation on August 24. During the test run, the main economic and technical moments June 27 and August 24 will be written into the annals of the double reheat unit, and its environmental emission optimization during the construction and commissioning by meticulous practice and bold innovation, with perseverance and courage to 3.97 ％ indicators of the units reached the domestically leading level, with the average coal consumption for power supply of 272.66 g/Kwh and the history of China's power industry. station service power consumption rate of only 3.57%, and the emission No. 6 Unit of Huaneng Laiwu Power Plant completed 168h full-load scale new heights regardless of difficulties, thus mastered the key technology with proprietary index of the units was highly evaluated by the provincial and municipal test run on December 24, marking the commercial operation of the intellectual property rights. environmental protection departments. first 1000MW class ultra-supercritical unit with double reheat within China Huaneng Group and Shandong Province. Single The unit adopts the world's most advanced double reheat technology to reheater improve the operating efficiency mainly by increasing times of The double reheat technology HP cylinder represents the world's leading power Reheater thermodynamic cycle. According to the design data, the generating generation technology and is the IP Ultra-high efficiency of the unit is 47.95%, about 2.2% higher than the average effective way to improve thermal cylinder Superheater pressure IP LP Double Reheat cylinder cylinder cylinder efficiency of conventional 1000 MW units; efficiency of thermal power generating units. Conventional power units adopt Superheater HP cylinder the designed coal consumption for power generation of the unit is LP Double single reheat of steam, which means cylinder Boiler reheater exhaust steam from steam turbine's HP 256.16 g/Kwh, 14.1 g/Kwh lower than that of the conventional 1000 cylinder is sent into the boiler reheater MW units. The unit is currently of the highest efficiency, lowest energy High LP Feed LP for re-heating, and then sent back to the Boiler pressure Feed pump heater Condenser HP pump Condenser heater heater IP and LP cylinders of steam turbine for consumption and optimal indicators among the thermal power work. generating units. Operation of dust removal, desulfurization and Process Flow Diagram of Single Reheat Process Flow Diagram of Double Reheat The reheat technology can improve power capability of steam by improving steam dryness and enthalpy value during expansion process, and denitration environmental protection facilities is synchronized with that this is also the purpose of adding the second reheat. With the double reheat system, steam can be sent back to the single reheater and double of main works, and SO2, NOx and soot emission concentration is reheater of the boiler for re-heating after working in the ultra-high pressure cylinder and the LP cylinder. Compared with the single reheat system, the boiler with double reheat system has more technical difficulties in energy distribution and temperature control, and the steam better than the ultra-low emission limit in Shandong Province. turbine is added with one ultra-high pressure cylinder, which means there is one more set of main throttle valve and steam regulating valve With the successful construction of double reheat units, Huaneng used for coordinated control. leads again the power generation technologies through scientific and technological innovation, making new contributions to improving the 16 sustainable development level of conventional thermal power / generation. 17 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Promoting Reform and Innovation Reforming professional management Taking deepening reforms as a strong driving force for scientific development, we took overall We perfected the professional management system. We promoted reforms in such industrial fields as new energy, consideration of various reforms, improved the efficiency of resource allocation, stimulated the enterprise's coal, nuclear power, Three Gases“ (i.e. Shale Gas, Coalbed Methane and Coal Gasification), and finance, and vitality and enhanced profitability, competitiveness and sustainable development capabilities. such functional areas as fuel, materials, engineering, maintenance, marketing, science and technology, internalization, and informatization to improve professional, intensive and refinement levels of relevant industrial fields and functional areas. Strengthening the top-level design We deepened the reform of the material management system. We set up the Materials Department, strengthened the top-level design of purchasing and material management, established new centralized management system for We seriously implemented the Guidance of the CPC Central Committee and State Council on Deepening purchasing and the mechanism of two-level centralized purchasing and three-level management , and formulated the Reform of State-owned Enterprises, and planned enterprise reforms based on the strategy and the 24 systems, including the Material Management Regulations and Purchasing Supervision and Management overall situation. We strengthened the top-level design, set up the leading group and 7 special groups for Regulations. We developed functions of the material management platform, enlarged the coverage of tendering comprehensively deepening reforms, and developed the Guidance on Comprehensively Deepening agency, and intensified the adjustment and disposal of unused materials. Reforms, to be clear of reform objectives, principles and 26 concrete measures by 2020, so as to promote We promoted the reform of the marketing system. We actively built the new Megamarketing management mode, steady reforms. gave play to the dominant role of regional marketing, and carried out trial reforms of marketing in six areas. We set Blueprint of Comprehensively Deepening Reform up sales companies at the provincial level, and actively researched and entered the electricity distribution and sales field. Basic Principles Basic Requirements Main Measures Main Objectives We actively adapted to marketization and internationalization, and explored to develop mixed ownership economy in 10 secondary units such as HIPDC, HPI and Huaneng Renewables Corporation, and some grassroots-level enterprises by means of IPO and introduction of private capital and foreign capital. Grasping the reform By 2020, we will make great orientation for planning as a Improving industrial management system Strengthening achievements in deepening the reforms, whole. organizational leadership and form the equity structure of stateTo be problem-oriented to Improving the functional owned enterprises, modern enterprise 70.72％ make breakthrough at key management system 65.58％ points. systems, enterprise management modes Paying special attention to 47. 77％ 52. 01％ work implementation and operational mechanism that are Paying attention to the Deepening the reform of enterprise's actual condition three systems more in line with market economic for classified implementation. requirements, so as to further improve Actively participating in the Adhering to the laws and reform of state-owned Forming composite force the three capabilities (i.e. profitability, regulations to make solid assets of state-owned for reforms competitiveness and sustainable progress. enterprises 2014 2015 2014 2015 development capabilities). Online Centralized Purchasing Purchasing Improving the system and mechanism Rate Rate We further perfected the three-tier management system We adjusted and optimized the establishment and System reform boosting involving the headquarters, industrial companies management functions of departments of the headquarters, corporate development (regional companies), and grassroots-level enterprises. revised and perfected duties of departments, and further Huaneng Shandong Power Generation Co., Ltd. actively carried out system reform, established the fuel, maintenance, We promoted the construction of regional companies, clarified the division of responsibilities and management information and marketing subsidiaries, and promoted the intensive reform and professional management. It intensified specified establishment principle, form, responsibilities, interfaces. The functions of the Engineering Department of marketing system reform, deepened the enterprise informatization construction and online management, and continued to organization establishment, management system and Headquarters and the Engineering Department of Huaneng eliminate losses and increase profits, operate capital, and manage heating, multi-business and wind power management, implementation steps, and determined functions in a Power International Inc. have been combined, while the reform and innovation being the powerful driving force for the enterprise production, management and development, and strengthened the enterprise informatization construction. It realized a complete coverage of online management, rational manner. We further adjusted and optimized Huaneng Finance Co., Ltd. and Huaneng Tendering Co., comprehensively promoted maintenance standardization, and firstly launched and ran the fuel bidding system in the management relationship. Ltd. have been separated as secondary subsidiaries. Company. It actively promoted unified e-commerce platform construction. It strengthened the material bidding and We set up and perfected systems and mechanisms in We perfected the management relationship in Gansu, purchasing management, with the centralized bidding and purchasing rate up to 95%, reaching the evaluation objective such aspects as comprehensive budget management, Shaanxi, Qinghai, Xinjiang, Hainan, Liaoning (nuclear issued by SASAC three years ahead of schedule. performance management, funds central management, power), eastern Yunnan, upstream of the Lancang River total risk management, international development 18 and other regions, and tried out intensive reforms in new management, informatization management, and soft energy project areas to constantly improve the intensive / science research management. management ability. 19 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Promoting Management Innovation Promoting innovative practice Management Innovation We carried out soft science research on the reform policies of the country and the Company's Achievements in the Power production and operation and other key issues, and accelerated the construction of Digital Industry We fully focused on benchmarking the world-leading enterprises, deepened the construction of the Huaneng“. We deepened the innovative practice, promoted innovation achievements, and facilitated the creation of the first-class enterprise and management improvement. world's first-class enterprise, perfected construction of management system, constantly carried out management activities, and promoted management creativity and practice, so as to enhance the ◆ Strengthening innovation research We actively carried out financial centralized 19 items scientific and standardized level of management. and shared work researches, promoted research on strategic subjects in value financial National Management management ( VCF management) with the cost as the core, and explored the feasibility Promoting creation of the first-class enterprise Innovation Achievements study on the construction of shared services of large enterprise groups. We planned the construction implementation, and promoted transformation and upgrading of the financial management and management improvement. ◆ We adhered to leading overall work with the aim to create a world's first-class enterprise, established and perfected ◆ Speeding up the construction of Digital Huaneng The online management normalized and long-term working system for creating the world's first-class enterprise, vigorously promoted scientific development, and finished the objectives during the Twelfth Five-Year Plan period in creating the first-class enterprise. system was expanded to the secondary units; the ERP coverage rate reached above 90%; the e-commerce platform covered all industrial sectors. We promoted the development of 6 items financial, engineering, legal and other information systems. The Temporary Disaster ◆ We prepared the 2014 Comprehensive Analysis Report of Progress in Indicators of Creating the First-class Enterprise, Preparation Center in Beijing and Shandong was launched and operated. strengthened the tracking analysis of overall progress in creating the first-class enterprise, and strengthened comprehensive analysis and put forward improvement suggestions for problems reflected by indicators. ◆ Promoting innovation achievements We carried out review and selection ◆ We adhered to the problem-oriented principle, prepared the 2015 Plan of Key Measures for Management Improvement activities for achievements within the Company, and achieved 30 outstanding achievements. according to the analysis, paid special attention to the correction implementation, strengthened tracking inspection, and We also organized and participated in the national review of the innovation achievements. continued to promote normalization of creating the first-class enterprise and management improvement. There were 19 management achievements winning the management innovation award in the power sector, 4 achievements winning the First Chinese Power Innovation Award, and 6 We prepared the Company's Thirteenth Five-Year Planning for creating the first-class enterprise, and completed achievements winning modern innovation achievement award for national enterprise ◆ benchmarking evaluation of the Twelfth Five-Year Plan and optimization and adjustment of the indicator system for management, which ranked top in the industry. creating the first-class enterprise, etc. We strengthened the publicity and implementation of creating the first-class enterprise and management improvement of ◆ grassroots-level enterprises, carried out the special training for post management ability of the Company's team leader, and promoted creation of the first-class enterprise to go to the grassroots and to obtain actual effect. “Operation Center” of HPI Built and ERP system Perfecting rules and regulations Operated, The Integrated Platform coverage rate Improving Management We strengthened and deepened the system construction, established and improved the review and cancellation, modification, and establishment management mechanism of various rules and regulations on a regular basis, and promoted the system construction and implementation. 90 % HPI attached great importance to the informatization construction. Since 2002, HPI has completed the information system construction of the production real-time supervisory The First Power system, the e-commerce platform system, the digital dynamic management system of fuel Innovation Awards process, the human resource management system, and the integrated system of assets and finance, and successfully connected various business processes effectively, forming an integrated working platform. Taking the inspection corrections as the driving force, we comprehensively We completed systems in a 2014, compilation issued of the We deepened the work of managing enterprises according to law, developed the 5-year planning of The integrated working platform is the footstone of Operation Center , and the main body of the platform is integrated system of assets and finance (SAP)”. With the comprehensive 4 items strengthened system construction in such the Company's law affairs, promoted the Compilation of Management Systems budget management as the leading role, the system covers equipment maintenance, fields as the Company's collective decisionspecialization and professionalization of General of China Huaneng Group, prepared production and operation, material purchasing, finance management, project management making systems management, management Counsel and the construction of internal control and issued the 2015 System and fuel digitization and other businesses, enabling all daily management and operation of of bidding and tendering and capital systems, and completed internal control evaluation the company to be completed on the integrated working platform through the integration of management, and strictly implemented the Construction Plan of China Huaneng of 171 units. We strengthened internal audit business flow, capital flow, information flow and logistics, thus transforming business systems and plugged loopholes in Group, and the Notice on Review supervision, established the audit information management to the process-oriented collaborative management from departments' management. In 2015, the headquarters system, improved the audit closed-loop Results of Some Management administration by piece combination. formulated 55 new systems and revised 59 management mechanism, and carried out the Systems. systems. Rigid constraints on the system looking back for audit correction, with the implementation were significantly correction completion rate above 96%. strengthened. 20 / 21 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Promoting Scientific and Technological Innovation We attached great importance to scientific and technological innovation, paid attention to the construction of innovation system, innovation platform construction and project management, transformation and application of innovation achievements, and strove to enhance the industrialization level of science and technology, and took new steps and achieved new results in scientific and technological innovation. Scientific and technological innovation system ◆ We revised the Regulations on Science and Technology Management, the Administrative Measures for Raising and Utilization of Technology R&D Expenditures, and the Administrative Measures for Management of Science and Technology Projects, and further regulated the Integration Laboratory of Huaneng Clean Energy Technology science and technology projects and expenditure management and utilization. Research Institute ◆ We established the Incentive Measures for Single Awards of Technology Innovation Award and set Single Awards of Technology Innovation Award, and promoted scientific and technological Scientific and technological innovation achievements innovation of the grassroots-level enterprises. ◆ We organized to prepare the Medium and Long-term Science and Technology Development In 2015, we made significant achievements in the scientific and technological innovation, applied for 577 patents in the whole year (including 286 patents for invention), and was granted 306 Plan of China Huaneng Group (2015-2030). patents (including 64 patents for invention), registering year-on-year substantial increase. We received 21 provincial scientific and technological achievements awards, including China Electric ◆ We researched and prepared the Administrative Measures for Post Innovation, and further Power Technology Award. We gradually strengthened the scientific and technological innovation regulated the management of post innovation of the company staff. of the grassroots-level enterprises. Yimin Open Mine Company applied for 32 patents in 2015, and was granted 23 patents. ◆ China's first double reheat power generation unit was put into operation and achieved safe and Patent licensing reliable running; ◆ The key technologies and engineering application of 250MW class integrated gasification Platform construction and project management combined cycle (IGCC) generation won the First Prize of China Electric Power Technology Progress Award, and Tianjin IGCC pilot power plant has run in full load for over 80 consecutive days; 306 items ◆ Further strengthening the construction of the scientific and technological innovation platform ◆ Methanation catalysts for coal-to-gas projects, organic thin-film photovoltaics and other technologies with proprietary intellectual property rights have been successfully researched Verification and Test Platform for Key Materials in the National Huaneng Innovation and Entrepreneurial Talent Base and developed; 700°C Ultra Supercritical Power Generation Technology was and Phase I of Xi'an Scientific Research and ◆ The first 200KW raft wave energy generation device in China entered the assembly phase; completed and commissioned; Experimental and Industrial Base were completed and put into use; Four national science and technology projects including the ◆ Clean Energy Technology Research Institute's Rooftop Solar PV-Energy Storage Microgrid national key lab for coal-based clean energy and Operation We installed the main equipment for the GreenGen Project was awarded the most beautiful microgrid demonstration operation project. Optimization of Large Thermal Power Plants in Service and IGCC Lab for the pre-combustion CO2 capture; set up Key Technologies for Pollutant Control and Demonstration the Scientific Research Station of Academician Ma passed the acceptance; Hongqi and post-doctoral scientific research station. ◆ Pushing forward technological progress in the industry Actively promoting the establishment of annual major science and technology projects We actively undertook major national and industrial scientific and technological innovation projects. We In consideration of the major technological demands in production, construction, operation, development and organized main domestic power generation enterprises, universities and scientific research units to compile other fields, we organized scientific research projects and technological demonstration, established 23 and issue the Technology Innovation and Development Plan of the Thermal Power Industry (2015-2020) science and technology projects of the headquarters including “650°C Efficient Ultra Supercritical Unit R&D”, organized to revise the power industry standard Guideline for Maintenance of Circulating Fluidized Bed and 6 special projects in the Program of Global Expert Recruitments and a number of science and Boiler. Under the guidance of NDRC, we successfully organized Beijing CCUS International Forum, and the technology projects set up by subsidiary enterprises. 22 national science and technology support program project Operation Optimization of Large Thermal Power Plants in Service and Key Technologies for Pollutant Control and Demonstration passed the technical / acceptance by the Ministry of Science and Technology; two national science and technology projects 23 including Research on Operation Optimization Technology for IGCC Power Plants in Service have obtained the project approval. 02 Harmonious Development Harmonious development is the inevitable requirement for sustainable development. In 2015, we adhered to be centered on the improvement of the development quality and benefit, consolidated the basis of safe production, and strengthened the management of the enterprise's production and operation. We paid more attention to development quality and benefit, accelerated the adjustment and optimization of the industrial structure, and better played industrial collaboration efficiency. We also raised the level of harmonious development of the Company. Harmonious Development Stories in 2015 Stabilizing Growth and Improving Economic Benefits Under the new normal of economic development, the enterprise is faced with unprecedented challenges in production and operation, without exception to the power generation enterprises. In 2015, the national power Operating income Total profit Total assets consumption growth was declining, and newly installed capacity still maintained a higher growth rate. Following the requirements of the SASAC for steady growth, we took active measures to increase income and 268.2 30.6 971.9 reduce expenditure. We reduced cost and increased efficiency, liquidized resources and optimized allocation, billion Yuan billion Yuan billion Yuan and controlled rigorously the risks for prudent operation. We made strict assessment and strengthened incentives, and went all out to increase efficiency and stabilize growth, so as to promote the healthy and harmonious development. Harmonious Development Stories in 2015 Sparing no effort to increase production and income In 2015, power plants in northern regions strove to exploit the We strengthened recovery of electric charge, heat charge and sales heating power market, implemented heat supply reformation and revenue, timely paid to the account in full, and strove to increase both improved the heat supply market share. Enterprises in the westproduction and income. east power transmission regions strove for power compensation for According to the annual operation budget objective, we actively adapted to auxiliary services; hydropower enterprises scientifically regulated market changes, made overall plans and coordinated the relationship among excessive power by taking the advantages of high flow period and maintenance, technical renovation and power generation in emergencies, and reservoir regulation. Wind power enterprises made every endeavor planned power and transacted electricity quantity. We spared no effort to to unblock the delivery channel to minimize the loss from wind generate more power and generate more benefits, so as to ensure that market curtailment....Each unit strengthened market research and took share of power generated is in line with installed capacity and improve the measures according to different types to increase both production market share. We deepened marketing benchmarking, with the regional and income. utilization hours as the focus of benchmarking, to ensure the leading role of Under the premise of positive marginal contribution, coal overall utilization hours of the Company and the utilization hours of the units. enterprises actively explored the external market, closely coordinated with the power enterprises, and played the industrial collaboration effect. They supported the coal business sector in pulling through, insisted on looking for own problems, and Beijing Cogeneration Power Plant conducted the regional benchmarking of the coal enterprises, and they promoted coal enterprises' market competitiveness and ability to resist risks. Devoting to reducing cost and expense Vigorously reversing and reducing Losses The loss scale among small and Both increase in income and reduction of expenditure are required. We actively On the basis of implementing the first three-year loss reversing and reducing The loss scale among thermal medium-sized hydropower The loss scale among wind farms controlled the cost of all operations, with benchmarking towards advanced and plan (2013-2015), we summed up the experience, implemented the work power enterprises achieved yearenterprises achieved year-on-year achieved year-on-year decrease: on-year decrease: decrease: regional models in the planning, engineering, production, and operation stages, requirements of SASAC for reversing and reducing the losses, formulated the and realized optimal total cost for the whole process. work plan for reversing and reducing the losses in 2015-2017, pushed forward 3.0% 7.6% 5.0% We primarily controlled fuel cost. We formulated scientific coal purchasing the second three-year loss reversing and reducing work plan, and carried out Hohhot Thermal Distribution Map of Thermal Power Plants of strategy, and reasonably determined the purchasing proportion of long-term special loss control projects for small and medium-sized hydropower and Heat Power Plant North United Power Co., Ltd. Heat Jinqiao Thermal coal and spot coal, imported coal and domestic coal. We refined our imported thermal power enterprises and port and pier enterprises to minimize the Power Plant Xilin Gol Thermal Heat Power Co., Ltd. coal business, and did well in coal purchasing and price control. We bleeding point . In view of management difficulties of the coal business sector, Baotou No. 1 Heat Thermal Power Plant Huaneng Shangdu Baotou No. 2 Heat Power Generation Company strengthened benchmarking in the whole process, paid special attention to the we intensified industrial collaboration to support loss mitigation in coal business Heat Thermal Power Plant Xing'an Thermal Baotou No. 3 Heat Power Co., Ltd. benchmarking of regional standard coal purchased unit price, and strove to sector and other industries. We compressed noneffective and inefficient capacity Heat Thermal Power Plant minimize the regional fuel purchasing cost. We deepened the construction of a of the coal business sector, built up the idea of practicing austerity and strove Urat Power Plant Heat model power plant in fuel management, and improved the lean management to control the scale of losses and amount of loss within the annual budget. Linhe Thermal Power Heat Plant level in fuel procurement. In 2015 when it was under extremely difficult situation, Huaneng united as one, Dalate Power Plant Heat We cut down all unnecessary expenses and costs. We further optimized the created more income and benefit, and made outstanding achievements in S/N Unit Name 2014 2015 Current Connected Area Projected Connected Area Wuhai Thermal Total of North United Power Co., Ltd. capital structure, scientifically arranged funding needs, replaced high-interest steady growth. By the end of 2015, the thermal power enterprises, small and Heat Power Plant Jinqiao Thermal Power Plant Hohhot Thermal Power Plant Baotou No. 1 Thermal Power Plant loans, and reduced financing costs. We offset such adverse factors as reduction medium-sized hydropower enterprises, and wind farms reduced the loss scale Haibowan Thermal Heat Power Plant Baotou No. 2 Thermal Power Plant Baotou No. 3 Thermal Power Plant Urat Power Plant of the feed-in tariff and low growth rate of power generation by controlling costs by 3.0%, 7.6% and 5.0% respectively over the previous year; coal enterprises Linhe Thermal Power Plant and expenses, so as to achieve the growth targets of the Company. reduced the number of households suffering loss by 1 over the previous year. Wuhai Thermal Power Plant Huaneng Shangdu Power Generation Company Fengzhen Power Dalate Power Plant Heat Plant Xilin Gol Thermal Power Co., Ltd. Xing'an Thermal Power Co., Ltd. We achieved the annual revenue of 268.2 billion Yuan and profits of 30.6 Haibowan Thermal Power Plant Fengzhen Power Plant billion Yuan, reaching a new height. 26 / 27 Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared 2015 Sustainability Report Coordinating Industrial Development Vigorously Pursuing Improvement in Income and Benefit Exploiting the market at home and abroad Strengthening and improving power business We met the requirements for the reform of the power market, transformed the marketing Annual transacted sector idea, and made innovation in the marketing mode. We adopted differential marketing electricity quantity We unswervingly implemented the We accelerated the adjustment of We intensified low-carbon clean policies, and tailored the measures to cultivate and expand direct power supply for large national energy development power structure, reasonably controlled energy development. We actively users and other key users. strategies, centered on the promotion coal-based power development pace, developed hydropower and wind We comprehensively strengthened power demand tracking and coordination, and carried out special survey in different areas. We actively responded to the slipping of power 110.2 TWh of energy production and consumption and dynamically evaluated preliminary power, accelerated the development revolution, and adhered to structural and engineering projects according to of solar power generation, and strove consumption growth, gave full play to the advantages of efficient and clean large units, adjustment and transformation and the market demand changes. We to develop nuclear power, and consolidated and expanded the market share. Newly-added upgrading, so as to further strengthen continued to strengthened asset preferentially developed gas power heating area and improve the core power business disposal and closure of retired thermal generation. We paid close attention to We strengthened the measures to stimulate assessment of power, carried out sector and increase competitiveness. power units, and preferentially other new energy projects, and benchmarking management, mobilized companies in various regions (industries) to developed clean and efficient thermal continuously improved the low-carbon expand the market and participate in the competition, and worked actively to strive for 27.96 million square meters power and CHP projects. clean energy proportion. larger transacted electricity quantity. We regarded the cultivation and occupancy of the heating market as an important measure to exploit the market, and deepened heating management. We improved the The power source structure was more reasonable. Up to 73% of the thermal power management mechanism, standardized business processes, and strengthened the index units are CHP, supercritical, and ultra-supercritical. analysis. We also strengthened the implementation of the measures, and improved the market share of heating products. We continuously improved the proportion of low-carbon clean energy installed capacity. In 2015, we achieved transacted electricity quantity up to 110.2TWh, up 52% over the Total clean installed capacity reached 46GW, up 1.7% over the previous year, and the previous year; direct power supply to big customers achieved the year-on-year growth of installed hydropower and wind power capacity reached 20GW and 15GW respectively. 155%; comprehensive utilization hour benchmarking kept ahead; wind power utilization We terminated and suspended the preliminary work of 21 power projects in 2015. hours had a significant increase. We added another 27.96 million square meters of In 2015, we achieved a total installed capacity of 160.63GW, up 6% over the previous heating area, and increased the heat supply and income by 16.2% and 15.6% year, with the scale ranking No.1 in the world, and the comprehensive strength reaching respectively. the world's advanced level. Controlling fuel cost Strengthening management control In accordance with the principle of purchasing We strengthened budget control, and enhanced the rigid marketization, we paid attention to market research implementation of capital budget and operating budget, to ensure and forecasting, and reasonably set up fuel effective cost control and overfulfil the capital and operating purchasing strategy to control fuel price. budget targets. We carried out fuel bidding and purchasing and We strengthened the management of performance appraisal, regional benchmarking for standard coal purchasing established performance grading and benchmarking assessment unit price, introduced trans-regional high quality coal mechanism, gave full play to the guiding role of performance resources, and reduced the standard coal purchasing appraisal, and aroused the enthusiasm of the enterprises in value unit price. creation. We deepened the construction of a fuel management model power plant, perfected the construction We strengthened capital management, optimized the financing standard, and set up the refined fuel management structure, and reduced the financing cost, financial expenses and model. the cost of capital. We launched the deepened application project of the We comprehensively promoted the construction of Digital fuel information system platform to realize visualized Huaneng , analyzed and organized more than 1,800 indicators on presentation of many indicators. the digital platform, realized the online monitoring and early warning in operation, and further improved the decision-making In 2015, we further reduced the fuel purchasing cost, ability. laying a solid foundation for the steady growth. 54% thermal power plants passed the acceptance for fuel In 2015, we successfully accomplished the assessment targets management model power plant. and the task of steady growth issued by SASAC. 28 Rui’ning Shipping Company / 29 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Reasonably developing coal business sector According to the overall idea of controlling the existing capacity and making good use of incremental capacity, we actively reacted to the adverse effects of the continuously declined coal business sector, scientifically controlled the development pace of the coal business sector, and improved the ability to develop the coal business sector in a healthy manner. We strengthened the comprehensive analysis and economic argument, and shut down some unreasonable production capacity. We implemented the differential development strategy, and more strictly controlled the early development pace. To this end, we focused more on the development of high quality coal resources with good reservation, and stronger industrial synergy and market competitiveness. We conducted one-to-one coordination, adopted tailored-made policies to each plant and each mine, and implemented the industrial synergy policy, so as to reduce collaboration cost, integrate transportation resources, and give full play Jilin Wind Power to the advantages of industry synergy among coal, power and transportation business sectors. In 2015, our coal output reached 65.15 million tons, and the amount of Vigorously developing the finance business sector coal supplied to our power plants was 39.43 million tons, reaching 60%. We further improved the industrial collaboration between coal and power industry, Entrusted assets and assets We strengthened the construction of financial, capital, securities, insurance, trust, and with coal self-supply rate of 17.39%. under management in the financing leasing platforms and other finance business sectors, deepened the integration of finance business sector industry and finance, and promoted the coordinated development among the financial industry, the core industry and related industries. Exploring the development of various energy business We proactively studied the situation, strove to prevent market risks, reacted to market disruption and other challenges, and made innovation in the effective form of financial 980.5 billion Yuan sectors service entity industry. We provided support in mergers and acquisitions, funds, carbon We propelled the development of shale gas, coalbed methane, coal-to-gas Annual coal output assets development and e-commerce for the development of the entity industry. projects. In 2015, the shale gas block in Qianjiang entered a delicate phase of In 2015, entrusted assets and assets under management in the finance business sector exploration. We also completed drilling and core analysis and test, and fracturing work of dark grey coal in well 2 in Songzao block, and promoted the 65.15 million tons reached 980.5 billion Yuan, providing low-cost financing of more than 40 billion Yuan. Alltrust Property Insurance Co., Ltd. ( Alltrust Insurance ) entered the National Equities preliminary work of Zhundong coal-to-gas project in an orderly way. Exchange and Quotations and was awarded one of the Ten Best Property Insurance Companies with Value Growth in China. Product sales collaboration of the finance industry Coal-power collaboration rate was further improved. We explored the development of liquefied natural gas (LNG) trade and service industry, and promoted the preliminary work of Tianjin Lingang and other LNG terminals. We actively carried out LNG upstream resource cooperation 60 % discussions with enterprises in the United States, France, Indonesia and other countries, and signed relevant cooperation agreements. Coal self-supply rate Integration of industry and finance met demands and reduced cost We explored the development of electric vehicle charging service and other Since its establishment, Huaneng Tiancheng Financial Leasing Co., Ltd. has carried out project financing cooperation by new energy service industries, and developed new growth points. In 2015, we 17.39 % the financing leasing mode. In 2015, Shangyi Wind Power under Huaneng International Power Development Corporation started the construction of the new energy vehicle charging network (HIPDC) has a large financing gap on the purchase of project equipment such as wind turbines and tower drums. infrastructure demonstration project, and promoted the popularization and Shangyi Wind Power made innovation to the financing mode by cooperating with Tiancheng Leasing, and achieved the application of new energy vehicles. financing of 240 million Yuan, not only meeting the capital requirements for project construction, but also reducing the financial cost. In 2015, Tiancheng Leasing completed the cross-border financing of 10 billion Yuan, and provided leasing financing of 7.6 billion Yuan for the Company, better playing the role of the financing platform. 30 / 31 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Consolidating Foundation for Safety Management Strengthening basic management We earnestly implemented the new Law on Production Safety, promoted comprehensive Verification rate of the safety security control according to law, organized and revised the Regulation on Safe management system of Production and other regulations, and strengthened the implementation of main thermal power plants responsibilities for safe production. We comprehensively promoted the construction of the production safety management 71 % system, strengthened the guidance and verification of the system construction, standardized the management process, and improved the standardized level of system Verification rate of the safety construction and management. management system of large and medium-sized We established the Planning for Promoting the Power Safety Management System (2016hydropower plants Strengthening Operation Monitoring 2018), strengthened the implementation of responsibilities, idea cultivation, engineering construction, risk precontrol, hidden danger identification, safety training and behavior forming, and established the power production safety control mechanism with Huaneng characteristics. 85 % Alarm Bells and reflection We strengthened the safety management, and employed 85% certified safety engineers In 2015, we had a stable production safety situation, but failed to eradicate safety accidents effectively. On March 13, No. 2 unit as safety inspectors, basically achieving full coverage of certified safety engineers in The excellence rate of of Beijing Cogeneration Power Co., Ltd. had general equipment accidents, which revealed that our foundation for production leadership, middle level and working teams of enterprises at all levels. In 2015, we overhauled units safety was still weak and the principle of safety first, prevention-oriented, with integrated governance wasn't fully organized nearly 1,000 safety trainings of various types for 12,000 people. implemented. 79.5 % Description of the accident In 2015, we completed the safety management system verification for 71% of thermal power plants and 85% of large and medium-sized hydropower plants. We verified the At 14:47 March 13, 2015, No. 2 steam turbine to minimize accident losses. The Company investigated review of intrinsically safe systems of 8 power plants including Dandong Power Plant and generator unit of Beijing Cogeneration Power Co., Ltd. met the accident with profound reflection in accordance with Haimen Power Plant. an exploding and burning. With spreading fire and large the principle of four not let pass , analyzed causes, amount of smoke, large economic losses were caused, but learned lessons from the accident and developed no one was injured. After the accident, the power plant prevention measures, in order to prevent the recurrence took timely measures and cleared site personnel in an of similar accidents. orderly manner. Production personnel reacted to this Improving operation reliability accident calmly, and timely stopped other units, Accident reflection Improvement measures We strengthened the standardization management of We promoted the construction of the safe production equipment, deepened the reduction of equipment management information platform, actively carried out defects, and control of unplanned outage , and integrated SAP system construction for overhaul standardization, On February 26, No. 2 unit met vibration catastrophe, not Fully implement the Law on Production Safety, improve safety professional technical strength of the system. We gave and pushed forward the pilot work in a steady way. exceeding the regulated vibration limit, though. Due to the heavy responsibility system featuring the responsibility of the Party and full play to the advantages of professional technical task of production in the heating period, the power plant took government, one post with dual responsibilities, and equal strength of Xi'an Thermal Power Research Institute and temporary control measures such as strengthening tour emphasis on production and safety , and fulfill the main Clean Energy Technology Research Institute, tracked and inspection, but the long-term serious vibration of the unit reduced responsibility of enterprise to ensure production safety . analyzed major defects and unplanned outage of the the healthy level of equipment, which weakened the enterprise's units, and coordinated to solve major technical problems. judgment and handling capabilities of abnormal state. On March 1 and 2, cables at the temperature measuring points Reflect on the accident, comprehensively analyze the causes of of shaft vibration and bearing vibration of No. 4 and 5 steam the accident, further rectify the existing management and We strengthened the overhaul management of In 2015, our equipment reliability indicators maintained turbine units burnt out, and part of the monitoring signals couldn't technological problems, modify and perfect loopholes in the rules generating units, perfected the standardized overhaul the leading position in the industry. The excellence rate of be acquired in a real-time manner. Operation personnel and regulations, in order to strengthen technical exchange about system, and developed five standardized management overhauled units was 79.5%, 21 of 37 A/B level measured the vibration manually on the site, which affected production safety, and improve overall safety level of power unit implementation guidelines for power equipment overhauled coal-fired units achieved continuous some of the thermal process protections of equipment, and operation in an all-round way. reduced the fault response ability of the units. operation, maintenance, upgrading and technical operation. 19 thermal power plants and 8 hydropower After No. 2 unit had abnormal vibration, vibration and Strictly implement the 25 Important Requirements to Prevent transformation, and technical accounts, which were plants suffered from no unplanned outage in 2015. temperature monitoring devices broke down, which revealed that Major Power Generation Accidents issued by National Energy comprehensively popularized and applied. Shidongkou I No. 1 unit, Daba No. 2 unit and Dezhou No. the power plant had not paid enough attention to the production Administration, strengthen the accident prevention and checking 2 unit achieved safe operation in the whole year. Haimen safety, operators on duty were not sensitive enough to the management of main generation equipment, and strengthen the We developed PV technology supervision standards and Power Plant No. 4 unit set a record in the longest superimposed effect of multiple risks, and risk control was not monitoring of the metal technology, in order to avoid recurrence technical guidelines for operation and maintenance, and continuous safe operation among 1000 MW units in China strict enough. of similar accidents. established six industrial standards for supervision of wind (540 days). Combustible color plate ceiling adopted during the construction Strengthen the safety management during major events, further power technology. We were the first to establish the of our workshop couldn't meet the fire safety requirements, and improve the accident emergency response and handling 32 relatively complete technical supervision standard system became a fire hazard, but it hadn't been rectified in a timely mechanism, and perfect the emergency plan, in order to ensure covering the main power generation forms in the industry. / manner. security and stability. 33 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Enhancing the capacity for emergency management We thoroughly revised the Comprehensive Emergency Response Plan, revised the special emergency plans for two kinds of emergencies, i.e. accidents and natural disasters, completed the construction of production safety emergency management platform, and further improved the ability to prevent and deal with various emergencies. We strengthened emergency drills, and carried out emergency drills in power outages in the plant, geological disasters, fire, etc. We strengthened the site safety supervision, and carried out special safety supervision for heat supply, flood control, and dangerous chemicals management. We strengthened the hazard checking and governance, rectification within a time limit, and the closed-loop management. In 2015, Huaneng successfully completed the power supply task during the 70th anniversary of victory of the Anti-Japanese War and other key periods Mining Area of Huating Coal by its careful arrangement, and successfully guarded against the violent typhoon Soudelor and other hits, and thus ensuring production safety and Company stability. Overview of the Company's Production Safety from 2011 to 2015 A year-on-year decrease Improving Production Safety in Coal Mines of the mortality rate (in Index 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 million tons + coal We attached great importance to the production safety of the coal business sector, production) vigorously promoted the standardized construction of production safety management, Major equipment 0 0 0 0 0 and strengthened the hazard checking, disaster management and safety supervision accident (times) and inspection. Ordinary equipment accident (times) 6 1 3 2 2 43 % We further carried out the special campaign for “cracking down illegal and noncompliant production practices, made special inspection of mechanical and electrical Coal mines reaching the First-class equipment 62 52 55 40 23 transport of coal business sector, and made great efforts in remediation of serious national Level-I safety disasters in mines such as flood, fire, gas leakage and strong mine pressure. failure (times) standard Unplanned outages 91 89 86 71 63 (times) We carried out team building, safety training, safety quality standardization and emergency response management, to further consolidate the foundation for Equipment utilization ratios (%) 94.17 94.46 94.58 94.52 94.35 13 production safety in the coal business sector. In 2015, we didn't meet serious and major accidents, and reduced the mortality rate (in million ton+ coal production) by 43% over the previous year, a level better than the national average. 13 coal mines won the title of national level-I safety quality standard coal mines. Xizhou Coal Mine 5-Tier Safety Control System won the National Safety Technology Achievement Award. Matigou Coal Mine achieved consecutive safe production for 4,200 days. Handling of the super typhoon Soudelor Six mines of Huating Coal Company reached the national level-I safety standard On August 8, 2015, the violent typhoon Soudelor attacked Putian, Fujian. The typhoon carried a violent storm with it with maximum wind of magnitude 13 (wind velocity of 38 m/s), causing serious impacts in Fujian, Zhejiang, and Huating Coal Company organized the safe production line, fully implemented the safe production responsibility, and Jiangxi and other places. Rainfall on a single day in Fuzhou City of Fujian exceeded 300mm, breaking the record in improved the safety responsibility system featuring the responsibility of the Party and government, one post with dual the daily maximum rainfall of Typhoon Longwang in 2005. The urban area suffered from serious waterlogging and responsibilities, and equal emphasis on production and safety , to ensure that systems, supervision and management large-scale blackout or short of water supply. Faced with extreme weather, Huaneng enterprises in Zhejiang, Fujian were implemented. Adhering to regular and irregular production safety inspections, we conducted comprehensive and Jiangxi provinces initiated the typhoon and flood prevention emergency plans at first time, and successfully safety inspections and hazard control, and continuously consolidated the foundation for production safety. Six guarded against the typhoon through careful arrangement, active response and prevention and proper treatment. production mines including Huating, Shanzhai, Daliu, Matigou, Xinbai, and Jingshigou coal mines were rated as the There was no loss of life or loss of important equipment, and all generating units in the plant ran smoothly. national level-I safety quality standard coal mines in 2014. 34 / 35 03 Green Development Adhering to the green development concept, we vigorously developed clean energy, deepened the construction of energy-saving and environmentally friendly enterprises, and continuously decreased emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases. We made efforts to protect the ecological environment, continued to enhance the level of ecological civilization construction, and realized the coordination of the enterprise's sustainable development and resource conservation and environmental protection, to be a model of green development. 2015 Green Development Stories Green action to create an ecological Huaneng Investment in energy Average power supply Installed capacity of coal consumption rate conservation and In 2010, Huaneng was the first to advocate and launch the Green Development Action low-carbon clean environmental energy conversions rate Plan in domestic power industry. In addition, it announced that it would, by persevering in the transformation of the development mode, vigorously develop clean energy and improve the efficient utilization level of conventional energy, as well as make efforts to 305. 78 46.19 6.26 reduce pollutant emissions, so as to make contributions to protecting green hills and GW billion Yuan clear waters of the motherland. The plan clearly put forward the green development g/kWh goals of Huaneng in 2011-2020, and it had been implemented for five years, yielding substantial results in new energy development, energy conservation and emissions reduction, innovative demonstration project construction and other aspects. Green Development Stories in 2015 Constructing energy saving and environmental protection enterprises Huaneng continued to promote the construction of energy implemented a coal-fired power plan to build China's saving and environmental protection enterprises. From 2011 first IGCC Power Plant and the national coal-fired to 2015, the total investment in reformation of energy saving laboratory, and took firm steps in exploring power and environmental protection reached 34.7 billion Yuan, and generation technology for nearly zero emission of coalproportion of units with dust removal, de-Sox, and de-Nox fired units; formed the post-combustion CO2 capture features was 100%, 99.47% and 99.37% respectively. In technology with proprietary intellectual property rights. 2015, the emissions of SO2, NOx and dusts fell by 71%, All actions and innovations have created the beautiful 83% and 69% respectively compared with 2010. Clean level Huaneng and beautiful China. Huaneng is in action. of coal-fired units was steadily improved. Huaneng is becoming the upgrade of the power generation enterprises! Constructing innovation demonstration projects Green Development Action Plan and Huaneng Blue is We pressed ahead and made progress with the the base color of Huaneng as a SOE, the spirit of construction of technological innovation demonstration Huaneng to undertake responsibility and promote projects, and positively pushed forward the nuclear power innovation, and the practice of Huaneng in fulfilling industry relying on national major special technological responsibility for social environment! projects; Golmud PV Project Goals of the green development action plan Considerably increased Continuously decreased proportion of clean energy emission level of unit pollutant Actively developing new energy Unit: % Unit: % Huaneng accelerated the development of clean and renewable energies, vigorously 100 40 developed hydropower, wind power and solar power, and strove to develop nuclear power. Investment in reformation of energy Huaneng produces the best gas, and develops other renewable energy power projects by conservation and environment 30 80 adjusting measures to local conditions. In the hydropower sector, Xiaowan Hydropower protection during the last five years 20 60 Station, Nuozhadu Hydropower Station, Gongguoqiao Hydropower Station, Longkaikou 10 40 Hydropower Station, Zangmu Hydropower Station and other hydropower stations were 0 20 operated steadily. At the end of 2015, installed capacity of hydropower reached 20GW, with an annual increase of over 14%, and installed capacity of wind power reached 15GW, with 34.7 billion Yuan an annual increase of more than 25.5%。 2005 2010 2015 2020 2005 2010 2015 2020 Clean energy SO2 Hydroxide Soot Proportion of units with dust removal, Clean development of conventional energy sources de-Sox, and de-Nox features For the past five years, Huaneng constantly improved the clean and efficient utilization level Significantly increased of conventional energy sources, accelerated the closure of small and aging generation units energy conversion with high consumption and high emissions, optimized the development of supercritical and ultra-supercritical coal-fired units with larger capacity, higher efficiency, and lower emissions, 100 % efficiency Unit: g/kWh and vigorously developed the CHP units. We accelerated the energy saving transformation of 340 the units to reduce the energy consumption so as to generate more power and heat with less coal, and promoted the efficient and low-consumption development of the power industry. In 99.47 % 330 2015, the installed capacity of Huaneng's GW ultra-supercritical units ranked first in the 320 country, and the installed capacity of CHP and supercritical and ultra-supercritical pure condensing units accounted for more than 70% of the total thermal power. 99.37 % 310 300 2005 2010 2015 2020 Specific coal consumption 38 / 39 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Developing Clean Energy Hydropower Wind power The construction of the first offshore wind power project Hydropower projects were promoted vigorously as the started, and 2,800MW wind power project and wind power In 2015, we vigorously developed hydropower, accelerated the development of wind power, made efforts to base in Liangshan Prefecture had been included into the fifth completion and putting into operation of all units of the first develop nuclear power, strengthened the development of integrated wind and solar energy hybrid power station batch of national approved plans. large-scale hydropower project in Tibetan region Zangmu Major breakthroughs were made in wind power rankings, with project and PV base project, developed other renewable energy power generation projects by adjusting Hydropower Station. utilization hours rising from a fourth place in the past three years Yingliangbao Hydropower Station Project of Sichuan was to the second place, and the annual utilization hours reaching measures to local conditions, and accelerated the transformation and upgrading. approved. 1,768 hours, 40 hours exceeding the national average for the Competitive advantages of downstream hydropower first time. 6.98GW low-carbon and clean energy projects were approved in 2015, and 5.18GW was put into operation. In development of Yajiang were consolidated. The installed capacity of hydropower station reached The installed capacity of wind power plant reached 15,080MW, the newly commenced projects and projects put into operation, the low-carbon and clean energy accounted for 20,890MW, with an average annual growth rate of 14%. with an average annual growth rate of 25.5%, and the scale of putting into operation reaching a new height. 53% and 54% respectively. In 2015, installed capacity of our low-carbon and clean energy reached 46.19GW, accounting for 28.8%, an increase of 1.7% over the previous year. Nuclear power PV power Turpan Wind Power Project was The Company intensified efforts to develop nuclear power The first distributed PV project large-scale mountain PV project was put into operation. completed and put into operation projects. Rongcheng Shidaowan Nuclear Power Base was listed into The installed capacity of PV power plant reached 1,170MW, Huaneng Turpan Wind Power Co., Ltd. is located in class 1 generating area in Xiaocaohu area in Turpan Basin, the “Thirteenth Five-Year Plan . and the approved project size in 2015 had 96% increase Fujian Xiapu Nuclear Power Project was listed into China's managing and operating five companies: Turpan Wind Power, Shanshan Power Generation, Xihai Wind Power, compared with 2014. Mediumand Long-Term Development Plan on Nuclear Xinte Power Generation and Xinhuozhou Power Generation. Installed capacities already in operation and under Scale of PV project putting into operation reached a new height. Power. construction have reached 258MW and 199MW respectively. Preliminary feasibility study of Liaoning Pulandian Nuclear The Company adhered to the ecological development concepts of lighten the industrial structure, develop the Power Project was steadily promoted. green development patterns and optimize economic quality , and a total capacity of about 1.48 billion kWh has been accomplished by the Company since its putting into operation, saving about 451,200 tons of standard coal. Approval of Power Operation of Power Projects Installed Capacity Projects PV 11 projects 316MW 3.3% PV 1,170MW Approved power projects Hydropower 12 units 435MW 4.5% Hydropower 20,890MW 22.7393GW Thermal Thermal power 12 units 5,279MW 55% 123,480MW power (low-carbon and clean energy accounting for 23%) Wind power 50 projects 3,572MW 37.2% Wind power 15,080MW Northern Wind Power Project 40 / 41 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Improving Cleanliness Improving management system The Company promoted work for year of overall enhancement of environmental Connected to desulfurization protection , continued to strengthen top-level design of environmental protection, and denitrification units improved management mechanism, enhanced assessment system and the threetier management system of environmental protection work, and revised Regulations on Environmental Protection, Assessment and Accountability 170 unit-times Measures for Environmental Protection Work (Trial), Management Methods for Connected to dust removal Real-time Monitoring Platform of Pollutants Emission and other rules and emission concentration units regulations. Enhancing the supervision The first 1,000MW class ultra-supercritical double reheat unit of the Company 280 unit-times and Shandong Province was put into operation in Laiwu Power Plant. The Company has built a whole-process real-time pollutants monitoring platform, which basically covered the full scope, and connected to 170 units for Transformation investment desulfurization and denitrification, and more than 280 units for dust removal emission concentration; it added data index statistics of power plant pollutants, Reducing emission of major pollutants alarm function and centralized supervision of pollutant emission; and provided outThe Company continued to improve the cleanliness of thermal power plants, and in 2015, of-limit monitoring, indication and time calculation of NOx, SO2, dusts and other 6.26 billion it completed dust removal transformation of 65 units and 19,360MW; desulfurization and pollutants. capacity increase transformation of 51 units and 17,510MW; denitrification transformation Increasing the transformation investment of 51 units and 14,280MW, and a total of 20,690MW of units had completed ultra-low The Company implemented the new requirements of national ecological civilization emission transformation. construction and the State Council on Acceleration and Expansion of ultra-low Environmental Transformation Performance in 2015 emission by issuing Action Plan of Environmental Upgrading and Transformation of Coal-fired Units (2015-2020) and deploying ultra-low emission transformation of De-SOx and Item Dust removal De-NOx coal-fired units ahead of time. It issued Guiding Opinions on Emission Control, capacity-increase Upgrading and Transformation of Flue Gas Pollutants of Coal-Fired Unit to guide Unit transformed (set) 65 51 51 power generation enterprises to optimize the environmental upgrading and transformation schemes. It organized assessment on technical route of ultra-low Capacity transformed (10MW) 1,936 1,751 1,428 emission, and started to prepare technical route of wastewater treatment. It increased investment to 6.26 billion Yuan for transformation and accelerated the up-to-standard and ultra-low emission transformations, and all thermal power units of the Company met emission standards. Developing recycling economy Yangliuqing Thermal Power The Company adhered to the concepts of scientific development and circular economy Plant, protecting air of Tianjin to develop the recycling of waste, reduce the discharge of production wastes, and and Tanggu improve the utilization efficiency of resources. It advocated the development mode of Environmental transformation of Unit No. 5 of Yangliuqing Thermal Power Plant was completed in September 2015 resources products wastes renewable resources , coal ash and slag separation, fine by implementing a series of energy saving and transformation activities including efficiency improving transformation grinding, plaster processing of new building materials and other technologies to promote of desulfurization unit, ultra-low emission transformation of NOx and turbine flow transformation; various the comprehensive utilization of ash and slag and desulphurization by-products, reduce environmental indicators of Unit No. 5 had been improved to meet ultra-low emission target, and the Unit formally became one of the units with ultra-low pollutant emission. After transformation, the real-time emission concentration solid wastes discharged from thermal power plants, and achieve maximum closed of dusts, SO2 and NOx respectively met the emission requirements for gas-fired units. recycling of power plant material and resource. 42 / 43 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Saving Energy Resources Accelerating transformation and upgrading The Company aimed at comprehensive upgrading of main technical and economic indicators, and realizing two leading positions of energy consumption indices, conducted in-depth research and demonstration of integrated application of new technology of energy saving and consumption reduction, established (excellent) environment friendly and resource saving Strengthening the management of energy consumption thermal power plants in depth, comprehensively carried out benchmarking of energy consumption indicators, enhanced tackling The Company issued Action Plan of Energy Saving, Upgrading and key technical problems and management innovation, explored energy saving potential of existing units and promoted the Coal consumption of the Transformation of thermal Power Plants (2015-2020), putting forward 21 Company's power supply comprehensive upgrading and transformation of thermal power plants. categories and 146 items of energy saving and transformation measures to It promoted heating transformation, increased 67.5 million m2 It gave play to the demonstration role of projects of area for heat-supply service annually, and carried out high promote energy saving, upgrading and transformation of thermal power plants. In 2015, coal consumption rate of the Company for power supply was 305.78 305.78 g/kWh back pressure heating transformation for seven units applying new energy saving technology, and initiated air cooling unit steam heating air blower, heating steam g/kWh, decreasing by 4.23 g/kWh; auxiliary power rate was 4.24%, decreasing including Dezhou, Baoyi and Hailaer Thermal Power and extraction, full flow connecting back pressure generator by 0.17%. integrated application of energy saving and consumption and other new technologies which won three national It actively optimized energy consumption indices, and focused on index reduction technologies for 40 overhauled units, reducing coal invention patents. optimization of 1,000MW-class ultra-supercritical units; coal consumption rate for Year-on-year decline of consumption rate of more than 1.1 g/kWh and 0.5 g/kWh power supply of 1,000MW-class ultra-supercritical and 600MW subcritical air respectively. It held more than 20 technical solution demonstrations, cooling unit lead the industry for the first time, and energy consumption indices of It promoted and carried out contracted energy management, promoted in-depth optimization of generalized coal machine, gas turbine and six main models were industry-leading. and energy saving, upgrading and transformation of Linhe regenerative system, comprehensive efficiency-raising of 4.23 g/kWh No. 1 Unit and heating transformation of Tongchuan Power lignite boiler, and implemented demonstration projects of energy-saving integration of Shangdu No. 2 and Weihai Plant gained 20 million Yuan from central budgetary Thermal Power Units with the Optimal Energy Efficiency investments. No. 6. Benchmarking of Central Enterprises in the Power Industry Capacity Prize-winning Units Constructing water-saving enterprises reuse of reclaimed water, pneumatic ash conveying and The Company paid attention to discharge reduction and recycling 1,000MW Unit 1 of Jinling Power Plant other water saving technologies, and adjusted measures of production sewage, and took active measures to make full use to local conditions to build water saving power plants, and 600MW of the rainwater of surrounding area, landscape wastewater and Unit 6 of Pingliang Power Plant treated coal mine drainage water, and adopted stepwise other resources, in order to minimize the waste of water water utilization according to water quality levels, so as to Unit 2 of Ruijin Power Plant resources. It adopted air cooling technology, seawater realize effective use of water and reduce the waste of desalination, 350MW Unit 3 of Fuzhou Power Plant fresh water resources. Unit 2 of Shang'an Power Plant Station service power 300 MW Unit 3 of Yushe Power Plant consumption rate 6 units including Jinling 41 units including Jinling 4.24 % No. 1 and Pingliang No. 6 No. 1 and Fuzhou No. 3 Units wining the optimal energy Units wining Outstanding Year-on-year decline of efficiency benchmarking of Awards of the CEC Thermal Power Unit Competition SOE in the power industry account for 30%; account for 20%; 0.17 % Power plants of the 15 units Company with single unit capacity not less Units awarded as having the than 300MW optimal energy efficiency All enterprises met the around the country account “environment friendly and resource saving Imparting Technical Skills on the Site for 44%; requirements. 44 / 45 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Protecting Ecological Environment Carrying out green office The Company sharply The Company The Company purchased and Implementing ecological protection streamlined meetings and advanced information used office supplies as required, briefings and gave high priority system construction and advocated printing on both to video conferences. sides of paper. and paperless office. ◆ Strengthen reclamation of mining area. Backfilling, trees and grass planting and other methods The Company strictly controlled The Company used waterThe Company strictly regulated were adopted during open-air coal mining process to conduct ecological restoration and protection the temperature of airsaving devices, and used the use of official vehicles and for the explored, excavated and occupied land. reclaimed water as supporting controlled the purchase of conditioners and promoted the resources for production, use of energy-saving lights. vehicles and the fuel greenery and landscape. ◆ Protect biodiversity. Power generation, flood control, irrigation, sediment retaining, navigation, soil consumption of each vehicle. and water conservation, aquaculture, tourism, regional development and other requirements were comprehensively considered during construction of hydropower projects, and measures to protect the surrounding environment and biodiversity were implemented, and water and environmental protection measures for project construction were carried out, realizing harmony and unity of project development and ecological environment. ◆ Carry out fish artificial propagation and releasing. Companies near Yunnan Lancang River and Tibet Strengthening environmental protection promotion enhanced the operation and management of fish artificial propagation and releasing station and other facilities and equipment, carried out fish artificial propagation and releasing, and started It enhanced promotion and implementation of energy conservation and environmental protection concepts, tributary conservation of Yongchun River, Deqing River and other fish habitats. Xiaowan and cultivated employees' consciousness of ecological environment protection, advocated energy saving and Gongguo Bridge Hydropower Stations won the title of National Project of Ecological Civilization of low-carbon living style, actively organized employees to participate in the public activities of environmental Soil and Water Conservation . protection, and worked together to protect the environment. It actively built a communication platform between the Company and the government, the media, the public and other stakeholders to promote environmental protection ideas of the Company and give better response to related parties. Zangmu Hydropower Station took various measures to protect biodiversity. Zangmu Hydropower Station has earnestly implemented the Environmental Protection Law and adhered to simultaneous design, construction and putting into operation of environment protection with project construction“. It has invested 390 million Yuan to build the garbage incineration, sewage treatment plant, fish artificial propagation and releasing, fishways and other ecological protection facilities, and become the largest hydropower environmental protection and water conservation project at current Tibet autonomous region. Zangmu Hydropower Station carried out the first rare fish artificial propagation and releasing activity on October 15, 2015, releasing a total of 53,000 fish, in which 3,000 are oxygymnocypris stewarti fries and 50,000 are schizopygopsis younghusbandi fries. The fishway project was completed in June 2015 and generated good results. The Project played a positive role in protecting aquatic ecological environment of Yarlung Zangbo River Valley, restoring fish germplasm exchange channels at engineering sections, and easing the blocking effect of the hydropower project construction on fish. Strengthening carbon assets management The Company further strengthened unified management of carbon assets, carried out 2010-2015 carbon examination for thermal power enterprises, promoted the development of 150 voluntary emission reduction projects, completed annual carbon trading performance of 10 enterprises in the carbon trading pilot area, significantly reducing the performance costs. Its greenhouse gas data management platform took the lead in putting to commissioning in the industry. It optimized the business structure, promoted business innovation, launched the first quota and emissions Environmental Awareness Day 46 exchange business through energy cooperation with Shell China, and successfully operated the first / domestic professional carbon trading funds officially registered in CSRC. 47 04 Open Development The Company adhered to the guidance of the open development concept, implemented the going out strategy in depth, and participated in international competition and cooperation to become a world-class enterprise with international competitiveness. In 2015, the Company strengthened top-level design of international development, fully implemented international development strategy, strengthened offshore asset management and project development and construction, and deepened international cooperation to enhance the level of open development. Open Development Stories in 2015 Along with “One Belt and One Road Proportion in total Overseas Total oversea installed capacity of distribution of In Sahiwal, a city 150km from southwest of Lahore the capital of Pakistan's Punjab installed capacity power plants the Company Province, a priority project of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor the Sahiwal Thermal 10,440MW 6.5% 4 continents Plant is in full swing construction. It takes only more than 1 year for the Station to complete approval formalities and the preparatory work, and enter into the engineering 8 countries stage. Pakistanis suffering from lack of electricity have been waiting the day of commencement of the Station for years! This is one of the key projects of Huaneng generating outcomes under the background of “OBOR initiative. Open Development Stories in 2015 National Initiative Huaneng Actions One Belt and One Road (OBOR) Silk Road Economic Belt and 21stAs a bellwether of central power generation companies and one of the Century Maritime Silk Road, links the past and the future, as well as China earliest power generation enterprises of going out , In 2015, Huaneng has and the world. It is a road leading to joint development, share and win-win grown into a power generation enterprise with the largest installed capacity results, and a belt linking the China Dream and global dream. According to of the world in, having rich experience and human resources reserves in estimates, total population along “OBOR is about 4.4 billion (accounting for power plant construction, management and operation, and comprehensive 63% of global population), the economy is about USD 21 trillion (29% of the strength approaching the world's advanced level. Through over ten years of world), and exports of goods and services account for 23.9% of the world, practice of going out , Huaneng has an overall oversea installed capacity enjoying great market potential and development space. The grand of 10,440MW, accounting for 6.5% of the total installed capacity, distributed proposition “OBOR gives the ancient silk road new connotations, and in eight countries on four continents. It properly used international and stimulates Pan-Asia and Asian regional cooperation. Among more than 60 domestic resources and markets, got familiar with the operation mechanism cooperative countries of the “OBOR , most of which have poor of the competitive market, learned the advanced operation and infrastructure; many countries and regions are in long-term power shortage, management experience, trained and cultivated talents with international which significantly impeded local economic and social development and vision and global operation and management ability. improvement of people's livelihood, having great development potential in energy and power projects. Commencement of Priority Project of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor the Sahiwal Thermal Power Plant Dutch MaasStroom Power Plant Huaneng profoundly understood that the implementation of After the completion of the Project in 2017, annual energy the “OBOR initiative is not only the country' call for in-depth output is expected to reach 9TWh, which will greatly alleviate Pakistan Sahiwal Power reform and opening up, but also major development the power shortage situation in Pakistan, effectively promote Plant (under construction) Mexico La Rosita the construction of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, and opportunities for the Company's going out and goal to build Power Plant The Netherlands Moscow a internationally competitive world-class enterprise; it's further deepen bilateral strategic cooperative partnership. Rotterdam Khorgos required by national strategies and the Company to develop Duisburg Alma-Ata Comprehensive Layout Bishkek overseas market and development space. Huaneng actively Huaneng will focus on development opportunities along the Britain links the “OBOR initiative and the Company's strategy of Venice Samarkand Urumchi “OBOR and emerging countries during the “Thirteenth FiveIstanbul going out , and tries to seek for development opportunities Lanzhou along the “OBOR based on its advantages, and continuously Year Plan to properly complete project development. Athens Dushanbe Mexico Tehran Pakistan Xi'an improves the level of open development to provide active Under the specific guidance of the country in vigorously Se San Cambodia II Hydropower Station electricity support for economic and social development of (under construction) implementing the “OBOR initiative, Huaneng will implement cooperative countries. more oversea energy projects along the “OBOR to boost the Myanmar The Sahiwal Thermal Power Plant has now become one of British Rocksavage Power Plant local economy and promote open development of the the major cooperation projects between the two countries. The project has a total investment of about USD 1.8 billion for Company, creating more glories in the way to internationally Burma Shweli I Hydropower Station Cambodia the construction of 2 x 660MW supercritical coal-fired competitive world-class enterprise. Kuala Lumpur generator units. Australia Millmerran Power Plant NAIROBI Australia Jakarta 50 Singapore Singaporean Tuas Power Plant / 51 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Promoting International Development Strengthening the Project Management with Overseas Assets The Company strengthened the overseas assets management controls. It focused on asset management and operation Establish internationalization Strengthen promotion and implementation of Complete regional guidance Provide international supervision to improve operation and management level of offshore assets. Overseas Industrial Co., Ltd. and Australia development strategy of internationalization internationalization strategy project guidance Millmerran Power Plant seized the market opportunities and successfully completed the refinancing, further optimizing ◆ The Company established an ◆ It strengthened macro environment international work leading group to study ◆ It promoted and implemented ◆ It prepared and issued Regional analysis on the target countries, the debt structure and reducing the risk of financing. and prepare the Internationalization strategic ideas and principles of Guidance of Internationalization Development in line with the raised risk awareness of oversea Development Strategy, and prepare the internationalization, motivated the It guarded against risks of international development. It studied security factors related to national politics, economy, “Thirteenth Five-Year Plan for principles of efficiency first and risk projects, and understood political and affiliated enterprises, gave full play internationalization development and to advantages of various disciplines controllable, and formed a scientific economic environments and the religion, etc. to securely guide the oversea investment; issued security warnings for international security emergencies in 2015 working scheme. and reasonable regional layout of situation of electric power market of and geography to form the situation ◆ It actively explored the management internationalization development to a timely manner; improved oversea security mechanisms and contingency plans. of overall leadership and various target countries through multiple system adaptive to the stably and efficiently promote thriving points, so as to effectively channels to comprehensively assess internationalization development of the Company, and established a sound promote the internationalization internationalization development of the risk factors involved and ensure It strengthened the security management of oversea institutions and personnel, carried out security checks on resident development. the Company with focus, in order management mechanism compatible the project risks were controllable. agencies and personnel of the Company based on related national security situations, started the emergency work in a and layer. with international development. timely manner, and adopted countermeasures to effectively protect safety of oversea institutions and personnel and try to build a good public opinion environment. It promoted development and construction of oversea projects: Concepts of internationalization development • Successful closure of •Successive completion • Commencement of major river bed of Se San Overall positioning Pakistan Sahiwal Cambodia II Hydropower .• Approval of Burma and putting into operation of Mexican 1,320MW Thermal Station and successful Shweli II Hydropower ESJ Wind Power promotion of the main Station. Power Plant Project and SLP Gas Unswervingly service the Unswervingly implement the strategy Unswervingly enhance work of the dam and the Power Project state's overall strategy of internationalization development international competitiveness plant. Actively participate in the national Short-term target 155MW wind turbine units of Mexican ESJ Wind Power Project of the International Power Company were Two “OBOR“ strategy construction Two formally put into commercial operation in June 2015. The project is the first wind power project of the Main points Actively participate in regional economic Objective International Power Company, marking the major breakthrough of the Company in the field of renewable Long-term target integration led by China energy power generation. Mexican SLP Gas Power Plant (with installed capacity of 205MW) was formally put into commercial operation in August 2015. Development concepts Guarantee measures Rely on overall national strategy Strengthen overall strategic leadership Continue to improve international Improve main power business competitiveness of the Company Aim at the world first-class enterprise Accelerate talent cultivation Build a scientific and reasonable international Improve Management System industry layout Focus on better development quality and Strengthen synergistic effect benefits Strengthen soft power construction 52 / 53 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Deepening the Open Development, Exchanges and Cooperation The Company is guided by the “OBOR strategy and adheres to the resource sharing, complementary advantages, mutual benefit, cooperation and win-win principles. It has signed cooperation agreements with KEPCO and other domestic and foreign enterprises successively to form a union of foreign development and cooperation and establish a comprehensive strategic partnership. The Company has formed a go global union with It expanded contact with CNOOC, Sinopec, ENN, SINOMACH, Harbin Electric Corporation, Shanghai Guanghui, Baota, CSIC and other potential strategic Electric, Orient Group, PowerChina and other domestic partners, actively negotiated the feasibility of equity equipment manufacturing enterprises and electric cooperation, lease and joint development of LNG receiving power construction enterprises, utilized the domestic station. and international markets and resources to promote going out of domestic production capacity, equipment manufacturing and construction enterprises. It established good working relationships with ISPAT, Turkish Embassy in Beijing, Embassy of the Republic of It actively participated in multilateral cooperation Poland in Beijing, Chamber of Commerce and Industry mechanism between governments, made full use of the Brazil-China, ProMexico, Embassy of Islamic Republic of policy and financial support, tried to incorporate the Australia Millmerran Power Plant Iran in China, Embassy of the Republic of Zimbabwe in project cooperation into partnership mechanism China and other institutions to seek for cooperation between governments, raised the international opportunities in countries along the “OBOR . cooperation level, strengthened the international influence and power, and drove the international development of the Company. It signed strategic cooperation agreements with General China Huaneng signed the memorandum of cooperation with KEPCO Electric Company, ENGIE, KEPCO, Pakistan Punjab Provincial Government and other organizations. It On June 2, 2015, China Huaneng Group and Korea Electric Power Corporation respectively signed the signed cooperation agreements with energy companies Project Cooperation Memorandum, Memorandum of Understanding on Strategic Cooperation in Soft Science Research and Memorandum of Understanding on Strategic Cooperation in Technical Research in Pakistan, South Korea, Spain, France and other at the company headquarters. According to the contents of three memos, China Huaneng and KEPCO countries. will play their respective advantages, actively promote cooperation and development of domestic and foreign electric power projects, and strengthen the communication and cooperation in the enterprise strategy, management, market, science and technology, environmental protection, talent training and other aspects for cooperation and research. On November 12, 2015, foreign ministers of countries Foreign ministers of countries along the along the Lancang-Mekong River coming to China for Chinese President Xi Jinping witnessed the signing of the strategic Lancang-Mekong River visited Jinghong the First Meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the Hydropower Station. Cooperation of Lancang-Mekong River visited the cooperation memorandum between Huaneng and ENGIE resettlement in reservoir area of Huaneng Jinghong Hydropower Station and Power Plant. On November 2, 2015, Cao Peixi, President of China Huaneng Group, signed Memorandum of Understanding of Strategic Cooperation of China Huaneng Group and ENGIE with Gérard Mestrallet, chairman and CEO of Foreign ministers took a field trip accompanied by ENGIE, at Great Hall of the People witnessed by the Chinese President Xi Jinping and the French President Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Liu Zhenmin and Vice President of Francois Hollande. CHNG Zhang Tingke. During the field trip, foreign According to the Memorandum, the two sides will become strategic partners in the energy and related fields, give ministers of countries along the Lancang-Mekong full play to their respective advantages in accordance with the principles of sincerity and trustworthiness, River expressed their appreciations on Huaneng and its subordinate enterprises for their practices focusing reciprocity and mutual benefit, win-win advantages and common development, and explore and cooperate in the on scientific and technological innovation, adhering natural gas industrial chain, electric power project development and coal bed methane exploitation. The signing to green development, and fulfilling social of the MoU is of great significance of the Company to speed up the strategy of internationalization development. responsibilities. 54 / 55 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Cultivating International Talents It intensified market hiring of international talents, combined learning and post training, focused on practice of international business, and improved talent training safeguard measures to properly select, cultivate and apply international personnel. In 2015, the Company carried out the first international reserve personnel selection in accordance with the training plan for international talent team, so as to train excellent personnel for the open development. Selection Process On-site technical discussion Determination Determination of Entering the of personnel Interview on Psychological Unit international reserve training stage of for the April 14 and 16, evaluation identification personnel on June 23, internationalizati interview 2015 2015 through meetings of CHNG Party Committee on reserve talents Examinee Q&A I am now responsible for the financial management and capital In 1986, as a fresh graduate, I joined a development company, and Written examinations Determination of Issuance of Notice of Selecting operation work in Hong Kong Company, and I think the participated in the Nantong Phase I and II construction of 4x 350 MW of foreign language personnel for Review by Review by Register CHNG Internationalization questions for the written examination and the interview are and business on the written CHNG secondary units introduced from GE Group. 20 years later, I accepted the Reserve Talents on October December 6, 2014 examination unit 27, 2014 comprehensive and open-ended, facilitating full investigation of organization selection, and actively faced new challenges. I think the a person's comprehensive management and professional skills. examination questions are close to the power industry and very Considering my career planning, I hope to become a practical, as if I attended a college entrance examination again. management talent with international vision and leadership Qu Shutao, Secretary of the Party skills, and make my contribution to the internationalization of the Committee of Shidongkou No. 1 Plant Sign up 405 Interview 141 Finalist 72 Company. Most examination questions were open-ended questions about theory Qiu Haisong, Chief Accountant of a Hong Kong company and practice of the electric power market marketing at home and A total of 405 people from 124 63 people were selected as abroad, which can assess the candidate's professional organizations signed up within the 7According to rankings of the international reserve personnel, accomplishment as well as general quality. I wish the training plan at working-day sign-up period, in which written examination, the top 141 and 9 headquarters international 384 passed the qualification review attended the interview on April 14 the next stage will combine face-to-face instruction and remote commissioners were determined and entered into the written and 16, 2015. based on recommendations of education and adopt more flexible and varied forms. examination. On December 6, 2014, each department, accounting for a 360 people attended the written Li Xin, Deputy Factory Manager of total of 72 personnel. Liaocheng Thermal Power Plant examination. Internal Examiner External Examiner As one of the participants of the international talents selection of the Functional Functional Functional The selection is an innovative whole system, multi-level, multipersonnel personnel personnel CHNG, I have something to say: first, I was deeply impressed by the discipline and extensive talents selection. The whole selection 76 32 18 work is orderly organized, with scientific standard and strict leadership of the Company, who not only joined in the interview, but also served as examiners of the General Manager level; second, the Headquarters procedures, and at least obtained results in 3 aspects: first, it international organization was strict and standard, and the whole work was Headquarters commissioner selected qualified and potential reserve talents; second, it international smoothly linked by preparing examination work manual and intensive commissioner 9 indicated directions for personnel who are willing to work in the personnel training; third, the item design was scientific and elaborate 13 General field of internationalization; third, it reflected the fair and open principles of the Company in selecting talents, stimulating the through innovative use of expatriate adaptability scales and wellGeneral General manager designed examiner composition and interview questions, which Senior enthusiasm of the staff in working, entrepreneurship and manager Senior manager made the selection more targeted; fourth, though CHNG organized manager Senior 6 manager learning. the large-scale international talents selection for the first time, it had 29 300 17 manager 39 79 Wang Wenjuan, Deputy Director of relative sufficient and qualified talent reserves judging from the interview. CHNG International Department Zhang Guofeng, Deputy General Manager of CIIC Talent 56 Assessment Center / 5 7 05 Shared Development The Company has always been committed to build a friendly and integrated environment for enterprises and employees, partners and society, adhere to the multilateral cooperation, mutual benefit and win-win results and shared development. It also focuses on internal development of employees and sticks to sustainable development; establishes external cooperation platform to achieve common growth with partners; makes enthusiastic contribution to public welfare and provides positive feedback to the society. Shared Development Stories in 2015 Huaneng lighting up the Isolated World Benefits of Amount of Coverage of employees' Thank you for lighting up my world... A girl in Motuo county wrote down these words excitedly after donations labor contract technical innovation having electricity at home. Students in Motuo Middle School also couldn't help cheering up at the moment of seeing the light turn on. Lights in school have never been so bright as it is today. Badeng, 100 595 65.195 a native Moinba young fellow, also was tingling with excitement on December 1, 2015. He rode a million Yuan million Yuan motorcycle for more than 10km to reach central control room of Yarang Hydropower Station and finally % witnessed the joint commissioning and operation of the first unit and extension lines. Before the new power station putting into operation, Yadong Hydropower Station where he worked was the largest power station in Motuo, with installed capacity of only 1MW. Shared Development Stories in 2015 Voluntary actions in Motuo Moving forward at all costs Motuo, referring to lotus in Tibetan language, got the On March 25, 2013, Huaneng Tibet Branch officially took over 9 micro name from its lotus-shaped landform. It is a small county power stations and assets including Yadong Power Plant in Motuo located in borders of Nyingchi, Tibet, and the last place in County, and spent eight times as much as the average cost of power China having highway. Due to frequent geologic activities, plant in the inland of China building the power station. They completed 13 humid and rainy climate, and frequent earthquake, landslide small rural hydropower stations and solved the electricity problem for and debris flow, 1/4 of Motuo's population are lack of local inhabitants. However, the rapid growth of the electricity demand in electricity, and the place is known as Electricity Isolated production and living has become the bottleneck to restrict the County's World . In 2012, Huaneng, based on its pragmatic work, rapid economic and social development. was again authorized by NEA and Government of Tibet Yarang refers to development in the Tibetan language. Autonomous Region to support electricity construction of Huaneng Yarang Hydropower Station, 15km from the southwest of Motuo Motuo, and provide a series of services from power facilities County, was commenced on December 25, 2013 in the expectations of construction to electricity selling free of charge. all parties. The total installed capacity in the preliminary design was 5MW, In September of the same year, the preparatory office of more than 2 times of the previously built 22 micro power stations; after its Huaneng Motuo Power Company was established. The completion, the basic demand of the population without or lack of construction of Motuo attracted more than ten Huaneng electricity would be met within the “Thirteenth Five-Year Plan . Runoff employees immediately, who were bumpy all the way into water diversion design was adopted for the station, with the 1,683m Motuo. They walked across the mountain forest and diversion tunnel going through the Motuo Fault . The line extension encountered leeches and vipers. With their footprints all over project was commenced on August 28, 2014, including about 203km new Carrying the generator through the wetland the county, they finally got the real situation of power lines of 35kV, 10kV, 400V and under, and 5x35kV substations, which construction in Motuo. The hydropower stations in Motuo formed local electricity network of Motuo. An electric power dispatching were significantly influenced by dry and wet seasons. The center was established at the same time by taking the lead in realizing Keep the commitment of lighting up Motuo Population in Motuo will not suffer from lack of electricity for the winter of original hydropower equipment was poorly maintained, and regulation and control of power generation, transmission, transformation 2015! This is a solemn commitment made by Huaneng staff. I have never thought Huaneng staff would use their there was no power grid. There were safety hazards existed and distribution through the integrated intelligent control, and became the Unit 3 of the Yarang Hydropower Station was put into commercial operation at intelligence and wisdom by relying on scientific and in various links including power generation, transmission, first power generation enterprise of the country being qualified for power 23:18 on December 19, 2015 after 72h commissioning, representing technological strength and innovation to construct such an transformation, distribution, household entering and supply, and obtain the first power supply license in the country. comprehensive completion and operation of backbone power supply projects advanced power grid and power dispatching center in a maintenance. Motuo was badly in need of electricity for of Motuo supported by Huaneng, marking the history when all ethnic groups in remote and backward place like Motuo! development. Motuo getting rid of serious electricity shortage and entering into the era of Zhang Yuhui, Deputy Secretary of the CPC Motuo clean, safe, stable and reliable power supply. Full operation of the Yarang County Committee and Executive Deputy County Head Hydropower Station has provided strong energy guarantee for leaping development of economic society of Motuo County, local stability, and Highway and electricity has been connected to Motuo in reclaiming land and guarding the border areas. recent years, which significantly improved the electricity Huaneng has brought great changes to the land from 2012 to 2015. During safeguard capacity and facilitated the next stage of the three years, it transformed and upgraded the original power station and development in Motuo. maintained the rural power grid; trained the original rural electricians and Wang Bin, Director of Development and Reform constructed rural electrician team; installed smart electric meters and publicized safe, orderly, paid and legitimate electricity utilization knowledge; Commission of Motuo County constructed main power station and grid and designated residential teams to lead the population to get rich. New looks of Motuo Village and Yadong Village Letter of Thanks from National Energy Administration 60 / 61 Focus in Akqi County and Jiazha County was construction of education, medical treatment and other public infrastructure; in Hengshan County, Notice on Implementing Designated Poverty 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Alleviation of Old Revolutionary Base Areas by Central Enterprises issued by SASAC was implemented and water, road and electricity shortages were emphasized. Arrangements of Assistance to Xinjiang and Qinghai and Akqi County, Poverty Targeted Xinjiang: construction AlleviationofProjects central from 2015 to 2017 primary schools and kindergartens of Kulansarike Education, medical treatment and other public infrastructure Jianzha County, Qinghai Province: key assistance in constructing Township were emphasized, and poor college No.2 Ethnic Middle School, comprehensive experiment building, indoor constructions were emphasized in Akqi County and Jianzha County. In County, aid, Hengshan students facility Notice agriculture and on Implementing cadres training Designated Poverty sports halls and campus culture and launch of 5 projects including Alleviation were of Oldalso carried out. Revolutionary Base Areas by Central Enterprises donation of medical equipment, construction of the service center of the issued by SASAC was implemented and water, road and electricity disabled and special training, with annual capital arrangement being 5 The annual financial arranged was RMB 7 million and the total funds was RMB 21 million in three years. shortages were emphasized. million Yuan and totaling 15 million Yuan in three years. Akqi County, Xinjiang: construction of central primary schools and Hengshan County, Shaanxi Province : planning to help 30 poor kindergartens of Kulansarike Township were emphasized; poor college villages solve water and road problems, etc. within 3 years; to launch students aid, facility agriculture and cadres training were also carried “Talent Project” and “New Great Wall Caring Campaign of Povertyout. The annual financial arranged was 7 million Yuan and the total stricken Students”; annual investment of 1.1 million Yuan to help 50 Education assistance in Tongchuan Zhaojin Power Plant funds was RMB 21 million in three years. poverty-stricken college students and 100 high school students in Hengshan County finish education; and the annual capital arrangement reaches 5 million Yuan and totals 15 million Yuan in three years . Make Enthusiastic Contribution to Social Public Welfare The Company adhered to the concepts of build a power station to promote local economy while protecting local environment and bringing welfare and harmony to local people , positively responded to national policies, actively undertook the social responsibility of central Total donations enterprises, participated in social welfare undertakings, extensively carried out poverty alleviation, financial aid, education aid, volunteer service and other activities to help build a harmonious society. Total donations of all kinds in 2015 amounted to 65.195 million Yuan. 65.195 million Yuan Targeted poverty alleviation and charitable activities In 2015, in accordance with the basic strategy of accurate implementation plan for poverty alleviation and poverty eradication, the Company prepared 2015-2017 Poverty Alleviation Projects and Funding Plan, played their own advantages to alleviate poverty by power construction and improve people's livelihood, and properly completed designated poverty alleviation and support work. Solving water, road and electricity shortages in numerous counties and villages and helping population in old revolutionary base areas Hengshan County was an old revolutionary base area in north Shaanxi with severe water, road and electricity shortages due to its landform and climate. The Company carefully implemented the SASAC's deployment of designated poverty alleviation of old revolutionary base areas by central enterprises, designated working groups to visit the villages and investigate actual situations of the water, road and electricity shortages, communicated with local governments and selected 39 villages out of 110 as objects of the 2015-2017 designated poverty alleviation activity, which were remote villages with severe poverty and concentrated population. It prepared the Project Planning for Huaneng's Designated Poverty Alleviation of Old Revolutionary Base Areas (2015-2017) and Project Management Methods for Designated Poverty Alleviation Activities with Hengshan County, arranged an investment of 11.7 million Yuan in three years, built and maintained roads of 675km supported by auxiliary facilities and local labors, built more than 330 wells, irrigation stations, water stations and rainwater collecting cellars, and financed 14 villages for power facility maintenance, involving a population of 42,000, in which about 10,000 were impoverished people. By 2015, 13 village projects had been selected and the corresponding implementation plans had been prepared, 62 construction work had been orderly promoted, and 3.9 million Yuan had been invested. / 63 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Caring for Employees Education support, a crucial task for generations Safeguarding employees' rights and interests The Company strictly followed laws and regulations such as the Labor Law and Labor Signing rate of Contract Law to sign labor contracts with employees, in addition to paying social labor contracts Over the years, the Company insurance and protecting personal privacy of employees according to rules and constantly improving the management basis of labor employment. By the end of 2015, continues to participate in helping students realize dreams through we had 140,989 employees. 100 % aided construction of education Salaries and Coverage rate of Welfare infrastructure and launch of paired social insurance Paid on time and gave reasonable salary increases; improved enterprise annuity studying assistance in povertymanagement system; further strengthened and standardized employee welfare stricken areas. New countryside and youth travel education support activity of security system; persisted in equal pay for equal work; skewed the salary towards front-line workers and production team; achieved 100% in the coverage rate of 100 % Huaneng Lancang River Hydropower Co., Ltd. social insurance. Democratic Management Voluntary service to pass love Concern for the vulnerable Held the Company's second conference of Worker's Congress; promoted open democratic management of factory affairs and refined democratic management at basic Adhering to voluntary service spirit of devotion, For a long time, the Company has paid attention to level; strengthened the institutionalization of trade unions and workers' congresses. The friendship, cooperation and progress , the Company people's livelihood, focused on cultivation of the rate of workers' congresses institutionalized and trade unions established of the secondary unit reached 100%. The rates of trade unions established and workers' encouraged all staff to actively carry out volunteer responsibility fulfillment culture of assisting the congresses institutionalized of the grass-roots enterprise reached 91.5% and 88%, activities to pass the power of love to society. In disabled and saving the weak, encouraged respectively. By the end of 2015, Every employee joined the trade union. 2015, the Company launched over 2,000 volunteer employees to show concern about the weak. Annual Leave activities which involved more than 80,000 persons. Each staff enjoyed paid leaves of 5-15 days ranging with the years of service; consistently allowed maternity leave. Occupation Voluntary assistance al Health In the golden autumn, a new semester started. Organizations like Huaneng Power International, Organized regular physical examination for employees and those engaged in special Changxing Power Plant, Jinling Power Plant, Yueyang Power Plant, Dongfang Power Plant and types of work; optimized staff's physical examination plans and constantly improved Tongchuan Power Plant organized young volunteers to support students in poor poverty-stricken staff's convenience and practical effects in physical examination; the rate of staff covered areas. Over the years, all units of the Company aided reconstructions of local Hope Primary Schools under the physical examination and the rate of staff under healthy records both reached and successively donated teaching buildings, computer centers, electricity classrooms and sports 100%. teaching equipment for schools and improved students' living conditions like kitchen and toilet facilities Equaland accommodation conditions. Huaneng young volunteers come to school each year and serve as employment instructors to explain extracurricular knowledge to children and interact with them. In this way, they Adhered to the policies of equality between genders and equality of the people from support those needy children and help them build confidence and realize dreams. different minorities; protected the legitimate rights and interests of female workers and dispatched labors in accordance with relevant laws and regulations; strictly complied with national laws and regulations and signed labor contract with employees 100%; studied and formulated management method for employment of college graduates for the Alltrust Mom Health Insurance Funds Company and refined graduate recruitment conditions and procedures. Alltrust Mom Health Insurance Funds On May 10, 2015, Alltrust Insurance and China Women's Development Foundation initiated and founded Mom Health Insurance Funds and launched Mom Health Protection Campaign in society Make Mom's Room become the warm home of female employees and established a guarantee mechanism of major disease and accidental injury for poverty-stricken mothers. By the end of 2015, it joined hands with Tecent Foundation and launched such large-scale On August 20, 2015, Yimin Coal and Electricity Co., Ltd unveiled its first Mom's Room . Adhering to the principle of activities as Mother Health Protection Campaign—Offer Love for Mother , Mother Health Protection energy saving, convenience for female staff and multi-purpose room , the Mom's Room is equipped with LCD TV, Campaign—travel to Shanxi which involved more than 12,000 volunteers and raised funds of over 12 rest bed, health care books for female staff, microwave oven, drinking water machine and children's stuffed toys and million Yuan in total. So far, more than 2,000 poverty-stricken and left-behind mothers have received provides private, comfortable, convenient and safe rest area for female staff in menstrual period, pregnancy assistance. In 2015, the Company won the honorary title of the third Chinese female public welfare preparation period, pregnancy and lactation period and thus effectively safeguard the rights and interests of women model, one of the 10 major enterprises caring for women . workers and care for their lives. Over 300 female workers can enjoy the warm home . 64 / 65 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Strengthening system training Establishment of professional channel Number of technological We implemented the strategy of developing the enterprise by talent management. innovation activities We struggled to improve the comprehensive quality of our staff through special ◆ Formulated the group company's special planning of ◆ We have 13 chief experts and 16 chief technicians. We training, workshops for technology, exchanges and discussions, study of key introduced 7 experts in the Thousand Talents Program Thirteenth Five-Year Plan H & R management to subjects, coalition of school and enterprise, and skill competitions, all of which helped provide talents for our company to promote better and fast development. 1,578 optimize the talent cultivation environment. and had 146 national-level technical talents including academics and experts who have outstanding contributions and received a special grant award by the We established the Company's technical talents training system covering major Economic benefit of government. industries, areas and disciplines according to plans and steps on a gradual basis. In ◆ Organized professional title evaluation and 2015, we had constructed 16 talent training bases in total. ◆ Conducted special inspection to personnel selection We organized 9 company-level technical talents workshops, 23 skilled talents 595 million Yuan examination and assessment of technicians and senior technicians and there were 158 people winning and employment of 48 secondary units according to rectification requirements of the central government's trainings and 24 management trainings for 3,171 employees. the title of technical expert in central enterprises, special inspection tour and sent 4 inspection teams to Number of grassroots-level power sector and company, 363 obtaining the title of conduct spot checks on 16 subsidiaries including the We carried out skill competitions among employees. In 2015, we held skill enterprise competitions senior professional post and 933 winning occupational competitions on 2 production posts (centralized control watcher and coal business Huaneng Renewables Corporation. sector) and skill competitions on 3 management posts (files, finance and information). qualifications of technicians and senior technicians. And the industrial (regional) companies held 79 skill competitions for 3,031 employees. Our grassroots-level enterprises organized 1,085 competitions for 50,372 1,085 Improvement of happiness index employees. We recommended innovations, solicit 39 innovative results and 17 items to the leadership. We established 107 model worker innovation studios, conducted 1,578 technological innovation activities and created economic profits of 595.6 million Yuan. 50,372 participants ◆ In 2015, we strengthened the assistance to needy employees, insisted on launching heart-warming activities, actively served as a matchmaker for unmarried employees, carried out rich and colorful cultural activities, paid Yao Gengzheng, from Jiacha Preparatory Office of Huaneng Tibet Company, and Fan Zhiquan, attention to balance between employees' work and life and constantly improved their happiness. from Wulashan Power Plant of Huaneng Northern Company, were awarded the first China Power Model . Liu Zhenhua, IGCC, Wang Fujing, from Baiyanghe Power Plant of Huaneng Shandong ◆ In 2015, financial and material support worthy of 18.996 million Yuan was distributed to help 5,341 needy Company, Xiang Bing, from East Hailar Power Plant of Huaneng Hulunbuir Company and Ren employees. Paid visits to 6,797 needy employees during the New Year's Day and the Spring Festival. Yongqiang, from Clean Energy Technology Research Institute, won the award nomination. In addition, Zhou Tao, from Dalate Power Plant of Huaneng Northern Company, Xu ◆ We constructed worker activity venues and libraries, and organized various cultural and sports activities, and Hai, from Linyi Power Plant of Huaneng Shandong Company and He Maoqun, from established 782 venues for tennis, badminton, table tennis, photography and painting and calligraphy associations. Zhongtai Power Plant of Huaneng Shandong Company were awarded National Model Workers . From a country boy to Expert Zhou Join Hands with Partners to Achieve a Win-win Outcome From 1996 to 2015, Zhou Tao has been working hard in Dalate Power Plant for 20 years and become one of the first batch of centralized control operators and thus been dubbed as Expert Improving responsible procurement system Building Strategic Cooperation Platforms Zhou by employees. He led the team to eliminate potential dangers for many times and the unit was awarded national In a major push to improve procurement We have further improved our industrial/regional reliable 600MW golden unit . In April, 2013, the national energy and chemical industry system Zhou Tao Model Worker management regulations, we strengthened the layout and expand regional energy cooperation. Innovation Studio was established and it had cultivated 7 bidding management, implemented the While proactively building platforms for technicians including technical experts in power industry, youth accountability system in offers and hiring and strictly communication and cooperation with local post expert of central enterprises and technical experts of the autonomous region. In April, 2015, Zhou Tao, who was once a regulated offer letters. We also completed the governments and enterprises, we signed cooperation country boy, stood on the podium for national model workers. functional development of material management agreements with Hebei Province, Shanxi Province, platform and strengthened the dynamic Shenhua Group and Power Construction Corporation management of supplier and real-time monitoring to China to promote mutually beneficial cooperation and build a responsible industry chain. In 2015, the common development. 66 amount of material purchase through e-commerce / platform increased by 22.02% over the previous 67 year and the proportion of centralized procurement of materials rose by 14%. 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Organization structure APPENDIXES Departments of the Headquarters General Administration Department Finance Department Human Resources Department News Center Department of Capital Operations and Equity Management Office of Retiree Affairs About Us Department of Planning and Development Department of Safety Supervision and Production Discipline Inspection and Supervision Department Department of Budget and General Planning Department of Science and Technology and Environmental Auditing Department Protection Department of Corporate Governance and Legal Affairs Engineering Department ( Engineering Department of jointDepartment of Party Construction stock company) Sales & Marketing Department (Sales & Marketing Materials Department Labor Union Working Committee Company profile Department of joint-stock company) Fuel Department (Fuel Department of jointstock company) International Cooperation Department China Huaneng Group is a key state-owned enterprise approved by the State Council. The Company is engaged in the following businesses: development, investment, construction, Business Departments and operation and management of power sources; production and sale of power (heat); Professional Office development, investment, construction, production and sale of business and products Power Development Business Department Shale Gas Development and Utilization Office Coal Business Department related to finance, coal, transportation, renewable energy and environmental protection; Coal Chemical Management Office Nuclear Power Business Department industrial investment, operation and management. During its years of development history, CHNG has provided rich experience in the reform, Units Directly under China Huaneng Group development and technological innovation for the power industry and has played an CPC China Huaneng Group Party School Technical Economics Research Institute Talent Base Construction Office exemplary role in improving enterprise management and increasing economic benefit for (Education and Training Center) IT Center (Talent Base Construction Management Center) power enterprises. Also, the Company made a great contribution in meeting power demand for economic and social growth, as well as in maintaining and adding value to state-owned assets. Industrial Companies Huaneng International Power Development Huaneng coal business sector Co., Ltd. Huaneng Properties Co., Ltd. CHNG is committed to building itself into a world-class enterprise with international Corporation (HIPDC) competitiveness. By the end of 2015, the Company had total installed capacity of GreenGen Co., Ltd. China Huaneng Group Fuel Co., Ltd. China Huaneng Group Hong Kong Co., Ltd. 160.63GW, with assets distributed all over China and overseas, making it installed Huaneng Overseas Enterprises Management and Service Huaneng Power International Inc. (HPI) Huaneng Capital Services Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. capacity rank No.1 in the world. The Company is also engaged in sectors of coal, finance, Huaneng Renewables Corporation China Huaneng Finance Co., Ltd. Xi'an Thermal Power Research Institute Co., Ltd. technology R&D and transportation, etc. that support the core business of power and Huaneng Nuclear Power Development Co., China Huaneng Group Clean Energy Technology these sectors show gradual development and the industrial collaboration is further China Huaneng Group Technology Innovation Center Ltd. Research Institute improved. The Company was the first Chinese power producer to be enlisted in the rank of Huaneng Energy and Transportation (Holding) Huaneng Integrated Industries Company Co., Ltd. Fortune Global 500 in 2009, ranking 224th in 2015. Regional Branch Companies Industrial distribution China Huaneng Group North China Branch China Huaneng Group Jiangsu Branch China Huaneng Group Chongqing Branch China Huaneng Group Northeast China China Huaneng Group Zhejiang Branch China Huaneng Group Yunnan Branch Branch China Huaneng Group East China Branch China Huaneng Group Anhui Branch China Huaneng Group Qinghai Branch coal Financial China Huaneng Group Central China Branch China Huaneng Group Fujian Branch China Huaneng Group Tibet Branch business Industry China Huaneng Group Guangxi Branch (Preparatory sector China Huaneng Group South China Branch China Huaneng Group Jiangxi Branch Office) China Huaneng Group Northwest China China Huaneng Group Guizhou Branch (Preparatory Power Industry We boasted relatively complete Branch China Huaneng Group Henan Branch Office) financial platforms in finance, capital, China Huaneng Group Hebei Branch China Huaneng Group Hunan Branch Our annual production capacity was security, insurance, trust and finance 83.30 million tons in 2015, and our coal lease. In 2015, entrusted assets and China Huaneng Group Shanxi Branch China Huaneng Group Hainan Branch output was 65.15 million tons. In 2015, we had whollyassets under management in the finance industry reached 980.5 billion Regional Subsidiaries owned and holding power Yuan. plants with 160.63GW of North United Power Co., Ltd. Huaneng Jilin Power Generation Co., Ltd. Huaneng Qinghai Power Generation Co., Ltd. installed capacity, of Huaneng Heilongjiang Power Generation Co., Huaneng Tibet Yarlung Zangbo River Hydroelectric Transportation Technology Huaneng Lancang River Hydropower Co., Ltd. which, there were thermal Ltd. Development Investment Co., Ltd. Industry Industry Huaneng Hulunbuir Energy Development Co., power of 123.48GW, Huaneng Shaanxi Power Generation Co., Ltd. Huaneng Xinjiang Energy Development Co., Ltd. Ltd. hydropower of 20.89GW Huaneng Shandong Power Generation Co., Huaneng Ningxia Energy Co., Ltd. Ltd. Ports that we wholly own or control had and wind power of Our principal scientific research and Huaneng Sichuan Hydropower Co., Ltd. Huaneng Gansu Energy Development Co., Ltd. a handling capacity of 54.62 million tons 15.08GW. development system consists of seven per year, and our shipping fleets had a 。 national key laboratories (R&D Units Directly Managed by China Huaneng Group shipping capacity of 4.227 million DWT. centers), two scientific research bases Huaneng Shandong Shidaowan Nuclear Huaneng Hainan Industrial Co., Ltd. and several company-level laboratories. Power Co., Ltd. Huaneng Shidaowan Nuclear Power Huaneng Tendering Co., Ltd. Development Co., Ltd. 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Red Green Blue Corporate strategy is the essence of the Company and the symbolizes the coordinated is the basic color of the logo. It implies development and harmonious progress foundation for our mission. The that we will develop our business between human and natural Transforming and upgrading Strategy construction of a Red company is our through keeping pace with times, environment. The construction of a fundamental attitude and spirit, the striving for innovation, expanding Focus on optimizing and adjusting the power structure, industrial structure and regional distribution. Green company manifests our concentrated embodiment of our efforts internationally and absorbing the Concentrate on the development of new energy, highly-efficient and clean use of conventional energy humanistic values and scientific attitude to the national economic development, essence of all advanced technologies and energy service. Eliminate backward production capacity and build a synergistic and efficient to advocate science, respect talents, industrial system. social progress and people's higher and cultures in the world, and focus on technology, protect living standards, as well as the reflection Technology innovation strategy environment and promote the embodies CHNG's ability and ambition of our responsibilities. to coexist with various enterprises. Persist in supporting the core business while being geared to the needs of production, the leading edge sustainable development of society. and industrialization; improve technological innovation system and mechanism; enhance the capacity of independent innovation and research on international cutting-edge technology to lead technological CSR planning (2016-2018) progress of the power industry. Green development strategy Strengthen social Promote integration of Deepen the construction of Promote the results in Intensify our efforts in the development of low-carbon and clean energy and reduce emissions of responsibility management social responsibility fulfillment of social harmonious enterprises greenhouse gases and pollutants; rely on technological progress and scientific management and develop responsibility the circular economy to constantly improve the level of energy conservation and environment protection. • Deepen social responsibility ideas • Integrate production and operation • Exert the role of normalized • Build a demonstration unit International operation strategy • Improve the social responsibility management communication promotion platform of harmonious enterprise • Deepen the social responsibility • Strengthenthe communication with the management system • Launch poverty relief work benchmarking management general public Speed up the pace of go global and deepen international exchange and cooperation based on global • Strengthen the top design of a down-to-earth way • Conduct performance appraisal to • Build social responsibility brand projects perspective; allocate the resources of capital, talent and markets effectively; gradually expand the social responsibility social responsibility •Actively participate in business abroad and strengthen the operational supervision and risk prevention to improve the level of • Deepen the construction of • Intensify the research on social public welfare undertakings • Carry out social responsibility responsibility theories international operations. responsibility culture training Operation excellent strategy Give full play to the supporting role of scientific management through constantly improving the whole process management of production and operation, marketing, financial costs and project construction, effectively integrating economic factors and system resources, and continuously improving the Responsibility issues profitability and management of the company. Responding to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (G4), Chinese Academy of Social Sciences CASS 3.0 and Talent-Intensive strategy other standards and initiatives and combining the actual situation of enterprise, we have identified CSR core Stick to the Scientific Outlook on Development as the overall guidance in the recruiting and issues to clear major social responsibility issues, scientifically determined the content boundary of the report, management of talents through constantly improving the incentive mechanism for fostering, attracting, employing and managing talents, while positively developing high-end, complex, innovative and disclosed social responsibility practice and performance and answered the concerns of stakeholders. international talent team to support the company's development. Source Identification of Prioritization Approval and Harmonious development strategy of Issues Issues Priority Confirmation Operate the business according to laws and regulations. Strengthen the construction of corporate culture High Issue Pool through wholeheartedly relying on employees in conducting the business and actively performing corporate social responsibilities while enhancing the economic, social and environmental value creation Mainline Issues General Issues General Issues Corporate Issues • ISO26000 • International standard and trend • Power enterprises at home and • Corporate development plan capabilities and shaping Huaneng's good image to build a harmonious enterprise. • Guideline on Fulfilling • National policies and abroad • Corporate vision and mission Social Responsibility requirements • Coal enterprises at home and abroad • Corporate work objectives Relevance for by State-owned • The focuses of social opinions • Industry-related enterprises Enterprises Responsibility management Core Issues CSR culture stakeholders • Environmental protection • Managing enterprises • Ensuring power supply •·Company management and control • Supply chain management • Providing high-quality product and • Promoting scientific innovation • Human resource development according to laws • Corporate governance service • Corporate citizen and charity • Developing renewable energy CHNG is committed to building a Red company serving the needs of socialism with Chinese characteristics; a Green company advocating technological innovation and environmental Environment Economy Society Power industry protection; and a Blue company advancing through innovation and internationalization. Low Impact on business High Building a three-color company is CHNG's corporate mission and is the view of our social Medium responsibility. development 70 / 71 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared CSR communication We have constantly improved our trinity CSR information communication system to make daily, regular and yearly communication with stakeholders. We have also implemented press spokesman system, established media open day, and released sustainability reports regularly. Besides, we have set up a special CSR column on our website, joined various social organizations, taken an active part in industry exchanges and made effective interactions with Mangjiedu Bridge built by Huaneng Lancang stakeholders. River Hydropower Company for local people Stakeholder engagement CSR governance Stakeholders Major Communication We have established a Social Responsibility Management Committee to Concerns ● Implement and Exchange earnestly national policies and develop our strategy for social responsibility and our medium and long-term ● Safe supply of power regulations development program, deliberate over and decide major social responsibility ● Maintenance and appreciation of state● Participate in studies and discussions issues, designate the related management department and agency, and owned assets value conducted by relevant state ministries and ● Abiding by relevant laws and regulations, take the responsibility for the coordination of daily work for the construction committees paying taxes according to law ● Coordinate with local government for of social responsibility and harmonious enterprise. We have also developed Government ● Return to investors common development a three-level social responsibility system comprised of the headquarters, and Investors secondary units and grassroots-level enterprises. In this system, the ● Employment headquarter has appointed a part-time manager of social responsibility; each Managers of social responsibility from ● Give full play to the role of the labor union ● Career secondary unit has set up social responsibility leading groups; and subordinate units participated in Sharing development ● Ensure ● Rights transparency of company affairs grassroots-level enterprises have also identified departments and staff who Responsibility—CSR Public Classroom (the 7th and interests protection ● Improve Workers' Congress system are responsible for developing social responsibility activities and reporting session) ● Health and safety ● Establish multiple communication the related performance to CHNG. ● Corporate culture Employees channels CSR performance ● Maintain close relationship with clients The company's sustainability report in 2014 was awarded five stars (highest level) by Chinese Academy of ● Supply ◆ adequate, reliable, environmentallySocial Sciences and acknowledged as an outstanding CSR report. ● Strictly implement business contracts friendly, reasonably-priced electric power ● Supply ● Maintain the safety and stability of power ◆ In November 2015, our company was ranked the fourth among Top 300 enterprises and rated as a five-star Customers safe and quality coal products grid and heat supply network enterprise in the Corporate Social Responsibility Blue Paper issued by the Chinese Academy of Social ● Strategic cooperation and fulfillment of commitment ● Negotiations for strategic corporation Sciences, with CSR index of 87.6 points. ● Implement National License System ● High-level meetings ● Shoulder responsibilities in purchasing and influence ● Achieve ● Routine business communication win-win in the industrial chain Partners Huaneng held 2015 nuclear power Public Open Day activity ● Community environment ● Participation Under the unified guidance of National Energy Administration, National in community construction ● Community ● Support Nuclear Safety Administration, State Commission of Science and harmony and stability public welfare causes Technology for National Defense Industry, 2015 Nuclear Power Public Community ● Community public welfare ● Organize poverty-alleviation activities Open Day Activity with the theme of transparent nuclear power plant and the Public and safe Shidaowan kicked off at Huaneng Shandong Shidaowan ● Experience sharing ● Attend industrial meetings Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. in August 2015. ● Technical exchange ● Technical competition and exchange During the activity, over 10 news media including xinhuanet.com and people.cn and a total of 70 people including environmentalist, Internet Industry ● Competition and cooperation ● Routine communication celebrities and representatives of Weihai and Rongcheng governments Counterparts and student representatives from middle and primary schools in ● Support and participate in social groups and ● Take an active part in relevant meetings Rongcheng organizations ● Take the initiative in making suggestions came to Shidaowan Nuclear Power Plant to visit the company's exhibition center and construction site, learning such nuclear power Social Groups and ● Abide by the articles of associations knowledge as the development of nuclear power, safety of nuclear power plant, nuclear safety regulation and safety of HTGR nuclear Organizations power plant and construction progress. That helped them improve the understanding to the Shidaowan Nuclear Power Plant. 72 / 73 2015 Sustainability Report Innovative, Harmonious, Green, Open, and Shared Indicator Index Page Contents GRI (G4) CASS-CSR3.0 Numbers Our Commitment to Responsibility During About This Report G4-3, G4-5, G4-18, G419,G428, G4-30-G4-32 P1.1-P1.5 Title page Huaneng's Declaration on Sustainable the Thirteenth Five-Year Plan Period Development Message from the Company Leaders G4-1 G1.1 P3.1-P3.2 Title page P4-5 Huaneng's Sustainable Development Mode G4-19 G1.1 P7 P5.2，S3.6，S3.7，M1.4，M2.2，M2.3， M2.5，M2. G4-10, G4-11, G4-13, G4-17, G4-EC1, Innovative Key Performance 9-M2.12，M2.8，E2.3，E2.5， S1.5，S2.1-S2.4， P8-9 G4-LA6 We will comprehensively deepen enterprise reform, speed up promotion of innovation in system S2.22，S4.13 and mechanism, management, technology and business mode. Special Feature: Sustainable Development of China Huaneng Group During the Twelfth FiveP5.1, S1.6, E2.5 － E2.7, E2.9-E2.13, E1.9, M2.3, M2.4 P10-11 We will accelerate transformation of energy production and service and actively seek for new profit Year Plan Period growth points; Special Feature: Strengthening Party SelfDevelopment discipline by Adhering to the Party's G4-SO4 P12-13 We will increase investment in science and technology innovation, make breakthroughs in major Leadership science and technology projects, expedite development of science and technology industry and Technology Breakthrough M2.7, M2.8 P14-17 enhance abilities in service, production and operation; on Double Reheat Promoting reform and We will construct digital Huaneng to improve the information management level. Innovative innovation G5.4, G5.5 P18-19 Development Promoting management S3.1, S3.2 P20-21 innovation Promoting scientific and M2.8, M2.10, M2.12 P22-23 technological innovation Stabilizing Growth and Harmonious We will intensify structural reform, optimize inventory, guide increments, active reduce amount and Improving Economical M1.5, M2.4 P24-27 do a good job of addition, subtraction, multiplication and division . Also, we will strengthen Benefits technical renovation and boost the quality improvement, efficiency increase and upgrading; Vigorously Pursuing Harmonious Improvement in Income E2.2, M2.1, S2.26 P28 We will accelerate the elimination of backward production capacity, increase the efficiency in Development and Benefit disposing low-efficiency and inefficient assets and actively and prudently deal with zombie Coordinating Industrial P29-31 Development enterprises , Development Consolidating Foundation We will expedite optimization of industrial restructuring and maximizing benefits of industrial G4-14 S3.1-S3.8, E2.8 P32-35 for Safety Management collaboration. Green Action to Create an E4.5 P36-39 Ecological Huaneng Developing Clean Energy G4-EC7 M2.3, M2.5 P40-41 Green Improving Cleanliness M2.2, M2.3 P42-43 Development Saving Energy Resources G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN8 E2.1, E2.2, E2.9, E2.10 P44-45 Protecting Ecological G4-EN2, G4-EN12_G4-EN14 E3.1-E3.6 P46-47 We will deeply promote Green Development Action Plan, extend the development of low-carbon Environment Green Along with One Belt and clean energy and constantly improve the proportion of low-carbon clean energy; G4-6 P48-51 One Road We will promote the construction of excellent environment-friendly and conservation-minded Promoting enterprises, accelerate upgrading and reconstruction of energy conservation and emission reduction, Internationalization G4-6 M3.1 P52 Development make energy consumption, pollutant and carbon emissions constantly reduce and reach the carbon Strengthening discharges peak value as soon as possible; Open Management of Overseas G4-6 M1.5 P53 Development Development We will enhance the clean level, expand ultra low emission and intensify speed increase and scope Assets expansion to create a clean energy system. Deepening the Openness, Exchanges G4-6 M3.1 P54-55 and Cooperation Cultivating International S2.24 P56-57 Talents Huaneng Lighting up the We will participate in construction of the One Belt and One Road , implement international S4.4 P58-61 Isolated World Open development strategy and improve international competence. Contributing to Social G4-15, G4-SO1 S4.2-S4.4, S4.8, S4.11-S4.13 P62-64 Welfare We will strengthen management and reorganization of overseas assets, put the existing and Caring for employees S2.8，S2.15-S2.18，S2.30，S2.10，S2.11， S2.24-S2.26 P65-67 additional financial resources to good use and enhance profitability of overseas assets. Shared Join Hands with Partners G4-12, G4-LA15, G4-SO7 M3.1, Development to Achieve a Win-win M3.1, M3.8-M3.9 P67 We will form combo going global and increase competitiveness and anti-risk capability. M3.9 Outcome We will strengthen international exchanges and cooperation and support local economic and social Company Profile G4-2, G4-7 P4.1-P4.2 P68 Development development to enhance staff localization and diversification level. Industrial Distribution G4-4, G4-8, G4-9 S1.1-S1.4 P68 Organization Structure G4-13, G4-34 M1.5-M1.6 P69 Corporate Strategy G1.1 P70 Appendix About G4-14, G4-15, G4-16, G4Us P2.2-P2.3, G1.3-1.4, G2.1Responsibility 24-G4-27, G4-33, G4-37G2.5, G3.1, G4.1, G5.1, G5.3-G5.6, G6.1G6.4, P70-73 Management G4-40, G4-42, G4-45, G4-47, G4-53, We will deepen the construction of harmonious enterprises, improve the well-being of employees M1.3 Shared G4-56 and make the enterprise and employees grow together. Our Commitment to Responsibility During the A1 P75 Thirteenth Five-Year Plan Period We will strengthen the communication with stakeholders and realize win-win results between the enterprise and partners. Development We will create value, serve the country and repay society, realizing harmonious advance between the enterprise and society. 74 / 75 2015 Sustainability Report Implementation of the United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact requires companies to comply with, support and carry out a set of ten universally accepted Upon the delegation of China Huaneng Group, Chinese Expert Committee on CSR Report Rating selected experts to form China Huaneng Group principles in the aspects of human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption within. These principles are from Sustainability Report 2015 Rating Team. The rating team rated the China Huaneng Sustainability Report 2015 (hereinafter referred to as the Report). I. Rating Basis Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work by International Labor Guidelines for China Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting (CASS-CSR 3.0), and the Standard for China Corporate Social Responsibility Rating Organization, and Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. (2014). Huaneng joined the United Nations Global Compact in November, 2007, becoming the first power generation company in China II. Rating Procedures 1. The Process Evaluation Group interviewed main members of the Report preparation team and reviewed on the site relevant documents involved in to join the United Nations Global Compact. It actively performs the ten basic principles of the UN Global Compact through the compiling process; promoting safe development, optimal development, green development, healthy development, innovative development and 2. The Rating Group evaluated the compiling process of the Report and the information disclosed in the Report and drew up the rating report; 3. The rating report was submitted for joint signature to the vice-chairman of Chinese Expert Committee on CSR Report Rating and head of the rating harmonious development. team. III. Rating Results Process : (★★★★☆) Ten Principles Page Number Implementation The Political Work Department of China Huaneng Group led the reporting team, and the senior leaders were engaged in facilitating the compilation and review of the report; the team identified the stakeholders, and collected suggestions from some stakeholders through interview, expert workshop and other ways; the team identified the essential subjects based on China Huaneng's strategy and industrial benchmark analysis; and the team planned to Human Respect and support the protection of release the report on Huaneng's official website and presented the report in printed, electronic, and H5 versions. A transparent exhibition of the P65-67 Abide by laws and regulations at Right internationally proclaimed human rights process has been observed. home and abroad, support international conventions on human Materiality: (★★★★★) rights approval by the central The Report discloses in details the key issues in the power industry, including responding to national policies , power supply assurance , production safety , green power development , resource and energy conservation , circular economy development , eco-environment protection and carbon government, safeguard and respect Not complicit in human rights abuses P65 asset management. An outstanding substantiality has thus been observed. It shows a high degree of substance. human rights, and guarantee Completeness: (★★★★☆) employees' legal rights and interest. The Report covers 85% of the core indicators in the power generation industry from the perspective of innovative development , harmonious development , green development , open development and shared Chinese Expert development . An excellent degree of completeness has thus been observed. Uphold the freedom of association and Balance: (★★★★★) recognize the right of collective bargaining P65 The Report contains negative information and data including the numberCommittee on accidents , general equipment accident , the number of serious equipment Abide by the national laws and Labor of human casualties , Type I obstacle and the number of unplanned outage . It discloses, in the form of special column, the description of general Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory regulations on labor issue, forbid P65 equipment accidents, reflection and corrective measures. An outstanding balance has thus been observed. labor the use of child labor, and oppose Comparability: (★★★★★) any forms of forced labor; adhere to The Report contains historical data of 38 key performance indicators in 3 consecutive years, including equipment utilization ratios , installed equal and just labor policies and capacity , power output , total revenue , total profit , specific coal consumption and donations and makes horizontal comparison with domestic Effective abolition of child labor P65 democratic management, make public and overseas counterparts in installed capacity , specific coal consumption , station service power consumption and mortality rate (in million ton+ the affairs of enterprises, and respect coal production) . An excellent comparability has thus been observed. Eliminate discrimination in employment and the rights of labor. Readability: (★★★★★) P65 industry The report gives a description by focusing on innovative development , harmonious development , green development , open development and shared development , with clear framework and strong logicality. Meanwhile, it expounded responsibility practice with abundant cases. Main industry Actively practice the green action elements of enterprises were blended in the cover, making it CSR Report have a good Rating integrity. Also, the whole design was simple and elegant and harmony in Take a precautionary approach to plan, and constantly optimize the colors, improving the readability of the report greatly. P44-47 industrial organization, accelerate environmental challenges Innovativeness: (★★★★★) the elimination of backward The Report focuses on five major development philosophies and follows fundamental policies of China, highlighting a central enterprise's assuming production capacity, develop various responsibility. Special features like Sustainable Development of China Huaneng Group During the Twelfth Five-Year Plan Period and Strengthening clean energies, strengthen the Party Self-discipline by Adhering to the Party's Leadership are set at the beginning to elaborate the enterprise's key point in performing Actively increase responsibilities on control and management of responsibilities. Meanwhile, the enterprise's responsibilities and actions and key performances are expounded at the start of each chapter, in addition P36-39 environmental protection greenhouse gases, improve clean to embedding five 2015 development stories to demonstrate the enterprise's excellent practice in an all-dimensional and multi-angle manner. Environment production and cope with global Therefore, it is of excellent performance in innovation. climate change, actively develop Overall rating: (★★★★★) clean coal technology, create Upon evaluation by the Rating Group, China Huaneng Group's Sustainability Report 2015 is awarded five stars and acknowledged as an outstanding excellent and eco-friendly thermal CSR report. Encourage the development and promotion of power plants, vigorously implement IV. Suggestions P40-43 1. Strengthen the management of full life circles of reporting and boost stakeholder engagement. environmental-friendly technologies reformation of energy saving and The Rating Group environmental protection, refine all Head: Wang Zhixuan, Party Member and Vice President of China Electricity Council links of enterprise operation and Member: Wei Xiuli, Associate Professor of the School of Economics and Management, North China University reduce the impact on environment. Process Evaluation Team: Fang Xiaojing and Wang Zhimin Complete the rectifications after the central government's special inspection tour and further promote Vice-chairman of Chinese the special education practice activity The Rating Group Head Expert Committee on CSR of Three Stricts and Three Honests . Reporting Rating Counter any forms of corruption, including Strengthen anti-corruption system Antifraud, blackmail and offering or accepting P13-14 construction, advance the Rating Report on Issuing time: June 19, 2016 corruption bribery construction of honest culture, strictly Sustainability Report of implement the responsibility of China Huaneng Group 76 managing and governing the party, 2015 / conduct the special work of combating bribery in business and 7 standardize enterprises' behaviors in business and transactions. 7 2015 Sustainability Report Feedback Your Personal Dear Readers, Information Name This report is a Sustainability Report (2015) issued to the public by China Huaneng Group. We are looking forward to Organization your advice and suggestions so that we can improve our Position reporting in the future. We would be grateful if you would Tel answer the following questions and send this questionnaire back to us in one of the following ways. Fax Fax: +86-10-63228866 6 E-mail Mail to: No. 6, Fuxingmennei Street, Xicheng District, Stamp Beijing (100031) Readers Feedback Questionnaire on this Sustainability Report No. 6, Fuxingmennei Dajie, Xicheng District, Beijing Single choice (Please mark your choice with √ ) Yes Average No 1. Do you think this report reflects Huaneng's significant impacts on safety, China Huaneng Group environment, economy and society? 2. Do you think this report makes an accurate and complete analysis of the relations between Huaneng and its stakeholders? 3. Do you think the information disclosed in this report is clear, accurate and complete? Postcode 4. Do you think this report is convenient for reading with respect to contents and design? Open question 1. In your opinion, which part of this report is most satisfactory? 2. What information that you need to know is not included in this report? 3. What's your advice on our future sustainability reports? Thank you for your support and cooperation. 78 China Huaneng Group / 7 9 China Huaneng Group We support the Global Compact
