UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2016 Hogan Lovells We became signatories to the UN Global Compact in December 2015. These are just some of the ways in the past year in which we have upheld our commitment to doing business responsibly. 195,916 Citizenship Hours 1500 Human Rights On International Human Rights Day 2015, more than 1500 lawyers and business services members were trained on the United Nations Guiding Principles. 1 Labor We are creating 1 global database of our suppliers worldwide so as to facilitate greater control and co-ordination of our supply chain. 6 Environment 6 resource-efficient, LEED-certified (or soon-to-be-certified) offices in the U.S. 600 Anti-Corruption More than 600 Chief Compliance Officers were interviewed for our global survey on the challenges of implementing anti-bribery and corruption compliance programs at large multi-nationals. UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2016 3 Contents Statement from our CEO 4 At our core 5 Our commitment Respecting and supporting human rights Upholding labor standards Addressing environmental responsibilities Fighting Corruption Human rights & labor – Principles 1-6 12 Advising clients Working with suppliers In our communities Environment – Principles 7-9 16 Advising clients Working with suppliers In our communities Anti-corruption – Principle 10 20 Further information 21 4 Hogan Lovells Statement from our CEO Hogan Lovells is committed to doing business responsibly. A strong sense of professional and business ethics, accountability, and responsibility is very much part of who we are and how we behave. As one of the world’s largest law firms, with operations in more than 25 countries across 6 continents, we feel that we have a special duty to uphold and champion the rule of law and its underlying principles. Good citizenship is explicitly stated and recognized by our people and the market as one of our core values and an integral part of our culture and strategy. In December 2015, we became a member of the UN Global Compact, the world’s largest global corporate sustainability initiative, and committed to incorporating the Ten Principles into our strategies, policies and culture, and advancing them within our sphere of influence. Our first Communication on Progress sets out how we have embedded the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact within our firm during the period from December 2015 – December 2016. Over the course of the next year, we will continue to review and enhance our existing policies, processes and activities. Yours sincerely Stephen Immelt CEO, Hogan Lovells UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2016 5 At our core Our commitment Operating with integrity. Respecting fundamental rights and responsibilities. Promoting action. At Hogan Lovells, we are committed to the highest ethical standards in the conduct of our business worldwide. We are a global legal practice that helps corporations, financial institutions, governments, and social enterprises across the spectrum of their business and legal issues, globally and locally. We have more than 6,000 people working from more than 45 offices in Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and the United States. In an interconnected world, we understand the complexity of our business operations, practice, and relationships and, more importantly, our legal, moral and commercial responsibilities. We operate according to the United Nations Guiding Principles and we are signatories of the United Nations Global Compact. But for us, doing the right thing is about more than just being compliant. Respecting and supporting human rights. Upholding labor standards. Addressing environmental responsibilities. Fighting corruption. We keep to our word by practicing principled business. Our corporate responsibility agenda is present throughout the core areas of our firm, including our business practices, policies, staff training, cross-industry initiatives and our Citizenship and pro bono work. We will continue to align our priorities, projects and support within the essence of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) framework and partner with NGOs that take a rights-based approach to development. From gender equality to peace, justice, and strong institutions, the SDGs help guide our efforts and ensure that we are working to transform our world. With 17 goals, 169 targets, and 15 years, the SDGs remain our focus in both the short and long term. The pace at which we are mobilizing our global team to take up the challenges of upholding responsible business practices is only matched by the need for our people to act. When we launched our new global Citizenship policy at the beginning of 2015, we became the first law firm of our size to ask all of our people worldwide to do at least 25 hours of qualifying Citizenship activities each year. But, it isn’t just about the hours we put into good citizenship, it’s about the impact we make along the way. That impact is felt within our firm too, as we work together with colleagues around the globe on a shared purpose. 6 Hogan Lovells Respecting and supporting Upholding labor standards human rights Diversity is at the core of who we are and how In addition to becoming a member of the UN we do business. We are a high-performing global Global Compact, we have endorsed the UN team with people from different backgrounds, Guiding Principles on Business and Human perspectives, and life experiences. We are at Rights (UNGPs). We have made a commitment our best when we can be ourselves – working to respect human rights and are implementing together and delivering for our clients. Our that commitment through our management success depends on our ability to attract and policies and processes and by training our people retain the brightest talent, and to foster a work on the UNGPs. On International Human Rights environment where people of all backgrounds Day, we provided on-line training to our legal and experiences reach their full potential. and business services people on the UNGPs. We can’t and don’t take our people’s rights In the coming year, we’ll roll out business and lightly. As a socially responsible employer, we human rights training, on a practice-area basis, provide an inclusive and welcoming environment, to build lawyers’ and business services members’ where our people are treated fairly and given the capability to spot and address human rights opportunity to achieve their full potential. We also issues. Our people also participate in industry promote good health, wellbeing and resilience. sector initiatives to develop market-specific We have in place regional equal opportunity awareness and guidance. policies and set minimum standards for diversity “Businesses are increasingly turning to their legal – globally – which details diversity and inclusion advisors for assistance on their implementation. goals for encompassing all under-represented It is essential that our lawyers understand the groups, including women, racial/ethnic implications of the Guiding Principles to effectively minorities and LGBT lawyers. We also have in counsel their clients and ultimately help business enterprises to fulfill their responsibility to respect place ‘dignity at work’, and ‘gender transitioning’ human rights. But it is not just outward looking; law in the workplace policies. firms are businesses too and must also consider how best to implement the Guiding Principles.” Our executive management committee has Julianne Hughes-Jennett, agreed a Global Diversity Business Plan, the Partner in our London office implementation of which is supported by our Global Diversity and Inclusion Committee, a 8 Hogan Lovells senior group of executive management, board “Diversity and Inclusion aren’t just about doing the members, and partners, responsible for ensuring right thing. As an organization whose services are diversity and inclusion is embedded into what reliant on the skills of our people, making sure we we do. Regional committees, partner diversity attract the very best talent is essential. We also champions and teams of diversity professionals know that diversity in teams brings innovation, meaning we make better decisions and, therefore, support these efforts at local levels. All of our do better work for our clients and ourselves.” new joiners undergo training which covers our Alison Unsted, Head of Global Diversity, diversity policies and procedures, and goals. Inclusion and Wellbeing Strategy Up from 28 per cent in 2012, 33 per cent of our and family life. It doesn’t stop there. Our people women are now in management roles. And by go above and beyond to ensure that we make 2022, we aim to have women make up at least good on our commitments to diversity in the work 30 per cent of our partnership. As signatories place. Our Diversity & Wellbeing team, along with of the United Nations’ Women’s Empowerment our Employee Networks, host and deliver events Principles (UN WEP), we embrace our role as a across the firm each and every year. global business and employer, and an agent for change in gender equality. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion is backed up by the recognition which we receive Our employee networks and affinity groups are around the world. In 2015 alone, we received active across our regions and support a wide over 20 awards for our global diversity efforts. network of communities which encompass LGBT, women, working families, racial/ethnic Some of the most recent awards and minorities, millennials, carers and colleagues recognition we have received: with disabilities or long term health conditions. –– Listed in The Times Top 50 Employers for Open to all, they provide a forum for networking Women in 2016 and business development, and support our understanding of relevant issues. –– Ranked in the Stonewall Top 100 Employers 2016 Workplace Equality Index for the sixth Implementing a ground breaking contextual consecutive year recruitment tool. Celebrating London Pride with our signature client lunch. Delivering advisory –– Named as most inclusive firm for minority events to support colleagues in managing work lawyers at 2016 Chambers Diversity Awards UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2016 9 –– Received a top rating of 100 per cent for “There is a common misconception among some seven consecutive years (2010 – 2016) on who think that professionals like us don’t need to the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s worry about our environmental footprint. We Corporate Equality Index – Best Places for should – and we do.” LGBT Equality Andrew Taylor, Sustainability co-lead and Partner in our London office –– In 2016, earned a Gold Standard Certification by Women in Law Empowerment Forum, for issues head on, we have developed a Global the fourth consecutive year Sustainability Policy that drives our endeavors to raise internal awareness of environmental issues; –– Best gender diversity initiative by an minimize energy consumption; minimize waste; international firm for the second consecutive maximize recycling and reuse; travel responsibly; year at the 2016 Euromoney Asia Legal and procure responsibly. Women in Business Law Awards In the UK, we are founder members of Legal –– Listed 18 in the Inclusive Top 50 UK Sector Alliance on Climate Change (LSA). On Employers 2016 list an annual basis, our London office is required to measure and report publicly our carbon Addressing environmental responsibilities footprint. We have consistently reduced our One planet – many threats. Pollution. Climate footprint since the LSA’s inception in 2007 and change. Overpopulation. Natural resource have witnessed a 43 per cent decrease in our depletion. Loss of biodiversity. We understand that, carbon emissions since our first report. globally, businesses should take steps to responsibly manage the environmental challenges that face us In the U.S., we are proud to have recently joined all. That’s why we believe that sustainable practices the Law Firm Sustainability Network (LFSN). are not simply a “nice to have”. This is a non-profit organization of law firms and legal departments committed to promoting We regularly look at our work environment to environmental sustainability and corporate social understand how we consume resources and how responsibility, raising awareness and reducing we can make our offices – and our lives – greener. environmental impacts throughout the United Our main impact on the environment arises from States and internationally. It achieves this our energy use, the waste that we generate, and our travel and procurement. To address these 10 Hogan Lovells through partnerships with Legal Sector Alliance –– In Tokyo, the designers and architects of UK and the Australian Legal Sector Alliance. our new office and refit are incorporating sustainable features, including enhanced Some recent examples of the work of our natural light, sustainably sourced building international offices: materials and motion sensor LED lighting. –– Our four German offices use only electricity –– Our Paris office is utilising dedicated from renewable resources, saving more than software to help monitor and optimize energy U.S. $200,000 a year. In Frankfurt, excess consumption, and in June 2016 undertook energy from a city heating plant and a heat an external energy audit of the building exchanger which uses water from the river Main to provide a solid baseline from which to power the heating and air conditioning systems. measure and improve efficiency. –– Our Mexico City office has recently –– In Dubai, in addition to green initiatives implemented a transport system to shuttle focusing on ‘reduce, reuse and recycle’, employees to and from the main metro our office is also working to reduce the stations. This new initiative prevents the unnecessary use of plastic cutlery with the use of at least 30 cars each day. aim of eliminating completely the use of plastic cutlery within the office. “We look for ways to make sure we use energy–– In some of our offices, such as Singapore, efficient equipment to help us day to day. Four of we filter and bottle our own water with reour U.S. offices are now Leadership in Energy and usable glass bottles, saving around 200kg of Environmental Design certified, with two more in the pipeline.” CO2 emissions as well as reducing waste. Scott Reisch, Sustainability co-lead and Partner in our Denver office UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2016 11 Fighting Corruption Governments across the globe have publicly expressed their commitment to anti-bribery and corruption activity, and enforcement is on the rise. Our robust policies and procedures ensure that our people do everything that is expected of them in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate to help prevent bribery and corruption. Our policies are clear. We comply with all applicable anti-bribery laws of all countries in which we operate and require that any joint venture partners or agents, when acting on our behalf, comply correspondingly. It is the personal responsibility of all of our partners and employees to acquaint themselves with the legal standards and restrictions applicable to their assigned duties. Global Anti-Bribery and Corruption. Gifts and Hospitality. Whistleblowing. These policies and the procedures underlying them are actively promoted through our Internal Practice Manual on our intranet. To ensure that our people are up to date, they receive notifications when there are amendments to the policies. All new starters are required to undertake e-training on anti-money laundering fundamentals. 12 Hogan Lovells Human rights & labor Principles 1 – 6 Advising clients opportunities for forward-thinking businesses to Our expertise of human rights in a corporate differentiate themselves from their competitors context helps our clients, in line with the UNGPs, by leading the way on compliance. to understand how human rights can impact Working with our suppliers their business. In a globalized economy, human rights are important as a means of protecting As a business spanning six continents, we are businesses from excesses of government “open” 24/7. But not at any cost. In an interinterference. They provide standards for good connected world, we need to be sure that our corporate citizenship that are increasingly procurement and supply chain processes meet integral to commercial success. our business needs, and adhere to the relevant legal and regulatory requirements. To commemorate the 800th anniversary of the Magna Carta, Hogan Lovells co-authored Risk As signatories to the UN Global Compact, we and Return: Foreign Direct Investment and respect and support human rights and employee the Rule of Law looking at the extent to which rights. We support the eradication of modern multinational companies consider rule of law slavery and human trafficking. We are committed when carrying out foreign direct investment to taking steps to ensure that human rights’ (FDI). The report revealed the significant impact abuses, in any form, do not occur in either our that the rule of law has on FDI decision-making own business or in our supply chains. by multinationals. We are creating a database of all our suppliers At the inaugural Business and Human Rights worldwide to facilitate greater control and copractice event, held in London in January 2016, ordination of our supply chain. This will provide an expert panel discussion concluded that human greater visibility of supplier terms as well as an rights are good for business. The panel identified enhanced ability to monitor the compliance of the positive role of human rights as part of the our supplier base within the framework of the UN rule of law framework that protects business “We are committed to the highest ethical standards and creates a safe space for foreign investment. in the conduct of our business worldwide.” It also recognized that the risks posed by Guy Powell, Head of Professional Standards possible human rights’ breaches can often create and Compliance UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2016 13 Global Compact. To support this endeavor, we suppliers, such as our caterers, to state in their have created a supplier questionnaire which new contracts that they pay their staff at least this rate. and existing suppliers are required to complete in In our communities order to enter into or remain in our supply chain. 138,055. That’s the number of pro bono hours our We have developed training seminars to support lawyers have undertaken since December 2015. our staff in charge of procurement to recognize Our award winning pro bono practice addresses the key issues and risks of modern slavery and issues of anti-human trafficking and forced labor how they can prevent exploitation and we are by working with leading NGO communities in the process of developing this into an online operational in this area. Our NGO partners training module for our colleagues. provide practical solutions to issues of child labor We are voluntary signatories to the London which are complex where family and communities Living Wage (LLW). This campaign provides often depend on the income of their children and a benchmark for employers who choose to pay need to find money elsewhere. We often support their employees at a rate which is calculated these solutions through our social enterprise/ according to the cost of living. It can alleviate the international development practice by offering pro constant stress of living with financial pressures, bono legal advice on social impact projects. has been shown to improve job satisfaction and, without the need to take on a second job, people “Everyone is equal in the eyes of the law. No matter have more time to spend with their families and what your personal circumstances may be, in their communities. We pay our employees at a everyone deserves meaningful access to justice. That’s why one of our key pillars of good citizenship rate higher than the LLW, but we also require our is providing free legal services to those who need it most – from individuals to governments.” “The London Living Wage provides our employees, and the employees of our suppliers, with a salary Yasmin Waljee OBE, which they and their families need to live. Ethical International Pro Bono Director pay is an important part of investing in our people and our communities, and Hogan Lovells is proud to be a London Living Wage Employer”. Katie Hunter, Head of HR, UK 14 Hogan Lovells Rights for domestic workers. We advised “We use our legal skills to bring about tangible local Hong Kong NGO Help for Domestic Helpers change for those who need legal expertise but can’t access it”. (HDH) on a number of employment and criminal offenses cases, and engaged in training for both T.Weymouth, U.S. Pro Bono Partner HDH and our lawyers to raise awareness of Recognizing the firm’s work, Kevin Hyland, the human rights legal issues. UK’s first Independent Anti-Slavery Commissioner, Freedom at home. In Mexico City, through our commented: ‘The free legal work undertaken by partner G.A.C. Domestic Violence, we supported firms such as Hogan Lovells is not only important to a female client with physical disabilities whose individuals at the time of their case but significantly sister was physically and emotionally abusive and reduces the chances of re-victimization and allows made our client a prisoner in her own home. We them to rebuild their lives.’ obtained a civil protection order to protect our client and now she is able to live freely without Some of our recent achievements: fear of violence or threats. Advances in child protection. After intensive work by our Ulaanbaatar office, the Mongolian Fighting modern slavery. We have a fiveParliament adopted two laws that established year partnership with London’s Metropolitan the country’s first systematic framework for child Police to take their referrals for victims of protection. It is expected its implementation will forced prostitution and labor. We annually improve Mongolia’s international obligations succeed in recovering over £100,000 pounds of related to child protection. compensation for victims. African Legal Awards CSR Initiative of the CAIR Coalition’s Law Firm of the Year Year. We volunteered almost 500 hours across Award. We have taken on numerous pro bono two centers in support of the Teddy Bear Clinic in cases on referral from CAIR Coalition’s Detained Johannesburg which provides trauma counseling Adult Program and Detained Children’s Program. and legal assistance for victims of child abuse in We were recognized for our work fighting the South Africa. deportation and detention of non-citizen girls and women. 16 Hogan Lovells Environment Principles 7 – 9 Advising clients developers, financial institutions, investment Our environmental practice assists clients across funds, and governments and their agencies around all sectors, including public, private and NGOs, the world. During 2016, the group developed three to manage environmental and social issues on-line global resources for clients: responsibly. We assist clients with both the most –– Cyber security in Energy. We examined complex legal challenges, and the day-to-day issues cyber issues facing the energy sector around that must be addressed to maintain compliance and the globe, addressing the threat, the role of keep abreast of policy and regulatory changes. government in responding to the threat, and We regularly advise on legal issues associated with the response in a six-part client alert series. climate change, including emissions trading and –– Energy efficiency. We examined global act for many clients active in the renewable energy trends, incentives, and policies in Energy sector. Members of the practice also work on Efficiency in the New Energy Economy. human rights and broader social issues. We have Covering insights, implications, and measures advised many companies to comply with both the from the U.S., Italy, Japan, the UK, and letter and the spirit of the new reporting obligations Europe in an eight-part client alert series. under the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. –– Brexit Environment. Brexit will have The pro bono work of the practice focuses on implications for all businesses subject to environmental issues such as climate change, environmental regulation. This article deforestation and wildlife conservation, and provides an overview, and then appraises the business and human rights agenda. We by subject matter. have recently collaborated with the Institute for Human Rights and Business (IHRB), a leading In November 2016, more than 150 of today’s international think tank, to produce the report, top energy executives from around the globe Corporate Liability for Forced Labour and Human convened in Houston, Texas for the third Trafficking. We have also provided pro bono advice Hogan Lovells Global Energy Summit. Over to the newly established Independent Anti-Slavery two days, these titans of industry explored how Commissioner in the UK, Kevin Hyland. to champion innovation, adapt to a continually evolving landscape, and steer an organization Our energy and natural resources group works through challenging times. with major energy companies, natural resource UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2016 17 Working with our suppliers –– The award-winning Ugly Fish Friday Sustainable procurement has a critical role in campaign uses same-day boat catches which the environmental management of our business. includes some of the freshest and less-commonly Environmental stewardship. Conservation of consumed seasonal fish from UK waters. resources. Reduction of carbon footprint. We In our communities are working with our suppliers to embed these practices throughout our supply chain. Environmental awareness, and an understanding of global sustainability issues, is something In many of our offices, our catering providers we’re bringing to all of our people. Educating. support local, sustainable and small-scale Engaging. Enterprising. From our pro bono producers. They are committed to buying and work with NGOs, to our Community Investment using fresh seasonal produce and work with programs which encourages our people to roll suppliers to increase a supply chain that is built on their sleeves up and get their hands dirty, to principles of sustainable and, wherever possible, our local and global fundraising initiatives, our local sourcing. In our Paris office we work with a people are environmental stewards. caterer which supplies fruits and vegetables grown close to the capital, and in Dusseldorf only locally produced milk from nearby farms is purchased. Some examples of recent initiatives from our London office: –– A percentage of bottled water sales are donated to Seeds for Africa, a registered UK charity and leftover fruit and unsold packed sandwiches are sent every Friday to a local community center. –– Food waste is monitored and creative ways of reducing the amount of food being thrown out include developing menus with a consideration of offcuts, ordering on a daily basis where possible, and turning surplus of specific produce into chutneys, pickles, and jams. 18 Hogan Lovells Our work in this field is varied. Some of UN SEED awards in East Africa promoting, recent achievements: among other things, access to water, solar energy and locally-produced artisanal crafts. 20,000 Suns. We are partnering with Indian NGO Barefoot College to train 500 middle-aged Green fingers. Our Adopt-a-Park project women from rural villages to become solar encourages our offices to become a long-term engineers. This partnership aims to solar electrify designated steward of a particular park in their 20,000 households over the next three years local communities, extending both our collective by helping Barefoot College expand its regional support and bolstering civic engagement. Since training centers internationally. Our pro bono its inception our Washington, D.C., Denver and practice is providing a launch pad for the project Minneapolis locations have taken part. to succeed in Burkina Faso, Senegal, South Sudan, and Zanzibar and to expand into new Responsible tourism. Our Singapore office countries in the Asia Pacific region. successfully organized two trips to Coney Island Park, an ecologically sustainable island. HL Green Action is our Global employee The guided tours at the park were hosted by network created to take advantage of all the the National Environment Agency and enthusiasm for green pro bono and community increased our people’s understanding of investment around our offices and to channel the local fauna and flora and impressed it to make positive changes. We engage our upon the team the responsibility we all people through pro bono, community investment have for nurturing the local environment projects and team-building initiatives and use in which we live. our supply chain innovatively in engaging more environmentally-focused suppliers. Smart investments. UN SEED Awards for Entrepreneurship in Sustainable Development is an annual awards scheme designed to find the most promising, innovative, and locally led start-up social and environmental enterprises in countries with developing and emerging economies. We are legal advisors to the winners 20 Hogan Lovells Anti-corruption Principle 10 We have decades of experience advising clients Global challenges. Our major global antion a full range of bribery and corruption bribery and corruption project Steering the matters. Lawyers in our Bribery and Corruption Course: Navigating Bribery and Corruption practice have in-depth experience across the Risk is based on interviews with more than 600 board including tax-related crimes, money chief compliance officers (CCOs) and equivalent laundering, fraud, and intellectual property roles at some of the world’s largest organizations crimes. We engage more broadly with our clients across Europe, the U.S. and Asia. The global and the wider business sector through reports, study examines the challenges of implementing investigations and our thought leadership work. anti-bribery and corruption compliance programs within large multi-nationals. Recent accomplishments include: Practical action. Our Global Litigation Forum Strong competition. Our sixth Annual hosted a dinner and roundtable discussion for 25 Bribery & Corruption Review reflects the General Counsels and Chief Compliance Officers of new geography of the fight against corruption, major listed companies, focusing on the practical bringing our clients up to date on the most challenges for corporates in the management important developments around the world – of bribery and corruption risk. This roundtable equipping them with the vital information they explored the challenges that companies will face in need to compete in today’s global marketplace. this arena in the next few years. Lessons learned. Our most recent Global Cross-sector collaboration. Crispin Rapinet, Bribery & Corruption webinar focused on the Head of our White Collar and Fraud practice latest global trends and provided practical tips and Co-Chair of our Citizenship Panel leads to ensure that companies were prepared for the charge. Crispin advises the International the year ahead. The webcast was filmed across Chamber of Commerce Commission on Corporate various jurisdictions simultaneously with Responsibility and Anti-corruption. It is a leading representatives from locations including London, global private sector body that develops rules of Munich, Shanghai, Sao Paolo, Washington, D.C. conduct, best practices and advocacy for fighting and Johannesburg. Nearly 150 clients joined the corruption and for corporate responsibility. webinar from 22 countries. UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2016 21 Further information For further information on our approach to responsible business, we welcome you to browse the Citizenship section of our website, where you’ll find examples of some of our projects and partnerships. http://www.hoganlovells.com/citizenship UN Global Compact key contact: Julianne Hughes-Jennett Partner, London julianne.hughes-jennett@hoganlovells.com 22 Hogan Lovells Notes Alicante Amsterdam Baltimore Beijing Brussels Budapest Caracas Colorado Springs Denver Dubai Dusseldorf Frankfurt Hamburg Hanoi Ho Chi Minh City Hong Kong Houston Jakarta Johannesburg London Los Angeles Louisville Luxembourg Madrid Mexico City Miami Milan Minneapolis Monterrey Moscow Munich New York Northern Virginia Paris Perth Philadelphia Rio de Janeiro Rome San Francisco São Paulo Shanghai Shanghai FTZ Silicon Valley Singapore www.hoganlovells.com Sydney Tokyo “Hogan Lovells” or the “firm” is an international legal practice that includes Hogan Lovells International LLP, Hogan Lovells US LLP and their affiliated businesses. Ulaanbaatar The word “partner” is used to describe a partner or member of Hogan Lovells Warsaw International LLP, Hogan Lovells US LLP or any of their affiliated entities or any employee or consultant with equivalent standing. Certain individuals, who are designated as Washington, D.C. partners, but who are not members of Hogan Lovells International LLP, do not hold qualifications equivalent to members. Zagreb For more information about Hogan Lovells, the partners and their qualifications, see www. hoganlovells.com. Where case studies are included, results achieved do not guarantee similar outcomes Our offices for other clients. Attorney advertising. Images of people may feature current or former lawyers and employees at Hogan Lovells or models not connected with the firm. Associated offices © Hogan Lovells 2016. All rights reserved.11427_CR_1216
