Sustainable Development Report 2015/2016 Sustainable Development Report 2015/2016 MEASURING AND PLANNING p 08 «However beautiful the strategy, you should occasionally look at the results.» Winston Churchill RAISING STAFF AWARENESS AND INVOLVEMENT p 10 «Everyone wants to save the planet, but no-one wants to take the trash out.» Jean Yanne IMPROVING CONSUMERS’ QUALITY OF LIFE p 14 «Ask not what your customers can do for you, but what you can do for your customers. » Faith Popcorn PRODUCING BETTER p 18 «The little we can do, the very little we can do, should be done. » Théodore Monod DEVELOPING EMPLOYEES’ SKILLS AND POTENTIAL p 22 «If you are planning for a year, plant rice; if you are planning for twenty years, plant a tree; if you are planning for centuries, develop people.» Chinese proverb SHARING OUR VALUES p 28 «When two forces unite, their efficiency doubles. » Isaac Newton Editorial For a safer and sustainable Arc Dear colleagues, The company’s culture will evolve by accepting our sites, identifying and eliminating hazards a wider meaning of respect for our environment. wherever we find them and much more. Over the last year, all of us have worked hard to transform Arc as we have renewed our product Working on both of these objectives is the right But this initial report of our activity in 2015 invites lines, improved the value proposition to our thing to do right for us and our families but you to learn more about the good practices customers, and created a better workplace for also because we will be better partners in the and successes which can be seen in all of our all of us, with more autonomy for each of us to communities where we do business. And we have units around the world and which contribute to manage our own work areas. two projects this year to make that happen: creating the mutual sense of pride in our work for all of the Group’s team members. In two important areas, lots of work lies in front We want to make our sites safe enough for you of us : to invite your families to see how you spend your Tim Gollin work day. Executive President of the Group First, we need to improve individual and collective safety for all of us and for our guests, At our historical site at Arques, as our first and, more importantly, to make this process of big project, we are working with neighboring improvement a core value for the company. communities to create “the Cité Verrière” which will showcase industrial and artisanal Second, we need to make our business more glassmaking knowledge alongside the region’s sustainable. Glass, a wholesome and inert development. material which can be infinitely recycled, is a For next year, we have many more projects we means of raising awareness about sustainability want to work on better utilizing waste heat, as much for our team members as for our clients. reducing our environmental footprint at all 3 LOCATIONS IN THE WORLD Moscow Du blin Luton Brondby Gus-Khrustalny Arques Pine Brook Mi lan Millville Sara gosse Sin tra Haryana NewCairo Gurgaon Ras al Khaimah Dubai Sao Paulo Johannesburg Offices Production sites Distribution subsidiaries 4 PROFILE 2015 Arc The Arc Group employs 10,160 people worldproducts, service providers – with a wide range wide, including 5,260 in France. The Group, of tailor-made solutions to meet their specific whose head office is located in Arques, in the needs (industry, advertising, premiums, loyalty). French Pas-de-Calais region, achieved gross The Arc Group is present in five continents with sales of €849 million in 2015. Armed with its its production sites (France, United States, know-how in glassware, it developed globally China, United Arab Emirates, Russia), distriand currently markets its complete tableware bution subsidiaries (United States, Spain, Ausranges to more than 160 countries. tralia, Mexico, Brazil, Japan, South Africa) and The Group covers the Consumer Goods and sales offices. Food Service markets through a portfolio of The Group has adopted a strategy of sustainable brands – Luminarc, Arcoroc, Cristal d’Arques development in order to balance economic reParis and Chef&Sommelier. For over 40 years, quirements, social responsibility and respect for Seoul the Group has also been serving professional the environment, and joined the U.N.’s Global Tokyo customers – industrial groups, wholesalers, Compact in 2003. Nanjing manufacturers of semi-finished and finished Shanghai Taipei 849 Millions d'€ of turnover in 2015. Hô Chi Minh Kuala Lumpur 10 160 employees throughout the world, including 5 260 in France. KEY FIGURES Singapore A major investment program on the site of Arques and at the Group level: Jakarta 150 to 180 M€ over 3 years in Arques More than 60 engineers for research and development 1 553 M of glass pieces sold in 2015 3 markets: general public, hotels and restaurants, B to B 5 major brands: Luminarc, Arcoroc, Arcopal, Cristal d’Arques Paris, Chef&Sommelier Melbourne A commercial presence in more than 160 countries, on 5 continents 5 production sites, in France, United States, China, United Arab Emirates, and Russia. 5 THE GLASS PROCESS From earth and fire, the glass is mainly composed of 70% sand, 20% soda and 10% lime. It has 100% recyclable material and contains superior quality such as: good insulation, non-flammable, transparent, hard, delicate and pure. Group specialist, the Arc Group produces white glass, opal, glass ceramic as well as Kwarx, Zenix and Diamax. The bubblers ensure the homogeneity of blending The articles undergo in annealing or a tempering process to improve their properties The glass drop, perfectly calibrated, BURNER falls into the mold via the funnel MERGER The rims are heated in order TANK to have round shape REFINING Silkscreen printing TANK PRESSED PROCESS GOB DELIVERY ANNEALING SYSTEM The drop of glass is pressed by the core LEHR and takes the shape of the mould. It is cooled down by air to solidify thus permits the removal of article from the mould DOG-HOUSE GOB FEEDING FEEDERS MOULD ROTATION OF THE TABLE BLOWING PROCESS The drop of glass is pressed by the core Flat organic transfer Introduction of the composition in a blank mould and takes its final shape in the dog-house: by blowing in the finisher mould vitrifying element (sand) + thawing (sodium, silicofluoride, etc.) + stabilizers (limestone, alumina, etc.) The feeders are used to bring the glass to its working level and carry it towards the different forming method until the drop of glass CENTRIFUGED PROCESS The drop of glass falls into the mould which starts turning. The glass takes the shape of the mould and is cooled down by pulsated air HEAT DECORATION PACKAGING FIRE-FINISHING OVEN SETTING UP OF THE ARTICLE MACHINE TREATMENT 6 BRANDS With almost 20,000 references marketed, the Arc Group offers a comprehensive portfolio of concepts for tableware, storage and decoration aimed at both the general public and professionals in the hotel and restaurant sectors. The Group also produces tailored products for companies. Brand for the general public Luminarc is the world’s leading tableware brand. It includes stylish and innovative products for wine and creative cuisine, intended for daily use. Various ranges are designed according to the habits, customs and tastes of local consumers. Cristal d’Arques. Affordable for all, the Cristal d’Arques Paris collections of glasses, vases and decorative accessories enjoy high levels of brand awareness thanks to their elegant and refined styling. Arcopal is born in 1958. Escorted by his faithful Archibald, the elephant who keeps a close watch, the symbolic dishes of the style Made in France live, since then, a real love story with the consumers. All over the world the brand is synonymic of solidity, simplicity and returns us in of numerous childhood memory. Professional brands Arcoroc is exclusively intended for professionals, the brand offers a range of strong and functional design products meeting the needs of professionals in the hotel and restaurant sectors, institutional and catering. Arcoroc is today the second-leading tableware brand for the professional sector. It is extremely present in Scandinavia (where it has a 70% glass market share), in France (60%) and in Spain (50%). Chef&Sommelier created in 2007, includes complete and innovative collections of crockery, glassware and cutlery. This brand is aimed at professionals in the hotel and restaurant sectors, but also at retailers and wine enthusiasts. It has successfully developed products with iconic shapes such as Open Up. This brand achieves 65% of its turnover internationally. 7 Sustainable development can seem difficult to quantify. In order to measure developments, Arc Group has put in place MEASURING a serie of assessment tools in those actions. Their measures come so as analyses and qualitative audits as reaped. Arc AND PLANNING Group uses various internal and external tools to measure the progress of its initiatives and plan projects in coherence with the sustainability developpement strategy of the company’. Customer audits A deep The Arc Group is regularly audited by its Product and manufacturing-process audits are transformation customers or a third-party (Bureau Véritas, SGS, conducted according to a schedule established for a Arc more Intertek, UL, etc.) as part of an annual review or before any order is placed. These audits ensure by the auditors (customers), who wish to check compliance with the specific procedures sustainability : that standards are complied with and customer implemented to manufacture products in line the deployment of expectations are met. There are three types of with their specifications. Autonomous Units audit: These audits enable the Arc Group to maintain the requisite standards and, if necessary, to carry The Arc Group is deeply changing. The company Audits concerning labor standards out actions to ensure customer requirements are lives in real organizational revolultion. The and the environment: fulfilled, or simply to make improvements. Audits company put in place a new organization to focusing on health and safety, human resources are always, opportunities to make improvements achieve greater flexibility and autonomy, while and the environment. These can be conducted in our actions.. empowering employees. on the basis of customer guidelines (for example ArcFrance employs a total of 5,100 staff.The company IKEA’s IWAY code of conduct) or an international was organized into autonomous units comprising all benchmark system such as the Sedex Members the functions required to carry out their operations; Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA). Amongst other scheduling and procurement, maintenance, quality, things, they look at ethical issues such as child human resources management, management labor, compliance with labor laws, remuneration, control, etc. This new organizational structure means the environment (waste, energy, etc.), health that each autonomous unit has its own Health, Safety and safety (Personal Protective Equipment, fire and Environment (HSE) team. They are responsible prevention, etc.). Auditors sometimes interview for all HSE issues and for improvements in the field. the staff (individually or in groups). Like Arc France in 2014, AGN was audited Systems audits conducted according to the according to SMETA’s 4 pillars, which validate ISO 9001 standard as regards the Quality certification in terms of labor conditions, Management System for entities that are not occupational health and safety, the environment certified; this enables Arc Group’s customers and business ethics. This internationallyto check that the systems of the Arc Group are acknowledged audit facilitates discussions with compliant in terms of procedures, processes, the Arc Group’s customers, who attach great internal audits and the quality policy. importance to respecting these values 9 The Arc Group has always paid particular attention to RAISING STAFF respecting people and the environment. This translates into AWARENESS tangible initiatives concerning our products and production facilities. At the same time, for our staff, this also means AND INVOLVEMENT adopting best practices and environmentally-friendly behavior. European Weeks a glass-manufacturing workshop with craftsmen demonstrating glass-blowing and flame-working for Sustainable techniques, as well as educational workshops. Development and a fast-food restaurant and tea room Waste Reduction the Arc Outlet store. The “Cité” will be situated on the brown-field Each June, within the framework of the European site of factory 1, between the Fontinettes boat Sustainable Development Week, the Arques site lift and the entrance to the company. The organizes activities and events addressing various construction work on the “Cité Verrière” will be topics with the support of external organizations. carried out at the same time as the renovations These include energy saving (in conjunction with to the Arques site and the urban modernization ADEME, the French Environment and Energy program in the Arques town center. The project Management), public transport (with the Council of the Saint-Omer Conurbation), electric vehicles “Cité Verrière” : is to be financed through an innovative public(with Renault and its Zoé car), local produce (in Promote the industry private partnership agreement and the “Cité conjunction with Court-Circuit, a group of local and the glass know-how Verrière” is scheduled to open in 2019. producers), and biodiversity in the Audomarois area (in conjunction with the Maison du Marais). The Arques Town Hall, the Council of the SaintFor the European Week for Waste Reduction in Omer Conurbation and Arc have been working October, Arc France set up stands with its partogether on the Cité Verrière (City of Glass) tners, such as GSF and Séché (service providers project for several months. The project seeks to Arc France for waste management), Biocoop to achieve various objectives for the region and (to raise awareness about food-packaging issues) the company. The “Cité Verrière” will improve to Waste collection and the glass-blower Julie Decriem (on the topic of highlight its industrial and creative expertise. For sustainable glass production). In addition to these the region, the aim is to revitalize the Arques town The “Collect waste paper and save a tree” events, a best practice was highlighted every day center and develop tourism focusing on the area’s campaign was organized all over Russia. The concerning waste reduction on the Arques site. arts and crafts and industry, to complement the aim was to raise citizens’ awareness about For both events, a quiz was organized to see what city’s existing attractions. The “Cité Verrière” will wasting natural resources and encourage them our staff had learned from the various activities comprise: to recycle waste. and initiatives. The employees with the best a museum area showcasing the combined The OSZ site in Gus-Khrustalny took part in this results won a range of prizes, such as a weekend development of the region, the population and campaign aimed at protecting the environment. away, workshops on how to make glass beads or glass-manufacturing (Arc and Edar) as well as the The company’s staff helped collect more than a gift vouchers for organic products. technological and industrial history of glass. ton of waste near the site. 11 COP 21 The COP21 Conference of the Parties to Arc International the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change took place in Paris in 2015. Within the framework of the COP21, the world’s leaders meet each year to decide on the measures to be implemented in order to reduce global warming to no more than 2°C. As part of a partnership with our customer ELIOR, some 13,000 Chef&Sommelier and Arcoroc products were used in the restaurants at the COP21 venue. It was an opportunity to remind our customers about Arc’s values and initiatives in the field of sustainable development and to raise our employees’ awareness about the importance of the COP21 and combating global warming. Arc France www.arc-intl.com 1 04 avenue du Général de Gaulle, 62510 Arques +33(0)3 21 95 46 67 caroline.barbier@arc-intl.com 12 Arc France renews its AEO certification DGCM council The Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) label etc.). It certifies that our company complies with DGMC has set up a Staff Commitment Council is a voluntary scheme run in partnership with custom-procedure requirements and controls which takes into account the emotional state the French customs authority. Arc France has risks concerning the safety of imports and of its employees: passionate, energetic, and been AEO-certified since February 2013. This exports. committed to their work. The Council establishes certification is recognized at European level Arc France has renewed this certification in what each employee’s basic needs are: and will soon be acknowledged by many non2016, highlighting its continuing commitment to training, tools and resources, communication, EU countries (United States, Canada, Japan, complying with safety guidelines. acknowledgement, job development and management strategy. To do this, the Council Inter-company basket-ball tournament has defined an environment based on the M.A.G.I.C (Meaningful work, Autonomy, Growth, The site in Ras-Al-Khaimah (United Arab Impact, Connection) model. The Council meets Emirates) regularly organizes sports each month to discuss each topic and decide competitions on the site. The events help to on one or more actions to be implemented. With build team spirit, while keeping employees in this in mind, a poster campaign was deployed shape. However, AIME also takes part in interportraying smiling, eager company events. In 2015, two teams from the employees, and factory took part in a basket-ball tournament. a DGMC They showed just how athletic and skilful they T-shirt was are by reaching the semi-finals. Well done to the designed players, and the supporters who turned out to and printed,… encourage them. “Women and Engineering initiative” *: prepare the future with the new generations The third edition of this annual initiative took encourage them to train in these areas. engineers in industry, occupational relations place in November 2015 and an operation In the morning, two female engineers from between men and women, salaries, family and was organized in a middle school near the Arc France gave a presentation about their work-life balance, etc. The pupils thoroughly Arques site for the occasion. The aim of the education and career paths to 75 school girls in enjoyed the presentation, and we hope it helped day was to help young girls find out about jobs the ninth grade. Many subjects were addressed, some of them discover their vocation. in engineering, research and technology and to such as statistics about the number of female *is a French national initiative aimed at promoting engineering careers among women. 13 Put the beautiful within the reach of all, such is the ADN of Arc Group. Then every day, our glass experts IMPROVING design and made products that follow and answer to the CONSUMERS’ QUALITY customer expectations worldwhild. The Arc Group put its OF LIFE extensive technical expertise to innovate and provide more «responsible» products that safeguard the health of consumers and make their lives easier. The Luminarc and Cristal d’Arques Comparative analysis of materials / catalogs MOOC on Eco-design go green… In 2015, a multi-disciplinary team made up of to promote eco-design in the company, notably In order to protect the environment while staff from product development, packaging and with R&D and marketing teams. It was used as maintaining the same level of quality, the 2016 sustainable development departments from Arc the basis for a more wide-ranging study about Luminarc and Cristal d’Arques Paris catalogs are France followed a MOOC (Massive Open Online eco-design which began in 2016. The results being printed on PEFC or FSC certified recycled Course) on eco-design. The course was based on will be published soon! paper. These certifications guarantee that the a case study and enabled the employees to learn paper is produced from sustainably-managed about eco-design and to study a specific Group forests, which are environmentally friendly, product. The Keep’n’Box storage container was socially beneficial and economically viable. studied by the working group and then assessed The whole supply and distribution chain must by third-party novices with notions of eco-design be certified for the endconcepts. The assessment was extremely product to obtain positive, regarding the work carried out and the certification. product’s characteristics. The study was used A photo with a smile The Group Arc has its own photo studio which enables the company to take pictures of products, either alone or in a specific setting. With this in mind, Group employees can volunteer to act as models in the photos. This is a great way of mixing work and pleasure and acknowledging employees. Then, do you recognize this colleague ? 15 Everyone is talking about Luminarc In spring 2015, Luminarc launched a major of a month. Friends and followers could win gifts gesture was rewarded with a 50% reduction on communication campaign about glass on the from the brand’s collections. the purchase of a Pure Box glass container. A social networks, notably through its Facebook total of 13.6 tons of plastic were collected in a account. The aim was to underline the fact that Following on from the “Green Wednesday” month thanks to the operation. The containers the properties of glass make it a healthy material campaign, a recycling operation was launched were recycled into plastic beads by PAPREC with a low environmental impact. in partnership with 550 E.Leclerc stores during one of the leading recycling companies in In partnership with Marmiton, Luminarc the months of May and June. Customers were Europe. These beads are then used to produce proposed activities, thematic meetings and asked to bring back their old plastic storage new items. competitions on the topic of health and the containers to participating stores. This environment every Wednesday over the course environmentally-friendly 16 The Arc Group further develops its long-standing partnership with IKEA In June 2015, Arc France inaugurated Furnace These values are an integral part of IKEA’s P with representatives from IKEA in attendance. IWAY code of conduct, which sets out the key The furnace produces opal glass especially for criteria that suppliers must comply with, such IKEA products. It is the result of a strong and as child labor, the environment and safety. All long-standing partnership between the Group our Group’s sites have been IWAY-certified since Arc, the world leader in tableware, and IKEA, 2015. This means that each site is authorized to the leading furniture and interior-decoration produce for IKEA, whether in China, the United brand. It represents a direct link between the Arab Emirates or France. two companies, which share the same values in terms of sustainable development, in France and around the world. 17 Throughout our products’ life-cycles, the Arc Group PRODUCING BETTER provides solutions and innovates to reduce its impact on the environment, whether in terms of energy, raw materials or waste. Control of the consumptions NRJ Project One of the main environmental impacts of glassand the optimization of combustion in melting Technical aspects: energy audit, identification manufacturing is related to energy consumption. furnaces. of losses and action plans With this in mind, Arc has been working for many Performance indicators have been established Organizational aspects: review of indicators years to continuously improve its manufacturing and are monitored by Management each month. and responsibilities processes. In 2015, a reduction of approximately 17% was Cultural aspects: improving skills and chanIn the United States, DGMC has implemented a recorded relative to 2012. A great example to ging culture scheme to manage energy consumption more follow. The project will be conducted throughout 2016 effectively and improve employees’ behavior as In 2015, the French site of Arc Group decided to and continue through the energy management regards this issue. Several initiatives have been carry out a complete energy audit, going further system and the launched such as the “Energy Fridays”, and the than standard regulatory audit requirements. implementation of creation of an “Agree to Recycle and Conserve” Indeed, a major project was launched on the actions over several (ARC) mascot. On the technical side, some of Arques site at the end of 2015 with a view to years. the main initiatives include the improvement of improving energy management and obtaining facilities and equipment such as burners, the ISO 50001 certification by the end of 2016. installation of more efficient heat insulation, The Solwatt project focuses on three key areas: Glass melt. Protection of cold-end chambers (NRJ) The decorations applied to items have to go were carried out the heating and cooling times and increases flexibility while reducing energy through an annealing process. Depending used to be quite long, around 16 hours. This time consumption. on the type of decorations, the annealing has been reduced to less than 3 hours thanks temperature can vary and when changeovers to new insulation and casing. This saves time Eco-design Arc France has launched the MOTION project environmental impacts, improve material flows innovative environmentally-friendly solutions. which aims to improve the technical and and optimize recycling at the end of a product’s The project is run in partnership with other environmental performance of the molds used life, for example. industrial companies, universities and schools. for manufacturing glass items. The project MOTION has contributed to the creation of a The ADEME is also actively involved in terms of includes an eco-design and life-cycle analysis new recycling line for steel, cast iron and other funding, advice and monitoring. component. This study will help reduce alloys and has accelerated the development of 19 Combining performance and environmental protection Furnace R at Arques in France is unique within smoke filtering process capable of treating development of a new glass formulation with a the Group. It melts ceramic glass. nitrogen oxide gases (NOx). The filter has more environmentally-friendly refining method. It was rebuilt in 2012 and has thus benefited reduced the amount of NOx emitted per ton of from certain innovations. The furnace was glass produced by 82%. designed using digital modeling that made it This research project was co-financed by the possible to improve performance, decrease European ERDF fund and was managed by the greenhouse gas emissions and reduce energy French Environment and Energy Management consumption by 18%. The last brick in the long Agency (ADEME). line of innovations was the installation of a new Research studies also resulted in the A competition Inter-subsidiaries for a safer Arc An international competition was launched WIND (U.A.E.), THE NEED FOR SPEED! (USA) and the facilities are subject to wear and tear, throughout the Arc Group in 2015. The and MICHELANGELO (Russia)… for no added value. By reducing the changeover “International Changeover Challenge” was The environmental impact of production times as much as possible, we therefore reduce organized in the various subsidiaries. The aim changeovers is not well documented. A melting the associated environmental impacts. People was to find the best solutions for reducing furnace does not stop operating; it continues to sometimes forget that one of the best ways to production changeover times while ensuring heat up whatever is happening on the thermoimprove environmental performance in industry operator safety. forming machines. If a machine is stopped, is to simply improve output levels by reducing Thirty-one teams from five sites took part in molten glass is still produced. During the time this type of waste. the challenge to try to achieve and confirm it takes to change the tools, molds and settings the “Formula 1” level changeover time. They on the machine, the glass is directed under the had to think about every possible solution, and furnace to be rapidly cooled so it breaks into be creative, but above all they had to consider thousands of small pieces called cullet, which staff safety. The names of the teams give you is then re-injected directly into the melting an idea of the creativity and good humor that furnace. The glass is not lost because it is surrounded the challenge: RAID BULL (France), recycled, but additional energy is needed to FAST & FURIOUS (China), BLOWING IN THE produce it, atmospheric emissions are given off 20 Reducing atmospheric emissions in China Furnace chimneys are the main source of storage area by covering it with a roof and sideatmospheric emissions, but they can also be walls. Cullet is not a hazardous product for the due to particles from raw materials being stirred environment because glass is inert. However, up and escaping into the air during unloading, this helps maintain the cleanliness of the site storage or handling operations. To prevent this and the surrounding area. type of pollution, AGN has improved its cullet Decorated-item recovery In the decoration unit at Arc France, the raw the breakage rate and to recover compliant materials are not just the decorative products items that were previously sent for crushing. themselves but also the glass items on which Between 2013 and 2015, the breakage rate they are applied. dropped by 60%! An improvement project launched in 2014 This is due to increasing awareness of the identified several actions that were then economic and environmental implications optimized in 2015. Certain improvements of these actions among employees, and focused on the technical performance of the particularly the teams in the field. production facilities, and others addressed organizational issues, flows and material use. As such, initiatives were deployed to reduce Hevea collection. River transport in Arques Historically, glass-production factories were location is a great advantage for transporting In 2015, some 300,000 tons of raw materials generally situated next to rivers, so they had raw materials to the Arques site, which has a were delivered by easy access to water and could use the rivers raw-materials storage area right on the side of barge. If these were deas a means of transport. In the past, roads were the canal. livered by road, it would not well maintained and so this type of transport Some of these storage facilities have been moved require more than made it possible to ship the products without too to make them more accessible for barges, and in7,000 trucks a year, i.e. many bumps and shocks. Today, this waterside crease the volumes that can be delivered in this way. around 30 day! 21 The expertise and commitment of our staff are valuable DEVELOPING assets for the Group. Protecting their health and safety, EMPLOYEES’ SKILLS providing a pleasant working environment and developing their skills are priorities for the company. This key AND POTENTIAL management objective must be shared by all the staff so as to form part of the company’s culture. 22 Training Each year, Arc France makes a point of organizing a diploma-award ceremony to acknowledge internship and give their first impressions about the factory. At the end of the internship, a full Vocational training contributes to improving employees. In 2015, the ceremony awarded review is carried out with the management team. the company’s performance. During this period 173 diplomas 3 times more than the previous of change, the training policy is of genuine year obtained through Validation of Acquired strategic importance. Training supports the Experience (VAE) schemes, Individual Training implementation of changes, from a technical and Leave (the French CIF scheme), qualificationcultural point of view. It also allows the company based training courses or through personal A win-win partnership to prepare for the future by ensuring skills are initiatives and apprenticeship contracts. SupMéca is an engineering school in Paris handed down to the younger generations by The diploma-certificates were awarded to that trains multi-disciplinary engineers for employees who are nearing retirement. the employees and trainees by a member of international careers. Their Specialized Master’s Management. degree trains students in Lean Management, ergonomics and ergonomic movement. Arc France took in eight young students from different backgrounds (Chile, Morocco, Libya, Spain) for a 6-day internship. The challenge was Supporting the transformation to achieve “zero load carrying” on a line where of the Arc Group the weights moved can reach as much as 20 tons Successfully implementing the Arc Group’s per work station! The project gave the students strategy, means providing employees with the Preparing the opportunity to discover what requisite support. This support becomes a reality for the world of work working on a production line was in particular by vocational training for employees In order to give young people a full appreciation really like and to offer their who had changed jobs, as well as training of the professional world and to identify potential ideas and experience to modules to explain the strategy and certain of its future employees, DGMC (in the USA) launched improve the ergonomics at principles, such as Lean Management. an internship program in partnership with the work stations. Significant preparatory work was carried out in a number of local and international middle 2015 in order to identify needs and the types schools and high schools. Managers assess their of courses required. At the same time, a certain requirements, then the HR department puts number of in-house courses were designed. These them in touch with potential interns. training courses will be rolled out in 2016, notably At the start of the internship, each intern is asked in the fields of sales, logistics and manufacturing. to write a short summary of their assignment With this in mind, the 2016 training budget will and to present it, in order to demonstrate their be doubled in relation to 2015 and will represent communication skills. Interns must also explain 5.8% of the payroll. which skills they hope to develop during the 23 The program of Work-study: A strategic project to prepare a sustainable future One of the keys to the success of Arc France in This new type of vocational training contract In 2015, a total of 120 young people were hired the coming years will be the company’s ability enables the company to take in new employees on permanent contracts after their training to ensure the effective transfer of expertise and and train them specifically for the needs of their period. attract new talent in order to build for the future job. What makes this training scheme different and turn the age pyramid around; over the next is that it can be carried out entirely in-house. 5 years, more than 250 employees will retire on New employees on the scheme are mentored average each year. by an experienced member of staff. The aim is With this in mind, The Arc Group put in place a to provide these new employees directly with the ambitious program of work-study which will take specific skills required for their work. The scheme place during several years is an effective way of transmitting specific In 2015, 139 work-study contracts were signed company expertise and building a sense of by the company (51 apprenticeship contracts belonging and loyalty among new employees, by and 88 vocational training contracts). ensuring they are well integrated in the company. A total of 80% of these contracts are in areas The aim of the Arc Group is that 80% of trainees linked to production: machine operating, on work-study schemes obtain a permanent maintenance of molds and equipment, and contract after their training period of 12 or 24 machining. months. In conjunction with the operational teams, the The apprenticeship managers and tutors play training department has developed in-house an essential role in ensuring the company’s training courses (10% of the vocational training expertise is handed down to young trainees; contracts) given by internal trainers. The indeed, around 150 people are involved in the scheme is called “Prodiat by Opcalia”. scheme at one moment or another. Ergonomics and working conditions Ergonomics aims to adjust occupational tasks This practice is becoming more widespread processes. However, staff still need to have to the people that carry them out, in order to and the issue is increasingly taken into account a greater understanding and awareness of improve working conditions, as well as employee by operational staff when designing new ergonomics for this issue to become an integral health and safety. equipment, or updating certain workshops and part of our company culture. 24 Ergonomics In 2015, Arc France launched a comprehensive In addition, the packaging workshops have been program to improve working conditions, following fitted with anti-fatigue mats and the operator on from the ergonomics projects carried out in booths in the production workshop will soon be airthe company over the last few years. conditioned. Studies are ongoing as regards the This extensive program had two main objectives: installation of additional lifting tables on the site. ● Improve staff common areas to foster contact These wide-ranging initiatives meet the and discussions between colleagues so that requirements of different work stations and the they can get to know each other better and thus constraints of operators. Above all, they have work more effectively improved employees’ working conditions. ● Reduce health issues due to bad posture and Drawing on the results of in-depth studies and repetitive gestures work carried out by the ergonomics advisor, On the Arques site, new, more comfortable human resources, the occupational doctor chairs were installed at the work stations in the and, naturally, with the employees themselves, molding workshop and the cold-end chamber. the budget for this major program has been Anti-fatigue mats. These adjustable chairs or “sit-stand” stools multiplied by five. This is a long-term project users’ needs and expectations can take time. are perfectly suited to the types of movements since it involves optimizing the health and safety It must then be approved, but this is vital if the carried out by the employees, who often work aspects and also getting workers to buy into equipment is to be accepted and effective in standing up, and are far more comfortable than the changes. Finding the equipment that fits terms of its use. those used previously. Reduction in load-carrying operations You need metal molds to make items out up to 80kg and it therefore takes two people to of glass. The molds can be quite heavy, transfer them to the work table. depending on the size of the items to be The Methods Department of the STN Unit made, which can range from a coffee has produced a tool that a delivers the mold/ cup to a window for a washing-machine core/circle set ready for use and which can be door. When the molds are manufactured handled directly by a goods-handling machine. or changed during production runs, Then, a tray with rollers is used to transfer the they must be handled by operators. equipment, thus reducing musculo-skeletal The largest molds, such as those for disorders (MSD) and optimizing changeovers washing-machine windows, can weigh using just one person. Washing machine window. 25 Reorganization Occupational well-being project Renovation and layout of packaging areas A major renovation project is under way at Arc France. The staff in the Packaging Unit took part Part of the roof of the STN furnace has been in 15 brain-storming workshops as part of replaced to create a skylight, by using transparent the deployment of the “mini-companies” or roof panels rather than opaque panels. The Autonomous Units. furnace workshop is therefore much brighter, The workshops were used to present the various which improves the working environment while concepts of the Autonomous Units but also also reducing electricity costs for lighting. gave employees the chance to suggest a certain The degraded floor needed renovating and was number of improvements. Continuing in the same vein of change and re-coated with a resin. Adhesive floor-markings For example, this resulted in the creation renewal, the “Occupational well-being” project were also laid, making the floor easier to clean and of a relaxation area, improvements to the was launched at Arques in 2015. Several creating more flexibility in terms of the use of the storage zones and the organization of a system initiatives were deployed and tested with space. The lavatories were also renovated (floor, concerning areas of responsibility managed by employees in order to improve relations, services walls, furniture). field supervisors. and opportunities to relax with colleagues. What are the initial results? Cleaner work This included renovating the green spaces by spaces, better working conditions and greater installing benches and picnic tables so that staff occupational well-being. could take coffee breaks outside or have lunch in the sun. These structures were made by the Briqueterie Workshop a workshop for young STN sanitary. people on professional integration schemes within the company. They encourage employees Previously, here and in the STN cold-end chamber, to share convivial moments together. the floor coating and overall visual management A second initiative was to propose cultural, did not make it easy to distinguish between the leisure or sports activities during the lunch break. different activities or the strategic safety points. Today, employees at Arc France can take part in art-therapy workshops, which aim to use artistic Thanks to the work of the STN teams, the floor expression and creativity to foster personal coating is now of better quality and the traffic aisles development. Qigong is also on the lunch-time more visible. The working environment is also program once a week. Employees can practice brighter and more pleasant. “When there is yellow this traditional Chinese gymnastic activity that or red, you know you have to be careful!” says an combines slow movements, breathing exercises employee. “It’s a much nicer environment for the and concentration. people who work here.” 26 Health and Safety: etc.) to be worn according to a person’s location (outdoors, mixing room, laboratory, tunnel, etc.). A jury decided on the winners of the competition according to several categories: the bushiest The health and safety of employees is the top The results of another workshop on the Arques beard, the longest moustache, etc. The fun side priority for the Group. This involves constantly site were not far behind. Indeed, the AEC of the initiative ensured it was a great success. improving working conditions and changing the workshop which designs and manufactures culture of managers and teams. Each individual machines for the Group’s factories and for is becoming increasingly aware of their external customers also celebrated 1,000 days Safety for all responsibility regarding their personal safety with no lost-time accidents. The issue of safety also concerns many customers, and that of others. partners and external suppliers that visit the Occupational health company each day. The Arques site has created A new safety record for the in the United States a welcome video in French and English. It explains Composition Workshop In the United States, DGMC general safety rules to all people entering the site, has made occupational such as parking and traffic rules,personal protective health issues a priority. For equipment, safety regulations in production areas several years now, DGMC and instructions for the emergency evacuation of has been organizing events and the site. The video is projected at the reception campaigns within the company to help employees so that people are familiar with the various points take care of their health, with the fewest possible before they enter the site. constraints. Safety is an issue that concerns everyone every In 2015, a huge awareness-raising campaign on The “Minute Papillon”! day, and the Composition Workshop at Arc France various key issues was launched and rolled out At the end of the year, to ensure safety remains has fully understood this principle. The raw over the course of several months. foremost in everyone’s mind,the Safety Department materials required for manufacturing glass are Employees had the opportunity to support the launched the “Minute Papillon!” (Butterfly Minute) unloaded, stored and prepared in this workshop. American Heart Association by purchasing paper campaign. Employees are encouraged to think In 2015, the workshop recorded over 1,000 days hearts. In so doing, they also learn more about for a minute about best practices so as to ensure with no lost-time accidents and 500 days with no cardiovascular diseases. they work in complete safety. The campaign’s key accidents at all. The record was duly celebrated In October, a tombola and product sale collected message is “Think before you act”. It encourages by the team and the Management at a breakfast $2,740, which were donated to breast-cancer staff to take the time to carry out their assignments meeting, during which everyone’s individual role research. safely, by not hurrying and by asking themselves in this achievement was underlined. In November, a “No shave” initiative was organized “Am I safe?” and “What are the risks?” before they One of the best practices that made this record to collect funds to help combat prostate cancer. carry out an action. possible was the deployment of a PPE (Personal Employees simply had to pay $5 to enroll and then These reflexes are becoming second nature, Protective Equipment) matrix which sets out let their beard grow and promise to pay up to $20 but it is always worthwhile giving people an extra the recommended PPE (gloves, goggles, masks, in exchange for a “Moustache collection” glass. reminder. 27 Sharing, solidarity and regional investment have always been SHARING core company values. These are the anchoring points that OUR VALUES stabilize the company during periods of change and mobilize employees around local projects. Open the company to the young people OSZ city college Employing young people In Russia, OSZ has established a partnership with As part of the French Industry Week, several The Purchasing Department on the Arques local technical colleges and glass-makers where groups of high-school pupils were received by the site received some forty students in their 5th young people study to become line foremen, Training Department at Arc France. Organized by year at ISCID (Institut Supérieur de Commerce quality controllers or fitters. In order to place the French Ministry of Education, this event aims International [Higher Institute of International the students in real situations, the factory takes to give pupils an insight into the world of industry Trade]) who had the opportunity to attend a them in for their internships or practical projects. and the jobs available in the sector. presentation about the Group and in particular In addition, through the career guidance Accompanied by their teachers, the youngsters the Purchasing Department. Following this, there scheme, groups of students are able to visit the visited the factory to discover the ins-and-outs of was a Q/A and discussion session during which site to get a better understanding of the different glass production. Many of them were extremely the students could gather useful information for professions and thereby orient their studies interested and asked many questions about their future professional lives. according to the jobs they are most interested in. careers in glass-making and industry. Dinnerware for Taking in people in difficulty «Copains du Monde» “Dons Solidaires” (Solidarity Gifts) acts as a have to deal with this emergency. Every summer, the “Copains du Monde” (Friends bridge between companies and charities. The With this in mind, Arc Group decided to help of the World) village in Gravelines in Northern association collects new non-food products for these asylum seekers by providing associations France enables 300 under-privileged children to the most needy. working in the field with tableware products. As have a holiday. Aged 9 to 13, the children come Europe has been facing an exceptional such, the company donated several thousand from 25 countries to enjoy their holidays and humanitarian crisis for several months now. end-of-series items which enabled around discover a rich cultural diversity. This initiative Thousands of refugees are arriving in Europe, 6,000 families to eat their meals using g l a s s has existed for 10 years. including France, where they can be taken into tableware. Last July, Arc France decided to show special shelters. Humanitarian associations its support for the “Copains du Monde” village by donating tableware. Distribute This was an opportunity for the world leader in tableware to Give Share support a local association that GIVE › DISTRIBUTE › SHARE works to defend children’s rights. 29 Multi-sport race In August, the Arc France Sports and consisted of a 300km race involving mountainCultural Association hosted the Finals of the biking, running, canoeing, Run&Bike and “Championnats de France de Raid multisports” rollerskating at night and during the day. Each (French multi-sport race championship). The team was made up of three people and involved participants included several teams ranked in orienteering skills. the world’s Top Ten. The program of this event Employee support Brazil cooking In South Africa, having access to education is For several years now, Arc International Brazil children have thus had the opportunity to meet not always easy. Within this context, Arc South has been supporting the “Chefs Especiais” well-known Brazilian and French chefs such as Africa enabled Sylvia, one of its employees, to association which organizes culinary workshops Henrique Fogaça and Olivier Anquier. complete her secondary-school education by for children with Down’s Syndrome. This Arc International Brazil supplies them with contributing financially to her training. Thanks organization teaches children how to cook like plates, salad bowls and glasses. More information to this, she managed to obtain her diploma. professionals. Each month, the children cook at their website and serve at different catering events. From time (http://chefsespeciais.wix.com/chefs) to time, the association invites a famous and on Facebook. chef to cook with the children. The 30 A member of the global compact 3 10 Arc was quick to understand the importance of sustainable development and was one Labor conditions Anti-corruption of the first French companies to sign the United Nations Global Compact in 2003. This ● Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the free● Principe 10 : Businesses should work against voluntary initiative was driven by Philippe dom of association and the effective recognition corruption in all its forms, including extortion Durand, then Chairman and CEO of the Group of the right to collective bargaining and bribery and shareholder. The Group’s values were ● Principe 4 : Businesses should contribute to the The principles are universal and apply to all our and remain similar to those of the Global elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory activities and sites. The United Nations Global Compact’s principles. As such, the company’s labor Compact is recognized around the world and by employees fully understood and integrated ● Principe 5 : Businesses should contribute to the all our customers, for whom it is a guarantee of the Group’s membership. effective abolition of child labor good social and environmental practices. In the years that followed, actions for ● Principe 6 : Businesses should contribute to These ten principles are illustrated through improvement were identified and implemented, the elimination of discrimination in respect of the different initiatives presented in this report. and a first sustainable development report was employment and occupation In order to make reading the report simpler, published in 2005. Since that time, a report the table below shows the links between best has been published each year and posted as practices and the principles of the Global Communication on Progress (CoP) on the Global 9 Compact. Compact website. Environment Les 10 principles of the Global Compact are divided into 4 main themes: ● Principe 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 1 ● Principe 8 : Businesses should take initiatives to Human rights promote greater environmental responsibility WE SUPPORT ● Principe 9 : Businesses should encourage the ● Principle 1 : Businesses should support and development and diffusion of environmentally respect the protection of internationally friendly technologies proclaimed human rights ● Principle 2 : Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 31 Correspondence table CATEGORIES PRINCIPLES POLICIES AND BEST PRACTICES REFERENCES Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the Internal regulations and HR policy protection of internationally proclaimed human Ethical Code ID rights 2. Businesses should make sure that they are Internal regulations and HR policy not complicit in human rights abuses Audits a tour « high-risk » supplier ID Ethical Code International Labor 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of Internal regulations and HR policy Standard association and the effective recognition of the ID right to collective bargaining 4. Businesses should contribute to the The Group’s « A Safe Arc Together » project to p. 27 elimination of all forms of forced and improve and safety throughout the Group compulsory labor Improvement of working conditions: p. 25 ergonomics, noise reduction, field improvement groups, change in working hours 5. Businesses should contribute to the effective Aid for various associations supporting people p. 29 /30 abolition of child labor with difficulties around the world (Copains du Monde, Don Solidaire, Cooking Bresil) 6. Businesses should contribute to the Generation Contract p. 23 elimination of discrimination in respect of The program of Work-study p. 24 employment and occupation The Lobel Workshop : a disability-friendly AP workshop on the Arques site The Briqueterie Workshop for young people AP on professional integration schemes on the Arques site Support for the « Ecole de la 2 è chance » AP School for a second chance in Saint Omer Women and Engineering initiative p.13 32 CATEGORIES PRINCIPLES POLICIES AND BEST PRACTICES REFERENCES Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary Optimization and control of energy p. 19 approach to environmental challenges consumption APS Environment p. 20 Development of multi-mode transport p. 21 8. Businesses should take initiatives to Sustainable Development Week: activities and p. 11 promote greater environmental responsability awareness raising initiatives in France European week of the reduction of waste p. 11 Waste-sorting in offices AP Work on a tool that calculates water AP consumption International Labor 9. Businesses should encourage the Integration of eco-design principles in p. 15 /19 Standard development and diffusion of packaging: eco-design award environmentally friendly technologies The Motion Project p. 19 Combating corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption Code of Ethics and purchasing confidentiality AP in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Code of Ethics of the Group AP ID : Internal documents AP : Action in place. 33 Environmental indicators CO 2 Emissions 2008 2013 2014 2015 Metric tons of CO 2 emitted per GROUP 1,25 1,13 1,07 1,07 metric ton of glass produced Evolution VS 2008 -9,6% -14,4% -14,4% CO 2 emissions continue to gradually decline. The drop was almost 15% since 2008. The actions to improve energy efficiency are being successful. Water consumption M 3 of water per metric ton of glass produced 2008 2013 2014 2015 GROUP 6,3 7,28 7,34 6,98 Evolution VS 2008 +15,6% +16,5% +10,8% Water consumption are dependent on the activity of the furnaces, and if the industrial process is not saturated, consumption relating deteriorate, which has been the case for the last years. 34 Recycled wastes including production wastes This represents the proportion of waste generated by the company that have been recycled. In this proportion are included the 2011 2013 2014 2015 production waste, cullet, and other recyclables, such as cardboard GROUP 95,6 % 95,5 % 94,9 % 96,3 % for example. This share is important and is improving, particularly with the actions of cullet recycling. The few % earned are now thanks Evolution VS 2011 -0,10% -0,73 % +0,73 % to advanced research on the very specific recycled stream. Production of recycled wastes Metric tons for the group 2008 2013 2014 2015 PLASTICS 875 642 626 697,25 Evolution VS 2008 -26,7% -28,4% -20,3% METALS 3238 1 483 1 059 1 251 Evolution VS 2008 -54,2% -67,3% -61,4% PAPER 10 348 5 977 5 898 5 689 Evolution VS 2008 -42,2% -43% -45% In 2015 the decrease in waste generation of the collection, sorting and reprocessing of continues to reach more than 60% for metal, waste, but especially on the production at the 45% for paper and 20% plastic. This significant source of the waste. reduction is a reflection of a general awareness 35 Social indicators Employees of the group 2012 2013 2014 2015 Distribution of the staff of the Group GROUP 13 642 10 520 10 360 10 162 Evolution VS 2012 -25,51% Safety Frequency rate number of accidents with sick leave x 1 000 000 / number of working hours 2012 2013 2014 2015 GROUP 5,62 5,3 4,5 4,8 Evolution VS 2012 -14,6% This reduction is the result of a policy Group « A Arc Safe Together « led since a few years. 36 Training Investment in training % of payroll (Arc France) 2012 2013 2014 2015 Arc France 2,79 % 2,46 % 2,15 % 2,15% Evolution VS 2012 0,64% The rate of training is stable in 2015. Inclusion Employment of people with disabilities (Arc France) 2012 2013 2014 2015 Arc France 9,48 % 10,31% 10,45 % 9,88 % French legal rate 6 % Evolution VS 2012 + 0, 4 % The population of Arc France has a curve of ageing population which explains a light evolution of the number of people declared with a handicap. Nevertheless, the ergonomics studies and gives employees of the ways and the tools which allow better conditions at the workstation. 37 Notes CONTACT Caroline BARBIER Sustainable Development Manager Arc 104 avenue du Général de Gaulle Arques France Tel : +33 3 21 95 46 67 GSM : + 33 6 50 69 13 42 caroline.barbier@arc-intl.com AN 169/16 Conception graphique et photos : Arc Design Rédaction : S. Leleu et C. Barbier Chef&Sommelier, Arcoroc, Cristal d’Arques, Luminarc, Arcopal, are brands of the Arc Group. www.arc-intl.com Printed on 100% recycled paper
