Communication on Progress 2015 We unite Norway – and Norway with the world 2 AVINOR AS THE YEAR 50 000 000 724 000 3 157 PASSENGERS DEPARTURES AND EMPLOYEES LANDINGS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 3 300 000 88 PER CENT PATIENT FLIGHTS PUNCTUALITY 4 AVINOR AS Our performance NOK MILLION 2015 2014 2013 2012 Operating income airport operations 9 424.1 9 561.5 9 001.1 8 255.8 Operating income air navigation services 2 087.6 2 014.8 1 897.3 1 837.1 Total operating income group 11 989.4 10 671.0 9 977.6 9 152.1 EBITDA group 4 691.8 3 648.3 2 993.0 2 918.2 Profit after tax 2 449.0 1 398.7 890.9 854.7 Number of air passengers (figures in 1 000) 50 024.9 50 106.8 48 799.0 46 511.0 Number of aircraft movements (figures in 1 000) 724.1 738.1 731.1 669.0 Operating income Operating income airport operations air navigation services Profit after tax 9 424.1 2 087.6 2 449.0 NOK MILLION NOK MILLION NOK MILLION NUMBER OF AIR PASSENGERS AVINOR’S OWN CONTROLLABLE GREENHOUSE GAS EMIISSIONS 2011-2015 2011-2015 Figures in 1 000 Tonnes CO2-eq. 60 000 25 000 50 000 20 000 40 000 15 000 30 000 10 000 20 000 5 000 10 000 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 5 Content About Avinor A message from the CEO 6 8 Report of the Board of Directors 2015 11 Corporate governance 16 Corporate social responsibility 20 Overview of indicators 50 The Group Management 56 The Board of Directors 57 Income statement 60 Statement of comprehensive income 61 Balance sheet 62 Changes in equity 64 Statement of cashflows 66 Notes to the accounts 68 Responsibility Statement from the Board of Directors and the CEO 115 Auditor’s report 116 6 AVINOR AS About Avinor Avinor is a wholly-owned state limited company under the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Avinor is responsible for the 46 state-owned airports and air navigation services for civil and military aviation in Norway. Twelve airports are operated in cooperation with the Norwegian Armed Forces. In 2014, the air navigation services were organised in a separate company, wholly owned by Avinor. VISION MISSION VALUES We create Avinor shall develop · Open valuable and operate a safe, · Accountable relationships efficient and sustainable · Dynamic aviation system · Customerthroughout Norway focused COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 7 Avinor is self-funded. Airport operations are managed as a single unit, in which financially profitable airports finance the financially unprofitable airports. Avinor’s primary sources of income are fees collected from the airlines and passengers, as well as commercial revenue from renting out space for shops, duty-free shops, cafés and restaurants and other services. Avinor also receives income from renting out space for airport hotels and parking facilities. Oslo Airport is the hub for Norwegian air traffic and a junction for traffic between Norway and other countries. This airport alone handles half the OUR AIRPORTS air traffic in Norway, and the profit from Oslo Airport is key in financing Avinor’s airports vary greatly in terms of size and the network of airports across the country. traffic volume. Oslo Airport is by far the largest airport and handles more than half of the air trafSafety has the highest priority in Avinor. Norwegian aviation had no fic in Norway and 70 per cent of all international accidents with personal injuries in 2014 or 2015 where Avinor was a traffic. Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim also contributory party. All incidents of a certain severity are followed up have significant international traffic. There is also carefully in accordance with national regulations. international traffic from some other airports, such as Tromsø, Bodø, Molde, Ålesund, The total number of passengers (scheduled, charter and offshore) at Haugesund, Kristiansand and Kristiansund. Avinor’s airports was 50 023 416 in 2015, down 0.2 per cent from 2014. Only Oslo Airport has two parallel runways. This is the first year traffic has declined since 2009. International traffic Stavanger Airport has a secondary runway continued to increase and rose by a total of 1.5 per cent, compared with which is used in special wind conditions. Traffic the previous year. At Oslo Airport, the number of passengers was 24 678 prognoses indicate a need for a third runway at 195, up 17 per cent compared with 2014. Offshore-related traffic was Oslo Airport in 2030. A second runway will also down by 11.7 per cent. This was linked to the downturn in the oil and be necessary at Bergen Airport, Flesland around gas industry. 2040. A total of 724 094 departures and landings took place at Avinor’s The length of the runways at Oslo Airport is airports, down 3 per cent from the previous year. The number of flights 3 600 metres. At the other major airports, the through Norwegian airspace increased by 6.1 per cent. runways are 2 600 approx. 3 000 metres, which means large jets can use them. 27 of Avinor’s 46 airports are short runway airports, with The shares in Avinor AS are wholly-owned by the Norwegian state as runways of between 800 and 1 200 metres and represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC). no more than two or three scheduled flights a The MTC manages the state’s ownership and stipulates Avinor’s day. These can only be used by smaller aircraft financial framework. In addition, the MTC regulates Avinor’s revenues such as Dash 8, air ambulances and private from airport fees, and is responsible for establishing performance targets planes. The 27 small airports are of great signififor air navigation services. The MTC is the highest authority for cance in sustaining settlement and business and Norwegian aviation and also lays down the Civil Aviation Authority’s industry in rural districts. regulations for Avinor’s operations. Avinor’s head office is in Oslo. 8 AVINOR AS A message from the CEO Modernised and ready for the future The Avinor group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the Flight punctuality is our customers' primary concern. In 2015, United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, punctuality at Avinor’s airports was 88 per cent, the same as in Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This Communication 2014. This means that we are doing quite well, compared with on Progress describes our actions to continually improve the other international airports. Punctuality is demanding in Norway, integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our where the weather often presents challenges. business strategy, culture and daily operations. We commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary Safety is Avinor's top priority. In 2015, there were no aviation accichannels of communication. dents in Norwegian aviation where Avinor was a contributory party. Norwegian and international aviation is constantly changing. In Avinor’s goal is to reduce the total greenhouse gas emissions Norway, we have seen a slight decline in traffic over the last year, which the group itself controls, regardless of traffic growth. We for the first time since 2009. This affects the financial situation of also aim to be a driving force in reducing overall greenhouse gas the aviation industry, including Avinor. emissions from Norwegian aviation. In 2015, Avinor’s own greenhouse gas emissions from airport operations were lower than in In 2014, we launched a programme which will modernise our 2012. As of January 2016, Oslo Airport is the first international activities and make them more efficient. Among other measures, airport with regular supplies of biofuel for aircraft. Phase-in of we established a goal of reducing our operating expenses by carbon-neutral biofuel for aircraft is an important contribution NOK 600 million per year as of 2018, compared with our plans to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the aviation industry. at the time. In 2015, we achieved a cost reduction of more than The jet biofuel supplied to Oslo Airport is produced from the NOK 150 million, down 1.7 per cent compared with 2014. As Camelina plant. It is certified, does not contain palm oil and a self-funded corporation, where the major airports finance does not displace food production or rain forest area. Norway’s nation-wide network of airports, efficient operations are particularly important for Avinor. Every bit we earn is spent In spring 2015, Avinor conducted a new assessment of the airport maintaining and developing an infrastructure that our country structure in Norway. Avinor decided not to propose closure of any depends on. airports in the next four years. The precondition for this is that operating costs of the small, local airports are reduced by NOK In Avinor, we want to take overall responsibility for the passenger 100-150 million by 2019. This is a target we will achieve. journey. We are aware that many people find air travel stressful. Consequently, we have introduced a number of measures in The work at Oslo Airport to expand the terminal and build a new recent years which are designed to help everyone, but with North Pier is progressing according to plan, both with regard to special emphasis on passengers with special needs. We focus on costs and progress. The official opening will be on 27 April 2017. making sure security checks are not perceived as problematic, A new terminal at Bergen Airport, Flesland is taking shape and and surveys have shown that we now score high on customer here also work is progressing as scheduled, with official opening satisfaction. Unfortunately, regulations dictate that water cannot on 17 August 2017. be brought through security. Several airports therefore offer free drinking water after the security checkpoints. We have also Remote-controlled towers present an innovation Avinor will initially changed the layout of our shops, including the Duty Free shops, establish at 15 of our smaller units. The first towers will be commisto enhance the experience for our customers. sioned in the course of 2017. We have an exciting year ahead. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 9 Flight punctuality is our customers’ main concern. In 2015, punctuality at Avinor’s airports was 88 per cent, the same as in 2014. This means that we are doing quite well, compared with other international airports. Dag Falk-Petersen CEO WE SUPPORT 10 AVINOR AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 11 Report of the Board of Directors 2015 · Sale of properties, increased revenues per passenger and reduced costs resulted in a profit despite reduced traffic. · The group’s modernisation programme reached its goal by a wide margin – cost savings of more than NOK 150 million in 2015. · The Terminal 2 project at Oslo Airport and Terminal 3 project at Bergen Airport, Flesland are on schedule – both will open in 2017. · From January 2016, Oslo Airport became the first international airport in the world to offer regular supplies of jet biofuels for all airlines. · Avinor has entered into an agreement with Kongsberg Defence Systems for the most comprehensive investment in remotely operated towers ever launched within international aviation. A tower centre is being established in Bodø. · Simpler transfer from International to Domestic introduced at Oslo Airport. MAIN FEATURES OF 2015 (Last year’s figures in parentheses) In 2015, the volume of traffic measured in the number of pasinternational airport in the world to offer regular supplies of sengers at Avinor’s airports was 50.0 million, down 0.2 per cent biofuel. compared with the previous year. The downturn in the oil and gas industry has particularly affected domestic air traffic and offshore In connection with development of remotely operated tower helicopter traffic in Western Norway. Air traffic is expected to services, Avinor entered into an agreement with Kongsberg increase in 2016. However, the socio-economic development may Defence Systems in 2015, with Indra Navia AS as sub-supplier. affect growth. Avinor responds to the increased insecurity with The agreement between Avinor and Kongsberg represents the efficiency and cost reduction measures. most comprehensive investment in remotely operated towers ever launched in international aviation. A tower centre is being Safe and stable operations were maintained in 2015, despite establish in Bodø, scheduled for completion in 2017. Remotely high construction activity combined with ongoing traffic operated towers will reduce tower services costs at Norwegian management. Average punctuality and regularity during the last airports significantly. 12 months were 88 per cent (88 per cent) and 98 per cent (98 per cent), respectively. No aviation accidents occurred in 2015 in On 5 November 2015, following a broad and structured sales which Avinor was a contributing party. process, Avinor signed an agreement with O. G. Ottersland AS regarding the sale of the Radisson BLU Airport Hotel property The group’s operating income in 2015 amounted to NOK 11 989 in Oslo. The sale resulted in a gain for the group of NOK 1 266 million (NOK 10 671 million) and profit after tax totalled NOK 2 448 million. The Board of Directors is satisfied with the asset value million (NOK 1 399 million). The profit for the year was positively creation that have been developed over a long period of time, affected by gains from the sale of hotel property at Gardermoen. and which now have been realised at a good price. The sale was conducted to strengthen the group’s equity and is in line with the As of January 2016, jet biofuel is available for all airlines group’s revised strategy for commercial property. refuelling at Oslo Airport Gardermoen. Oslo Airport is the first 12 AVINOR AS The system of simplified transfer from international to domestic Avinor’s head office is in Oslo, whereas most of the employees are flights at Gardermoen, without passengers having to collect based outside Oslo at the group’s airports and in the air navigatheir luggage, check in and go through security again, has been tion services. expanded. All passengers on Norwegian and SAS who hold a through ticket and have hand luggage only, may benefit from this system, regardless of route combination. For passengers with ECONOMY AND FINANCE GROUP checked-in luggage the system will comprise more routes as Norwegian Customs and Excise, the airlines and Avinor increase The group’s operating income for 2015 amounted to NOK 11 989 their capacity to coordinate passengers and luggage through million (NOK 10 671 million) and profit after tax was NOK 2 449 customs. million (NOK 1 399 million). The increase in The development projects at Oslo Airport Gardermoen, and operating income and profit after tax was mainly due to gains Bergen Airport, Flesland, are on schedule and both are ahead from the sale of property. of budget. The project at Gardermoen is approximately 88 per cent complete and Flesland about 70 per cent complete as of The group’s balance sheet as of 31 December 2015 was NOK 31 December 2015. Both projects are expected to be completed 38 785 million (NOK 33 737 million) with an equity-to-assets ratio according to schedule. of 38.2 per cent (36.2 per cent). Interest on fixed assets was 9.3 per cent (6.4 per cent). The group’s equity-to-assets ratio and interest Many of the airport’s activities are exposed to competition. on fixed assets were strengthened in 2015 due to sale of property The tower service is also expected to become exposed to more and reduced pension obligations. competition than at present. In 2015, the group had a cash flow prior to disbursed dividend The group’s modernisation programme made good progress in and changes in liability of NOK 1 226 million (NOK 1 648 2015 and met its target of NOK 150 million in efficiency improvemillion). Disbursed dividend amounted to NOK 500 million (NOK ment and cost-savings by a wide margin. The group targets total 445 million). To strengthen the group’s equity-to-assets ratio cost savings of NOK 600 million annually from 2018. Targeted during a period of high investments, maximum dividend has been accumulated savings for the period 2015 – 2018 are NOK 1.5 set at NOK 500 million per year for accounting years 2014, 2015, billion. 2016 and 2017. Total interest-bearing liabilities at year-end 2015 amounted to NOK 18 490 million (NOK 15 290 million). The merger between Avinor AS and Oslo Airport AS was completed with effect from 1 January 2016. Due to a downturn in the oil and gas industry, domestic air traffic and offshore helicopter traffic were reduced from 2014, particuOn 21 May 2015, Sandefjord District Court pronounced a larly affecting airports in Western Norway. Overall, domestic judgement in a dispute on payment obligation for air navigation traffic decreased by 1.0 per cent compared with last year, whereas services in the Farris area. The payment claim on Sandefjord international traffic increased by 1.5 per cent. In total, 50.0 Airport, Torp, was dismissed. If the judgement is upheld, it will million passengers went through Avinor’s airports in 2015, down entail uncertain financing of key parts of Norwegian air naviga0.2 per cent compared with the previous year. tion services, which, in the Court’s assessment, are of a “public sector nature”. The decision has been appealed. Underlying operating income, adjusted for sales gains and other items, was reduced by 0.2 per cent in 2015. The operating revenue A judicial appraisement for determining purchase amounts or per passenger was on a par with the previous year. The 0.8 per annual user fees for aviation-critical areas owned by the Armed cent reduction in traffic revenues per passenger was offset by an Forces Værnes Airport was presented on 13 August 2015. Avinor increase in sales and rental revenues. Sales and rental revenues has accordingly reflected NOK 256 million in the balance sheet as within airport operations amounted to 54 per cent of total of 31 December 2015. operating income. In 2015, underlying operating expenses (excluding raw materials ABOUT AVINOR and consumables used, the recognised share of the development project in Gardermoen, changes in value and pension plan Avinor AS is a state-owned limited company whose mission it is changes) constituted NOK 6 735 million (NOK 6 854 million). The to facilitate safe, environmentally friendly and efficient aviation reduction from last year was mainly due to reduced project costs, in all parts of Norway. The enterprise has a network of 46 airports consultancy costs, pension costs and costs related to repairs and and air navigation services for the whole of Norway. At year-end maintenance. The discontinuance of the differentiated employer’s 2015, the enterprise’s balance sheet was NOK 38.8 billion. The contribution as of 1 July 2014 entailed increased costs for Avinor’s number of employees was 3 157. activities in the regions. On an annual basis, the effect constitutes around NOK 40 million. The shares in Avinor AS are wholly-owned by the Norwegian state as represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications In 2015, the group’s modernisation programme met the target of (MTC). The MTC manages the state’s ownership of Avinor, and efficiency improvement and cost savings of NOK 150 million by determines the group's financial framework. The MTC is also the a wide margin. The group targets total cost savings of NOK 600 highest authority for Norwegian aviation and lays down the Civil million annually from 2018. Targeted accumulated savings for the Aviation Authority’s regulations for Avinor’s operations. period 2015 – 2018 are NOK 1.5 billion. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 13 Additional costs of maintaining sound operations and efficient consequences of accidents and serious incidents. Developments traffic management in parallel with the construction of the in regulatory matters relating to air safety procedures and Terminal 2 project at Oslo Airport amounted to NOK 248 million measures may have financial consequences for the group. (before depreciation) (NOK 416 million) and have been carried to expense. Avinor safeguards national sector-policy objectives. The Norwegian state lays down guidelines for a number of factors Total depreciation, amortisation and write-down amounted to including airport structure, emergency preparedness, aviation NOK 1 459 million in 2015 (NOK 1 340 million). The increase was fees and public service obligations. The scope and organisation due to the completion and commissioning of several facilities of sectoral policy guidelines can change over time. previously under construction. Additional depreciation linked to the construction project at Oslo Airport Gardermoen, amounted The enterprise’s recognised business assets are of a long-term to NOK 66 million (NOK 65 million). nature and operations are largely governed by regulations and statutory provisions. Consequently, Avinor has a high share of The group’s net financial loss in 2015 was NOK 329 million (loss fixed costs which vary only slightly according to traffic volume of NOK 369 million). A reduced interest level and increased scope and capacity utilisation. The group’s earnings and financial value of recognised interest cost associated with development projects are affected by changes in traffic volume. have offset the effect of increased interest-bearing debt. Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim airports are a key source Tax expenses in 2015 amounted to NOK 455 million (NOK 538 of financing for the rest of the airport network in Norway. The million). Gains on sale of property through sale of shares are major airports’ earnings are vulnerable to economic cycles and exempt from taxation. competition from airports outside Avinor’s network. Revenues from services and facilities for passengers are key to the ECONOMY AND FINANCE AVINOR AS group’s financing. In particular, framework conditions associated with the Duty Free scheme will have significant impact on the In 2015, the parent company Avinor AS had an operating income group’s earnings and financial value. of NOK 4 987 million (NOK 5 486 million). Profit after tax was NOK 91 million (NOK 187 million). The financial figures are Financial hedging instruments are used to mitigate risk linked to affected by the separation of the air navigation division, which fluctuation of foreign interest rates, exchange rates and energy became a wholly-owned subsidiary as of 1 June 2014. prices. The value of the hedging instruments changes according to prices in the market. When placing the group’s surplus cash, The parent company’s balance sheet as of 31 December 2015 emphasis is placed on the issuer’s financial strength and the amounted to NOK 28 070 million (NOK 23 790 million with an liquidity of the investment. The group’s cash reserves are deposequity-to-assets ratio of 30.5 per cent (36.7 per cent). ited in banks on negotiated terms. In 2015, Avinor AS had a cash flow prior to disbursed dividend There is disagreement between the Norwegian Armed Forces and and change in liabilities of NOK 1 892 million (NOK 2 085 Avinor with respect to allocation of costs at airports with joint million). Disbursed dividend amounted to NOK 500 million (NOK operations. Avinor has reflected this in the accounts through 445 million). Total interest-bearing debt as of 31 December 2015 provisions based on the best discretionary estimate. amounted to NOK 13 969 million (NOK 10 109 million). A judicial appraisal for determining purchase amounts or annual user fees for aviation-critical areas owned by the Armed Forces at ALLOCATION OF THE PROFIT FOR THE YEAR Bergen Airport, Flesland, is expected in 2016. The decision may have financial consequences that are not fully reflected in the The Board of Directors proposes the following allocation of the accounts as of 31 December 2015. profit for the year: As a result of the Norwegian parliament’s resolution to establish Dividend: NOK 500.0 million a new fighter plane base for the Norwegian Armed Forces at Group contribution: NOK 6.1 million Ørland, Avinor has been asked to prepare take-over of responTransferred from other equity: NOK – 414.5 million sibility for airport operations at Bodø Airport by 1 August 2016. Financial prerequisites for take-over of the operating responsiThe financial statements have been prepared under the assumpbility, real estate and other technical equipment from the Armed tion that the company will continue as a going concern based Forces have not yet been stipulated. The reason is undetermined on forecasts and the calculated present value of estimated future needs within the Armed Forces. cash flow. For further details, see Note 17 in the accounts. In March 2015, the Ministry of Transport and Communications assigned Avinor the task of conducting a socio-economic analysis RISK FACTORS comparing the gains and costs of building a new airport in Bodø, with an upgrade of the existing airport. The issue of a potential The group’s activities focus on safe air traffic management using new airport in Bodø will be presented in the first half of 2017 in procedures and measures to minimise both the probability and connection with the National Transportation Plan. 14 AVINOR AS Avinor Flysikring AS has been appointed by the state as a the OECD’s guidelines for responsible business, and in 2014 the single supplier of approach control services with an associated company joined the UN Global Compact. The work includes safeobligation to deliver until 2024. Pursuant to Sandefjord District guarding of human rights, employee rights and social conditions, Court’s decision, Avinor Flysikring AS has an obligation to deliver the external environment and anti-corruption measures. without the service recipient having a corresponding obligation to pay. The decision has been appealed. For more information about Avinor’s CSR work, including climate, the environment, air safety, HSE, legal competency, In the 2015 pension settlement, it was decided to adjust the pubanti-corruption and safe notification, see the chapter on corpolic occupational pension for the increase in life expectancy, and rate social responsibility, cf. Section 3-3c of the Accounting Act. this would be subject to new pension regulation rules. However, it did not contain rules for coordination of the occupational pension benefit or new National Insurance rules. Regulations for RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT the coordination have therefore not been clarified and have thus not been considered in the accounts. Avinor is executing several projects which help optimise use of the Norwegian airspace. The work contributes to increased safety, The airports have discharge permits which require risk assessincreased capacity, more efficient service delivery and reduced ments to identify possible sources of acute pollution which environmental impact. represent a risk of damage to the external environment. Avinor works continuously to reduce the risk of environmentally Avinor participates in the joint European research and develhazardous incidents, while past contamination is being mapped opment programme SESAR (Single European Sky Air traffic and cleaned up. Environmentally harmful additives have been management Research). Activities that have been conducted discovered in firefighting foam that have spread to the natural include testing remote operation of several airports from the environment at all of the airports. Efforts are ongoing to same working position. The results from this were positive. determine the extent of measures that will be required. As a basis for this work, risk assessments have been made of the possible For more details about Avinor’s research and development work, impact of these contaminants on health and the environment. please see the chapter on corporate social responsibility. The financial consequences of this work depend on the scope of the localities where measures must be implemented, as well as regulatory requirements and measures available. The Norwegian PERSONNEL AND ORGANISATION Environment Agency has signalled that they will order measures at Kjevik Airport, and that they most likely will issue a joint order The group had 3 157 (3 214) permanent employees at the end of for preparation of action plans for the other airports. The order is the year. Permanent and temporary employees performed work likely to be issued in 2017. corresponding to 3 327 (3 326) full-time equivalents. The average age of all employee groups in the group was 44.4 (44.5). Women amounted to 22.5 per cent (22.2 per cent) of permanent employCORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN AVINOR ees. The percentage of women in management positions corresponds with the percentage of women in the company in general. Good corporate governance in Avinor shall ensure the highest Measures related to unequal gender balance have increased the possible value creation and reduce the enterprise’s risk. The number of female applicants, and reduced the number of women company’s value base and code of conduct are fundamental for leaving the group. Efforts to increase the number of women, Avinor’s corporate governance. employees as well as managers, will be intensified. As the owner, the State focuses on state-owned companies Emphasis is placed on ensuring that employees have equal adhering to the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate opportunities in the group, irrespective of gender, age, functional Governance . The Board of Directors considers it important to ability, ethnicity or cultural background. Avinor has systematised follow the recommendations wherever relevant. performance reviews that ensure an unbiased and fair salary and career development. Employee surveys confirm that employees Avinor has issued bonds that are listed on the Oslo Stock find that they have equal opportunities. Commitment to the Exchange and Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Oslo Stock Exchange group is strong. has been selected as the group’s home market. The group follows Oslo Stock Exchange’s recommendations for corporate Avinor’s strategy plan for 2014-2020 entails a high restructuring governance wherever relevant. For more details about corporate tempo. Cooperation between the Group Management and governance in Avinor, please see Corporate Governance in the employee representatives is considered constructive and good. In Avinor Group . 2015, the parties have, based on the Basic Agreement, developed a model for continuous improvement which will be implemented in parts of the enterprise in 2016. Culture and management CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY development activities have higher focus on change management and continuous improvement than previously. Avinor’s corporate social responsibility work is based on the CSR expectations laid down in Avinor’s articles of association and the Absence due to illness was 4.6 per cent (4.5 per cent) in Norwegian Accounting Act. Avinor also bases its CSR work on 2015. Active efforts have been made to reduce breaches of COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 15 working hours provisions stipulated in the Norwegian Working Air traffic is expected to increase in 2016. However, uncertainty Environment Act. Breaches was reduced by 41 per cent in 2015. relating to socio-economic developments may affect this picture. During the same period, overtime and additional hours were Avinor responds to increased socio-economic uncertainty reduced by 15.3 per cent. by introducing efficiency improvement and cost-reduction measures. At the same time, there is a need to continue the Avinor shall be a professional and attractive employer. For details capacity-improving measures that have been planned. Avinor of Avinor as an employer, please see the chapter on corporate will continue its efforts to improve the company’s environmental social responsibility, cf. section 3-3c of the Accounting Act. performance and be a driving force for climate and environment work in the aviation industry. OUTLOOK AND FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS As a supplier of air navigation services, we pay close attention to the international deregulation of and competition developments Mobility and efficient air transport are key aspects of social within tower and approach services. Avinor’s air navigation development and contribute to stronger economic growth in services will be a competitive and preferred supplier in a future the districts and regions. Avinor’s high activity and investment competition-exposed market, and will make the necessary level will be continued to ensure we fulfil our social mission of adjustments to meet this target. The group will facilitate providing good regional, national, European and intercontinental increased use of competition and work towards developing air services. efficient markets. The Board would like to thank all employees and partners for their excellent effort in 2015. Oslo, 30 March 2016 The Board of Directors in Avinor AS Ola Mørkved Rinnan Ola H. Strand Tone M. Lindberg Eli Skrøvset Chairman of the Board Vice Chairman Mari Thjømøe Herlof Nilssen Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen Per Erik Nordsveen Heidi Anette Sørum Grete Ovnerud Dag Falk-Petersen CEO 16 AVINOR AS Corporate governance The aim of the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance is to ensure that companies that are listed on regulated markets in Norway practice corporate governance that clarifies the role of the shareholders, the Board of Directors and the day-to-day management beyond what follows from legislation. This statement has been prepared in accordance with the struc·· Operations may be run by the company itself, by wholly-owned ture of the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance subsidiaries, or by other companies it has interests in or of 30 October 2014, with the adjustments required because Avinor cooperates with. is a wholly state-owned limited company, and the requirements stipulated in Section 3-3b of the Norwegian Accounting Act. ·· The company shall be self-financed to the greatest possible In addition to the general provisions of the Norwegian Limited extent through revenues from its principal activities and other Liability Companies Act, special provisions apply to state-owned business activities in connection with the airports. Financially limited companies. The basic premise for Avinor’s operations profitable units shall finance unprofitable units in the is that safety is paramount and prioritised ahead of any other company. considerations, after which the greatest emphasis is placed on rendering efficient services to customers and society. ·· The company shall carry out the duties imposed by society as stipulated by the owner. The Avinor group’s vision is to create valuable relations. We want individuals, businesses and communities to value and derive The company’s Articles of Association are available at clear and specific advantages from the products and services we www.avinor.no. deliver. Our behavioural values are open, accountable, dynamic and customer-oriented. Avinor’s mission is to carry out comprehensive operation of 46 airports as well as the air navigation services in Norway. Avinor’s The group’s code of conduct was most recently revised in the operations is responsible for and develop essential public services spring of 2012. The code of conduct applies to board members, throughout the country, and shall be run with high priority on employees, contracted personnel and others who work for the safety and environmental considerations. To meet the owner’s group. The code provides basic rules for personal conduct and expectations, strategic primary objectives have been set in econbusiness practices and will help us make the right choices when omy and finance, society and the environment, air safety and HSE, we, as a company or individual employee, face ethical dilemmas. customers and partners and personnel and organisation. The code expresses the group’s attitudes in interaction with customers, suppliers, colleagues and the wider community. EQUITY AND DIVIDEND The code of conduct is available at www.avinor.no. The company’s share capital is NOK 5 400 100 000 divided Avinor has joined the UN Global Compact. The group reports into 540 010 shares, each with a par value of NOK 10 000. The according to the principles in the Global Reporting Initiative (G4 company’s equity at any time shall be at least 40 per cent of the Core). sum total of the company’s recognised interest-bearing long-term loans and equity at any given time. BUSINESS Avinor AS is a limited liability company owned by the State. The shareholders’ rights are safeguarded by the responsible cabinet Avinor is a group with activities in the transport sector in minister or his deputy at the General Meeting. The General Norway. The parent company Avinor AS is wholly owned by the Meeting is not bound by the distribution of dividends proposed Norwegian state represented by the Ministry of Transport and by the Board of Directors. Dividends are declared each year. The Communications. The group’s head office is in Oslo. The compaOffice of the Auditor General monitors the management of the ny’s operations are described in the Articles of Association: Norwegian state’s interests and can carry out any inspections that it deems necessary. The Board of Directors does not have the ·· The company’s role in society is to own, operate and develop a authority to increase the share capital. national network of airports for the civilian sector and a joint air navigation service for the civilian and military sectors. Equal treatment of shareholders and transactions with close associates ·· The company’s operations shall be carried out in a safe, effiAvinor AS has one class of shares. The shares are not listed on cient and environmentally-friendly manner and ensure good a stock exchange and there are no transactions involving the accessibility for all groups of travellers. shares. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 17 Intra-group agreements are entered into in accordance with the remuneration, determines remuneration for the Board of arm’s length principle on ordinary commercial terms. All such Directors for the current year, stipulates salaries and other agreements are made in writing. remuneration to executive personnel, and appoints shareholder-elected members of the Board, and considers any other Transactions with close associates matters that shall be dealt with by the general meeting, according The Board is not aware of any transactions during 2015 between to law or the Articles of Association. the company and its shareholders, board members, executive employees or close associates of these that may be characterised The Board of Directors, CEO and auditor who audited the as not immaterial transactions. previous year’s accounts are invited to the general meeting. The Chairman of the Board and CEO are obligated to attend the Board members and executive employees are required to submit general meeting. The other board members, the auditor and the an annual statement concerning close associates. Office of the Auditor General are entitled to attend the meeting. Guidelines for board members and executive employees The agenda is set by the Ministry of Transport and The group’s code of conduct contains a separate item on how to Communications. The minutes from the general meeting are handle conflicts of interest, stating that an employee shall never available to the public. participate in or attempt to influence a decision if he/she has a conflict of interest or questions may be raised about the employNomination committee ee’s impartiality. Group employees may take on second jobs or The general meeting of Avinor AS consists of the Norwegian state directorships in addition to their main employment in Avinor, as represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. long as these do not conflict with the employee’s duty of loyalty, The general meeting has not appointed a Nomination Committee. impartiality or proper performance of duties. Corporate assembly, Board of Directors: The code of conduct also contains provisions on impartiality. If composition and independence there is doubt whether the person concerned is impartial, the Pursuant to the Articles of Association, two or three members issue must be discussed with the immediate manager. of the Board of Directors and alternates shall be elected by and from the employees pursuant to the provisions of the Limited The state as shareholder Liability Companies Act concerning the employees’ right to Avinor is wholly-owned by the Norwegian state. The Ministry of representation on the company’s board. The company does not Transport and Communications meets quarterly with the company. have a corporate assembly in accordance with an agreement During these meetings, the company updates the owner about with the employees. For such cases, the Articles of Association operations, financial developments, CSR performance and other stipulate that the employees can elect an extra board member issues considered relevant to the owner at that time. No decisions and alternate. are made at these meetings, and the company does not receive any guidelines for how it should respond to individual issues. The Corporate Democracy Committee has approved the corporate scheme whereby employees of Avinor AS and its subsidiaries Freely negotiable shares may be elected to the Board of Directors. Representatives are There are no provisions in the Articles of Association that entail elected by and from the employees every second year. any limitations in the negotiability of the company’s shares. The Board consists of six shareholder-elected members and four representatives elected by and from the employees. The percentGENERAL MEETINGS age of women on the Board is 50. The Transport and Communications Minister constitutes the The Board Chairman is elected by the general meeting. All board company’s General Meeting, and is the company’s highest members are elected for two years. authority. In accordance with Section 20-5 of the Limited Liability Companies Act, the Ministry of Transport and Communications The Ministry of Transport and Communications does not have is responsible for calling the annual and extraordinary general its own board members, but in accordance with the Norwegian meetings. The Ministry also determines how the meetings will state’s principles of good corporate governance, all board membe called. Notice of a general meeting must be issued at least bers are expected to seek to safeguard the common interests of one week in advance, cf. Sections 20-5 and 5-10 of the Limited the company and shareholders. The composition of the Board of Liability Companies Act. Directors is such that, in aggregate, it can safeguard the owner’s interests and the company’s need for skills, capacity and diversity. The annual general meeting is held each year by the end of Executive employees are not members of the group’s Board of June. Pursuant to the Articles of Association, the annual Directors, and they do not own shares in the company. general meeting shall approve the annual report and accounts, including distribution of dividends. It also approves the auditor’s The owner has a meeting with each board member once a year. 18 AVINOR AS At the turn of the year 2015/2016, the Board consisted of: At the turn of the year 2015/2016 the committee consisted of: ·· Chairman since 2010 Ola Mørkved Rinnan, 66 ·· Eli Skrøvset (chair) ·· Vice Chairman since 2012 Ola H. Strand, 58 ·· Mari Thjømøe ·· Board member since 2011 Eli Skrøvset, 50, ·· Grete Ovnerud CFO Eksportkreditt Norge ·· Board member since 2013 Tone Merethe Lindberg, 43, The Board of Directors has established a remuneration commitself-employed tee as a preparatory body in matters relating to remuneration ·· Board member since 2014 Mari Thjømøe, 53, self-employed of executive employees in the company. The committee shall ·· Board member since 2015 Herlof Nilssen, 57, prepare guidelines for and cases concerning remuneration of managing director Helse Vest executive employees and continuously assess and monitor the ·· Empl.-elected Board member since 2011 Grete Ovnerud, 49 group’s policy in this area. A unified Board has prepared a set ·· Empl.-elected Board member since 2011 Heidi A. Sørum, 48 of instructions for the committee’s work. The instructions are ·· Empl.-elected Board member since 2013 Per Erik Nordsveen, 38 reviewed annually and updated as required. The committee met ·· Empl.-elected Board member since 2015 Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen, 56 on three occasions in 2015. Herlof Nilssen replaced Dag H. Hårstad, 53, at the 2015 general At the turn of the year 2015/2016 the committee consisted of: meeting. Hårstad had been a Board member since 2007. ·· Ola H. Strand (chair) Information about each Board member is available at ·· Herlof Nilssen www. avinor.no. ·· Per Erik Nordsveen Eight board meetings were held in 2015. All board members The Board of Directors has established an HSE committee as a attended the meetings, with very few exceptions. preparatory body in matters pertaining to HSE. The committee is responsible for assessing relevant aspects of the group’s operations relating to HSE at an overall level. The committee shall support WORK OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS the Board in exercising its responsibility for internal control, the Board of Directors’ report and annual report, and the overall HSE The Board of Directors follows the requirements stipulated for risk profile. A unified Board has prepared a set of instructions for the management and supervision of the company pursuant to the committee’s work. The instructions are reviewed annually and the Limited Liability Companies Act. Pursuant to the Articles updated as required. The committee met on three occasions in 2015. of Association, the Board of Directors shall ensure that the company is socially responsible. The Board of Directors’ tasks are At the turn of the year 2015/2016, the committee consisted of: stipulated in separate rules of procedure. The rules are reviewed annually and updated in the event of changes to the relevant ·· Tone Merethe Lindberg (chair) regulations or otherwise as required. The Board of Directors sets ·· Herlof Nilssen an annual agenda for its work, with particular focus on goals, ·· Heidi Sørum strategy and implementation. The Board of Directors assesses its ·· Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen work and competence on an annual basis. The rules of procedure contain a separate section on impartiality, RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL stating that each Board member is individually responsible for raising issues concerning any conflict of interest, and must be In order to ensure comprehensive management of the company, a absent from deliberations where the member has a conflict of separate management system has been prepared, which consists interest. In case of doubt, the matter shall be submitted to the of management documents, contingency plans, safety procedures chair of the Board. The minutes of the Board meetings shall and processes for the management and control of the operations. reflect when one of the Board members is disqualified due to a Annual risk assessments of the group’s activities are performed, conflict of interest. and measures to manage the risk situation are evaluated and implemented. The Board of Directors reviews the company’s risk New Board members are provided with relevant information on management and internal control on an annual basis. the company and the work of the Board. This information is also available through the electronic board portal. Avinor has established an internal audit function as part of the group’s internal control system. The group’s internal audit The CEO’s responsibilities and duties are defined in instructions function works in accordance with a mandate adopted by the adopted by the Board. The instructions are reviewed and updated Board and pursuant to standards laid down by the Institute for as required. Internal Auditors. The company’s appointed auditor shall review the management’s dispositions annually. The Board has established an audit committee as a preparatory body to support the Board of Directors as they execute their Systems for internal control and risk management responsibility for financial reporting, auditing, internal control related to the financial reporting process and overall risk management. A unified board has prepared a Together with Avinor’s organisation, management fora and set of instructions for the committee’s work. The instructions are reporting lines, our code of conduct and core values establish the reviewed annually and updated as required. The committee has foundation for a good internal control environment with respect met on five occasions in 2015. to financial reporting. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 19 Business and support processes that are essential to financial indicating the dates for the publication of financial information. reporting have been identified. This includes processes related This financial calendar is available on the company’s website to investment projects, revenues, financial items, closing of and the Oslo Stock Exchange’s website. Financial information is accounts and IT systems that support these processes. Overall published in the form of a stock exchange notice before it is made risk is managed and assessed centrally, while transaction available at www.avinor.no. management is subject to both centralised and decentralised controls. Considerable importance is attached to thorough The group presents a complete set of annual financial statements documentation and assessment of important valuation items. in conjunction with the Annual Report at the end of March. Accounting figures are reported quarterly. Control measures are carried out in the ongoing production of accounts and through continuous financial monitoring. Systems In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Board of to evaluate/monitor the internal control of the financial reporting Directors shall submit a plan for the operations, including subsidprocess are being developed and assessed on a continuous basis. iaries, to the Transport and Communications Minister each year. The contents of the plan shall include the following: REMUNERATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ·· Description of the status of the market and the group, including the development of the group since the last plan was published. The general meeting determines remuneration of the Board and its subcommittees. Remuneration is not performance-based and ·· Highlights of the group’s operations for the coming years, no options are issued to board members. Shareholder-elected including any major restructuring, development and disboard members generally do not perform any special tasks for the continuation of existing operations or development of new company beyond their position on the Board. Their remuneration operations. is stated in a note to the annual income statement. ·· The group’s investment level, important investments and In 2015, remuneration of board members amounted to NOK financing plans. 2 310 500, allocated as follows: the Board Chairman NOK 409 750, Vice Chairman NOK 247 750, other board members NOK 204 000. ·· Assessments of the financial development during the plan period. Alternates: NOK 10 500 for each meeting they attend. ·· Report on measures and results concerning the company’s In 2015, members of the audit committee received remuneration social role, duties imposed by society and CSR. totalling NOK 137 500, comprising NOK 62 500 to the Chairman and NOK 37 500 to the other two members. The Board of Directors shall submit any major changes to previously submitted plans to the Transport and Communications In 2015, members of the remuneration committee received Minister. remuneration totalling NOK 20 750, comprising NOK 10 750 to the Chairman and NOK 5 000 to the other two members. TAKE-OVER Members of the HSE committee received remuneration totalling NOK 26 000 in 2015, comprising NOK 11 000 to the Chairman and Avinor AS is wholly owned by the state represented by the NOK 5 000 to the other members. Ministry of Transport and Communications. Accordingly, this point in the code of practice is not relevant to the company. REMUNERATION OF EXECUTIVE EMPLOYEES AUDITOR The Board of Directors appoints the CEO and stipulates the CEO’s salary following preliminary consideration by the remuneration Avinor has an independent external auditor appointed by the committee. The Board evaluates the CEO’s work and salary terms General Meeting based on a recommendation from the full Board annually following preliminary consideration by the remuneraof Directors. The auditor submits a plan for the auditing work to tion committee. the Board of Directors annually. Each year the auditor prepares a letter to the Board of Directors (Management Letter), which The CEO recommends and informs the remuneration committee summarises the audit of the company and the status of the regarding remuneration for executive employees who report to the CEO. company’s internal control. The Board of Directors has prepared a statement on the determiThe auditor has a yearly meeting with the Board without the nation of salaries and other remuneration of executive employees. management being present. The auditor also has a yearly meeting The statement is discussed at the annual general meeting. with the Audit Committee without the management being present. The auditor is entitled to attend the company’s General Meeting. Remuneration of executive personnel is described in Note 8 to the financial statements. The auditor’s remuneration is broken down into auditing and other consulting services, and it is specified in a note to the financial statements. The General Meeting shall approve the INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION auditor’s remuneration. Public information on the group is provided by the group’s management. Each year the group prepares a financial calendar 20 AVINOR AS Corporate social responsibility Avinor’s CSR priorities Avinor’s work on corporate social responsibility is founded on expectations for corporate social responsibility laid down in Avinor’s articles of association and the Norwegian Accounting Act. Avinor bases its CSR work on the OECD’s guidelines for responsible business conduct, and joined the UN Global Compact in 2014. This report was prepared in accordance with the principles in the Global Reporting Initiative (G4/Core), and includes a statement concerning information pursuant to Section 3-3b of the Accounting Act. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 21 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE Communications, as well as in the Storting through the Transport and Communication Committee, in consultation with Avinor’s operations affect the entire country and its population. the Ministry. Dialogue also takes place with the elected political For Avinor to be able to fulfil its social mission in a responsible administration locally at municipal and county level. Dialogue and sustainable manner and make the right priorities, Avinor with politicians takes place under the direction of the Group emphasises good and broad contact with the people who depend Management, both at regular meetings (including quarterly on our services or are affected by our operations. meetings with the management of the Ministry of Transport and Communications) and ad hoc. Avinor works to strengthen and Avinor’s stakeholder dialogue is based on a stakeholder analysis, systemise the dialogue with politicians at local and regional level. which the Group Management reviews twice a year and keeps Business policy committees have been established in a number of continuously updated. In that connection, Avinor also prepares a municipalities and counties where Avinor is represented. Local, list of prioritised main issues in the dialogue with the company’s political stakeholders are also represented here. Once a year, a key stakeholders in the coming six months. joint meeting is organised between the county authorities and Avinor’s management. Avinor’s external stakeholders can be divided into the following main categories: Dialogue with Avinor’s suppliers of goods and services takes place partly at formal meetings and partly through negotiations and ·· National, regional and local politicians/decision-makers contract follow-up. There is particular focus on tender documen·· Customers: airlines and passengers tation, as well as templates/guidelines for process and deliveries. ·· Regulatory aviation authorities and other supervisory Avinor’s anti-corruption work and work to make sure working authorities conditions are in line with universal human rights and current ·· International aviation authorities regulations, are key aspects of the dialogue. ·· The Norwegian Armed Forces ·· Commercial partners at the airports Internally in the group, the collaboration model between ·· Business and industry, centrally and in the regions employee representatives and management is being developed ·· Suppliers further to ensure good working conditions, stable operations and ·· Environmental organisations and other voluntary cost-effectiveness throughout the group. In 2015, Avinor enjoyed organisations within e.g. health good cooperation with the employee representatives, both in ·· The media terms of ongoing case processing and more comprehensive pro·· Alliance partners/international partners cesses, such as the modernisation programme. Avinor employees ·· Domestic and international competing airports are represented on Avinor’s board, holding four of ten seats. Representatives are also elected by and among the employees to The most important stakeholders are the customers, i.e. the the boards of the various subsidiaries. airlines and passengers, as well as central, regional and local politicians, the business community, the Armed Forces and regulatory authorities within aviation and the environment. FOUR FOCUS AREAS Key topics for all stakeholders are safety, economy, capacity, Based on the group’s Articles of Association and strategy as well reliability, airport service, accessibility and universal design, and as Avinor’s dialogue with stakeholders, Avinor has identified four how the group handles the aviation industry’s challenges relating focus areas for its CSR work: to climate and the environment. ·· Avinor will ensure good aviation services for all of Norway, Stakeholder dialogue mainly takes place at meetings and gathand perform our role in society in a safe, efficient and erings. Passenger dialogue mainly takes place through customer environment-friendly manner surveys that are held regularly. ·· Avinor will be a driving force in the work on climate and environmental challenges within aviation For dialogue with the airlines, a collaboration forum has been ·· Avinor will be a good, professional employer established which meets four to six times a year. In addition, ·· Avinor will ensure responsible business conduct special committees have been established at the major airports AOC (Airlines Operators Committee) – which also meet regularly. Avinor does not have a dedicated staff for CSR. The Executive Vice President for communication and market is responsible As Avinor is a wholly-owned state company, political contact for the CSR report, and work on the respective topics takes mainly takes place in and via the Ministry of Transport and place in the line. 22 AVINOR AS Results measured against objectives defined in the 2014 report Avinor shall ensure good aviation services for all of Norway OBJECTIVE RESULT Certify all airports according to EASA ·· In 2015 Avinor applied to the Civil Aviation Authority to be certified as airport operator ·· Avinor has also submitted an application for design certificates for 22 airports. The certification work will continue in 2016 and 2017 Punctuality/regularity ·· Punctuality was 88 per cent in 2015, the same as in 2014 ·· Regularity was 98 per cent, the same as in 2014 Air transport accessible to all ·· New contract for PRM services in 2015 ·· Mapping process initiated in cooperation with the Civil Aviation Authority which will facilitate planned and coordinated measures to achieve universal design at all Avinor’s airports by the end of 2025 ·· Universal design will be implemented at airports in connection with newbuilds or reconstructions ·· The new terminals at Oslo Airport and Bergen Airport, Flesland will meet the universal design requirement through all aspects of construction and installation Cost-savings initiatives will benefit the customers: ·· Modernisation programme was on schedule in 2015, achieving reduced costs totalling lower fees NOK 150 million by a wide margin Avinor will be a driving force in the work on climate and environmental challenges within aviation OBJECTIVE RESULT Avinor shall be a driving force in the sector’s ·· Established supply of jet biofuel at OSL environmental work ·· Curved approaches at OSL ·· Curved helicopter approach at BGO/SVG Innovative energy solutions T2 OSL ·· Charging points for electric vehicles and hydrogen station at OSL ·· The airports in Oslo, Stavanger, Bergen, Trondheim and Kristiansand have received Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) renewal of certification Avinor’s total energy consumption in buildings shall ·· Not achieved. Proved too ambitious be reduced by 25% in 2015 compared with the energy consumption in 2010. Waste: Avinor shall achieve a source separation rate ·· Almost achieved. 59 per cent of 60% Launch a climate action plan for the group ·· Yes. Action plans completed. Measures proposed New environmental targets ·· Yes COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 23 Framework agreement. Second generation biofuel ·· Announced February 2016 for Avinor’s diesel vehicles No breaches of discharge permits ·· Some minor breaches Environmental project: Upgraded technical facilities; ·· Environmental project complete. Being rolled out. DRL has given this high priority procedures etc. PFOS ·· New treatment facility at OSL established and opened ·· Good dialogue with the Norwegian Environment Agency. Likely to secure approval for our view that measures should be implemented based on a cost-benefit perspective Avinor shall be a professional and attractive employer OBJECTIVE RESULT Continue to develop the cooperation model ·· In 2015, Avinor and employee representatives developed a model based on the Basic between empl. repr., safety delegates and the Agreement for continuous improvement of work processes and achieving results management Employees shall represent an average of the ·· In 2015, comprehensive analyses were conducted to identify a real potential concerning the Norwegian population percentage of female employees Reduce breaches of working hour regulations ·· Fewer breaches of working hour regulations in 2015, both in total (41%) and for breaches after the agreement on extended working hours was signed (-36%). Overtime reduced by 16 per cent Target: LTI rate 3.0 ·· The LTI value in 2015 was 3.3 (4.3) Absence due to illness 4.5% or lower ·· In 2015, absence due to illness was 4.6% (4.5%) Responsible business conduct OBJECTIVE RESULT Introduce ethics requirements for suppliers ·· More than 100 suppliers have signed an agreement for responsible suppler conduct (existing suppliers) ·· Routines have been introduced to ensure that all future suppliers sign the agreement ·· Guidelines revised to include requirement for risk assessment of the supplier chain and assessment of further follow-up ·· Funds have been granted for external assistance to conduct site control at two supplier sites Employees taking part in acquisitions shall assess ·· Requirements issued re. self-declarations for about 10% of those who have signed agreements their own impartiality 24 AVINOR AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 25 Improvement points 2014-2015 G4 Reporting method requirements 2015 2014 Strategy: Describe risk and opportunities related to corporate social responsibility Describe operations («general standard disclosures») Content to be determined based on what is important for Avinor and Avinor’s stakeholders («materiality») Policy, measures, objectives and results Description of the supplier chain Stakeholder dialogue Organisation and management systems The information must be balanced, correct and comparable from year to year 26 AVINOR AS Avinor shall ensure good aviation services for all of Norway Avinor’s role in society is to own, operate and develop a national network of airports for the civilian sector and a joint air navigation service for the civilian and military sectors. The company’s operations shall be carried out in a safe, efficient and environment-friendly manner and ensure good accessibility for all groups of travellers. DUTIES IMPOSED BY SOCIETY Aviation is particularly important for the oil and gas industry, the seafood industry and tourism: The Norwegian parliament has assigned Avinor a number of tasks that benefit society at large. Examples of this include ·· A quarter of all business travel is generated by the oil and gas air ambulance preparedness, training of air traffic controllers, sector. In 2015, 606 452 offshore helicopter trips were made, rescue service assistance, flight weather services, facilitating down almost 12 per cent compared with 2014 due to lower general aviation and air sports, as well as assessments for and activity in the oil sector. participation in the national civil protection work and emergency ·· Air transport is also important for transporting fresh seafood preparedness. to an international market. This market is increasing and the need for transport is significant. ·· Aviation is also essential for tourism in Norway, both to THE SOCIAL BENEFIT OF AVIATION Oslo and to other popular destinations in Norway. Aviation accounts for two-thirds of the growth in incoming tourism. In Norway, large distances make air transport a necessity for maintaining settlements and business and industry throughout the whole country. For many people, air transport is the only MODERNISATION PROGRAMME practical alternative. People in Northern Norway make frequent use of domestic air services. Two-thirds of Norway’s population To meet future challenges, Avinor has launched a modernisacan reach an airport in one hour. In Western Norway and tion programme. This was started in 2014. The purpose is to Northern Norway, two-thirds of inhabitants can reach an airport modernise operations and make them more efficient, highlight in 30 minutes. the significance of aviation and reduce the growth in operating expenses. The aim is to reduce annual operating expenses by Aviation gives businesses in all parts of Norway access to national NOK 600 million as of 2018 compared with current plans, and to and international contacts and markets. Aviation is therefore achieve a total cost reduction of NOK 1.5 billion during the period essential for the country’s and regions’ competitiveness, value 2015-2018. The programme proceeded as scheduled in 2015, creation and employment. Furthermore, air transport is a achieving a total cost reduction target of NOK 150 million by a prerequisite for nationwide cultural and sport activities, and for wide margin. a decentralised education system. Aviation shall be accessible to all. Each year, approximately 150 000 journeys are completed with an assistant for passengers with reduced mobility. RESTRUCTURING AND SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS IN INCREASED CAPACITY Aviation is an important part of the Norwegian health sector. The work at Oslo Airport, expanding the terminal and a new In addition to securing high emergency preparedness, air transport North Pier, is proceeding as scheduled, with regard to both costs is important for efficient specialisation and production. About and progress. The same applies to the work at Bergen Airport, 30 000 medical transports take place by air each year. In addition Flesland, with a new terminal. The work at Oslo Airport will be about 300 000 patients are transported on scheduled flights. completed in the spring of 2017, whereas the new terminal in Bergen will open in the autumn of 2017. The expansion work is About 30 000 people are directly employed by the Norwegian avivery challenging, as it must take place concurrently with stable ation industry. Including ripple effects such as aviation supplies, and safe airport operations. Avinor is also investing heavily in a this figure is about 60 000 employees. number of other airports. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 27 The expansion work and construction of a new pier at Oslo Airport are progressing as scheduled, opening 27 April 2017. The Ministry of Transport and Communications assigned Avinor 2 – 2.5 billion, and presuming that the pollution situation will the task of preparing a licence application for a new airport in permit urban development at the airport and the Armed Forces’ Mo i Rana at Helgeland. Avinor submitted the application to the areas. It has been shown that areas that are vacated due to the Ministry of Transport and Communications in December 2015. move, will increase significantly in value and that this will make a Whether the airport will be built or not will likely be decided in substantial contribution to the financing of the new airport. the spring of 2017, in connection with the 2018-2027 National Transport Plan. Extraordinary financing will be required if the The Norwegian government has decided to close down 1) Narvik airport is built. Airport in 2017. The Ministry of Transport and Communications has asked As regards continued operations at Fagernes Airport, Leirin, the Avinor to assess the possibility of establishing new airports government 2) has decided that Avinor will operate the airport as at Hammerfest and in Lofoten. Avinor has started assessing an airport for charter flights only until the end of 2018. the weather conditions for building an airport at Gimsøy in Lofoten and will present its recommendation when sufficient Avinor would like a clarification in spring 2017, in the 2018-2027 documentation is available. Two potential locations for a new National Transport Plan, regarding construction of a third airport in Hammerfest were presented in the NTP 2014-2023 runway at Oslo Airport in 2030. proposed plan: Grøtnes and Fuglenesdalen. Avinor is conducting further studies of the weather and wind conditions as well as winter operations. Weather measurements at the location in ACCESSIBLE TO ALL – UNIVERSAL DESIGN Fuglenesdalen will be completed in the spring of 2016, and Avinor is planning to conclude the technical assessments of both Air transport shall be accessible to everyone who needs it. Avinor alternatives by the end of 2016. If either alternative is feasible, a is working to fulfil the requirements for universal design, in close socio-economic analysis should be conducted. cooperation with organisations for people with disabilities. A new contract for PRM services (PRM=Persons with Reduced Mobility) The Ministry of Transport and Communications has also asked was negotiated for many of Avinor’s airports in 2015. Great Avinor to assess the social consequences of a new airport in emphasis is placed on cooperating closely with national and Bodø. Avinor recommends moving the airport, on the condition regional user forums, which has given excellent results. Each year, that the group receives funds to cover additional costs of NOK Rogaland county’s Council of Equality for Disabled People grants 1) Prop. to the Storting 117 (2011-2012). 2) Prop. to the Storting 19 (2015-2016). 28 AVINOR AS From the summer of 2016, Avinor will offer drinking water free of charge after airport security. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 29 an award to a person or organisation that has made a particularly also been changed. In connection with these changes, surveys and valuable effort to improve accessibility for people with disabilities changes were also made at other Avinor airports. in the local community, municipality or county. This year the award went to Avinor, at Stavanger Airport, Sola. To give passengers a warmer welcome to Norway and our airports, Avinor has cooperated with Innovation Norway to Pursuant to Regulation on universal design of airports, and develop a modern, sensory concept with sound and images in the disabled people’s rights in air transport of 16 July 2013, Avinor airports’ arrival areas, called Portal Norway . So far, this has been has implemented a mapping process in cooperation with the installed in Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim, and will be installed in Civil Aviation Authority. The mapping will facilitate planned and Stavanger and Tromsø early in 2016. coordinated measures to ensure universal design at all of Avinor’s airports by 2025. Avinor regularly measures customer satisfaction among passengers and takes part in the global Airport Service Quality The universal design provision will be implemented at airports (ASQ) survey, owned and conducted by the Airport Council in connection with new construction or rebuilding, initially at International. In summer 2015, Avinor had the highest Overall terminal buildings, but also subsequently in towers to ensure Satisfaction score ever recorded. accessibility for the company’s employees. Avinor’s project administrative manual includes a checklist which will ensure that universal design is maintained in the initial phases of the CONNECTING NORWAY construction process. The checklist is aimed at Avinor’s own organisation, but also at architects and other partners. Connecting Norway is a pilot scheme which will make it easier for passengers arriving from abroad to connect with flights in The new terminals at Oslo Airport and Bergen Airport, Flesland Norway. Previously, they had to collect their luggage, check in will meet the requirement for universal design in all aspects again and proceed through security. Now passengers on flights of buildings and installations. However, Avinor’s airports will covered by the scheme may proceed directly to the domestic continue to vary in terms of standard. For example, jetways departure lounge. Avinor is collaborating with the customs between the terminal and the aircraft will not be an option at authorities and the police to find good permanent solutions. All Avinor’s smaller airports. Testing of new lifting and hoisting gear requirements for universal design have been met in connection is therefore ongoing. The assistance service helps passengers with Connecting Norway. with reduced mobility. Avinor conducts approximately 150 000 assistance assignments per year, from arrival at the airport until the passenger is on board the aircraft. HIGH PUNCTUALITY DESPITE CHALLENGING WEATHER The Avinor group’s target for punctuality, with departures within WORKING TO IMPROVE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE 15 minutes, is 88 per cent. Achieving this target depends on the interaction between the airport, airline and airport-related Avinor has developed a special passenger strategy. Avinor’s promservices. Weather conditions are also important, and in Norway ise to the passengers is to make their journey easier, regardless of winter conditions are often challenging, with a lot of snow, ice what situations might arise at our airports. and wind. Overall, punctuality is therefore higher in the summer than in the winter. Each year, Avinor prepares a plan for winter In 2015, we introduced a number of measures to fulfil our promise. maintenance together with the airlines. The plans are evaluated following each winter season, with a focus on improvement items. Avinor assumes an active role in ensuring that families with children have a problem-free journey. This effort was stepped up Overall punctuality at Avinor’s airports was close to 88 per cent in in 2015. Service options and facilities for families with children 2015 for the year as a whole, on a par with 2014. Compared with airare visible and easy to find through the Felix & Fiona characters. ports internationally, Norwegian airports are doing very well indeed. Children of all ages will have a good and safe travel experience According to Flightstat’s September survey, Oslo Airport was number and recognise elements they have seen before. Avinor’s partners one in the major airports category in Europe, with punctuality at take part by labelling their adapted products, such as children’s 87.6 per cent. Stavanger and Bergen were also very near the top. menus, in the same way. The initiatives have been very well received and have received two awards for first-class service. Flight regularity is a measure of the percentage of scheduled departures that actually take place. Avinor’s target is 98 per cent. To alleviate the inconvenience of not being allowed to bring water In 2015, regularity was 98 per cent. The result has remained through security, several of Avinor’s airports now offer free drinking more or less the same in recent years. Avinor’s official statistics water, easily accessible and visible in passenger areas. Free drinking are based on the airlines’ information about cancellations and water will be available at all Avinor airports by summer 2016. changes in scheduled routes. The current practice gives the flight operator the opportunity to report a cancellation as a scheduled Following criticism of the layout of the Duty Free shop at Oslo route change, up until the day of the flight. This has caused Airport arrivals, Avinor has made a number of improvements since some uncertainty about the statistical basis. In 2016, Avinor will the summer of 2014. A wider and clearly marked passage now runs gradually introduce the new traffic information system ALTi at outside the shop, and the walking zone through the shop is shorter our airports. With this system, all such changes made on the day and wider. The location of alcoholic beverages in the shop has of the flight will be reported as real cancellations. 30 AVINOR AS PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION Avinor’s ambition is that the first airports will be operated from the tower centre when it has been completed in 2017. According Avinor has appointed a data protection official whose responsito schedule, remote operation will be introduced at another three bilities include assisting people registered with the company (e.g. to five airports per year. in customer registers) and the company’s own employees with issues relating to Avinor’s treatment of personal data. The data Avinor has also in 2015 been engaged in activities that lay the protection official shall also identify violations of the Personal groundwork for efficient and safe exchange of data between Data Act and report them to the management, and act as a conplayers in the aviation industry (System Wide Information tact for inquiries from the Norwegian Data Protection Authority. Management – SWIM). Avinor has established a system for internal control pursuant to the Personal Data Act with regulations. Avinor has established a In connection with the jet biofuel project, Avinor supports several personal data protection policy and prepared a privacy stateresearch projects and development activities, including the SINTEF ment. Avinor also provides information about the use of cookies project GasBio 2010-2014, whose results in 2015 were transferred on our website. Avinor has not received any complaints regarding to the project Gasification and FT-Synthesis of Lignocellulosic how it protects against breach of customers’ privacy. Feedstocks (GAFT). Moreover, the effort to establish regular supplies of jet biofuel at Oslo Airport is an innovation which has attracted significant national and international interest. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT WITH A FOCUS ON SAFETY, CLIMATE AND CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE Avinor has established an internal innovation forum to coordinate innovation across the organisation. The forum will also work Avinor’s research and development work largely takes place in coopexternally to stimulate more research and innovation within eration with companies, research institutes and academia. Research aviation, and to encourage public funding agencies to invest in funds for transport safety have been allocated through the Norwegian research and business development within aviation. The research Research Council’s programme TRANSIKK . Continuation of the institutes have indicated that there is a shortage of aviation programme through TRANSPORT 2025 is expected to provide researchers in Norway. Consequently, an international research continued funds for transport research in aviation. cooperation effort within aviation is under planning, through ATM Norway. Initially, the intention is to expand the already established A research laboratory for air traffic management has been cooperation between the City of Oslo and Toulouse Métropole. established at the Institute for Energy Technology in Halden with funding from the research fund Oslofjordfondet and equipment A research and development collaboration is ongoing relating to from Edda Systems AS. The laboratory is used to further develop intelligent transport systems (ITS) involving the transport agenairspace control services. cies and Avinor’s work on the National Transport Plan (NTP). Development of new technology is expected to solve several In 2015, Avinor became a partner in the newly established tasks at airports in the future. Among other initiatives, Avinor research centre Klima2050 managed by SINTEF and granted has announced an innovative public procurement and invited funds from the Research Council through the scheme Senter machine manufacturers and suppliers of advanced electronics for Forskningsdrevet Innovasjon (Centre for Research-based and remote control technology to help develop driverless vehicles Innovation) . The centre addresses adaptation of buildings and for snow clearance at airports. New technology can also be used infrastructure to extreme weather and gradual climate change. to improve customer experience for passengers. Avinor takes part in several projects which contribute to optimising the use of Norwegian airspace. The work contributes to SAFETY HAS TOP PRIORITY increased safety, better capacity, more efficient service deliveries and reduced environmental impact. The BOAS project has helped Aviation safety includes safety ( flight safety) and security to significantly improve capacity and has also improved the (security control). The regulatory requirements in the area of level of services for overseas traffic. Furthermore, the air traffic aviation safety follow from Norway’s international obligations management system (NATCON) in Southern Norway has been through the EEA and ICAO (the UN’s International Civil Aviation significantly upgraded. This has laid the groundwork for the Organisation). Based on these obligations, the Norwegian Civil introduction of Free Route Airspace in collaboration with our Aviation Authority implements Norwegian provisions that Avinor neighbouring countries. The launch of satellite navigation proceis required to comply with. Avinor also participates actively in the dures (PBN) is also progressing as planned. This is a project which international efforts to prepare new aviation-related regulations. contributes to more efficient navigation services at lower costs. In Avinor, safety has the highest priority, and the primary Avinor participates in the research and development programme objective is to prevent undesirable incidents and ensure sound SESAR (Single European Sky Air traffic management Research). preparedness. The work on aviation safety is an integrated part Conducted activities include testing of remote control of several of the group’s management system. In recent years, four major airports from the same working position by means of cameras projects have been implemented to establish a comprehensive and radar technology. The results have been positive. Avinor management system. The purpose has been to contribute to plans to have remotely-operated towers at up to 15 of its 46 further improvement in the group’s governance, implement the airports in Norge. The target is remote operation of 36 airports. group’s strategy, and ensure that risks related to achievement This could reduce costs by 30 to 40 per cent. It has been decided of the strategic targets are managed. The final sub-project was that the centre will be located in Bodø, and in April 2015 it was delivered in 2015: A new tool for handling nonconformities. decided that the first five airports to have remotely-operated Avinor has thus introduced a framework for comprehensive towers will be: Mehamn, Berlevåg, Værøy, Røst and Hasvik. governance which includes systems for strategic governance, COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 31 New technology improves customer experience. comprehensive risk management, a process-oriented manageaccord. The other incident took place in Stavanger. An aircraft ment system and a system for handling nonconformities. In 2016, breached the separation minima in connection with a crossing the implementation and further improvement of the manageaircraft at Norway ACC Vest, Stavanger, by 3.7 nautical miles and ment system will continue, including safety management. This 600 feet as the minimum distance. includes operational risk management and safety culture. The aim is that the management system will comply with ISO 9001 by ACCIDENTS AND SERIOUS AIRCRAFT INCIDENTS 2014-2015 the end of 2016. SERIOUS SERIOUS AIRCRAFT AIR ACCIDENT AIR ACCIDENT Avinor applies a risk-based approach in its safety management, INCIDENTS WITHOUT INJURIES WITH INJURIES and all undesirable incidents of a certain severity are followed 2015 2 0 0 up. The reporting culture in the group is good. The reports often relate to potential incidents or matters of a less serious nature. 2014 1 0 0 This provides opportunities for learning and improvement. Serious aircraft incidents, air accidents without personal injuries and air accidents Follow-up of nonconformities is important for all parts of the with personal injuries in which Avinor was a contributory party. The term air group. Closing of nonconformities, including reported nonconaccident follows the definition in BSL A 1-3 (Civil Aviation Regulations). formities in relation to internal and external audits and inspections, is a priority. Follow-up of nonconformities is largely based Audits on nonconformities being risk-classified as a basis for the further An important part of the group’s work of maintaining a good process in the divisions. The group aims to close nonconformities safety culture and high aviation safety, is to conduct regular within defined deadlines. As regards nonconformities identified audits, both of the units and within specific disciplines. The by the supervisory authorities, the group will remain in close purpose is to verify that the group’s management system is in dialogue with them about the closure process. accordance with the relevant laws and regulations, and that the organisation complies with them. Security services at the airports Accidents and serious aircraft incidents are also closely followed up through audits. Moreover, regular There were no aviation accidents with or without personal injury audits are important to correct the group’s suppliers. in Norwegian aviation in 2015 where Avinor was a contributory party. Two serious aircraft incidents occurred where Avinor was In 2015, the group has, in practice, had to relate to two a contributory party. One took place at Oslo Airport, where an management systems and two sets of regulations (national aircraft did not manage to stop in time after landing. The aircraft and European), following the introduction of the European drove into two runway lights and stopped within the concrete Airport Regulations. This has been challenging, both in terms strip. After landing, the aircraft taxied to the gate of its own of compliance and auditing. 32 AVINOR AS Passengers should find airport security as hassle-free as possible. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 33 In principle, Avinor conducts all audits itself, both internal audits reduce the risk of discrimination, and to maintain the passengers’ and audits of external parties. External expertise is only brought in personal integrity. To reduce the occurrence of discrimination, to conduct audits as an exception. Avinor mainly uses technical solutions which do not allow the operator to manually select passengers for additional inspection. An audit programme is established for one year at a time. The At the same time, Avinor is investing in equipment which will compliance monitoring manager proposes the audit programme, reduce contact between security personnel and passengers, to establishes teams and manages these throughout the year. The audit reduce the risk of discriminating action during airport security. programme is approved by the CEO. Any findings from the audits The passengers are Avinor’s customers, and Avinor would like to are entered in the deviation handling system and followed up by the establish a relationship of trust in connection with security checks. person defined as risk owner. Findings registered in external parties One of Avinor’s aims is to always have both male and female will be followed up by the contract manager in Avinor. Such findings security officers present, even though this can be a challenge at will also be registered in Avinor’s deviation handling system. the smallest airports. Cubicles or shielding possibilities are also available to maintain personal integrity during screening. In 2015, 32 internal audits were conducted in Avinor AS and nine in Avinor Flysikring AS. In addition, 18 audits were conducted of Even though many people find airport security checks stressful, external parties (suppliers and other parties) in Avinor AS and two Avinor does not receive many complaints. Most complaints relate in Avinor Flysikring AS. Most audit findings are in the category to what passengers can or cannot bring into the security area. Management and follow-up . The audits have also revealed Some customer complaints relate to lack of shielding during shortcomings in wage and working conditions as well as taxation airport security. The airports process complaints continuously, issues in supplier and subcontractor companies. and Avinor is not aware of any complaints having been forwarded to public authorities in 2015. Oslo Airport’s audit programme aims to cover all aspects of the management system over a three-year cycle. The 2015 A customer survey conducted by Barcode Intelligence (Norsk programme was implemented according to plan, with just a few Kundebarometer) has shown that, among Avinor’s passenger exceptions. Oslo Airport has conducted 16 audits, nine internal processes, passengers are most satisfied with the security check and seven external. The main audit findings were related to and the way they are met there. management and HSE follow-up. Human trafficking Avinor achieved good security results in 2015. There was a signifiAvinor does not have its own systems for reporting of human cant reduction in the number of nonconformities, and those that trafficking. Such cases are registered in the criminal justice occurred were of a less serious nature. Long-term and targeted system and handled by the authorities. The relevant authorities, airport work has been performed to ensure good transfer of such as the police and customs officers, are present at Avinor’s experience. To achieve these results, Avinor has maintained main airports, and the airports report good collaboration. Avinor close dialogue with the supervisory authorities. Cross-sectional encourages all employees to report any uncertain situations cooperation between the airport players, has also been important where human trafficking is suspected. and contributed to the good results. Civil protection and crisis preparedness Continuously updated security regulations Avinor maintains a high level of security in daily operations, and The threat situation in 2015 was dominated by the terrorist good crisis preparedness in the event of any undesirable incidents. attack against the Russian Metrojet aircraft above Egypt and the Paris attacks against Charlie Hebdo and Bataclan. The current risk situation is characterised by extremism and polarisation, state intelligence watching political, economic Security regulations for aviation and the technological capacity and military targets, changes towards a hotter, wetter and more to uncover potential threat situations are being developed in line extreme climate, the risk of epidemics, and a serious refugee and with the risk situation. I 2015, Avinor introduced new equipment migration situation in Europe. The group focuses its security and for more accurate detection of explosive trace elements. preparedness efforts on climate adaptation, information and ICT security and protection of critical objects, systems and functions. Airport security and personal integrity Avinor’s aim is to ensure that passengers find airport security Certification of Avinor’s airports checks as stress-free as possible, with due respect for the individBy 2017, Avinor will certify all its airports in accordance with ual’s integrity. common European regulations, prepared by the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), under the direction of the Over the course of 2015, Avinor has invested heavily in new EU Commission. In 2015, Avinor applied to the Civil Aviation and expanded security lanes at Oslo Airport, and at Stavanger, Authority to become a certified airport operator. Avinor has also Bergen, Trondheim, Ålesund and Bodø airports. Regular training applied for design certificates for 22 of its airports. The certificais provided to both company and contractor employees. The tion work will continue in 2016 and 2017. introduction of Fast Track lanes and family lanes has also increased customer satisfaction. The current processes and documents relating to safety management have been reviewed and restructured in connection with At our airports, Avinor complies with all responsibilities laid down certification of Avinor as an operator and certification of Avinor’s by the authorities with regard to security. In some cases, higher airports. The work has uncovered improvement areas and new standards have been introduced than are required by law. This is to requirements, and new process descriptions have been prepared. 34 AVINOR AS Avinor will be a driving force in the work on climate and environmental challenges within aviation 2015 saw further strengthening of the group’s environmental efforts. Avinor has made a concerted effort for the environment over a period of several years. This involves raising the standard for environment-relevant infrastructure, strengthening the main environmental sciences and improving the systematic management of the environmental work. In 2015, extensive work has also been done to further develop the For safety reasons, ice and snow must be removed from airenvironmental management system for the whole group. Our envicrafts before take-off. A mixture of hot water and glycol-based ronmental management is based on the EN-NS ISO standard 14001, chemicals is used for this purpose. Runways and taxiways must and Oslo Airport’s environmental management is already certified have satisfactory friction. They are cleared of snow, brushed and according to this standard. Our environmental management syssanded, and, if necessary, de-iced using formate-based chemicals. tem is our main tool for handling the environmental challenges that the group contributes to, in the most efficient and targeted manner Aircraft and runway de-icing chemicals have low toxicity when possible. The Environmental management system is already being discharged into nature. However, oxygen is needed to biologically implemented, both at the head office and at the airports, and is decompose the substances. Run-off and spread of chemicals expected to be fully implemented by the end of 2017. from the airport's area may, however, have a negative impact on the natural environment if the consumption exceeds the natural threshold and capacity for decomposition. Consequently, systems NEW ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS AND NEW have been established at several airports for recovering glycol ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY from de-icing. Environmental monitoring documents the status in the aquatic environment around the airports, and the extent of In 2015, the environmental impact of the group’s operations was the monitoring is governed by requirements from the environsurveyed, and a new environmental strategy and new group-wide ment authorities, as well as environmental risk and the natural environmental goals were decided for the period 2016-2020. Special environment’s vulnerability at each of the airports. The results attention will be paid to discharges to water and soil, greenhouse from the environmental monitoring are evaluated each year, and gas emissions as well as aircraft and helicopter noise. However, the monitoring programmes are revised as needed. Measures are active efforts will also be made within energy consumption, waste, considered if sampling shows strain on the natural environment. impact on the natural environment and consumption of products and materials. The environmental strategy shall help concretise Avinor’s environmental work and ensure that all parts of the group pulls in the same direction to achieve Avinor’s environmental goals. NUMBER OF AIRPORTS WITH OPERATIONAL BREACH OF The assigned direction will be used as a basis for priorities and CONDITIONS FOR AIRCRAFT AND RUNWAY DE-ICING definition of requirements for environmental work throughout the Number of airports group. The strategy will contribute to ensuring systematic work and continuous improvement of Avinor’s environmental performance. 12 10 8 DISCHARGES TO WATER AND SOIL 6 Avinor’s environmental target for 2012-2015: Avinor will not 4 violate any discharge permits. 2 All Avinor’s airports hold valid discharge permits pursuant to 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 the Norwegian Pollution Control Act, which regulate the use of chemicals for de-icing and fire drills. The permits also require De-icing aircraft De-icing runway preparedness for potential acute discharges. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 35 Sampling Sampling Groundwater Some of the chemicals used for de-icing of runways (purple) and aircraft (orange) will infiltrate the soil along the runways. The chemicals are broken down into water and carbon dioxide by microorganisms (bacteria and fungi) naturally present both over and below groundwater level. Avinor monitors the water quality and, if necessary, implements measures to ensure that the earth’s decomposition capacity is not exceeded. Oslo Airport has for a number of years evaluated what long-term During the period 2008-2010, environmental risk analyses effects the de-icing chemicals used on runways and taxiways have were conducted at all of Avinor’s airports. The results showed on the soil and ground water. One limiting factor for local decomthat measures were necessary at several airports. Since 2010, position in the most critical areas is access to oxygen. Testing of the standard of infrastructure has been raised as part of the air injection into the soil and groundwater has therefore been Environmental Project. This was completed in 2015. The project implemented, with good results. No de-icing chemicals were found has significantly reduced the risk of undesirable incidents to in nearby groundwater wells. In 2015, a pilot project with three water and soil. This work must be continued by establishing wells was expanded to include 70 ventilation wells. During the sound routines for operation and maintenance, and such work de-icing season, measures are assessed and implemented including will take priority in coming years. To comply with requirements adding fertiliser (nitrogen) and snow clearing, when necessary. in the framework conditions, the facilities require regular maintenance. Many and different types of facilities make this The areas under greatest strain have their own action plans. One work extensive. Avinor is working to systemise and simplify the violation of the discharge permit was detected in the waterways maintenance processes. during the 2014-2015 winter season. During the last two seasons, weather conditions have made it more challenging to maintain adequate friction on the runways. Consequently, consumption of runway de-icing chemicals has increased by 83 per cent since the 2013/2014 season and by 179 per cent since the 2012/2013 season. The total consumption of aircraft de-icing chemicals was somewhat lower than in the previous season. In 2015, Oslo Airport had a total of five minor breaches of the discharge permit for groundwater (glycol and formate). For the other airports, consumption of de-icing chemicals was exceeded at three airports. The environmental impact of the three breaches is considered low to moderate, and measures such as glycol recovery have been implemented to prevent future negative environmental impact. There were no breaches of the permitted volumes of runway de-icing chemicals. Sampling PFOS in surface water. 36 AVINOR AS SOURCES OF AVINOR’S OWN CONTROLLABLE GREENHOUSE GAS AVINOR’S OWN CONTROLLABLE GREENHOUSE GAS EMIISSIONS EMISSION 2011-2015 2011-2015 Tonnes CO2-eq. Diesel own vehicles 25 000 Purchased electricity excl. Svalbard 20 000 Business trips Purchased electricity and 15 000 district heating Svalbard Runway de-icing 10 000 Thermal energy Other sources 5 000 0 Per cent 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 In the discharge permits, the pollution authorities have assigned public water supply was completed in the autumn of 2015. This Avinor a coordination responsibility to ensure that all players also involves a lump sum payment to the 39 households affected. at each of the airports fulfil the framework conditions for the For several years, Avinor has paid for bottled water to the affected external environment. Their use and handling of chemicals have area, until the new solution was established. a significant effect on the airport’s overall impact on the natural environment. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS PFOS Mapping of contaminated soil in 2011/2012 uncovered some Avinor’s environmental goal 2012–2015: Avinor shall reduce hydrocarbon contamination, and showed PFOS in soil and total greenhouse gas emissions under its own control, water at most active and abandoned fire training fields. PFOS is regardless of traffic growth, and be a driving force in reducing a substance containing fluoride formerly used as an additive in overall greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian aviation fire-fighting foam, but now classified as an environmental toxin. Avinor phased out the use of fire-fighting foam containing PFOS Emissions of greenhouse gases from airport operations in 2001, and such substances have been regulated in Norway Avinor prepares a greenhouse gas inventory pursuant to The since 2007. Greenhouse Gas Protocol , and purchases emission allowances to compensate for the group’s own emissions 3). In 2015, Avinor’s Avinor takes samples of soil, water and living organisms and own, controllable greenhouse gas emissions from airport assesses the results. Draft action plans for PFOS-contaminated operations totalled 18 158 tonnes CO2 equivalents, a reduction areas have been prepared at Harstad/Narvik Airport, Evenes and of about 2 300 tonnes compared with 2012. In other words the Kristiansand Airport, Kjevik. These are being considered by the group achieved its climate objective for the period 2012-2015. Norwegian Environment Agency. Avinor is also in dialogue with the Norwegian Food Safety Authority concerning this. The reduction was due to a general reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian production, import and export In 2015, Oslo Airport started cleaning PFOS-contaminated of electrical power, not a reduction in energy consumption. groundwater and wastewater from the fire-training field. So far, Emissions from Avinor’s operations largely depend on weather experience has been good, and the two treatment plants are conditions during the winter months, due to the need for snow followed up closely to document the effect. In addition, an action clearing, heating and consumption of de-icing chemicals. plan for cleaning PFOS-contaminated soil above groundwater is expected to be ready in February 2016. The largest emissions from Avinor’s operations are caused by fuel consumption in Avinor’s own vehicles, followed by purchased At Bergen Airport, Flesland, samples were taken of the drinking electricity and our own business travel by aeroplane and car. Other water in drilled wells, surface wells and Steinfjelltjern tarn in emission sources included in Avinor’s own, controllable emissions the residential area Kvitura, located downstream the abandoned are purchased district heating, consumption of thermal energy, fire-training field. PFOS was detected in some wells, and the and chemicals for de-icing of runways and fire training fields. water quality was assessed by the municipal health services in Bergen Municipality in November 2011. It was concluded that The main climate initiatives of 2015 the levels of PFOS in the water were not alarmingly high, but were implemented at Oslo Airport. that the drinking water in Kvitura is bacteriologically unsatisThe snow-cooling system at OSL factory. Following the precautionary principle, Avinor has also was commissioned, and a hydrogen established a filter to clean the PFOS-contaminated run-off to refuelling station was opened. In 2015, the surface water source Steinfjelltjern. The residential area has Avinor launched a pilot project with not had access to municipal water supply before, but Avinor second generation synthetic biofuel for has cooperated with Bergen Municipality on establishing water the company’s heavy motor vehicles. In supply across the airport area. The system for connecting to the 2016, Avinor will establish a framework 3) More information about the GHG Protocol is available here: http://www.ghgprotocol.org/ COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 37 GHG EMISSIONS FROM NORWEGIAN AVIATION 1990-2014 Tonnes CO2-eq. 3 000 000 2 500 000 2 000 000 1 500 000 1 000 000 5 00 000 0 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2014 Int. emissions Domestic emissions Total emissions Prime Minister Erna Solberg opens the hydrogen station at OSL 4 September 2015. The station is available to all. agreement for purchase of second generation biofuel. In the long Taxes and quotas term, biofuel will significantly reduce emissions from vehicles. As one of few countries in the world, Norway has introduced a carbon tax on domestic flights. In 2016, this is NOK 1.08 per litre In 2015, the Climate Programme at Oslo Airport identified 20 jet fuel, or NOK 423 per tonne CO2 (+ 10 per cent VAT). further measures for reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Some of the measures have already been implemented, whereas others Since 2012, civil aviation has been encompassed by the European are at the planning stage. Measures that have been introduced Emissions Trading Scheme, a cap and trade system, in line with include facilitation for choosing zero emission taxis, mapping of the industry and energy sectors. The EU’s aim is that emissions in energy consumption in buildings, and curved approaches. sectors subject to quota obligations should be 43 per cent lower in 2030 than in 2005. The original intention was for all flights Infrastructure for charging electric cars is being developed. At the inside and to/from EU/EEA countries to be comprised by the end of 2015, Oslo Airport had 265 charging stations. Avinor’s airports scheme. However, for the 2013-2016 period, it has been decided have a total of more than 350 charging stations for electric cars. that only flights inside the EU/EEA should be comprised by the scheme, pending introduction of a potential global Market Based Emission of greenhouse gases from air traffic Measures organised by ICAO (UN International Civil Aviation Since 2007, Avinor has cooperated with the airlines and the Organization). The airlines must apply for and be awarded a Federation of Norwegian Aviation Industries to facilitate reduced certain number of free quotas based on their production in greenhouse gas emissions. Two reports have been published 4) 2010, and must reduce their emissions or purchase quotas for outlining emission-reducing measures and comparing their effect exceeding emissions. The quota price 7) has varied between NOK with expected traffic developments. According to the forecasts, 235 per tonne CO2 in July 2008 and NOK 21 per tonne CO2 in greenhouse gas emissions from domestic air traffic can be less in April 2013. As of February 2016, quotas are sold for about NOK 55 2025 than in 2007, despite substantial traffic growth. Emissions per tonne. The EU is expected to reduce the number of available will probably increase from international air traffic, due to signifiquotas in the period leading up to 2030, to achieve its objectives. cant traffic growth. However, this can be offset by use of biofuels. This will increase the quota price and, in the longer term, result in higher costs for Norwegian aviation. This means that an overall According to Statistics Norway (SSB), greenhouse gas emissions assessment of the aviation industry’s emission reductions must from domestic civil aviation accounted for 2.4 (last official take into account goal achievement in the quota trading scheme, figures) per cent of overall domestic emissions in 2014 (1.27 of phase-in of sustainable biofuel and the impact of emissions53.2 million tonnes). These emissions are regulated by the Kyoto reducing measures in the aircraft fleet. Protocol. In 2014, greenhouse gas emissions from international air traffic, meaning from Norwegian airports to the first destinaThe most important emissions-reducing measures are associated tion abroad, totalled 1.56 million tonnes CO2 equivalents. Overall with fleet replacements, improving airspace efficiency and biofuel. greenhouse gas emissions from all jet fuel for civilian purposes sold at Norwegian airports in 2014 were in the region of 2.8 The airlines will continue the work on million tonnes CO2 equivalents, up slightly from 2013. Total energy efficiency and fleet renewal carbon emissions from global aviation were 705 million tonnes, SAS and Norwegian renew their fleets continuously, and operate or approximately two per cent of global greenhouse gas emission exclusively the latest generation of aircraft. More energy-efficient (36 billion tonnes) in 2013, according to IATA 5). engines, improved aerodynamics, lower weight and more seats entail, e.g., that the new Boeing 737 aircrafts have about 30 per In addition, there is the effect of some emissions taking place cent lower fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions per at high altitudes, which increases the environmental impact seat kilometre than the previous generation of aircraft. From somewhat. CICERO estimates an additional factor of 1.2-1.8 6). 2016, the aircraft type A320 NEO and Boeing 737-Max will be 4) See https://avinor.no/konsern/miljo-og-samfunn/rapporter/ 5) http://aviationbenefits.org/media/26786/ATAG__AviationBenefits2014_FULL_LowRes.pdf 6) Lund, Marianne T, Terje Berntsen and Jan S. Fuglestvedt (2011): «Luftfart og klima En oppdatert oversikt over status for forskning på klimaeffekter av utslipp fra fly», CIENS report 3 2011 7) Page 46 of Prop 1 LS 2015-2016: Skatter, avgifter og toll 2016 38 AVINOR AS Minister of Transportation Ketil Solvik-OIsen is interviewed on 22 January 2016 during the event highlighting that Oslo Airport is the first international hub in the world to supply jet biofuel to all airlines. phased in. This will yield a further reduction of approximately time in the world that biofuel is distributed together with fossil fuels 15 per cent per seat kilometre. from the central tanking facility, which reduced costs significantly. More efficient airspace Avinor has allocated up to NOK 100 million over a ten-year period More efficient airspace along with optimisation of landing and (2013-2022) for measures and projects that will contribute to take-offs are important measures where Avinor has considerable phase-in of jet biofuels in Norwegian aviation. Along with the airopportunity to make an impact. Better navigation technology lines and the Federation of Norwegian Aviation Industries, Avinor allows more precise and flexible approach and departure procehas explored opportunities to establish large-scale production of dures. At Oslo Airport, approximately 8500 curved approaches biofuels for aviation, based on biomass from Norwegian forests. were made as tests in 2014 and 2015. Such approaches avoid The conclusion is that this can be realised from 2020-2025. The flying over densely populated areas, and reduce fuel consumption initiative will be able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from as the flight distance is reduced compared with the conventional Norwegian aircraft and helicopter traffic by up to 45 per cent, ILS approaches. The total reduction in emissions associated depending on how much biomass from the forest industry is used with these test flights is about 2000 tonnes CO2. Procedures for for the purpose. A partnership has been formed with Viken Skog curved approaches have also been implemented at Haugesund in view of a possible plant at Follum, and Avinor also has close ties Airport, Karmøy and at Harstad/Narvik Airport, Evenes, and will with other industry players, including Statkraft and Södra Cell. In gradually be introduced at other airports. addition, Avinor supports several research projects related to this, in cooperation with SINTEF and others. In November 2015, Free Route Airspace was introduced. This is a new airspace organisation system in Norway, Finland, Latvia Large-scale Norwegian production of biofuel for aviation and and Estonia, which means that the airlines can plan their flights heavy road transport can be essential to reach Norway's climate between airports in the most optimal manner, without depending goals. However, this depends on long-term and predictable frameon predefined routes. This entails that aircraft can carry less fuel, work conditions. Jet biofuel can also be imported from abroad. which will reduce costs, weight and greenhouse gas emissions. Surface access Jet biofuel To improve traveller services, reduce greenhouse gas emissions Biofuel was certified for use in civil aviation in 2009. Since then, thouand improve local air quality, Avinor aims to be a driving force sands of scheduled civilian flights have taken place using biofuel, and and facilitator in ensuring that as much of the surface access to there has been a rapid development in the various technologies for airports as possible takes place by public transport. Challenges production of biofuels. Both the aviation industry and the UN’s aviarelating to ground transport are linked to both the transport tion organisation ICAO consider phase-in of biofuel a very important network and types of transport. The residential pattern in the measure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from aviation. airport impact area also means that it is not possible to provide everyone with fully satisfactory public transport services. Norway’s first flights using biofuels were conducted in November 2014. As of January 2016, jet biofuel is available to all airlines refuelOverall, Avinor’s airports have a high share of public transport, and ling at Oslo Airport. This makes Oslo Airport the first international Oslo Airport’s share is the highest in Europe. The percentage has hub in the world with regular supplies of jet biofuels. It is also the first increased in recent years, and the aim is to improve it even further. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 39 SHARE OF PUBLIC TRANSPORT AT NORWAY’S near the airports. Avinor conducts regular noise mapping at all FOUR LARGEST AIRPORTS airports and registers route usage at the major airports. PUBLIC TRANSPORT SHARE Airport noise maps, which describe a noise picture with long-term predictability, are the most important tools for preAIRPORT STATUS 2009 STATUS 2014 ** TARGET 2020 venting increased aircraft noise exposure in residential areas. Oslo 64 66 70 * The municipalities are obliged to use these maps in their area Stavanger 14 17 30 planning. Aircraft noise exposure depends on the aircraft type, traffic volume, runway use, route choice, and how the traffic Bergen 27 34 40 is distributed throughout the day. Apart from noise mappings, Trondheim 42 45 50 Avinor's most important tools are traffic management and adjustment of approach and departure procedures. In December * Long-term target (2030): 75 per cent ** Latest available figures, Source: Reisevaneundersøkelsene (RVU). 2015, the Norwegian Civil Aviation Authority adopted revised noise regulations for Oslo Airport, regulating e.g. the use of runways and The group of passengers that represents the largest environmenwhat areas aircraft may fly over near the airport. The regulations tal challenge, are those who drive to the airport to drop off or allow for permanent use of curved approaches, where the routes collect passengers, and then drive home again (so-called kiss & run between densely populated areas. Furthermore, the regulations fly). This is the group of passengers Avinor wants to encourage to indicate an adjusted departure corridor for departures from the use public transport. airport’s northeastern corner. This adjustment will make it possible to maintain the departure capacity at the airport, whilst preventing Most policy instruments to increase the share of public transport aircraft from flying over the most densely populated areas. are outside the scope of Avinor’s responsibilities, and require cooperation between a number of players. Avinor’s main The introduction of the Sikorsky S92 helicopter for offshore contribution is to facilitate infrastructure at the airports, and transport has resulted in a significant increase in aircraft noise at provide information about services to passengers. At group certain airports. More recent aircraft noise mappings show that level, Avinor cooperates actively with the main airport bus the helicopter traffic contributes somewhat toward increasing the operators in Norway, focusing on the four major airports. The scope of the red aircraft noise zone, in which the construction of purpose of the cooperation is to find strategies to increase the schools, day-care centres, housing and holiday cottages is generally bus companies’ market shares at the expense of private cars. prohibited. The helicopter traffic is of particular significance for Through this cooperation, the company has worked out specific the scope of the yellow aircraft noise zone, in which construction measures that will increase the bus operators’ market share and is permitted, but only if measures are implemented to reduce noise. this work will continue. Avinor also aims to use this knowledge to facilitate increased use of public transport at the smaller airports. In 2012, Avinor took the initiative to establish a national helicopter As a start, we will facilitate good public transport facilities from noise committee consisting of representatives from Avinor, oil Narvik to Evenes, in connection with the closure of Narvik companies and helicopter operators. The committee coordinates Airport. Next, we will look at airports with a low share of public measures to reduce noise load. transport and a potential for improvement. Avinor’s ground transport work also focuses on the requirement for commercial At Bergen and Stavanger airports, where a system was established earnings from the group’s car parks. in 2014 for registering radar data from air traffic, work has been ongoing in 2015 to establish approach and departure procedures to reduce the number of people exposed to noise from offshore AIRCRAFT AND HELICOPTER NOISE helicopter traffic. Preliminary adjustments, based on the route registration system, have been well received by the airports’ neighbours. Avinor’s environmental target 2012-2015: The number of residents exposed to outdoor noise levels from aircraft and helicopters exceeding Lden 60 dB and Lnight 55 dB, shall not ENERGY CONSUMPTION increase in the period. Avinor’s environmental target 2012-2015: Avinor's total About two per cent of the Norwegian population live in a location energy consumption in buildings shall be reduced by 25% where average outdoor aircraft noise exceeds Lden 50 dBA. 8) This in 2015 compared with the energy consumption in 2010. mainly includes people who are exposed to noise from fighter This target does not apply to Oslo Airport. aircraft, but also people who live in exposed areas near the largest civil airports in Norway and near airports with considerable The energy supplying Avinor’s buildings and infrastructure is mainly offshore helicopter traffic. The number of people exposed to from purchased electricity, but some airports also receive energy aircraft noise has remained relatively stable since 1999, in spite from district heating, seawater heat exchanging and geothermal of a significant increase in traffic. This is because newer aircraft heating. The energy is primarily used for heating, cooling, lighting, airengines produce less noise. field systems and other technical equipment. Of Avinor’s controllable greenhouse gas emissions, the group’s energy consumption constiAircraft and helicopter noise is one of Avinor’s most important tutes 24 per cent. There is a major potential here to reduce energy environmental focus areas due to the importance for the airports’ consumption and contribute to Avinor meeting its climate goals. local communities. Avinor will work actively to reduce the noise load from civilian aircraft and helicopter traffic for residents Avinor’s target for the 2010-2015 period was to reduce the group’s 8) Lden = an A-weighted equivalent noise level for day-evening-night with a 5dB/10 dB supplement for evening-night. The Lden level is calculated as the average noise load over the course of one year. Lnight = an A-weighted equivalent level for an 8-hour night period from 23:00 to 07:00 hours. 40 AVINOR AS down 4.8 per cent from 2014. Oslo Airport, including tenants, delivAVINOR’S ENERGY CONSUMPTION ACCORDING TO SOURCE ered 71 per cent of this, in all 9 767 tonnes, down 5.7 per cent from Energy consumption, GWh the previous year. The group’s source separation rate was 58 per 250 cent, the same as in 2014. The 2015 objective of a source separation rate of 60 per cent was thus not achieved.For Oslo Airport, the 225 source separation rate was stable at slightly above 60 per cent. 200 In all, 385 tonnes of hazardous waste was delivered in 2015, compared with 515 tonnes in 2014. Of this, Oslo Airport delivered 175 298 tonnes. As of 2016, the definitions of sorted and unsorted waste will be changed slightly pursuant to NS9431 Klassifikasjon 150 av avfall (Waste classification). 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Electric District heating Oil heating Back-up power In the future, Avinor will aim to uphold the current waste separation level, and at the same time reduce the total waste volume. Avinor will continue to cooperate with professional partners to ensure safe and optimal waste management. This entails energy consumption in buildings by 25 per cent. However, the assistance to develop local waste management plans, suitable for volume of purchased electric power has increased and the 2015 the airports’ need and the recipient’s facilities, as well as safe and objective has not been met. At the same time, there are now more correct further handling of hazardous waste. square metres of buildings, and thus the group’s overall energy need has increased. Due to a lack of energy meters, it is not possible to distinguish between energy used for buildings and energy for airENVIRONMENTALLY SOUND PROCUREMENT field systems and other technical equipment. This makes it difficult to establish actual changes in energy consumption in buildings. Avinor’s environmental target 2012-2015: Avinor shall select products and materials with the lowest possible In 2015, several minor energy conservation measures have been environmental impact from a lifetime perspective. implemented at the airports, such as switching to LED lighting, upgrading of heating and ventilation systems, better manageAvinor spends a considerable amount on products and services. ment of the group’s needs, etc. Avinor’s work to introduce energy In 2015, Avinor’s procurements amounted to NOK 9 691 million, management and energy follow-up at all our airports started with of which 5 179 million related to investment purchases primarily eight airports in 2015, and will continue in 2016. The objective is for major construction projects in connection with terminal to reduce the actual energy consumption in buildings. expansions and runway extensions, and NOK 4 512 million was spent on purchases for the group’s operations. As regards the implementation of building and construction projects, WASTE Avinor will prepare an environmental follow-up plan which will safeguard considerations for the external environment in the Avinor’s environmental target 2012-2015: Avinor shall planning and construction phases, as well as guarantee environachieve a source separation rate of 60 per cent. mental considerations in the choice of solutions. Airport operations generate waste from public areas, including Avinor has the opportunity to point suppliers from multiple sectors the security check, cafés and restaurants, shops and waiting in a more environmentally friendly direction, and environmental areas, but waste is also generated from aircraft cleaning, workrequirements in procurement are an important part of Avinor's shops, garages, offices, and not least from construction projects. environmental policy. The environmental requirements are incorporated in the pre-tender qualification for all procurements During the period 2012-2015, Avinor and Oslo Airport have worked and apply to all suppliers and contractors. Environmental considersystematically with waste separation and handling of hazardous ations are also emphasised in the award criteria for procurements waste. In 2015, Avinor delivered a total of 13 792 tonnes waste, considered important for the external environment. TOTAL AMOUNT OF WASTE SEPARATION RATE, WASTE Tonnes Per cent 15 000 70 12 000 60 9 000 50 6 000 40 3 000 0 30 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Oslo Airport Avinor Total Oslo Airport Avinor COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 41 Svolvær airport As part of the introduction of ISO14001, regular assessments During the period 2008-2013, Avinor mapped biodiversity at all are performed of Avinor’s suppliers’ and contractors’ environairports. A report from the mapping has been prepared for each ment work. Avinor aims to ensure that purchases are made airport, with descriptions and management advice. The reports from suppliers who can demonstrate consistent awareness of are available to the public on Avinor’s website. The results in the environmental issues and that work systematically to reduce the reports are followed up and used for operations and projects. company’s environmental impact. The results are also used for e.g. environmental risk assessments, environmental monitoring programmes and in the planning of development and construction activities. LOCAL AIR QUALITY In 2015, measures were implemented to protect the natural Air quality in and around the airport area is affected by local and environment at the airports. This included: regional emissions as well as by weather conditions and the local terrain. Emissions from airport operations have the greatest impact ·· A follow-up survey has shown that hay fields that were disturbed on ambient air quality locally at the airport, with aircraft and vehicles by construction work at Ålesund Airport seem to have been being the largest contributors. Outside the airport area, emissions successfully re-established. After the survey, measures have also from road traffic have the greatest impact. Oslo Airport monitors been introduced to prevent lupine from invading hay fields. the air quality at the airport, and in 2015, the airport launched a ·· Haugesund Airport established cooperation with several major study of local air pollution in cooperation with the Norwegian landowners to initiate good management, grazing and heather Institute for Air Research (NILU). Test results over several years have burning to stop the coastal heather moors around the airport shown that the air quality is well within regulatory requirements at from overgrowing. Oslo Airport. The readings indicate that this is also the case for other ·· Haugesund Airport started producing honey in 2015. Both Norwegian airports, which all have considerably less traffic. Haugesund and Stavanger airports now produce honey. The purity of the honey is an environmental indicator as the bees collect pollen and nectar from nearby areas. BIODIVERSITY ·· Oslo Airport continues combatting foreign harmful species and the amount of Japanese knotweed and giant hogweed has now Many of Avinor's airports are located in or near areas that are been greatly reduced. biologically diverse, such as protected areas, rare biotopes, rare ·· In cooperation with the Norwegian Environment Agency, species, salmon rivers and fjords. Avinor provided information about CITES (the Convention of International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Avinor aims to have a good overview of natural assets at their Flora) and responsible tourism at selected airports in 2015. properties and in areas that can be affected by airport operations. 42 AVINOR AS Key figures climate and environment 2011-2015 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Avinor controls tonnes CO2 eqv. 20 464 20 992 21 397 20 728 18 158 Avinor controls/passenger g CO2 eqv./passenger 462 453 443 414 363 ENERGY 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Electric power GWh 205 216 220 223 231 District heating GWh 22 27 26 15 12 Oil heating GWh 4.2 3.3 2.0 1.7 2.0 Back-up power GWh 1.8 1.8 1.5 2.3 1.7 Total GWh 233 249 249 243 247 FUEL FOR VEHICLES 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Diesel litres 2 647 035 2 773 281 2 796 158 2 625 548 2 651 617 Petrol litres 104 608 86 672 80 404 76 255 64 948 Biodiesel litres 9 280 WASTE 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Sorted waste tonnes 6 593 7 370 7 246 8 407 7 999 Mixed waste tonnes 5 180 5 560 5 466 6 087 5 793 Total tonnes 11 773 12 930 12 712 14 494 13 792 Waste separation rate % 56 57 57 58 58 Hazardous waste tonnes 515 385 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 43 FIRE AND ACCIDENT CHEMICALS 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Jet fuel A1 / Paraffin litres 72 267 100 952 85 788 72 965 72 225 Diesel/Petrol litres 2 291 2 478 4 597 5 656 3 333 Propane kg 3 327 3 324 2 850 2 662 3 837 AFFF litres 32 761 36 209 27 668 20 785 27 356 Drill foam litres 360 1 610 Extinguishing powder kg 25 934 19 274 20 825 17 247 23 719 Technical spirits litres 549 869 1 426 721 1 156 Kindling kg 707 1 272 1 728 2 427 5 397 DE-ICING CHEMICALS 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 De-icing chemicals for aircraft 100 % glycol litres 1 780 429 2 353 921 2 120 801 2 287 775 2 412 346 De-icing chemicals, runways Formate (liquid) 1) litres 1 801 356 2 470 872 2 946 325 2 591 111 3 552 317 Formate (solid) 1) kg 153 918 264 303 229 203 210 275 443 850 Environmental impact in COD 2) tonnes O2 269 577 382 003 435 739 385 208 563 887 NUMBER OF AIRCRAFT INCIDENTS (LH) WITH OPERATIONAL BREACHES OF CONDITIONS FOR DE-ICING OF AIRCRAFT AND RUNWAYS 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 De-icing of aircraft Number 9 3) 8 9 4 3 De-icing of runways Number 1 0 1 1 1 Total Number 10 8 10 5 4 1) Stated as amount of product, not concentrate. 2) COD= Chemical oxygen demand. This is the amount of oxygen required to break down the chemical used. 3) For OSL the breach was caused by aircraft or runway de-icing (recipient-based permit). 44 AVINOR AS The work to highlight why Avinor is an attractive work place for women continued in 2015. Avinor shall be a professional and attractive employer Avinor’s vision is to create valuable relationships. This is reflected in a value platform that sets clear requirements for employee conduct at the workplace and when dealing with customers, business associates and others. The 2015 employee survey showed that seven out of ten enjoyed good cooperation with trade union representatives, employees are highly or very highly engaged in their job: both as regards ongoing cases and more comprehensive change processes. The group nevertheless aims to further develop the ·· Avinor has a good working environment collaborative model between trade union representatives and the ·· Job satisfaction is high management, in order to secure good working conditions, stable ·· Four of five would recommend Avinor as an employer operations and cost effectiveness throughout the group. During the year, Avinor and trade union representatives have developed COOPERATION a model, based on the Basic Agreement for continuous improvement of work processes and result achievement. Avinor believes Avinor employs a high number of trade union members, and that improvement work that is firmly embedded with employees the collective agreement coverage is 100 per cent for the group's has what it takes to succeed. Avinor’s employees hold four of ten companies, with each having its own collective agreement. seats on Avinor’s board. Representatives are also elected by and Trade union representatives are therefore important partners among the employees to the boards of our subsidiaries. in the effort to realise the group’s objectives. In 2015, Avinor COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 45 EXPERTISE DEVELOPMENT number of women. According to the analyses, the potential for increasing the number of women over the next five years Employees with the right expertise are essential for Avinor to amounts to 3-4 percentage points. We are now stepping up our succeed. In 2015, the group revised its expertise strategy in line efforts to ensure we fulfil this potential. with Avinor’s new strategic objectives. The work will be completed in 2016 in light of the ongoing transition work. At the same In 2015, Avinor has continued its efforts to show why Avinor is time, work is ongoing to certify Avinor’s airports in accordance an attractive place for women to work. Previously, more women with environmental standards and new regulatory requirements than men left the group. Now turnover is higher among men from the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). Special focus than women. Altered communication in the recruitment work will be on operative units and the group’s safety management. has significantly increased the percentage of women applicants. However, we do not employ more women than previously. Good leadership is fundamental for Avinor’s operations and Consequently, specific measures have been proposed for job employee conditions. In 2014, 430 managers, key personnel, safety interviews to ensure that objectiveness in assessing qualifications delegates and trade union representatives completed Avinor’s is reflected in recruitment. Positive discrimination may be a culture and management development programme. In 2015, relevant measure. The percentage of women in management the programme was strengthened through management team positions corresponds with the percentage of women in the development. Furthermore, the second part of the culture and group (22 per cent). management development programme Avinors Lederplattform (Avinor’s leader platform) was launched in December 2015. The programme focuses on change management and result achieveDECLINE IN BREACHES OF WORKING ment. The focus on projects as a working form is supported by HOURS PROVISIONS Avinor’s project school. The project school makes it possible for employees to acquire formal supplementary training in project It is important to Avinor to ensure full compliance with the management and methodology. working hours provisions stipulated in the Norwegian Working Environment Act. The group continuously follows up how working In recent years, the group has established firm ties with academia, hours are spent. Training of managers and shift organisers has and is involved in several ongoing research collaborations. Avinor been conducted in exposed units. This has reduced the number of also contributes expertise to several universities and university breaches of working hours provisions in 2015, both in total (41 colleges in Norway through guest lectures. In addition, Avinor per cent) and for breaches following entry into an agreement on conducts workshops with students where we work together to extended working hours (-36 per cent). The use of overtime was solve specific challenges in Avinor’s project portfolio. Avinor has reduced by 15 per cent during the same period. a special summer internship programme, and facilitates work on bachelor or master theses in cooperation with the group. HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT WORK (HSE) Avinor had four apprentices (Oslo Airport) and one trainee (Trondheim Airport) in 2015. The group aims to make room Avinor attaches great importance to ensuring that the strategic for more apprentices and trainees, and will establish 12 new and governing plans for health, safety and the environment apprenticeships in 2016 (Oslo and Stavanger). For 2017, Avinor comply with laws and regulations and that they are adhered to is planning to establish 20 new training positions. A dedicated and followed up throughout the entire group. HSE is a manageposition may be established at group level to strengthen the ment responsibility and must be integrated in the working day group’s focus on apprenticeships. for the whole line. The group’s action plans are founded on the Regulations relating to systematic health, environmental and safety activities in enterprises, the Working Environment Act INCLUSION AND GENDER EQUALITY with associated HSE regulations, as well as the group’s strategic plan, comprising e.g.: Avinor is a male-dominated company which strives to achieve a more equal gender balance. In 2015, turnover in the group was ·· HSE risk profile and health-promoting work unusually low, and, in practice, there was a freeze on new recruit·· Systematic HSE work ment. The group has thus had less opportunity than normal to ·· The injury picture create a more equal gender balance through recruitment of new employees. As the principal undertaking, the Avinor group is responsible for coordinating the HSE work with all parties who are tenants It is a challenge that few women chose an education within the or who are contracted to perform work on behalf of the group. dominant professions in Avinor. In 2015, comprehensive analysis In a number of contexts, the Avinor group is also a construction work was conducted to identify a real potential for the share of client. This entails ensuring due consideration for health, safety female employees, and find suitable methods to increase the and the working environment at construction sites. 46 AVINOR AS It is important for the group to raise the organisation’s awareness Balance is an online health-promoting programme that can of the importance of reporting undesirable incidents as well as assess the person's alcohol habits, and then follow up for up to injuries. This means undesirable incidents relating to passenone year for those who want to make a positive change. gers, other players as well as the group’s own employees. As an owner of infrastructure, it is essential that the Avinor group is In cooperation with employee representatives, an assessment aware of such incidents so that we can implement mitigating was made of whether shift work might cause higher mortality measures. Over the course of 2015, the group has improved its among air traffic controllers. The assessment did not empirically reporting routines for injuries affecting other airport players and support the hypothesis. passengers. The group aims for an absence due to illness rate of 4.5 per cent, The aim for any enterprise, including Avinor, will always be to or lower. In 2015, absence due to illness was 4.6 per cent. achieve zero injuries resulting in absence from work. In 2015, there were 17 injuries among the Avinor group’s own employees that resulted in absence. Avinor AS had 13 injuries, Oslo Airport KEY FIGURES ABOUT AVINOR EMPLOYEES AS two, and Avinor Flysikring AS two. The group’s LTI rate (number of injuries resulting in absence per million hours worked) for 2015 2014 2013 2015 was 3.3 compared with 4.2 in 2014. The target is 3 or lower. No. of permanent employees 31 Dec. 3 157 3 214 3 123 Since project start-up, the LTI rate for the T2 project at Oslo Airport is 3.1. The LTI rate for the T3 project at Bergen Airport, Temporary full-time equivalents 153 155 150 Flesland is 3.8 during the construction period. Average age of permanent employees 44.4 45.4 44.4 Total turnover 9) 2.2% 2.8% 3.4% The 2015 result indicates that preventive HSE work has been Percentage of women 10) 24.1% 23.6% 23.7% successful, and it is highlighted in the group. In 2015, a new system for reporting nonconformities was introduced, which will Percentage of women in management 21.5% 21.4% 21.2% improve the reporting basis and enable analysis of causes, ensure Percentage women, Group Management 18.0% 17.0% 30.0% better transfer of experience and provide generally better learning Percentage women, Group Board 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% loops. Absence due to illness 4.6% 4.5% 4.5% The safety delegate service LTI rate 11) 3.3 4.2 1.8 Avinor’s work on absence due to illness is systematic and particuAvinor, an attractive company (scale 1-5) 4.1 4.1 4.1 larly aimed at employees who work shifts, in operative positions with physical and health requirements. Avinor has participated in a multi-year research project (FARVE) on the effect of various AGE GROUP measures. This project was concluded in 2015. The number of DISTRIBUTION BOARD MANAGEMENT PERM. EMPL. TURNOVER people with illegitimate sick leaves was significantly reduced <30 0.0% 0.0% 6.7% 0.2% during the project period. 30-50 50.0% 18.0% 54.1% 0.7% Each of the 42 regional airports has appointed an employee 50< 50.0% 81.0% 39.1% 1.3% as health motivator, responsible for disseminating knowledge and promoting exercise and a healthy lifestyle. Avinor works systematically to prevent the harmful effects of substance abuse, through internal regulations, skills development and raising awareness. Employees who want to change their alcohol consumption, can also get help via Balance. 9) Permanent employees and air traffic control trainees. 10) Percentage of women, permanent and temporary employees. 11) Number of work accidents resulting in absence per 1 000 000 hours worked. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 47 Avinor employees are generally strongly committed to their jobs, and job satisfaction is high. 48 AVINOR AS Avinor shall ensure prudent business conduct PROCUREMENT STRATEGY and simplify reporting of, e.g. environmental criteria during qualification and contract awards in the procurement processes. Avinor has developed a dedicated procurement strategy which will promote more sustainable solutions in decision-making and ensure that suppliers fulfil their corporate social responsibility. SCOPE AND SUPPLIER CHAIN Qualification of suppliers and choice of tenders are not only based Procurement totalled NOK 9 691 million in 2015. NOK 5 179 on economic considerations and the quality of the procurement. million of this was related to investment purchases and NOK When entering into group-wide agreements, Avinor assesses 4 512 million to operation purchases. The procurements were whether suitable environmental requirements can be set, and distributed among 6042 suppliers. suppliers are required to comply with the ILO convention. To ensure this, procedures and templates have been updated. Avinor is introducing requirements for construction contracts allowing for no more than two suppliers in the supplier chain. In 2015, terms and conditions were introduced which will ensure This is to simplify control and follow-up. that Avinor’s suppliers have a code of conduct and are committed to fulfilling their corporate social responsibility. Together, the The supplier chain is described in connection with obtaining requirements will stipulate Avinor's principles for human rights, the suppliers’ self-declarations on follow-up and principles for labour standards, HSE, climate and the environment and prohibprudent supplier conduct. Any deficiencies that are identified in ited business practices. The requirements are aimed at suppliers, the self-declarations will be followed up in 2016. and a list is kept of all the group's suppliers which have signed an agreement on prudent business conduct. The provisions of the agreement provide an opportunity to audit the supplier. Any DECLARATION ON RELATED PARTIES material breach of an agreement on prudent business conduct entitles Avinor to terminate all applicable agreements with the Members of the group Board and management submit annual supplier, if censurable matters are not addressed in a satisfactory self-declarations on related parties, with information about any transmanner. actions between these parties. An external auditor conducts annual surveys of formal relations between Avinor's Group Management, In 2015, Avinor received more than 100 signed agreements the Board and suppliers. Any relationships will be documented and relating to responsible contractor conduct. A number of suppliers reviewed with the person in question. The latter analysis generally were found to be in the risk zone, according to an overview from confirms information that emerges through the self-declarations. the Agency for Public Management and eGovernment (DIFI). The suppliers were asked to complete self-declarations. A simple analysis will determine who should be followed up further and CODE OF CONDUCT audited locally. Avinor received nine self-declarations in 2015 and two site audits are scheduled for 2016. The group Board has stipulated a code of conduct which applies for the Board and all employees. More than 90 per cent of all Avinor’s efforts to ensure prudent business conduct will continue employees have completed a course on Avinor's code of conduct, in 2016. Work is ongoing to include auditing of our suppliers’ which e.g. prohibits corruption, bribes and anti-competitive compliance with prudent business conduct in the group’s general behaviour in violation of competition rules. We have developed audit plan. Furthermore, efforts are being made to establish more ethical dilemma scenarios in 2015. These will be included in a suitable level for conducting due diligence of new business a new code of conduct e-learning course. The course is mandapartners, based on risk assessments of the business area. tory for Avinor employees as well as contractors. Personnel who participate in procurement on behalf of the Avinor group shall, prior to this, have assessed their own COMPLIANCE FUNCTION impartiality in relation to the purchase in question, and complete a self-declaration. Avinor’s compliance function shall follow up to ensure that the group complies with external and internal regulations linked to To ensure greater transparency, standardise processes and ensure corruption, irregularities and the code of conduct. Avinor has that the group’s CSR templates are used, the group will introduce implemented a number of development projects in recent years. mandatory use of electronic tender processes for all contract parties There have been a number of incidents relating to price fixing and in 2016. Such a tool will ensure greater use of the group’s templates corruption.in the Norwegian building and construction sector. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 49 Oslo Airport sponsors Eidsvoll Basket Boys U14. Avinor’s risk exposure for corruption and irregularities has conAvinor supports the Church City Mission in Oslo through the sequently increased as a result of these investment programmes. project «Nabosamarbeid i Bjørvika» (The neighbour partnership Avinor is represented in all of Norway and has a wide control in Bjørvika). The Church City Mission also organises special activrange. This also contributes to higher risk of corruption and ities for children and young people, where Avinor’s employees irregularities. Various control and preventive measures have been participate. Avinor’s Christmas present went to the Church City established, which together will reduce the group's risk of conMission for their campaign «Gled en som gruer seg til jul» (Make tributing to and being exposed to corruption and irregularities. someone happy who is dreading Christmas). Avinor also partnered with Global Dignity Norge, which works to WHISTLEBLOWING encourage young people to reflect and share stories about the concept of dignity in connection with the Global Dignity Day. Avinor has established a committee to process reports of quesThis collaboration was discontinued in 2015. tionable matters in all parts of the organisation. This committee has set up routines for prudent processing of reports. The The environmental organisations Zero and Bellona receive financommittee has also prepared routines and technical solutions cial support from Avinor and provide specialist support to Avinor which allow external stakeholders to report questionable matters in connection with the work on developing biofuel. in Avinor. Processing of these reports shall follow the same procedure as for reports from group employees. Avinor holds Avinor has actively supported the Norwegian Aviation Museum in a licence from the Norwegian Data Protection Authority for Bodø since it opened 20 years ago. The museum is now organisprocessing personal information disclosed through the whistleing a new civil aviation exhibition, and in 2015, Avinor sponsored blowing process. The committee received 46 inquiries in 2015. All this work with a lump sum of NOK 5 million. This contribution inquiries have been concluded. and Avinor’s involvement should be seen in the context of the need to establish knowledge and awareness of Avinor’s social mission and the group’s role in developing modern Norway. AVINOR AS A SPONSOR Avinor’s sponsorships shall predominately be directed towards local initiatives and activities for children and young people. Many airports sponsored activities for children and young people in local communities in 2015. 50 AVINOR AS Overview of indicators This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) reporting standard G4/ Core. Avinor’s annual accounts (company accounts and consolidated financial statements) for 2015 have been audited by Ernst & Young AS. The auditor’s report is available on pages 116-117. A detailed description of the different indicators is available on GRI’s website: ·· G4: https://www.globalreporting.org/reporting/g4/Pages/default.aspx ·· Sector-specific requirements (AO indicators): https://www.globalreporting.org/reporting/sector-guidance/sectorguidanceG4/ Pages/default.aspx Standard report STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS STANDARD REPORT INDICATOR-KEY WORD PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS G4-1 Introduction p. 8 THE ORGANISATION STANDARD REPORT INDICATOR-KEY WORD PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS G4-3 Name Avinor as G4-4 Product p. 7 G4-5 Head office Oslo G4-6 Presence Avinor only has operations in Norway G4-7 Ownership p. 7 G4-8 Markets p. 7 G4-9 Size p. 2-6 G4-10 Employees p. 46 G4-11 Collective agreements p. 44 G4-12 Supplier chain p. 49 G4-13 Changes No significant changes G4-14 Precautionary p. 34 G4-15 Support for CSR initiatives p. 20 G4-16 Special int. org. Range: Sector council transport and communications National programme for supplier development: Partner COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 51 PRIORITISATION STANDARD REPORT INDICATOR-KEY WORD PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS G4-17 Overview, company p. 13, 78 This report relates to activities managed by the group in connection with airport operations and aviation safety, but not activities in other subsidiaries. G4-18 Define report content p. 20-21 G4-19 Prioritisation p. 20-21 G4-20 Scope internal All topics considered important are relevant for all of Avinor’s operations. G4-21 Scope external Avinor is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from aviation in cooperation with the airlines and the Federation of Norwegian Aviation Industries. Avinor also helps facilitate an increase in the number of passengers who use public transport to travel to and from the airport. G4-22 Amended reporting G4-23 Changed measuring methods STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE STANDARD REPORT INDICATOR-KEY WORD PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS G4-24 List of stakeholders p. 21 G4-25 Selection basis p. 21 G4-26 Description of dialogue p. 21 G4-27 Topics p. 21 ABOUT THE REPORT STANDARD REPORT INDICATOR-KEY WORD PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS G4-28 Applies to 2015 G4-29 Previous report 2014 G4-30 Interval Annual G4-31 Contact post@avinor.no G4-32 Type of GRI-report G4/Core p. 20 G4-33 Audit p. 116-117 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STANDARD REPORT INDICATOR-KEY WORD PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS G4-34 Corporate 2015 governance CODE OF CONDUCT STANDARD REPORT INDICATOR-KEY WORD PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS G4-56 Code of conduct p. 16 https://avinor.no/konsern/om-oss/konsernet/visjon-og-verdier 52 AVINOR AS Results CATEGORY: FINANCE FINANCIAL RESULTS ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 11-16 (Board report) p. 16-19 (Corporate governance) G4-EC1 Financial results p. 60-67 (Accounts) p. 69-114 (Notes to the acc.) INDIRECT FINANCIAL IMPACT ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 26-29 G4-EC7 Investments-infrastructure p. 26-27 G4-EC8 Indirect financial impact p. 26-27 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENT ENERGY ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 34, 39 G4-EN3 Energy consumption p. 39-40, 42 Not acc. to Information Metering heating/cooling unavailable instruments not installed G4-EN6 Energy saving measures p. 39-40, 42 BIODIVERSITY ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 34, 41 G4-EN11 Property adjacent to areas p. 41 with high biodiversity value G4-EN12 Impact of biodiversity p. 41 Detailed information on Avinor’s website G4-EN13 Improvement habitat p. 41 Detailed information on Avinor’s website COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 53 EMISSIONS ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ styringssystem p. 34, 36-39 AO5 Air quality p. 41 G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions p. 36-39, 42 G4-EN16 Indirect GHG emissions p. 36-39,42 G4-EN19 Reduction GHG emissions p. 36-37 DISCHARGES AND WASTE ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 34-36, 40 G4-EN23 Waste p. 40, 42 G4-EN24 Accidental spills p. 34-35, 43 G4-AO6 De-icing fluid p. 34-36, 43 COMPLIANCE WITH LEGISLATION ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 34 G4-EN29 Fines/sanctions No fines etc. NOISE ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 34, 39 AO7 Noice p. 39 FOLLOW-UP OF SUPPLIERS/THE ENVIRONMENT ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 40 G4-EN32 Screening suppliers p. 40 54 AVINOR AS CATEGORY: FACTORS RELATING TO SOCIETY SUB-CATEGORY: WORKING CONDITIONS AND WORKING ENVIRONMENT HSE ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 44-46 G4-LA5 HSE organisation p. 45-46 G4-LA6 Absence due to illness/LTI p. 45-46 G4-LA7 Particularly exposed p. 46 employee groups EXPERTISE DEVELOPMENT ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 44-45 G4-LA9 Who is offered training? p. 45 Not reported on No available hourly level per information empl. category and gender DIVERSITY ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 45 G4-LA12 Diversity, Board, p. 45-46 management, employees FOLLOW-UP OF SUPPLIERS/WORKING CONDITIONS ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 48 G4-LA14 Suppliers screened p. 48 WHISTLEBLOWING CHANNELS ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 49 G4-LA16 Complaints p. 49 SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS NON-DISCRIMINATION ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 45 https://avinor.no/konsern/om-oss/ konsernet/visjon-og-verdier G4-HR3 Cases of discrimination None COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 55 FOLLOW-UP OF SUPPLIERS/HUMAN RIGHTS ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 48 G4-HR10 Suppliers screened p. 48 SUBCATEGORY: SOCIETY LOCAL COMMUNITY ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 21, 26-29 https://avinor.no/globalassets/_konsern/ om-oss/avinorkonsernet/etiskeretningslinjer-i-avinor.pdf ANTI-CORRUPTION ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 18-19, 48-49 G4-SO4 Anti-corruption training p. 48 G4-SO5 Cases of corruption None MEASURES AGAINST COMPETITION-INHIBITING CONDUCT ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 18-19, 48-49 G4-SO7 Cases, regulatory violations None COMPLIANCE WITH LEGISLATION ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 18-19, 48-49 G4-SO8 Fines, sanctions None SUBCATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY SAFETY ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 29-33 G4-PR1 Product safety mapping p. 29-33 G4-PR2 Regulatory violations p. 29-33 ETTERLEVELSE AV LOVGIVNING PRODUKTSIKKERHET ANY DEVIATION FROM REASON FOR EXPLAINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR INDEX PAGE NUMBER OR WEB ADDRESS GRI INFORMATION REQ. DEVIATION FOR DEVIATION G4-DMA Policy/ management syst. p. 29-33 G4-PR9 Fines, sanctions None 56 AVINOR AS The Group Management DAG FALK-PETERSEN ANDERS KIRSEBOM ØYVIND HASAAS ASLAK SVERDRUP CEO Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director Avinor Flysikring AS Oslo Airport Bergen Airport LEIF ANKER LORENTZEN LASSE BARDAL MARGRETHE PETTER JOHANNESSEN Managing Director Managing Director SNEKKERBAKKEN CFO Stavanger Airport Trondheim Airport EVP Regional airports division JON SJØLANDER EGIL THOMPSON MARI HERMANSEN EVP EVP EVP Strategy and Development Communications and Marketing HR, Legal and Acquisition COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 57 The Board of Directors OLA MØRKVED RINNAN OLA HENRIK STRAND MARI THJØMØE TONE MERETHE LINDBERG Chairman Vice Chairman Board member Board member CEO Eidsiva Energi AS Consultant Managing Director and Board member/consultant Chairman Thjømøekranen AS HERLOF NILSSEN ELI SKRØVSET PER ERIK NORDSVEEN BJØRN TORE MIKKELSEN Board member Board member Board member, employee rep. Board member, employee rep. Managing Director CFO, Eksportkreditt, Norge Airport officer, Team leader, Helse Vest RHF Tromsø Airport Kirkenes Airport HEIDI ANETTE SØRUM GRETE OVNERUD Board member, employee rep. Board member, employee rep. Traffic planner, main safety Air traffic controller, Norway delegate, Oslo Airport AS ATCC, Sector Group ACC West 58 AVINOR AS Financial statements and notes COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 59 60 AVINOR AS INCOME STATEMENT All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2014 2015 NOTE 2015 2014 Operating income 2 742.9 2 278.1 Traffic income 5, 7 5 248.0 5 299.5 2 046.5 1 997.9 Sales and rental income 5, 7 5 463.6 5 365.0 696.9 711.3 Other operating income 11.5 6.5 0.0 0.0 Other income 7 1 266.3 0.0 5 486.3 4 987.3 Total operating income 11 989.4 10 671.0 Operating expenses 123.0 187.7 Raw materials and consumables used 272.1 198.5 2 112.0 1 554.1 Employee benefits expense 8, 11 3 466.6 3 427.8 655.9 708.2 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 16, 17, 11 1 459.3 1 340.2 2 505.6 2 611.2 Other operating expenses 10, 11 3 516.0 3 841.9 -196.9 16.2 Other expenses 12 42.9 -442.7 5 199.6 5 077.4 Total operating expenses 8 756.9 8 365.7 286.7 -90.1 Operating profit/(loss) 3 232.5 2 305.3 373.0 643.7 Finance income 13 39.8 48.5 382.5 421.8 Finance costs 13 368.4 417.1 -9.5 221.9 Net finance costs -328.6 -368.6 277.2 131.8 Profit before income tax 2 903.9 1 936.7 90.1 40.2 Income tax expense 14 454.9 538.0 187.1 91.6 Profit for the year 2 449.0 1 398.7 Attributable to: 187.1 91.6 Owners of the parent 2 449.0 1 398.7 The notes (note 1 to 32) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 61 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2014 2015 NOTE 2015 2014 187.1 91.6 Profit for the year 2 449.0 1398.7 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss -546.2 489.0 Actuarial gains/(losses) on post employment benefit obligations 25 1 040.9 -893.0 147.5 -132.0 Tax effect 15 -281.0 241.1 0.0 -5.3 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities 0.5 0.0 -398.7 351.7 Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss, net of tax 760.4 -651.9 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss -48.9 -2.4 Cash flow hedges 19 24.6 -66.1 13.2 0.6 Tax effect 15 -6.6 17.8 -35.7 -1.8 Total items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss, net of tax 18.0 -48.3 -434.4 349.9 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 778.4 -700.2 -247.3 441.5 Total comprehensive income for the year 3 227.4 698.5 Attributable to: -247.3 441.5 Owners of the parent 3 227.4 698.5 The notes (note 1 to 32) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. 62 AVINOR AS BALANCE SHEET All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 31.12.2014 31.12.2015 NOTE 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 ASSETS Non-current Assets Intangible assets 1 475.7 1 204.7 Deferred tax assets 15 1 508.9 2 038.2 0.0 41.7 Other intangible assets 16 117.2 15.7 1 475.7 1 246.4 Total intangible assets 1 626.1 2 053.9 Property, plant and equipment 9 843.6 11 237.3 Property, plant and equipment 17 22 507.1 21 040.9 3 074.0 3 343.0 Assets under construction 17 10 615.2 7 913.6 12 917.6 14 580.3 Total property, plant and equipment 33 122.3 28 954.5 Financial assets 1 226.9 1 523.0 Investments in subsidiaries 6 0.0 0.0 5 971.3 7 571.3 Loans to group companies 31 0.0 0.0 154.7 635.0 Derivative financial instruments 19 636.2 162.6 62.6 124.2 Other financial assets 20 306.0 188.2 7 415.5 9 853.5 Total financial assets 942.2 350.8 21 808.8 25 680.2 Total non-current assets 35 690.6 31 359.2 Current Assets 21.6 24.4 Inventories 24.4 21.6 1 057.7 730.6 Trade and other receivables 21 1 378.4 1 405.3 1.7 4.5 Derivative financial instruments 19 24.9 18.4 900.6 1 630.3 Cash and cash equivalents 22 1 666.7 932.0 1 981.6 2 389.8 Total current assets 3 094.4 2 377.3 23 790.4 28 070.0 Total assets 38 785.0 33 736.5 The notes (note 1 to 32) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 63 BALANCE SHEET All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 31.12.2014 31.12.2015 NOTE 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Restricted equity 5 400.1 5 400.1 Share capital 23 5 400.1 5 400.1 5 400.1 5 400.1 Total restricted equity 5 400.1 5 400.1 Retained earnings 3 326.0 3 171.7 Other equity 24 9 432.0 6 822.5 3 326.0 3 171.7 Total retained earnings 9 432.0 6 822.5 8 726.1 8 571.8 Total equity 14 832.1 12 222.6 Provisions and liabilities Provisions 1 523.8 1 085.3 Retirement benefit obligations 25 1 947.4 2 831.5 111.1 100.6 Other provisions 26 181.2 218.8 1 634.9 1 185.9 Total provisions 2 128.6 3 050.3 Non-current liabilities 0.0 0.0 State loan 27 2 971.7 3 416.1 14.8 7.4 Derivative financial instruments 19 88.2 128.5 9 300.0 13 095.6 Other non-current liabilities 27 14 123.8 10 522.4 9 314.8 13 103.0 Total non-current liabilities 17 183.7 14 067.0 Current liabilities 800.0 400.0 Commercial papers 27 400.0 800.0 328.7 230.1 Trade payables 441.1 799.7 0.7 1.0 Tax payable 14 335.9 277.5 41.2 86.2 Public duties payable 246.6 186.6 9.9 22.7 Derivative financial instruments 19 50.3 27.0 8.7 473.0 First annual instalment on long-term liabilities 27 994.2 551.9 2 925.4 3 996.3 Other current liabilities 26, 28 2 172.5 1 753.9 4 114.6 5 209.3 Total current liabilities 4 640.6 4 396.6 15 064.3 19 498.2 Total liabilities 23 952.9 21 513.9 23 790.4 28 070.0 Total equity and liabilities 38 785.0 33 736.5 Oslo, 30 March 2016 The Board of Directors of Avinor AS Ola Mørkved Rinnan Ola H. Strand Tone M. Lindberg Eli Skrøvset Chairman of the Board Vice Chairman Mari Thjømøe Herlof Nilssen Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen Per Erik Nordsveen Heidi Anette Sørum Grete Ovnerud Dag Falk-Petersen CEO 64 AVINOR AS CHANGES IN EQUITY All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS SHARE OTHER OTHER TOTAL CAPITAL RESERVES EQUITY EQITY Balance at 1 January 2014 5 400.1 -56.1 4 074.8 9 418.8 Profit for the year 187.1 187.1 Actuarial gain/(loss) on post employment benefit obligation net of tax -398.7 -398.7 Cash flow hedge -35.7 -35.7 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 -434.4 187.1 -247.3 Transactions with owners: Demerger -365.0 -2.2 -367.2 Non-cash share capital contribution 365.0 2.2 367.2 Dividends relating to 2013 -445.4 -445.4 Total transactions with owners 0.0 0.0 -445.4 -445.4 Balance at 1 January 2015 5 400.1 -490.5 3 816.5 8 726.1 Profit for the year 91.6 91.6 Actuarial gain/(loss) on post employment benefit obligation net of tax 357.0 357.0 Cash flow hedge -1.8 -1.8 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -5.3 -5.3 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 349.9 91.6 441.5 Other Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -95.8 -95.8 Total others 0.0 0.0 -95.8 -95.8 Transactions with owners: Demerger -289.0 -2.3 -291.3 Non-cash share capital contribution 289.0 2.3 291.3 Dividends relating to 2014 -500.0 -500.0 Total transactions with owners 0.0 0.0 -500.0 -500.0 Balance at 31 December 2015 5 400.1 -140.6 3 312.3 8 571.8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 65 CHANGES IN EQUITY All amounts in MNOK AVINOR GROUP SHARE OTHER OTHER TOTAL CAPITAL RESERVES EQUITY EQITY Balance at 1 January 2014 5 400.1 -74.6 6 643.9 11 969.4 Profit for the year 1 398.7 1 398.7 Actuarial gain/(loss) on post employment benefit obligation net of tax -651.9 -651.9 Cash flow hedge -48.3 -48.3 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 -700.2 1 398.7 698.5 Transactions with owners: Dividends relating to 2013 -445.4 -445.4 Total transactions with owners 0.0 0.0 -445.4 -445.4 Balance at 1 January 2015 5 400.1 -774.8 7 597.2 12 222.6 Profit for the year 2 449.0 2 449.0 Actuarial gain/(loss) on post employment benefit obligation net of tax 759.9 759.9 Cash flow hedge 18.0 18.0 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities 0.5 0.5 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 778.4 2 449.0 3 227.4 Other Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -117.9 -117.9 Total others 0.0 0.0 -117.9 -117.9 Transactions with owners: Dividends relating to 2014 -500.0 -500.0 Total transactions with owners 0.0 0.0 -500.0 -500.0 Balance at 31 December 2015 5 400.1 3.6 9 428.3 14 832.1 The notes (note 1 to 32) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. 66 AVINOR AS STATEMENT OF CASHFLOWS All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2014 2015 NOTE 2015 2014 Cash flow from operating activities 1 370.1 1 732.8 Cash generated from operations 1) 3 495.9 3 522.5 27.2 14.4 Interest received 19.0 28.7 -5.2 -0.7 Income tax paid -280.1 -385.9 1 392.1 1 746.5 Net cash generated from operating activities 3 234.8 3 165.3 Cash flow from investing activities -1 998.0 -2 114.4 Investments in property, plant and equipment (PPE) 16, 17 -5 165.7 -4 256.6 24.4 0.0 Proceeds from government grants 0.0 24.4 7.1 15.3 Proceeds from sale of PPE, including assets under construction 1 382.8 8.6 -1 400.0 -1 600.0 Group loans 0.0 0.0 199.0 227.6 Group interests 0.0 0.0 94.2 346.3 Net group contribution/dividend 1.7 0.0 -32.5 -51.0 Change in other investments -47.9 -31.0 -3 105.8 -3 176.2 Net cash used in investing activities -3 829.1 -4 254.6 Cash flow from financing activities 3 190.0 3 529.7 Proceeds from borrowings 3 609.7 3 290.0 -403.7 -8.4 Repayment of borrowings -749.0 -938.2 0.0 -400.0 Net proceeds/repayment of short term borrowings (commercial papers) -400.0 0.0 -352.9 -449.0 Interest paid -618.8 -540.9 -17.9 -12.9 Other borrowing charges -12.9 -17.9 -445.4 -500.0 Dividends paid to owner -500.0 -445.4 1 970.1 2 159.4 Net cash generated/used in financing activities 1 329.0 1 347.6 256.4 729.7 Net (decrease)/increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 734.7 258.3 644.2 900.6 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 22 932.0 673.7 900.6 1 630.3 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of year 1 666.7 932.0 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 67 STATEMENT OF CASHFLOWS All amounts in MNOK 1) CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2014 2015 2015 2014 277.2 131.8 Profit before income tax 2 903.9 1 936.7 655.9 708.2 Depreciation 1 459.3 1 340.2 4.0 -3.4 (Profit)/loss on disposals of non-current assets -1 270.0 2.6 -5.5 10.0 Changes in value and other losses/(gains) net (unrealised) 17.8 -2.8 9.5 -221.9 Net finance costs 328.6 368.6 193.6 -166.3 Change in inventories, trade receivables and trade payables -186.2 125.8 -185.6 50.5 Difference between post employment benefit expense and amount paid/received 156.5 -409.5 -162.4 166.1 Change in other working capital items 86.0 160.9 583.4 1 057.8 Change in group receivables and payables 0.0 0.0 1 370.1 1 732.8 Cash generated from operations 3 495.9 3 522.5 In the cash flow statement, proceeds from sale of PPE comprise: 11.1 11.9 Net book amount 112.8 11.1 -4.0 3.4 Profit/(loss) on disposals of PPE 1 270.0 -2.5 7.1 15.3 Proceeds from disposal of PPE 1 382.8 8.6 The notes (note 1 to 32) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. 68 AVINOR AS NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1 General information 2 Summary of significant accounting policies 3 Financial risk factors 4 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 5 Segment information 6 Subsidiaries 7 Operating income and other income 8 Salaries and personnel costs, number of employees, remunerations 9 Declaration on the determination of salaries and other remuneration for the CEO and other executive employees 10 Other operating expenses 11 Impact on earnings – Terminal 2 project 12 Other expenses 13 Finance income and costs 14 Income tax expense 15 Deferred income tax 16 Intangible assets 17 Property, plant and equipment 18 Financial instruments by category 19 Derivative financial instruments 20 Other financial assets 21 Trade and other receivables 22 Cash and cash equivalents 23 Share capital, shareholder information, dividend and results 24 Other reserves 25 Pension obligation 26 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 27 Borrowings 28 Other short-term liability 29 Contingencies 30 Commitments 31 Related-party transactions 32 Events after the reporting period COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 69 NOTE 1 General information Avinor AS and its subsidiaries (together 'the group') own, manage The Avinor group's headquarters are located in Oslo, Dronning and develop aviation infrastructure and systems by facilitating Eufemias gate 6. safe and efficient aviation. The group also renders services within the same areas together with other activities that add to the group's main business, including commercial development. NOTE 2 Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of 2.1.1 Changes in accounting policy and disclosure these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These (a) New and amended standards adopted by the group policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, There are no relevant amendments or new standarsds adopted by unless otherwise stated. the group for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2015. The accounting policies set out below do also apply to the preparation of the financial statements of Avinor AS. (b) New standards, amendments and interpretations not yet adopted A number of new standards and amendments to standards and 2.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2016, and have not been applied in preparing these The consolidated financial statements of Avinor AS and Avinor consolidated financial statement. Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU. IFRS 9 'Financial instruments' replaces IAS 39 and addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under assets and financial liabilities and introduces new rules for the historical cost convention, as modified by financial assets and hedge accounting. IFRS 9 require financial assets to be classified financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) recognised into three measurement categories: amortised cost, fair value partly at fair value through profit or loss and partly (cash flow through other comprehensive income and fair value through hedges) in other comprehensive income. profit and loss. The determination is made at initial recognition. The classification depends on the entity's business model for The whole of Avinor group's operations are defined as two managing its financial instruments and the contractual cash cash-generating unit (CGU). The Air Navigation Service is assesed flow characteristics of the instrument. For financial liabilities, as a own business area with cash flows that are mainly indepenthe standard retains most of the IAS 39 requirements. The main dent from the cash flows of the rest of the group. For the rest of change is that, in cases where the fair value option is taken for the group, exclusive of the Air Navigation Services, the group's financial liabilities, the part of fair value change due to an entity's economic model is based on the assumption that there is full own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income rather cross-subsidisation between profitable and unprofitable airports than the income statement, unless this creates an accounting as well as all areas of operations (overall system). The group mismatch. The new hedging rules align hedge accounting more has a distinct expressed objective to develop, within the overall closely with the group's risk management practice. AS a general system, commercial activities in order to provide capital for rule it will be easier to apply hedge accounting going forward as unprofitable activities (social considerations/responsibilities) and the standard introduces a more principles based approach. The reduce the level of traffic charges. Due to this the group assess new standard also introduces expanded disclosure requirements that a solution where the group's operations, exclusive of the Air and changes in presentation. The group has not yet assessed how Navigation Services, are evaluated as a whole, presents a true and its own hedging arrangements would be affected by the new rule. fair view of the operations. IFRS 9 will be effective from 1 January 2018. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS IFRS 15 'Revenue from Contracts with Customers' deals with requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also revenue recognition and replaces all existing IFRS revenue requires managment to exercise its judgement in the process of requirements. The core principle of IFRS 15 is that revenue is applying the group's accounting policies. Areas involving a higher recognised to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or statements are disclosed in particular. services. 70 AVINOR AS The standard applies with a few exceptions to all revenue 2.4 FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION contracts with customers and provides a model for the recognition and measurement of sales of some non-financial assets (e.g., Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional disposals of property, plant and equipment). currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction, except transactions from En Route income which The group has so fare no reason to expect that the new standard are translated using a fixed exchange rate. will have major impact on the the group's operating income. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after are translated using the exchange rate at the balance sheet 1 January 2017. date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the IFRS 16 'Leases' replaces IAS 17. exchange rate at the date of transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value denominated in foreign currencies IFRS 16 addresses the principles of recognition, measurement, are translated using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date. presentation and disclosure of lease agreements for both parties in the agreement, the customer (lessee) and the offerer (lessor). Foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the income The new standard demands that the lessee recognise assets statement. The functional currency of the group companies is NOK. and obligations for the majority of lease agreements, which is a material change from todays rules. Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to receivables, liabilities, cash and cash equivalents are considered to be operational The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after and have been classified as changes in value and other losses/ 1 January 2019. (gains) net, presented within 'other expenses'. There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretation that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the 2.5 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT group. Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less depreciation. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly 2.2 CONSOLIDATION attributable to the acquisition of the items. Cost may also include transfers from equity of any gains/losses on qualifying cash flow hedSubsidiaries ges of foreign currency purchases of property, plant and equipment. The consolidated financial statements encompasses Avinor AS and all entities over which Avinor AS has control. Subsequent costs are included in the asset's carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it The group controls an entity when the group is exposed to, or has is probable that that future economic benefits associated with rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity the item will flow to the group and the cost of the item can be and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are charged the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on to the income statement during the financial period in which which control is transferred tothe group. They are deconsolidated they are incurred. from the date that control ceases. Borrowing costs incurred for the construction of any qualifying As at 31 December 2015 all subsidiaries are wholly owned. asset are capitalised during the period of time that is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use. Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains/ losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated. Each material component of an asset is evaluated separately for the object of depreciation. The materiality is assessed from the Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where cost of a component in relation to the cost of the whole asset. necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the group. Land and housing are not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: 2.3 SEGMENT REPORTING ·· Buildings 10 50 years Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the ·· Infrastructure 5 40 years internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. ·· Runways and other related assets 15 50 years ·· Vehicles 10 20 years The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for ·· Other non-current assets 5 15 years allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Group Management. The assets' residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period. Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 71 Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impair(ii) The group as a lessor ment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that Operating leases: the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment The group presents rental assets as non-current assets in the loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying balance sheet. Rental income is recognised in income on a amount exceeds its recoverable amount. straight-line basis over the period of the lease. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Non-financial assets other than 2.8 GOVERNMENT GRANTS goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. A government grant is recognised at fair value when there is reasonable assurance that the group will comply with the conditions attached to it, and that the grant will be received. Government 2.6 INTANGIBLE ASSETS grants are recognised as income over the periods necessary to match them with the related costs which they are intended to Separately acquired intangible assets are shown at historical cost. compensate, on a systematic basis. Government grants related Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recogto assets are presented in the statement of financial position by nised at fair value at the acquisition date. Intangible assets are deducting the grant to arrive at the carrying amount of the asset. carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortisation. Internally generated intangible assets, with the exception of 2.9 IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS development costs that are recognised as intangible assets, are recogised as an expense as incurred. Development costs are recogAssets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes nised as an intangible asset when all the criterias in IAS 38 are met. in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. For the purpose of assessing impairment the The useful life of an intangible asset is either finite or indefinite. whole group is defined as one cash generating unit (CGU). The Intangible assets with finite useful life are amortised using the difference between the carrying amount and recoverable amount straight-line method to allocate the cost over their estimated is recognised as an impairment loss in the income statement. The useful lives. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed recoverable amount is the highest of the cash-generating unit's for impairment whenever events or change in circumstances fair value less cost to sell and its value in use. indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Method of amortisation and estimated useful life is reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. Changes in method and/ 2.10 SHARES IN SUBSIDIARIES or estimated useful life is accounted for as changes in estimates. Shares in subsidiaries are recognised at cost at the acquisition Computer software date and are classified as a long-term investment. The shares Costs associated with purchasing new computer software are assessed whether there is any indication that their carrying are recognised as an intangible asset, unless it is a part of the amount exceeds the amount to be recovered through use or sale. acquisition of hardware. Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost over their estimated useful life, normally 5 years. 2.11 FINANCIAL ASSETS Cost associated with maintaining computer software programs 2.11.1 Classification or maintaining future usage of computer software programs are The group classifies its financial assets in the following expensed unless the changes enchance the future usage of the categories: At fair value through profit or loss and loans and program. receivables. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. 2.7 LEASES (a) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (i) The group as a lessee Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are derivatives Finance leases: with a positive fair value. Assets in this category are classified as Leases where the group has substantially all the risks and current if expected realisation is within 12 months after the end rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Leases with of the reporting period. contingent rents are expensed. (b) Loans and receivables Operating leases: Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating They are included in current assets, excepts for maturities greater leases. Payments made under operating leases are charged to the than 12 months after the end of the reporting period. These are income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the classified as non-current assets. The group's loans and receivables lease. comprise 'trade and other receivables' in the balance sheet. 72 AVINOR AS 2.11.2 Recognition and measurement The group uses derivative financial instruments related to the Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised purchase of energy and foreign currency. For energy, forward on the trade-date the date on which the group commits to energy contracts are purchased at NordPool. None of these purchase or sell the assets. Investments are initially recognised at derivatives qualify for hedge accounting. fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss. Thereafter they are carried at Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for amortised cost. hedge accounting are, depending on whether the derivative is related to operating or financing activities, recognised in the Financial assets carried at fair value through profit and loss are income statement within 'changes in value and other losses/ initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expengains net' or within 'finance cost'. Both derivatives are recognised in the income statement. Financial assets are derecognised sed at fair value through profit or loss. when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the group has transferred (a) Fair value hedge substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, 2.11.3 Impairment of financial assets together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or The group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. The group only there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging fixed interest risk financial assets is impaired. An impairment loss is recognised on borrowings. The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of when the loss is material and assumed to last for a longer period interest rate swaps hedging fixed rate borrowings is recognised of time. in the income statement within 'finance costs'. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the income Do not apply to financial assets at fair value through profit and loss. statement within 'changes in value and other losses/(gains) net'. Changes in the fair value of the hedge fixed rate borrowings attributable to interest rate risk are recognised in the income 2.12 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND statement within 'finance costs'. HEDGING ACTIVITIES (b) Cash flow hedge Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently rethat are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised measured at their fair value. The method of recognising the resulin other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement within as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being 'net finance costs'. hedged. The group designates certain derivatives as either: Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss (a) Hedges of the fair value of recognised assets, liabilities or a in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss ( for firm commitment ( fair value hedge) example, when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps (b) Hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset hedging variable rate borrowings is recognised in the income or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction (cash flow statement within 'finance costs'. hedge) When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge The group documents at the inception of the transaction the no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumularelationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as tive gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaand is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately king various hedging transactions. The group also documents its recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of statement. hedged items. The full fair value of hedging derivatives is classified as a non2.13 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or The group classifies its financial liabilities in the following liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less categories: At fair value through profit or loss and other financial than 12 months. Trading derivatives are classified as a current liabilities. asset or liability. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial The group normally defines derivatives related to borrowings as liabilities were incurred. Management determines the classificahedging derivatives and as designated and qualified for hedge tion of its financial liabilities at initial recognition. accounting. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 73 (a) Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the group Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are derivatihas an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for ves with a negative fair value. Derivatives are initially recognised at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. at fair value. Subsequent changes in fair value are recorded in the income statement. Assets in this category are classified as current if expected realisation is within 12 months after the end 2.20 CURRENT AND DEFERRED INCOME TAX of the reporting period. The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred (b) Other financial liabilities tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the Other financial liabilities are non-derivative financial liabilities extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an income or directly in equity. In this case the tax is also recognised active market. Other financial liabilities are recognised intially at in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. They are included in current liabilities, Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, unless the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial stateThese are classified as non-current liabilities. ments. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income 2.14 INVENTORIES tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is setteled. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred income tax assets are assessed against future taxable income and are 2.15 TRADE RECEIVABLES evaluated separately. Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for merchandise sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business. 2.21 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS If collection is expected in one year or less, they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets. Pension obligations PeThe pension schemes are generally funded through payments Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subseto Statens Pensjonskasse (the Norwegian Public Service Pension quently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest Fund, SPK), determined by periodic actuarial calculations. The method, less provision for impairment. group has a defined benefit plan. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, dependent on one or more 2.16 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS factors such as years of service and compensation. Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined call with banks, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet. obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. 2.17 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE PREMIUM RESERVE The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflow using interest Ordinary shares are classified as equity. rates of high-quality corporate bonds (or long-term treasury bonds) that are denomonated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating 2.18 TRADE PAYABLES to the terms of the related pension liability. Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subseActuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments quently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited method. to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. 2.19 BORROWINGS Changes in assumptions, basic data and the benefits of the pension plan which have as an effect an accounting loss or gain will Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value. Borrowings are be set off against equity through other comprehensive income in subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest the period they occur. A change in the benefits which refers to method, except for borrowings hedged with a derivative fair value previous periods of earning implies a change in the pension plan hedge, which is also carried at fair value in subsequent periods. which is a cost related to previous periods of earning. A negative 74 AVINOR AS cost occurs when the benefits are changed in such a way that the Revenue is recognised as follows (most of the group's revenues present value of the projected benefits are reduced. consist of civil aviation fees and rent from property leases (note 7): The pension scheme is not directly funded. The pension pay(a) Sale of traffic and real estate services ments are guaranteed by the Norwegian government (Section 1 Revenue from services is recognised in the period the services are of the Pensions Act). Administration of the allocated fund ( fictiprovided. For spesification, see note 7. tious fund) is simulated as if the funds were placed in long-term government bonds. The pension scheme is not movable in the Revenue from property leases with fixed lease payment is recogsame way as private pensions schemes and it is assumed that the nised in the period the services are provided, using a straight-line pension scheme will be continued in SPK. In the simulation it is basis over the term of the contract. assumed that the bonds are held to maturity. The pension fund is therefore estimated at nominal value plus the return on the fund. Revenue from property leases with revenue-based lease payments is recognised when it is earned. Revenue from sale of real Severance pay estate property is recognised when the risk and control of the Until 31 December 2005 all employees given notice were entitled object is transferred to the buyer, normally at the time of disposal. to severance pay. The obligation is recognised in the financial statement at present value of the defined benefits at the balance (b) Sale of goods sheet date. Revenue from sale of goods are recognised in the period the goods is delivered. 2.22 PROVISIONS (c) Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment Provisions are recognised when: the group has a present legal is established. or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount has been reliably estimated. When 2.24 DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current Dividend distribution to the company's shareholders is recognised market assessments of the time value of money and, where as a liability in the group's financial statements in the period in appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. which the dividends are approved by the company's shareholders. 2.23 REVENUE RECOGNITION 2.25 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received New information after the reporting period about conditions that or receivables for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary existed at the end of the reporting period is recognised in the course of the group's activities. financial statement. Events after the reporting period affecting the group's future financial position are disclosed if material. Revenue is shown net of value-added tax, returns, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the group. NOTE 3 Financial risk factors The group's activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative market risk (including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, cash flow interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity and investment of excess liquidity. risk. The group's overall risk management programme seeks to minimise the volatility of the group's financial performance. The group uses derivative financial instruments in addition to borMARKET RISK rowings with fixed interest rates to hedge certain risk exposures. (i) Foreign exchange risk Financial risk management is carried out by a central treasury The group and Avinor AS are exposed to foreign exchange risk department under policies approved by the Board of Directors. with respect to the value of NOK against other currencies caused Group treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in by income and expenses in foreign currency. The group uses close co-operation with the group's operating units. The Board forward contracts to reduce the foreign exchange risk in cash provides written principles for overall risk management, as flows nominated in foreign currency. well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 75 The group and Avinor AS are primarily exposed to foreign For the notional principal amount of the outstanding forward exchange risk with respect to EUR. The group's income from en foreign exchange contracts, see note 19. route charges is exposed to foreign exchange risk. For Avinor the risk is connected to the transfer of the revenue to Norway. The (ii) Interest rate risk period from the determination of the exchange rate to the actual The group are exposed to interest rate risk through its financial payment is about three months. activities (see note 27). Parts of the borrowings are issued at variable rates, which means that the group is influenced by changes Revenue in foreign currency is sold forward to the extent that it is in the interest rates. not hedged by cash outflow in the same currency. The group also has foreign exchange risk connected to contractual payments in The objective of the group's interest rate management is to keep foreign currency. As a fundamental principle, hedging of transathe volatility of future interest costs within acceptable limits. ction risk for contracts in foreign exchange is carried through Group policy is to interest rate hedge all long-term loans till at for contracts exceeding the value of MNOK 2. Normally, forward least 60 per cent of total debt at all time is hedged for at least contracts entered into do not have terms exceeding three years. 12 months. The group manages its effective interest exposure Foreign exchange rate derivatives do not normally qualify for risk by using various interest rate swaps. At 31 December 2015 hedge accounting, but there is a few exceptions. approximately all interest rate swaps are adapted to the terms of specific loans and other conditions. When the interest rate swaps Avinor AS and Oslo Airport AS have, as part of the hedging of larare taken into consideration, the group has 75 per cent of its longger aquisitions, entered into forward foreign exchange contracts term borrowings at a fixed rate of interest for at least 12 months. in connection with the development of the airport terminals. These are contracts in EUR for the payments of luggage handling At 31 December 2015 the group had interest rate swaps instrusystems, navigation equipment, vehicles and others. Part of these ments at a face value of MNOK 5,932 (2014: MNOK 3,689), where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting. the group receives a variable rate and pays a fixed rate of 3.51 per cent of face value. The interest rate swaps are used to hedge The group has issued bond loans denominated in EUR. The against volatility in the P&L reporting as a result of changes in loan is hedged by a combined interest rate and forward foreign the interest levels. exchange contract in which Avinor receive coupon payments and principal amount at maturity in EUR and pay a predetermined All interest swaps are made as a hedge against financial risks amount in NOK at the same point in time. caused by cash flow interest rate risk. All interest swaps are carried at their fair value in the balance sheet. As the foreign exchange risk in overall is assessed to be limited, the group has not estimated any sensitivities. The following table presents the group's sensitivity to a defined interest rate shift as at 31 December. The simulation takes into consideration all interest rate derivatives. CHANGES IN INTEREST IMPACT ON PREIMPACT ON EQUITY AVINOR AS LEVELS IN BASIS POINTS TAX PROFIT (MNOK) (MNOK) 2015 +50 -14.7 -45.3 -50 14.7 45.3 2014 +50 -1.7 2.2 -50 1.7 -2.0 CHANGES IN INTEREST IMPACT ON PREIMPACT ON EQUITY AVINOR GROUP LEVELS IN BASIS POINTS TAX PROFIT (MNOK) (MNOK) 2015 +50 -15.9 -33.4 -50 15.9 33.8 2014 +50 -5.6 17.4 -50 5.6 -17.1 Based on the financial instruments at 31 December 2015, the simulation shows that if the interest rate had been 0.5 per cent higher, pre-tax profit for the year would have been MNOK 15.9 lower (2014: MNOK 5.6). 76 AVINOR AS The average yield on financial instruments were as follows: 2015 (%) 2014 (%) Overdraft NA NA State Loan 2.16 2.85 Debenture Loan 3.35 4.02 Bank Loan 3.91 4.77 The figures include interest hedging derivatives. At 31 December 2015, Avinor AS had total borrowings amounting to MNOK 13,681.4 (2014: MNOK 10,068.9) in addition to a overdraft of MNOK 0.0 (2014: MNOK 0.0). (iii) Power price risk Avinor is a consumer of electrical power. Avinor has entered into financial power contracts via Nord Pool to hedge parts of its power consumption. At 31 December 2015 approximately 88 per cent of 2016's estimated consumption is covered by such contracts. The group does not apply hedge accounting to these contracts. Power purchases are made in EUR. The fair value of power contracts is estimated at MNOK -43.3 (2014: MNOK -18.0) based on the exchange rate at year-end. Sensitivity analysis of electrical power contracts at 31 December 2015 (impact on pre-tax profit (MNOK) as a consequense of a 20% increase in power price): AVINOR AS MARKET VALUE 31.12.15 IMPACT ON PRE-TAX PROFIT -22.7 8.9 AVINOR GROUP MARKET VALUE 31.12.15 IMPACT ON PRE-TAX PROFIT -43.3 17.3 CREDIT RISK The group's credit risks are mainly connected to airlines and air traffic-related industries. The group has credit risks attached to three main customers. The group assesses the risk that customers cannot fulfil their obligations as moderate. The group has guidelines to limit exposure to possible losses.The group has not made any third-party guarantees. Maximum risk exposure is illustrated by the carried amounts of the financial assets, including derivatives in the balance sheet.Since the opposite party in derivative trading is normally banks and the power trade exchange, the credit risk connected to derivatives is assessed as small. The group's assessment is that the group's maximum credit exposure is illustrated by the carried amounts of trade receivables and other short-term assets (see note 21). The group does not have any material overdue trade receivables (see note 21). The groups main bank connexion has external credit rating A-1 (short term) and A+ (long term) (Standard & Poors). Creditworthiness in trade receivables and intra-group accounts in detail Credit risk in non-due financial instruments which have not been written down, may be evaluated by external sources (if available) or based on previous negative credit records. Classification of historical information (unimpaired trade receivables) Group 1 new customers/related parties (in the last six months) Group 2 existing customers/related parties ( for more than six months) with no history of default Group 3 existing customers/related parties ( for more than six months) with a history of default. All amounts have been paid in full after the defaults. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 77 All intra-groups accounts and the major part of customer receivables are classified in group 2. No financial assets have been renegotiated during the last financial year. No part of the loans to related parties is overdue or impaired. LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to meet its financial obligations when they are due. The group strategy is to meet the risk by having sufficient funds available at any time to be able to fulfil the financial obligations when they are due, both under normal or extraordinary circumstances, without risking unacceptable losses. The group shall have a liquidity reserve sufficient, at any time, to maintain business for at least twelve months without raising new loans. Unused credit facilities are described in note 22. The table below analyses the maturity structure of the group's financial obligations, based on contractual undiscounted cash-flow. In the case where the opposite party may demand an earlier payment, the amount is presented in the earliest period the payment may be demanded. If payment may be demanded on request, the obligations are included in the first column (less than 1 month): REMAINING PERIOD LESS THAN BETWEEN BETWEEN BETWEEN OVER AVINOR AS 1 MONTH 1 3 MONTH 3 12 MONTHS 1 5 YEARS 5 YEARS TOTAL 31.12.2015 State, bond and bank borrowings 1) 490.3 832.4 3 570.1 12 800.5 17 707.1 Other commitments 3.0 13.6 99.9 0.5 118.5 Trade payables 75.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 230.1 Other current liabilities 175.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 530.7 31.12.2014 State, bond and bank borrowings 1) 490.3 832.4 3 570.1 12 800.5 17 707.1 Other commitments 3.0 13.6 99.9 0.5 118.5 Trade payables 75.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 230.1 Other current liabilities 175.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 530.7 1) Derivatives included REMAINING PERIOD LESS THAN BETWEEN BETWEEN BETWEEN OVER AVINOR GROUP 1 MONTH 1 3 MONTH 3 12 MONTHS 1 5 YEARS 5 YEARS TOTAL 31.12.2015 State, bond and bank borrowings 1) 26.5 501.4 1 452.1 5 972.0 14 890.1 22 842.1 Other commitments 3.0 6.0 27.4 179.7 0.5 216.6 Trade payables 295.5 145.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 441.1 Other current liabilities 374.6 184.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 559.1 31.12.2014 State, bond and bank borrowings 1) 43.1 886.3 956.1 5 525.8 11 478.2 18 889.5 Other commitments 0.8 1.6 7.0 218.0 0.5 227.9 Trade payables 535.8 263.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 799.7 Other current liabilities 290.9 143.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 434.2 1) Derivatives included See note 27 for information about long-term loans. In addition to the refinancing of the borrowings decribed above, the group will, especially the next few years, require financing of new infrastructure in the form of capacity expansion measures. The gross financing requirement includes refinancing of existing borrowings as described above, the building of new terminals at Gardermoen and at Flesland and other planned investment activities. 78 AVINOR AS OTHER INFORMATION The fair value of derivatives designated as hedging instruments is presented as a current asset/short-term debt or financial asset/longterm debt depending upon the maturity date of the corresponding hedged item. The interest swaps have terms between 1.53 and 9.5 years. CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND EQUITY The main objective of the group's management of capital structure is to ensure that the group's main business objectives are reached within sound financial limits. The paramount financial objectives (sound financial limits) are the following: 1. Equity ratio: 40 per cent (according to article 11 of the company's Articles of Association) 2. Net asset value shall minimum be equal to the carried value of equity. The group manages its capital structure and makes necessary adjustments based on a continuing evaluation of the existing economic business climate and the outlook in the shortand medium-term. Article 11 of the company's Articles of Association lays down the following financial limitation: Long-term borrowings for the funding of long-term assets may only be raised within a limit which ensures that the group's equity does not fall at any time below 40 per cent of the carrying amount of the group's long-term interest-bearing debt plus equity. Existing borrowings have covenants regarding amount of equity. Bonds with maturity date 2016 (Avinor03) requires equity of minimum 35 per cent of equity pluss interest-bearing debt. There are no equity requirement for the other bonds. The loan agreements with EIB and NIB requires equity of minimum 30 per cent of equity pluss net interest-bearing debt. AVINOR AS 2015 2014 Interest-bearing debt 13 968.6 10 108.7 Equity 8 571.8 8 726.1 Total equity and interest-bearing debt 22 540.4 18 834.8 Gearing ratio 62.0 % 53.7 % Equity ratio 38.0 % 46.3 % Net debt to equity ratio 41.0 % 48.7 % AVINOR GROUP 2015 2014 Interest-bearing debt 18 489.7 15 290.4 Equity 14 832.1 12 222.6 Total equity and interest-bearing debt 33 321.8 27 513.0 Gearing ratio 55.5 % 55.6 % Equity ratio 44.5 % 44.4 % Net debt to equity ratio 46.9 % 46.0 % FAIR VALUE ESTIMATION The fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts and financial power forward contracts is based on market value at the balance sheet date. The fair value of all interest rate swaps is confirmed by the financial institutions which are the company's opposite party in the financial contracts entered into. The carrying amount of cash and bank overdrafts is approximately equal to the fair value of these instruments as they fall due in a short period of time. Similarly, the carrying amount of receivables and payables is approximately equal to fair value as they are entered into under normal conditions. The fair value of long-term debt is based on quoted market prices or on the interest rates for debt with corresponding terms and similar credit margin. The fair value of commercial papers equals principal amount as at 31 December 2015. Below is a comparison of the carrying amounts and fair values of Avinor AS and the group's interest-bearing debt. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 79 2015 2014 CARRYING FAIR CARRYING FAIR AVINOR AS AMOUNT VALUE AMOUNT VALUE Interest-bearing debt: Bonds 9 256.2 9 777.0 6 243.7 6 947.9 Bank borrowings 4 025.3 4 380.1 3 025.3 3 526.2 Commercial papers 400.0 400.0 800.0 800.0 2015 2014 CARRYING FAIR CARRYING FAIR AVINOR GROUP AMOUNT VALUE AMOUNT VALUE Interest-bearing debt: State loan 3 416.1 3 463.8 3 860.5 3 966.6 Bonds 9 256.2 9 777.0 6 243.7 6 947.9 Bank borrowings 5 130.4 5 485.1 4 346.6 4 847.5 Commercial papers 400.0 400.0 800.0 800.0 The table below shows financial instruments at fair value by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: ·· Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1). ·· Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or ·· indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2). ·· Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3). The following table presents the group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value, and assets and liabilities for which fair values are disclosed at 31 December 2015: AVINOR GROUP LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 3 TOTAL Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 14.6 0.0 14.6 Interest rate contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Derivatives used for hedging Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 11.3 0.0 11.3 Interest rate contracts 0.0 635.0 0.0 635.0 Total assets 0.0 660.9 0.0 660.9 Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 7.0 0.0 7.0 Power contracts 43.3 0.0 0.0 43.3 Interest rate contracts 0.0 7.4 0.0 7.4 Bonds 0.0 1 382.8 0.0 1 382.8 Derivatives used for hedging Interest rate contracts 0.0 80.7 0.0 80.7 Total liabilities 43.3 1 477.9 0.0 1 521.2 Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed Interest-bearing debt State loan 0.0 3 463.8 0.0 3 463.8 Bonds 0.0 9 777.0 0.0 9 777.0 Bank borrowings 0.0 5 485.1 0.0 5 485.1 Commercial papers 0.0 400.0 0.0 400.0 Total 0.0 19 125.9 0.0 19 125.9 There were no transfers between levels during the year. 80 AVINOR AS The following table presents the group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value, and assets and liabilities for which fair values are disclosed at 31 December 2014: AVINOR GROUP LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 3 TOTAL Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 9.1 0.0 9.1 Interest rate contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Derivatives used for hedging Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 17.2 0.0 17.2 Interest rate contracts 0.0 154.7 0.0 154.7 Total assets 0.0 181.0 0.0 181.0 Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 9.1 0.0 9.1 Power contracts 18.0 0.0 0.0 18.0 Interest rate contracts 0.0 14.8 0.0 14.8 Derivatives used for hedging Interest rate contracts 0.0 113.7 0.0 113.7 Total liabilities 18.0 137.6 0.0 155.6 Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed Interest-bearing debt State loan 0.0 3 966.6 0.0 3 966.6 Bonds 0.0 6 947.9 0.0 6 947.9 Bank borrowings 0.0 4 847.5 0.0 4 847.5 Commercial papers 0.0 800.0 0.0 800.0 Total 0.0 16 562.0 0.0 16 562.0 There were no transfers between levels during the year. Interest-bearing debt in level 2 The fair value estimation is collected from the groups treasury system and checked against fair value estimates from the main bank connecion. The fair value of the interest-bearing debt is estimated based on the difference between the coupon/fixed rate of interest on the interest-bearing debt compared with 3 months NIBOR and implicit funding spread from the market. NOTE 4 Critical accounting estimates and judgements In preparing the financial statements in accordance with IFRS ·· Deferred taxes the management has used estimates based on judgements and ·· Estimated impairment of property, plant and equipment assumptions belived to be reasonable under the circumstances. ·· Depreciation of property, plant and equipment There may be situations or changes in the market conditions that ·· Net pension obligation may result in changes in estimates, and thereby have consequences for the company's assets, liabilities, equity and results. Critical judgements in applying the entity's accounting policies: Critical accounting estimates and judgements: The group assesses the net deferred tax asset separately in The company's most significant accounting estimates and accordance with the rules in IAS 12. The group has significant judgements are related to the following items: temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and its tax base (see note 15). This has resulted in a significant deferred tax asset. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 81 An analysis made of the group's tax position shows that it is Net pension obligation: probable that this asset may be utilised by the group. The value of net pension obligations is determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions. These include, among Impairment test: others, the discount rate, future salary increases, regulation of The group follows the guidance of IAS 36 to determine when pensions, estimated return on pension funds, and demographic the group's assets may be impaired. The group is identified as assumptions about disability and mortality experience. The two cash-generating units (CGU) (see note 2.1).The test requires assumptions are based on verifiable market prices and the a great degree of professional judgement. Among other things, historical development in the company and in the rest of society. an assessment has to be made of how long a period of time the impairment may will last and the difference between the Changes in the assumptions will have material effect on the fair value and the carrying amount, in addition to the financial estimated pension obligation-/cost. position and expected development in the market, including operating and financing cash flows. See note 17. Changes in the the National Insurance Scheme are implemented from 1 January 2011. However, the coordination regulations Depreciation of property, plant and equipment connected to SPK have not been established for persons born in The historical cost or revalued value of the non-current asset will 1954 and thereafter. The regulations will be implemented in the be depreciated to the residual value over the expected life of the accounts as soon as they are established. asset. The expected life is estimated based on experience, history and discretional assessments, and it is adjusted if there are any changes in the expectations. NOTE 5 Segment information Amounts in MNOK The Avinor group operates 46 airports in Norway including Oslo Airport Gardermoen. Operations also include air traffic control towers, control centres and technical infrastructure for aircraft navigation. The operating segments are determined based on the reports used by the Group Management to evaluate presentations and profitability at a strategic level. The segment information shows the operating profit/(loss) distributed according to the internal organising of the group. For management purpose the group is organised in one air navigation services division, one airport division and the airports Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim. AS from 2015 the management prepare for a business model and a strategy for the development of property outside the airports normal operations/core business. Property development and hotels are therefore reported as a own segment. All corresponding and accumulated figures are restated. The segment information provided to the Group Management for the reportable segments for the year ended 31 December 2015 is as follows: AVINOR GROUP AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015: TOTAL OSLO BERGEN STAVANGER TRONDHEIM OTHER AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORTS OPERATIONS Traffic income 1 946.9 557.6 455.9 359.8 903.1 4 223.3 Sales and rental income 3 052.6 600.6 473.2 306.7 615.7 5 048.8 Inter-segment income 42.3 13.3 45.9 29.1 21.4 152.0 Total income 5 041.8 1 171.5 975.0 695.6 1 540.2 9 424.1 Employee benefits expense 542.6 128.4 103.9 93.7 849.3 1 717.9 Depreciation and amortisation 604.0 83.8 100.3 90.1 413.6 1 291.8 Other operating expenses 1 404.1 280.9 192.4 127.5 958.1 2 962.9 Inter-segment expenses 749.2 144.2 147.8 114.4 557.2 1 712.8 Total expenses 3 299.9 637.4 544.3 425.6 2 778.2 7 685.4 Net income/(expense) 1 741.8 534.1 430.7 270.0 -1 238.1 1 738.7 Group adjustments depreciation (a) 172.5 -24.6 -18.9 -22.3 -115.5 -8.8 Group adjustments lease (b) 421.4 421.4 Operating profit/(loss) 2 335.8 509.5 411.8 247.7 -1 353.6 2 151.3 Assets 8 695.8 1 761.4 1 791.7 1 974.6 6 730.0 20 953.5 82 AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 CONTINUED: AIR PROPERTY TOTAL AIRPORT NAVIGATION DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS SERVICES AND HOTELS OTHERS ELIMINATION TOTAL Traffic income 4 223.3 1 024.8 -0.2 5 248.0 Sales and rental income 5 048.8 220.5 1 459.1 13.0 6 741.4 Inter-segment income 152.0 842.2 50.6 1 123.1 -2 167.8 0.0 Total income 9 424.1 2 087.4 1 509.7 1 135.9 -2 167.8 11 989.4 Employee benefits expense 1 717.9 1 369.5 0.0 379.1 3 466.6 Depreciation and amortisation 1 291.8 73.6 38.3 49.9 1 453.6 Other operating expenses 2 962.9 395.8 10.7 461.6 3 830.9 Inter-segment expenses 1 712.8 109.1 45.5 300.4 -2 167.8 0.0 Total expenses 7 685.4 1 948.0 94.4 1 191.0 -2 167.8 8 751.1 Net income/(expense) 1 738.7 139.4 1 415.3 -55.1 0.0 3 238.3 Group adjustments depreciation (a) -8.8 4.1 -1.0 -5.7 Group adjustments lease (b) 421.4 -421.4 0.0 Operating profit/(loss) 2 151.3 139.4 1 415.3 -51.0 -422.4 3 232.5 Assets 20 953.5 622.1 857.7 191.0 22 624.3 The segment information provided to the Group Management for the reportable segments for the year ended 31 December 2014 is as follows (restated): AVINOR GROUP AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2014: TOTAL OSLO BERGEN STAVANGER TRONDHEIM OTHER AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORTS OPERATIONS Traffic income 1 941.7 578.1 475.7 365.2 937.7 4 298.4 Sales and rental income 2 976.0 522.0 473.9 301.0 618.9 4 891.8 Inter-segment income 50.4 14.3 37.0 27.1 18.2 147.0 Total income 4 968.1 1 114.4 986.6 693.3 1 574.8 9 337.2 Employee benefits expense 450.6 115.0 86.8 77.9 719.9 1 450.2 Depreciation and amortisation 561.1 74.8 83.0 83.4 359.9 1 162.2 Other operating expenses 1 608.5 216.1 165.5 141.5 1 074.3 3 205.9 Inter-segment expenses 748.7 134.5 147.5 105.3 534.1 1 670.1 Total expenses 3 368.9 540.4 482.8 408.1 2 688.2 7 488.4 Net income/(expense) 1 599.2 574.0 503.8 285.2 -1 113.4 1 848.8 Group adjustments depreciation (a) 172.5 -24.6 -18.9 -22.3 -115.5 -8.8 Group adjustments lease (b) 408.0 408.0 Operating profit/(loss) 2 179.7 549.4 484.9 262.9 -1 228.9 2 248.0 Assets 8 200.4 1 762.1 1 342.7 1 523.0 6 366.1 19 194.3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 83 AVINOR GROUP AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2014 CONTINUED: AIR PROPERTY TOTAL AIRPORT NAVIGATION DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS SERVICES AND HOTELS OTHERS ELIMINATION TOTAL Traffic income 4 298.4 1 008.2 0.0 -7.1 5 299.5 Sales and rental income 4 891.8 234.3 204.0 41.4 5 371.5 Inter-segment income 147.0 772.4 20.1 1 038.7 -1 978.2 0.0 Total income 9 337.2 2 014.9 224.1 1 073.0 -1 978.2 10 671.0 Employee benefits expense 1 450.2 1 197.4 0.0 331.9 2 979.5 Depreciation and amortisation 1 162.2 85.5 49.4 42.5 1 339.6 Other operating expenses 3 205.9 418.9 7.5 413.7 4 046.0 Inter-segment expenses 1 670.1 103.1 14.7 190.3 -1 978.2 0.0 Total expenses 7 488.4 1 804.9 71.6 978.4 -1 978.2 8 365.0 Net income/(expense) 1 848.8 210.0 152.5 94.6 0.0 2 305.9 Group adjustments depreciation (a) -8.8 0.0 9.2 -1.0 -0.6 Group adjustments lease (b) 408.0 -408.0 0.0 Operating profit/(loss) 2 248.0 210.0 161.7 -314.4 2 305.3 Assets 19 194.3 571.5 1072.5 218.3 21 056.6 (a) Group adjustments due to assessment of the opening balance as at 1 January 2003. (b) The lease on the land at Gardermoen is attributed to Oslo Lufthavn AS in the segment reporting. Non-current liabilities comprise the Oslo Lufthavn AS state loan, Avinor AS bond and bank borrowings and separate financing of hotels and car parks. Debt is not used by the Group Management as a control parameter at the segment level. The financing of the group is carried out by a central treasury department (group treasury) in accordance with guidelines approved by the Board of Directors. Sales between segments are carried out at arm's length. The revenue from external parties reported to Group Management is measured in a manner consistent with that in the income statement. Risk management is carried out by group treasury under policies approved by the Board of Directors. Group treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the group’s operating units. Principles are laid down for overall risk management, as well as policies covering specific areas such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity. Revenue of approximately 2.5 billions, 1.7 billions and 1.4 billions, total 5.5 billions (2014: NOK 2.4 billions, 1.7 billions and 1.4 billions, total 5.5 billions) and 52 per cent (2014: 52 per cent) of total operating income are derived from three main customers. Revenue from the first customer is attributable to Oslo Airport, Bergen Airport, Stavanger Airport and Trondheim Airport. Revenue from the two other customers are attributable to all segments. 84 AVINOR AS NOTE 6 Subsidiaries Amounts in MNOK The consolidated financial statement of the group includes the following subsidiaries: HOME BUSINESS MAIN OWNERSHIP/ BOOK TOTAL EQUITY PROFIT/ LOSS DIRECTLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES COUNTRY OFFICE BUSINESS VOTING SHARES VALUE 31.12.2015 2015 Air navigation Avinor Flysikring AS Norway Oslo services 100 % 367.2 774.9 112.6 Airport Oslo Lufthavn AS Norway Ullensaker operations 100 % 442.3 4 725.0 1 146.8 Avinors Parkeringsanlegg AS Norway Oslo Parking 100 % 109.6 110.2 9.1 Flesland Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 71.8 86.8 10.1 Værnes Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 120.6 83.9 -0.4 Sola Hotel Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 69.9 79.9 8.8 Hell Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 24.6 18.0 0.3 Avinor Utvikling AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 317.0 1 724.7 1 267.9 Hotell Østre AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 40.5 44.3 10.3 Flyporten AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 29.5 28.9 1.0 Hotell Østre Tomteselskap AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 130.7 130.8 11.7 Flyporten Tomteselskap AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 32.2 32.2 2.4 Total 1 755.9 7 839.6 2 580.6 HOME BUSINESS MAIN OWNERSHIP/ BOOK TOTAL EQUITY PROFIT/ LOSS INDIRECTLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES COUNTRY OFFICE BUSINESS VOTING SHARES VALUE 31.12.2015 2015 Oslo Lufthavn Tele & Data AS Norway Ullensaker Trade 100 % 6.9 6.6 4.9 Total 6.9 6.6 4.9 Oslo Lufthavn Eiendom AS merged with Oslo Lufthavn AS, as from 1 January 2015. Thereafter real estate property from Oslo Lufthavn Eiendom AS were demerged into the companies Hotell Vestre AS, Hotell Østre AS and Flyporten AS. This also as from 1 January 2015. Part of Avinor's land at Gardermoen were demerged into the companies Hotell Vestre Tomteselskap AS, Hotell Østre Tomteselskap AS and Flyporten Tomteselskap AS, as from 1 January 2015. Hotell Vestre AS and Hotell Vestre Tomteselskap AS were sold in december 2015. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 85 NOTE 7 Operating income Amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2014 2015 2014 Traffic income Takeoff charges 677.0 702.7 1 179.4 1 197.3 Terminal charges 659.5 649.8 1 304.5 1 295.0 En route charges 0.0 393.3 1 023.6 1 008.2 Security charges 634.6 661.0 1 155.5 1 183.7 Terminal navigation charges 307.0 336.1 585.0 615.3 Total 2 278.1 2 742.9 5 248.0 5 299.5 Sales and rental income Duty free 844.3 880.9 2 512.0 2 526.1 Parking 455.0 472.1 868.4 884.0 Other 698.6 693.5 2 083.2 1 954.9 Total 1 997.9 2 046.5 5 463.6 5 365.0 Other operating income Intercompany services 700.7 692.1 0.0 0.0 Other 10.6 4.8 11.5 6.5 Total 711.3 696.9 11.5 6.5 Other income Profit on disposals of real estate property 0.0 0.0 1 266.3 0.0 Total 0.0 0.0 1 266.3 0.0 Total operating income 4 987.3 5 486.3 11 989.4 10 671.0 Sales and rental income from duty free and parking are mainly rental income. Profit on disposals of real estate property is from the sale of Hotell Vestre AS og Hotell Vestre Tomteselskap AS. NOTE 8 Salaries and personnel costs, number of employees, remunerations Amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2014 2015 2014 Salaries and personnel costs: Salaries 1 127.6 1 532.2 2 523.0 2 483.6 Payroll tax 165.2 193.7 370.6 327.7 Pension costs 216.2 100.0 463.8 44.3 Other personnel costs 45.1 82.0 109.1 123.9 Total 1 554.1 1 907.9 3 466.5 2 979.5 Reduction of total salaries and personnel costs: Salaries and personnel costs recognised in the balance sheet 83.5 70.2 125.8 139.9 Average number of man-years employed 1 701 1 689 3 327 3 327 86 AVINOR AS Group Management: The Group Management consists of the group CEO and the managing director of each division and the two largest subsidiaries in addition to the managing directors of each corporate staff. 2015 OTHER ESTIMATED AMOUNT IN NOK BOARD FEE SALARY BENEFITS PENSION COST TOTAL Group Management: Dag Falk-Petersen 0 2 546 579 104 449 728 279 3 379 307 Øyvind Hasaas 0 1 888 977 18 149 622 747 2 529 873 Aslak Sverdrup 0 1 576 516 12 843 276 850 1 866 208 Leif Anker Lorentzen 0 1 578 253 13 423 321 610 1 913 286 Lasse Bardal 0 1 638 559 13 691 351 959 2 004 209 Mari Hermansen 0 1 617 931 25 191 459 403 2 102 525 Petter Johannessen 0 1 718 590 32 499 483 512 2 234 602 Anders Kirsebom 0 1 974 309 20 306 400 680 2 395 295 Jon Sjølander 0 1 747 915 21 975 399 218 2 169 109 Margrethe Snekkerbakken 0 1 814 421 17 147 447 894 2 279 463 Egil Thompson 0 1 651 830 39 852 461 433 2 153 115 Total 0 19 753 878 319 527 4 953 586 25 026 992 Board: Ola Mørkved Rinnan 409 750 0 0 0 409 750 Ola H. Strand 258 500 920 0 0 259 420 Mari Thjømøe 225 500 0 0 0 225 500 Tone Merethe Lindberg 215 000 920 495 0 216 415 Dag Hårstad (until 02.06.2015) 119 000 0 510 0 119 510 Herlof Nilssen (from 02.06.2015) 108 500 0 0 0 108 500 Eli Skrøvset 266 500 0 0 0 266 500 Per Erik Nordsveen 209 000 750 639 5 692 86 449 1 051 780 Grete Ovnerud 241 500 1 022 266 5 214 264 774 1 533 754 Heidi Anette Sørum 209 000 700 857 10 044 113 315 1 033 216 Olav Aadal (until 02.06.2015) 121 500 1 413 511 5 214 226 639 1 766 864 Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen (from 02.06.2015) 106 000 916 964 10 487 282 840 1 316 291 Total 2 489 750 4 806 077 37 656 974 017 8 307 500 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 87 2014 OTHER ESTIMATED AMOUNT IN NOK BOARD FEE SALARY BENEFITS PENSION COST TOTAL Group Management: Dag Falk-Petersen 0 2 498 696 95 411 680 549 3 274 656 Nic Nilsen (until 11.08.2014) 0 1 774 698 135 426 38 263 1 948 387 Øyvind Hasaas (from 11.08.2014) 0 751 780 13 432 168 568 933 781 Signe Astrup Arnesen (until 31.03.2014) 0 658 038 5 586 66 641 730 265 Aslak Sverdrup 0 1 427 931 9 440 243 400 1 680 770 Leif Anker Lorentzen 0 1 470 942 9 440 298 905 1 779 287 Lasse Bardal 0 1 622 176 9 440 360 982 1 992 597 Mari Hermansen 0 1 560 507 9 440 525 581 2 095 528 Petter Johannessen 0 1 668 132 9 440 491 557 2 169 128 Anders Kirsebom 0 1 910 052 13 440 320 684 2 244 176 Jon Sjølander 0 1 700 860 9 662 428 670 2 139 192 Margrethe Snekkerbakken 0 1 766 640 10 341 480 822 2 257 802 Egil Thompson 0 1 615 429 9 440 547 703 2 172 571 Total 0 20 425 881 339 935 4 652 325 25 418 141 Board: Ola Mørkved Rinnan 403 500 0 0 0 403 500 Ola H. Strand 254 500 0 0 0 254 500 Anne Breiby (until 16.05.2014) 103 000 0 0 0 103 000 Mari Thjømøe (from 16.05.2014) 103 000 920 0 0 103 920 Tone Merethe Lindberg 201 000 0 1 485 0 202 485 Dag Hårstad 238 000 920 0 0 238 920 Eli Skrøvset 262 500 920 0 0 263 420 Per Erik Nordsveen 203 500 706 792 5 047 103 540 1 018 879 Grete Ovnerud 238 000 1 182 720 5 047 305 591 1 731 358 Heidi Anette Sørum 203 500 741 701 9 537 128 568 1 083 306 Olav Aadal 201 000 1 461 877 5 047 262 416 1 930 340 Total 2 411 500 4 095 850 26 163 800 115 7 333 629 On termination or changes in conditions of employment or board appointment no obligations exist to give the Group Management or the Board any distinct compensation, beyond what is stated in note 9. Nor are there any arrangements concerning bonuses, profit sharing or share-based payments. No loans or guarantees have been given to the members of the Group Management or the Board. None of the members of the Group Management have received any remunerations or economic benefits from other companies in the group, other than shown in the table above. There is no additional remuneration to executives for special services other than normal operations, see note 9. 88 AVINOR AS NOTE 9 Declaration on the determination of salaries and other remuneration for the CEO and other executive employees THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS' DECLARATION ON ·· Tor-Øivind Skogseth, Assistent Managing Director and THE DETERMINATION OF SALARIES AND OTHER Director Customers and Public Relations REMUNERATION FOR THE CEO AND OTHER EXECUTIVE ·· Per Ingar Skaar, Director Development and Projects EMPLOYEES OF THE AVINOR GROUP ·· Jan Østby, Director Remote Services ·· Marisa Luisa Ruiz Retamar, Director HR and Competence According to article 8 of the company's articles of association, ·· Kresten Lyngstad, CFO the Board of Directors shall prepare a declaration concerning the ·· Anne-Kr. Aagaard Chavez, Director Safety and Quality determination of salaries and other remuneration for the senior management. This declaration shall be included as a note in the 2. Declaration's validity annual accounts. The declaration shall contain the contents The declaration applies for the coming financial year, ref. article specified in section 6-16a of the Public Limited Companies Act, 8 of the articles of association and section 6-16a (2) of the Public and shall in addition give an account of how the 'Government's Limited Companies Act. The group's Board of Directors will policy for the remuneration of leading personnel in state-owned use the principles described in this declaration as the basis for enterprises and companies' is followed up in the company's determining the remuneration of the CEO and in its assessment wholly-owned subsidiaries. and monitoring of the CEO's determination of remuneration of executive employees. The declaration shall be handled at the company's ordinary general meeting. Reference is made to section 5-6 third paragraph 3. The main principles of the group's executive employee of the Public Limited Companies Act and the Government's remuneration policy policy for the remuneration of leading personnel in state-owned Avinor's executive remuneration policy has to comply with the enterprises and companies, as set out by the Ministry of Industry Government's policy for the remuneration of leading personnel and Fisheries, effective as from 13.2.2015. in state-owned enterprises and companies (as set out by the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, effective as from 13.2.2015). 1. Employees covered by the declaration Executive remuneration in the group should comprise a competiThis declaration covers executive employees of the group; tive but not leading salary when compared to similar companies. Avinor AS and the wholly-owned subsidiary Avinor Flysikring AS. Oslo Lufthavn AS merged with Avinor AS at 11 January 2016. 3.1 Salary Managing Director of Oslo Lufthavn AS now holds the title of The main element of the group's remuneration packages must be Airport Director Oslo Airport Gardermoen and is a member of a fixed basic salary. the executive management team of Avinor AS. 3.2 Directors' remuneration At 11 January 2016 , the group's executive management team No remuneration is paid for board appointments in other comprised the following employees, who are covered by this companies in the Avinor Group. declaration: 3.3 Benefits in kind Avinor AS: Executive employees shall receive the benefits in kind that are ·· Dag Falk-Petersen, CEO common for comparable positions. These may include a car allo·· Petter Johannessen, CFO wance, free newspapers/magazines, free phone, laptop, printer ·· Mari Hermansen, Executive Vice President HR, Legal and and free broadband service. Procurement ·· Egil Thompson, Executive Vice President Communications, In the CEO's agreement, a car allowance may be replaced with a Brand and Public Relations company car within the framework set by the Board. ·· Jon Sjølander, Executive Vice President Strategy ·· Margrethe Snekkerbakken, Executive Vice President Regional 3.4 Performance pay and Local Airports Division A performance pay scheme may be established for executive ·· Øyvind Hasaas, Airport Director Oslo Airport Gardermoen employees based on individual targets. There must be a clear ·· Lasse Bardal, Airport Director Trondheim Airport Værnes correlation between performance pay targets and the group's ·· Leif A. Lorentzen, Airport Director Stavanger Airport Sola targets. Any scheme will be structured in accordance with the ·· Aslag Sverdrup, Airport Director Bergen Airport Flesland guidelines specified in the owner,s statement. Avinor Flysikring AS: 4. Options and share programmes ·· Anders Kirsebom, Managing Director No options or similar schemes will be established in the ·· Jan-Gunnar Pedersen, Director Business Area En-Route company. No share programme involving share-based remunera·· Snorre Andresen, Director Business Area TWR/APP tion will be established in the company. ·· Håkan Olsson, Director CNS and ATM systems COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 89 5. Pension plans Annual disability pension amounts to (100 per cent disability) Executive employees shall participate in the group's general 38.4 per cent of salaries between 12G and 27G. The full annual pension plan. The basis for calculating pension entitlements shall disability pension presupposes that insured at retirement will get not exceed 12G (where G = National Insurance Scheme's basic a time period of at least 20 years. If the length of services is less, amount). The terms shall be similar to the terms that apply for the disability pension will be reduced proportionally. other company employees. The age limit is 70 years. For executive employees; members of the group's executive management, 6. Termination and severance pay Managing Director of Oslo Lufthavn AS and Managing Director of There is a three-month notice period applicable to both parties Avinor Flysikring AS the age limit is 67 years. calculated from the first day of the month after notice is given. Notice shall be given in writing. The CEO and Managing Directors In the Agreement with the group's executive management, of subsidiaries have waived their employment protection under Managing Director of Oslo Lufthavn AS and Managing Director the Norwegian Working Environment Act. For these people seveof Avinor Flysikring AS concluded before the guidelines from rance pay equivalent to 12 months' fixed salary may be agreed, 15.2.2015, a defined-contribution retirement pension scheme including the salary of any notice period. for salaries exceeding 12G have been established, inclusive a disability pension scheme. Severance pay is calculated on the basis of the employee's regular monthly salary at the time of termination. No holiday pay is Retirement pensions are contribution-based for salaries exeeding accrued on the basis of the severance pay beyond the salary 12G with different rates dependent on age and are administered during the notice period. The severance package, for those through the company's operating budget until further notice. employed after 01.01.2015, will be reduced by a proportional Current personnel are divided into four age groups. The pension amount calculated on the basis of the new annual income in basis for contributions is the agreed fixed salary, and payment the event of appointment to a new position or if an income is will commence once the retirement age has been reached in received from an enterprise of which the employee concerned is accordance with the individual agreement. an active owner. Payment of the supplementary pension is executed by Avinor's The employee is only entitled to severance pay in excess of their payroll department monthly once the age limit of 67 is reached. salary during the notice period if they accept the termination, A condition of payment is that the employee has resigned from leave at the request of the employer, and do not submit any claim their position in the company. If the employee retires from the in relation to the rules of the Norwegian Working Environment group before reaching their pensionable age, the severance Act with regard to protection against dismissal, etc. Severance agreement is to include a date for when payment of the pension pay may be witheld if there are ground for dismissal, or if irregulais to start. rities or omissions are found during the period in which severance pay is to be given, which may result in liability for damages The following contribution plan applies: or the employess being prosecuted for violation of the law. For senior executives aged 60 and over: The CEO has concluded such an agreement dated 14 January 2011. ·· 30 % av pensionable income from 12G to 18G and ·· 25 % av pensionable income over 18G A notice period of three months and a severance payment of 12 months have been agreed, which become payable upon termiFor senior executives aged 55 to 60: nation by the Company. The agreement contains provisions for ·· 25 % av pensionable income from 12G to 18G and the deduction of income from a new employer, and ceases if the ·· 20 % av pensionable income over 18G employee is entitled to a disability benefit or retirement pension under the agreement. The CEO is not entitled to pay after For senior executives aged 50 to 55: termination of employment if the employment is terminated due ·· 20 % av pensionable income from 12G to 18G and to circumstances which may result in grounds for dismissal. ·· 15 % av pensionable income over 18G For other executive employees, an advanced agreement for seveFor senior executives aged up to 50: rance pay with finally determined compensation at retirement, ·· 15 % av pensionable income from 12G to 18G and can not be entered into. Instead, an advance agreement with a ·· 10 % av pensionable income over 18G reasonable severance pay may be agreed on, effective only if the employee is not contesting dismissal. These agreements apply When moving up tp a new rate following a birthday, this takes correspondingly to the agreements applicable to the CEO and effect from the first date of the month following the birthday. Managing Directors of subsidiaries. The employer has the full right to manage their pension scheme In the agreements with executive employees in the group, conclufor salaries exceeding 12G. ded before the new guidelines, severance pay is agreed on. 90 AVINOR AS 7. Executive remuneration policy and implementation The scheme is administred by Avinor through day-to-day operaof the guidelines in the preceding year tions. The premium is taxable and dutiable. The scheme is closed The salary policy for executive employees in 2015 has been for new senior personnel after 13 February 2015. conducted in accordance with the above guidelines and the guidelines discussed at the Annual General Meeting on 2 June The individual's total pension cost is stated in the notes to the 2015. This applies both to Avinor AS and Avinor Flysikring AS. financial statements. In connection with the wage settlement, the CEO's fixed salary The Board's declaration concerning the determination of salaries was adjusted by 2.5 per cent. The basic salary of other senior and other remuneration was published for the first time in the personnel in Avinor AS was adjusted in average by 2.5 per cent. 2011 financial year. Executive remuneration packages are reviewed by the Board on an annual basis. Executive remuneration The base salary of the Managing Director of Avinor Flysikring AS agreements entered into before this point in time shall not be was adjusted by 2.5 per cent. Other senior personnel in Avinor negatively affected by this declaration. Flysikring AS was adjusted in average 3.1 per cent. The wage settlement is based on evaluation of performance. The remuneration and other benefits received by executive employees in 2015 are provided in note 8 of the annual financial The total cost of the countribution-based pension scheme for statement for 2015. salary exeeding 12G for senior personnel before 13 February 2015 was NOK 1,733,000 in 2015. NOTE 10 Other operating expenses Amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2014 2015 2014 Specification: Rent buildings/land 112.8 107.0 56.5 61.3 Management/maintenance buildings 221.2 222.9 542.4 583.3 Repairs, maintenance operational materials 234.5 214.0 405.2 415.9 Control/security/guard services 578.0 580.9 957.1 944.0 Meteorological services 0.0 17.2 35.9 37.9 Consulting services 151.7 277.6 305.2 429.8 Other external services 365.4 366.5 595.6 781.0 Other operating expenses 947.6 719.5 618.1 588.7 Total 2 611.2 2 505.6 3 516.0 3 841.9 AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2014 2015 2014 Auditor's fee fixed charge (VAT not included): Statutory audit fee 0.4 0.5 1.0 1.0 Other auditors's fees charged to profit and loss (VAT not included): Extended financial audit services 0.4 0.3 0.5 0.3 Other attestation assignments 0.5 0.6 0.6 0.8 Tax advisory services 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Accounting assistance including IFRS 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 0.9 0.9 1.1 1.1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 91 NOTE 11 Impact on earnings – Terminal 2 project Amounts in MNOK As a result of the development of Gardermoen (Terminal 2 project) the income statement includes charges for extra costs related to the maintenance of normal operations during the construction period, as well as costs related to the scrapping of assets, including higher depreciation as a result of a re-assessed economic life. Part of the charges for extra costs is based on estimates that are continually updated. SPECIFICATION 2015 2014 Employee benefits expense Payroll and other personnel expenses for operating personnel 52.2 24.5 Total 52.2 24.5 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges Higher depreciation as the result of scrapping portions of the terminal 60.5 64.6 Total 60.5 64.6 Other operating expenses Operational coordination 55.7 43.6 Security 13.4 13.1 More bussing 15.3 15.7 Consulting services 0.7 5.7 Staff/support 9.4 4.7 Demolishing expenses existing plant -0.7 33.0 Additional contract costs related to maintenance of normal operations during the construction period 98.2 264.5 Other 3.2 10.8 Total 195.2 391.1 Total 307.9 480.2 NOTE 12 Other expenses Amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2014 2015 2014 Specification: Change in pension scheme 0.0 -204.1 0.0 -448.3 Changes in value and other losses/gains net 16.2 7.2 42.9 5.6 Total 16.2 -196.9 42.9 -442.7 Changes in value and other losses/gains net: Changes in value unrealised (note 19) 10.0 -5.5 17.6 -2.8 Changes in value realised energy contracts 8.7 11.2 35.7 25.1 Foreign currency translation gains/losses -2.5 1.5 -10.3 -16.7 Total 16.2 7.2 42.9 5.6 92 AVINOR AS NOTE 13 Finance income and costs Amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2014 2015 2014 Finance income Interest income on short-term bank deposits 27.0 45.4 31.7 47.0 Interest income on loans to group companies 257.5 224.4 0.0 0.0 Group contributions and dividends received 352.8 103.2 1.7 1.5 Gains on financial instruments (note 19) 6.4 0.0 6.4 0.0 Total 643.7 373.0 39.8 48.5 Finance costs Interest expense on bank borrowings 441.8 375.3 594.8 563.0 Interest expense on loans from group companies 28.9 22.6 0.0 0.0 Interest expense on others 10.0 7.2 19.5 8.8 Other borrowing expenses 24.9 30.3 25.5 31.7 Borrowing costs capitalised (note 17) -76.5 -49.5 -274.8 -183.0 Net fair value gains/losses on bank borrowings including derivatives 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Fair value loss on financial instruments (note 19) interest rate swaps: cash flow hedges, transfer from equity -7.3 -3.4 3.4 -3.4 interest rate swaps: fair value hedges 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 421.8 382.5 368.4 417.1 Finance income/(costs) net 221.9 -9.5 -328.6 -368.6 NOTE 14 Income tax expense Amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2014 2015 2014 Income tax expense Current tax on profit for the year 0.9 0.7 334.5 277.5 Current tax on adjustments in respect of prior years 0.0 2.6 2.6 2.6 Current tax on group contributions 1.6 1.8 0.0 0.0 Deferred tax, adjustments prior years 0.0 0.2 -3.0 0.2 Deferred tax on origination and reversal of temporary differences 42.3 84.8 117.1 257.7 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -4.6 0.0 3.6 0.0 Total 40.2 90.1 454.9 538.0 Effective tax rate reconciliation 27% of profit before tax 35.6 74.8 784.1 523.0 Effect of adjustments prior years 0.0 2.6 -0.5 2.6 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -4.6 0.0 3.6 0.0 Group contribution received (not subject to tax ) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Dividends received 0.0 0.0 -0.4 -0.4 Permanent differences (27%) 0.3 0.4 -340.9 0.4 Permanent differences (27%) Spitzbergen 9.0 12.3 9.0 12.4 Income tax expense 40.2 90.1 454.9 538.0 Effective tax rate 30.5 32.5 15.7 27.8 A decision by Oslo City Court dated 9 December 2010 affirmed that the deficit from operations on Spitzbergen is non-deductible in net taxable income from operations on the mainland. The operations on Spitzbergen will never be profitable and the deficits are therefore treated as permanent differences. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 93 NOTE 15 Deferred income tax Amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS: DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CHARGED/ CHARGED/ CREDITED TO AT CREDITED TO OTHER COMAT AT 1 JANUARY THE INCOME PREHENSIVE 31 DECEMBER 1 JANUARY 2015 DEMERGER STATEMENT INCOME 2015 2016 Receivables -0.1 0.0 0.4 0.0 0.3 0.3 Group contributions (receivables) -95.2 0.0 -11.5 0.0 -106.6 -98.7 Non-current assets -834.3 1.0 85.5 0.0 -747.8 -692.4 Borrowings -55.0 0.0 -130.3 0.0 -185.3 -171.6 Provisions -112.9 0.0 -17.8 0.0 -130.6 -120.9 Pension benefits -411.6 0.0 -13.7 132.1 -293.2 -271.5 Group contributions (payables) 1.8 0.0 0.0 -0.1 1.6 1.5 Profit and loss account -4.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 -4.1 -3.8 Derivative financial instruments 35.7 0.0 129.6 -0.6 164.6 152.4 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 475.7 1.0 42.3 131.4 -1 301.0 -1 204.7 Change in tax rate, deferred tax asset reduction 96.4 Presented as: Equity reduction 95.7 Other comprehensive income expense 5.3 Profit and loss expense (note 14) -4.6 CHARGED/ CHARGED/ CREDITED TO AT CREDITED TO OTHER COMAT 1 JANUARY THE INCOME PREHENSIVE 31 DECEMBER 2014 DEMERGER STATEMENT INCOME 2014 Receivables -0.5 0.0 0.4 0.0 -0.1 Group contributions (receivables) -27.8 0.0 -67.4 0.0 -95.2 Non-current assets -935.7 -1.2 102.6 0.0 -834.3 Borrowings 0.0 0.0 -55.0 0.0 -55.0 Provisions -112.3 3.4 -4.0 0.0 -112.9 Pension benefits -545.2 231.0 50.1 -147.5 -411.6 Group contributions (payables) 2.5 0.0 0.0 -0.7 1.8 Profit and loss account -4.9 0.0 0.7 0.0 -4.2 Derivative financial instruments -8.5 0.0 57.4 -13.2 35.7 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 632.4 233.2 84.8 -161.4 -1 475.7 94 AVINOR AS 2015 2014 Deferred tax assets Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than 12 months -1 139.3 -1 305.1 Deferred tax asset to be recovered within 12 months -219.4 -208.1 -1 358.7 -1 513.2 Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liability to be recovered after more than 12 months 152.4 35.7 Deferred tax liability to be recovered within 12 months 1.5 1.8 154.0 37.4 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 204.7 -1 475.7 AVINOR GROUP: DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CHARGED/ CHARGED/ CREDITED TO AT CREDITED TO OTHER COMAT AT 1 JANUARY THE INCOME PREHENSIVE 31 DECEMBER 1 JANUARY 2015 DISPOSALS STATEMENT INCOME 2015 2016 Receivables -0.5 0.0 0.4 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 Non-current assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Borrowings -1 065.3 6.4 175.1 0.0 -883.8 -818.3 Provisions -55.0 0.0 -130.3 0.0 -185.3 -171.6 Pension benefits -147.5 0.0 -18.1 0.0 -165.6 -153.4 Group contributions (payables) -764.6 0.0 -42.2 280.9 -525.8 -486.8 Profit and loss account 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Derivative financial instruments -12.5 0.0 1.7 0.0 -10.8 -10.0 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) 7.0 0.0 127.5 6.7 141.2 130.8 Netto utsatt skattefordel(-)/utsatt skatt -2 038.2 6.4 114.1 287.6 -1 630.1 -1 508.9 Change in tax rate, deferred tax asset reduction 121.0 Presented as: Equity reduction 117.9 Other comprehensive income expense -0.5 Profit and loss expense (note 14) 3.6 CHARGED/ CHARGED/ CREDITED TO AT CREDITED TO OTHER COMAT 1 JANUARY THE INCOME PREHENSIVE 31 DECEMBER 2014 STATEMENT INCOME 2014 Receivables -0.9 0.4 0.0 -0.5 Non-current assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Borrowings -1 224.4 159.1 0.0 -1 065.3 Provisions 0.0 -55.0 0.0 -55.0 Pension benefits -139.5 -8.0 0.0 -147.5 Group contributions (payables) -634.0 110.5 -241.1 -764.6 Profit and loss account 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Derivative financial instruments -6.6 -5.9 0.0 -12.5 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -31.8 56.6 -17.8 7.0 Netto utsatt skattefordel(-)/utsatt skatt -2 037.0 257.7 -258.9 -2 038.2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 95 2015 2014 Deferred tax assets Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than 12 months -1 559.0 -1 936.2 Deferred tax asset to be recovered within 12 months -153.6 -148.0 -1 712.6 -2 084.2 Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liability to be recovered after more than 12 months 203.7 45.9 Deferred tax liability to be recovered within 12 months 0.0 0.1 203.7 46.0 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 508.9 -2 038.2 NOTE 16 Intangible assets Amounts in MNOK AIR TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS, AIRSPACE ORGANIZATION AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP At 1 January 2014 Cost 158.5 158.5 Accumulated amortisation and impairment -127.1 -127.1 Net book amount 31.4 31.4 Year ended 31 December 2014 Opening net book amount 31.4 31.4 Additions 0.0 0.0 Disposals -25.1 -1.8 Amortisation charge -6.3 -13.9 Closing net book amount 0.0 15.7 At 31 December 2014 Cost 0.0 155.7 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 0.0 -140.0 Net book amount 0.0 15.7 Year ended 31 December 2015 Opening net book amount 0.0 15.7 Additions 77.8 143.9 Disposals 0.0 0.0 Amortisation charge -36.1 -42.4 Closing net book amount 41.7 117.2 At 31 December 2015 Cost 77.8 299.6 Accumulated amortisation and impairment -36.1 -182.4 Net book value 41.7 117.2 Estimated useful life 10 years 10 years Method of depreciation Straight-line Straight-line 96 AVINOR AS NOTE 17 Property, plant and equipment Amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS RUNWAYS FURNITURE, AND OTHER FITTINGS AND INFRALAND BUILDINGS RELATED ASSETS VEHICLES EQUIPMENT STRUCTURE TOTAL At 1 January 2014 Cost 754.0 4 374.3 4 758.8 791.9 2 812.7 596.1 14 087.8 Accumulated depreciation 0.0 -1 223.6 -898.1 -300.8 -1 647.1 -257.0 -4 326.6 Net book amount 754.0 3 150.7 3 860.7 491.1 1 165.6 339.1 9 761.2 Year ended 31 December 2014 Opening net book amount 754.0 3 150.7 3 860.7 491.1 1 165.6 339.1 9 761.2 Additions 48.3 206.8 727.0 55.7 188.6 45.4 1 271.8 Disposals -0.9 -198.2 -4.2 -17.7 -315.4 -3.5 -539.9 Depreciation charge -1.0 -187.9 -188.1 -41.7 -195.7 -35.2 -649.6 Closing net book amount 800.4 2 971.4 4 395.4 487.4 843.1 345.8 9 843.6 At 31 December 2014 Cost 801.4 4 359.5 5 465.2 799.4 2 121.8 636.6 14 183.9 Accumulated depreciation -1.0 -1 388.1 -1 069.8 -312.0 -1 278.7 -290.8 -4 340.4 Net book amount 800.4 2 971.4 4 395.4 487.4 843.1 345.8 9 843.6 Year ended 31 December 2015 Opening net book amount 800.4 2 971.4 4 395.4 487.4 843.1 345.8 9 843.5 Additions 298.5 832.9 577.6 60.8 213.9 94.6 2 078.3 Disposals -0.9 -5.4 -0.9 -1.1 -4.1 0.0 -12.4 Depreciation charge -0.7 -197.8 -207.2 -41.8 -196.3 -28.2 -672.1 Closing net book amount 1 097.3 3 601.1 4 764.9 505.3 856.6 412.2 11 237.3 At 31 December 2015 Cost 1 099.0 5 183.3 6 041.3 855.0 2 278.6 727.9 16 185.1 Accumulated depreciation -1.7 -1 582.2 -1 276.4 -349.7 -1 422.1 -315.7 -4 947.8 Net book amount 1 097.3 3 601.1 4 764.9 505.3 856.6 412.2 11 237.3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 97 AVINOR GROUP RUNWAYS FURNITURE, AND OTHER FITTINGS AND INFRALAND BUILDINGS RELATED ASSETS VEHICLES EQUIPMENT STRUCTURE TOTAL At 1 January 2014 Cost 1 392.7 12 591.2 9 387.1 1 156.4 5 389.7 1 685.5 31 602.8 Accumulated depreciation 0.0 -4 144.7 -2 170.2 -486.5 -3 650.5 -753.6 -11 205.5 Net book amount 1 392.7 8 446.5 7 216.9 669.9 1 739.2 931.9 20 397.3 Year ended 31 December 2014 Opening net book amount 1 392.7 8 446.5 7 216.9 669.9 1 739.2 931.9 20 397.3 Additions 48.8 392.5 893.9 74.7 347.1 222.4 1 979.4 Disposals -1.0 -1.8 -0.3 -2.6 -0.3 -3.3 -9.3 Depreciation charge -1.1 -541.9 -305.8 -61.8 -348.8 -66.9 -1 326.3 Closing net book amount 1 439.4 8 295.3 7 804.7 680.2 1 737.2 1 084.1 21 040.9 At 31 December 2014 Cost 1 440.7 12 768.5 10 255.7 1 213.2 5 645.7 1 890.8 33 214.6 Accumulated depreciation -1.3 -4 473.2 -2 451.0 -533.0 -3 908.5 -806.7 -12 173.7 Net book amount 1 439.4 8 295.3 7 804.7 680.2 1 737.2 1 084.1 21 040.9 Year ended 31 December 2015 Opening net book amount 1 439.4 8 295.3 7 804.7 680.2 1 737.2 1 084.1 21 040.9 Additions 298.5 1 192.7 836.8 79.4 363.4 308.9 3 079.7 Disposals -2.8 -173.5 -0.9 -1.4 -4.5 -13.5 -196.6 Depreciation charge -0.8 -580.9 -337.8 -62.7 -365.3 -69.4 -1 416.9 Closing net book amount 1 734.3 8 733.6 8 302.8 695.5 1 730.8 1 310.1 22 507.1 At 31 December 2015 Cost 1 735.5 13 708.9 11 090.9 1 283.9 5 949.7 2 177.4 35 946.3 Accumulated depreciation -1.2 -4 975.3 -2 788.1 -588.4 -4 218.9 -867.3 -13 439.2 Net book amount 1 734.3 8 733.6 8 302.8 695.5 1 730.8 1 310.1 22 507.1 Estimated useful life 10 50 years 15 50 years 10 20 years 5 15 years 5 40 years Method of depreciation NA Straight-line Straight-line Straight-line Straight-line Straight-line 98 AVINOR AS ASSETS UNDER CONSTRUCTION AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP At 1 January 2014 Cost 2 438.1 5 181.4 Accumulated depreciation 0.0 0.0 Net book amount 2 438.1 5 181.4 Year ended 31 December 2014 Opening net book amount 2 438.1 5 181.4 Additions 2 178.7 4 736.0 Reclassification -1 271.8 -1 979.4 Government grants -24.4 -24.4 Disposals -246.6 0.0 Closing net book amount 3 074.0 7 913.6 At 31 December 2014 Cost 3 074.0 7 913.6 Accumulated depreciation 0.0 0.0 Net book amount 3 074.0 7 913.6 Year ended 31 December 2015 Opening net book amount 3 074.0 7 913.6 Additions 2 091.2 5 421.3 Reclassification -1 822.2 -2 719.7 Closing net book amount 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 At 31 December 2015 3 343.0 10 615.2 Cost Accumulated depreciation Net book amount 3 343.0 10 615.2 Akkumulerte avog nedskrivninger 0.0 0.0 Balanseført verdi 31.12. 3 343.0 10 615.2 Government grants Security Grants regarding the construction of a hangar on Spitzbergen. Bank borrowings are secured on land and buildings for the value of MNOK 0.0 (2014: MNOK 429.0). Borrowing costs Property plant and equipment includes borrowing costs when Under Avinor AS's Articles of Association, assets from basic the construction period of major asset is longer than one year. operations cannot be pledged as security. Capitalised borrowing costs amounted to MNOK 274.8 in 2015 and MNOK 183.0 in 2014. The average capitalisation rate for 2015 Basis for measurement of recoverable amount was 3.93 per cent (2014: 4.34 per cent). As a result of observed changes in the market for Avinor's services, it was assumed at 31 December 2008 that there was Finance leases a risk that the group's assets were carried at more than their A legal discretionary assessment to determine the purchase price recoverable amount. In accordance with existing accounting or annual user fee for aviation critical areas that are owned by policies the group's assets were therefore tested for impairment. the Norwegian Armed Forces at Trondheim Airport, Værnes was As a result of positive development from 2009 and up till today, presented on 13 August 2015, and involve a one-off payment of there is no indication of impairment at year-end, but due to the MNOK 256.0 or an annual rent amount of MNOK 18.0. materiality of the group's assets and a future high investment level, impairment tests are carried out regularly. The asset is classified as land and presented as an addition to property, plant and equipment with MNOK 256.0 in 2015. The whole of Avinor group's operations have previously been defined as one cash-generating unit (CGU). The Air Navigation Service has been assesed as a own business area with cash flows COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 99 that are mainly independent from the cash flows of the rest of the The group operates in its entirety in Norway and the present group. As a result the group will, as from 2014, have two cashvalue of future cash flow is therefore estimated in NOK. The generating units. future cash flow is then discounted based on an weighted average discount rate relevant for the group's type of operations. The rate For the rest of the group, exclusive of the Air Navigation Services, of return is based on 10-year Norwegian government securities the group's economic model is based on the assumption that adjusted for the group's business risk. The expense related to the there is full cross-subsidisation between profitable and unprofitadebt ratio part of the weighted average rate of return is based on ble airports as well as all areas of operations (overall system). The the average market rate for the group. group has a distinct expressed objective to develop, within the overall system, commercial activities in order to provide capital In the present value estimate for 2015 the discount rate is 6.9 per for unprofitable activities (social considerations/responsibilities) cent before tax. and reduce the level of traffic charges. Due to this the group assess that a solution where the group's operations, exclusive of As at 31 December 2015 the measurement of recoverable amount the Air Navigation Services, are evaluated as a whole, presents a for the whole group is estimated based on fair value less cost true and fair view of the operations. to sell. Fair value is estimated based on future cash flows from operations, including future capacity increasing activities such as An impairment loss is recognised if the recoverable amount of OSL Terminal 2 and expansion of the terminals at Flesland, Sola the group's assets is less than its carrying amount. The recoveraand Værnes. ble amount is the highest of the cash-generating unit's fair value less cost to sell and its value in use. The group estimates both The valuation is based on several assumptions. The main fair value and value in use based on the present value of future assumptions used in the estimation of recoverable amount are cash flows. Value in use is the present value of future cash flows (2014 figures in brackets): derived from existing assets (without improving or enhancing the performance of these assets). ALL FIGURES IN PER CENT 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Passenger growth 2.5 (1.8) 3.4 (4.3) 3.1 (3.1) 3.0 (2.8) 2.6 (2.6) 2.2 (1.9) Consumer price index 2.9 (2.0) 2.1 (1.7) 1.6 (2.0) 1.5 (2.0) 1.5 (2.0) 1.5 (2.0) ALL FIGURES IN PER CENT 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2031 Passenger growth 2.1 (2.1) 2.0 (2.0) 2.0 (2.0) 1.9 (2.0) 1.9 (2.0) 1.6-1.9 (1.6 -2.0) Consumer price index 1.5 (2.0) 1.5 (2.0) 1.5 (2.0) 1.5 (2.0) 1.5 (2.0) 1.5 (2.0) There is close correlation between GDP (Norwegian mainland) The expected value of operations past fifteen years is deterand passenger growth. mined as a terminal value. The terminal value is based on the assumption of aconstant growth of 0.0 per cent and an estimated The estimates are based on real growth in expenses. normalised investment level. The estimates include expected investments based on the group's As at 31 December 2015 there are no indications that the long-term investment plan, including existing public regulations. recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount. 100 AVINOR AS NOTE 18 Financial instruments by category Amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES LOANS AND THROUGH THE USED FOR RECEIVABLES PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING TOTAL 31 December 2015 Assets as per balance sheet Loans and receivables to group companies 7 711.5 7 711.5 Derivative financial instruments 4.5 635.0 639.5 Other financial assets 124.2 124.2 Trade receivables 519.7 519.7 Other receivables 34.5 34.5 Cash and cash equivalents 1 630.3 1 630.3 Total 10 020.2 4.5 635.0 10 659.7 LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES OTHER THROUGH THE USED FOR FINANCIAL PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING LIABILITIES TOTAL Liabilities as per balance sheet Loans and payables to group companies 2 778.1 2 778.1 Derivative financial instruments 30.1 30.1 Other long-term liabilities 13 095.6 13 095.6 Trade payables and other liabilities 1 633.8 1 633.8 Total 30.1 0.0 17 507.5 17 537.6 ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES LOANS AND THROUGH THE USED FOR RECEIVABLES PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING TOTAL 31 December 2014 Assets as per balance sheet Loans and receivables to group companies 6 479.9 6 479.9 Derivative financial instruments 1.7 154.7 156.4 Other financial assets 62.6 62.6 Trade receivables 468.6 468.6 Other receivables 58.3 58.3 Cash and cash equivalents 900.6 900.6 Total 7 970.0 1.7 154.7 8 126.4 LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES OTHER THROUGH THE USED FOR FINANCIAL PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING LIABILITIES TOTAL Liabilities as per balance sheet Loans and payables to group companies 1 800.2 1 800.2 Derivative financial instruments 24.7 24.7 Other long-term liabilities 9 300.0 9 300.0 Trade payables and other liabilities 1 551.5 1 551.5 Total 24.7 0.0 12 651.7 12 676.4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 101 AVINOR GROUP ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES LOANS AND THROUGH THE USED FOR RECEIVABLES PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING TOTAL 31 December 2015 Assets as per balance sheet Derivative financial instruments 14.7 646.4 661.1 Other financial assets 306.0 306.0 Trade receivables 1 075.3 1 075.3 Other receivables 249.9 249.9 Cash and cash equivalents 1 666.7 1 666.7 Total 3 297.9 14.7 646.4 3 959.0 LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES OTHER THROUGH THE USED FOR FINANCIAL PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING LIABILITIES TOTAL Liabilities as per balance sheet State loan 2 971.7 2 971.7 Derivative financial instruments 57.7 80.8 138.5 Other long-term liabilities 14 123.8 14 123.8 Trade payables and other liabilities 2 394.4 2 394.4 Total 57.7 80.8 19 489.9 19 628.4 ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES LOANS AND THROUGH THE USED FOR RECEIVABLES PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING TOTAL 31 December 2014 Assets as per balance sheet Derivative financial instruments 9.1 171.9 181.0 Other financial assets 188.2 188.2 Trade receivables 1 199.9 1 199.9 Other receivables 157.1 157.1 Cash and cash equivalents 932.0 932.0 Total 2 477.2 9.1 171.9 2 658.2 LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES OTHER THROUGH THE USED FOR FINANCIAL PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING LIABILITIES TOTAL Liabilities as per balance sheet State loan 3 416.1 3 416.1 Derivative financial instruments 41.9 113.7 155.6 Other long-term liabilities 10 522.4 10 522.4 Trade payables and other liabilities 2 585.8 2 585.8 Total 41.9 113.7 16 524.3 16 679.9 For information about the credit quality of financial assets see note 3. 102 AVINOR AS NOTE 19 Derivative financial instruments Amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2014 MOVEMENT 2015 2014 MOVEMENT Assets Interest rate swaps 635.0 154.7 480.3 635.0 154.7 480.3 Forward foreign exchange contracts 4.5 1.7 2.8 26.0 26.3 -0.3 Forward energy contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 639.5 156.4 483.1 661.0 181.0 480.0 Liabilities Interest rate swaps 7.4 14.8 -7.4 88.2 128.5 -40.3 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 7.0 9.1 -2.1 Forward energy contracts 22.7 9.9 12.8 43.3 18.0 25.3 30.1 24.7 5.4 138.5 155.6 -17.1 Net movement 477.7 497.1 Details of net movement: Changes in value and other losses/(gains) net (note 12) -10.0 -17.6 Forward foreign exchange contracts recognised in other comprehensive income 0.0 -5.9 Interest rate swaps recognised in finance costs (note 13) 7.3 -3.4 Interest rate swaps recognised in other comprehensive income -2.4 30.5 Interests rate swaps changes in value 482.8 482.8 Interest rate swaps termination value 0.0 10.7 All interest rate swaps, with the exception of one fair value hedge, are designated as cash flow hedges. Forward foreign exchange and energy contracts are not defined as hedge accounting and are classified as a current asset and/or liability. Interest rate swaps are defined as hedge accounting instruments and the fair value of the hedging instrument is classified as a noncurrent asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. The ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised in the income statement. The notional principal amount of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2015 was MNOK 399.1 (2014: MNOK 430.2). The notional principal amount of the outstanding forward energy contracts at 31 December 2015 was MNOK 130 (2014: MNOK 102). The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swaps contracts at 31 December 2015 were MNOK 5,932 (2014: MNOK 3,689). At 31 December 2015, the fixed interest rates vary from 1.69% to 5.96% (2014: 3.41% to 5.96%). The main floating rate is NIBOR and fixed interest rate is Euro. Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in other comprehensive income (note 24) on interest rate swap contracts as of 31 December 2015 will be continuously released to the income statement until the repayment of the bank borrowings (note 27). The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative assets in the balance sheet. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 103 NOTE 20 Other financial assets Amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2014 2015 2014 Other non-current receivables 124.2 62.6 306.0 188.2 Total 124.2 62.6 306.0 188.2 Other non-current receivables Other non-current receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed payments that are not quoted in an active market. Fair value of other financial assets are substantially identical with book value. NOTE 21 Trade and other receivables Amounts in MNOK TRADE RECEIVABLES AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2014 2015 2014 Trade receivables 520.2 469.5 1 076.3 1 201.6 Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables -0.6 -0.9 -1.0 -1.7 Trade receivables net 519.7 468.6 1 075.3 1 199.9 Receivables written off during the year 5.6 0.4 5.6 4.6 The fair value of trade receivables is approximately equal to the carrying amount. Loss on trade receivables is classified as other operating expense in the income statement. MOVEMENT IN THE PROVISION FOR IMPAIRMENT OF OF TRADE RECEIVABLES IS AS FOLLOWS: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2014 2015 2014 At 1 January 0.9 4.0 1.7 5.0 This years provisions for receivables impairment 5.3 0.0 4.9 1.3 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible -5.6 -0.4 -5.6 -4.6 Unused amounts reversed 0.0 -2.7 0.0 0.0 At 31 December 0.6 0.9 1.0 1.7 Credit risk and foreign exchange risk are described in note 3. AT 31 DECEMBER THE AGING OF THE COMPANY'S RECEIVABLES WAS AS FOLLOWS: TOTAL NOT DUE <30 D 30-60 D 60-90 D >90 D 2015 520.2 454.9 45.3 4.0 1.2 14.8 2014 469.5 409.1 40.3 1.5 0.3 18.3 104 AVINOR AS AT 31 DECEMBER THE AGING OF THE GROUP'S RECEIVABLES WAS AS FOLLOWS: TOTAL NOT DUE <30 D 30-60 D 60-90 D >90 D 2015 1 076.3 922.9 76.5 15.3 21.2 40.4 2014 1 201.6 1 057.9 76.6 4.7 35.9 26.5 SPECIFICATION OF TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2014 2015 2014 Trade receivables 519.7 468.6 1 075.3 1 199.9 Intra-group accounts 140.2 508.6 0.0 0.0 Accrued income 30.4 58.3 105.5 134.0 Prepaid expenses 36.2 22.2 53.2 48.3 Other short-term assets 4.1 0.0 144.4 23.1 Total 730.6 1 057.7 1 378.4 1 405.3 Fair value of trade and other receivables is approximately equal to the carrying amount. THE CARRYING AMOUNT OF TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES IN FOREIGN CURRENCY IS: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2014 2015 2014 Euro 1.2 4.6 91.5 191.5 1.2 4.6 91.5 191.5 NOTE 22 Cash and cash equivalents Amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2014 2015 2014 Cash and bank at hand 1 630.3 900.6 1 666.7 932.0 Short-term bank deposits 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 1 630.3 900.6 1 666.7 932.0 Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the statement of cash flows: Cash and cash equivalents 1 630.3 900.6 1 666.7 932.0 Bank overdrafts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 1 630.3 900.6 1 666.7 932.0 Avinor AS has a credit facility of MNOK 4,000 and a overdraft limit of MNOK 800 in a bank. Group bank account system: The Avinor bank accounts are organised as a group bank account system. Avinor AS is the formal holder of the bank account. The bank accounts of all subsidiaries are therefore formally receivables from Avinor AS, and these companies are jointly responsible for the withdrawals that the Avinor group has made. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 105 NOTE 23 Share capital, shareholder information, dividend and results Amounts in MNOK NUMBER OF SHARES FACE VALUE SHARE-CAPITAL Ordinary shares 540 010 0.01 5 400.1 Total 540 010 0.01 5 400.1 The company has paid the following dividend on ordinary shares: 2015 2014 NOK 824.9 per share in 2013 445.4 NOK 925.9 per share in 2014 500.0 Total 500.0 445.4 Proposed dividend for approval in the general assembly (Not presented as a liability at 31 December): 2015 2014 NOK 925.9 per share 500.0 NOK 925.9 per share 500.0 Total 500.0 500.0 All shares are owned by the Norwegian State, represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communication. NOTE 24 Other reserves Amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS PENSIONS HEDGES TOTAL At 1 January 2014 -56.1 -0.1 -56.2 Actuarial gains/(losses) on pensions -546.2 -546.2 Tax effect 147.5 147.5 Fair value change cash flow hedge -48.9 -48.9 Tax effect 13.2 13.2 At 31 December 2014 -454.8 -35.8 -490.6 Actuarial gains/(losses) on pensions 489.0 489.0 Tax effect -132.0 -132.0 Fair value change cash flow hedge -2.4 -2.4 Tax effect 0.6 0.6 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -4.4 -0.9 -5.3 At 31 December 2015 -102.2 -38.5 -140.6 106 AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP PENSIONS HEDGES TOTAL At 1 January 2014 -16.5 -57.9 -74.6 Actuarial gains/(losses) on pensions -893.0 -893.0 Tax effect 241.1 241.1 Fair value change cash flow hedge -66.1 -66.1 Tax effect 17.8 17.8 At 31 December 2014 -668.4 -106.2 -774.8 Actuarial gains/(losses) on pensions 1 040.9 1 040.9 Tax effect -281.0 -281.0 Fair value change cash flow hedge 24.6 24.6 Tax effect -6.6 -6.6 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities 0.5 0.0 0.5 At 31 December 2015 92.0 -88.2 3.6 NOTE 25 Pension obligation Amounts in MNOK Defined benefit plan The group is required by law to have a pension plan. The pension plan of the group satisfies these requirements. The pension plan encompasses pension benefits in accordance with the act relating to the Norwegian Public Service Fund (SPK). The benefits are retirement pension, disability pension and dependent pension. In addition, the calculations do include a contractual pension right, which is a tariff-regulated early retirement scheme from 62 years of age. The benefits are coordinated with the National Insurance Scheme and any previous membership periods with service pensions fund within the public sector. The pensions have a guaranteed level of gross payment independent of the National Insurance Scheme. About 50 per cent of the employees have an ordinary retirement age of 62 or 65 years. Actuarial gains in 2015 (MNOK 1,040.9 for the group and MNOK 489.0 for the parent) were mainly caused by changes in financial assumptions and addition of plan assets. The tariff K2013 have been used for calculating life and mortality expectancy, while the tariff K1963 multiplied by 200% have been used for determination of disability risk. LIFE EXPECTANCY MORTALITY EXPECTANCY DISABILITY EXPECTANCY AGE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE 20 81 85 0.0237 % 0.0094 % 0.1148 % 0.1724 % 40 82 86 0.0501 % 0.0293 % 0.2638 % 0.5236 % 60 84 87 0.3510 % 0.2383 % 1.4064 % 2.4044 % 80 89 91 3.8661 % 2.5469 % NA NA COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 107 The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2014 2015 2014 Current service cost 176.9 234.1 387.5 383.1 Interest cost 95.8 183.4 184.9 273.0 Change in pension adjustment 0.0 -72.3 0.0 -125.0 Change in life expectancy 0.0 -106.6 0.0 -267.9 Expected return on plan assets -68.3 -127.0 -134.0 -188.3 Contribution from the employees -20.7 -26.9 -45.1 -43.8 Administration fee 3.6 4.7 8.0 7.7 Payroll tax, employers contribution 29.0 10.4 62.5 5.6 Total pension cost (Note 8) 216.2 99.9 463.8 44.2 The movement in pension obligations and plan assets: AVINOR AS 2015 2014 FUNDED UNFUNDED TOTAL FUNDED UNFUNDED TOTAL Change in gross pension obligation: Obligation at 1 January 4 072.9 11.4 4 084.3 5 928.8 9.1 5 937.9 Current service cost 177.9 2.7 180.6 236.5 2.3 238.8 Interest cost 95.8 0.0 95.8 183.4 0.0 183.4 Change in life expectancy 0.0 0.0 0.0 -106.6 0.0 -106.6 Change in disability benefits 0.0 0.0 0.0 -72.3 0.0 -72.3 Demerger Avinor Flysikring AS 0.0 0.0 0.0 -2 366.7 0.0 -2 366.7 Actuarial losses/(gains) -411.4 0.0 -411.4 392.4 0.0 392.4 Benefits paid -128.2 0.0 -128.2 -122.7 0.0 -122.7 Gross pension obligation at 31 December 3 806.9 14.1 3 821.0 4 072.9 11.4 4 084.3 Change in pension funds: Fair value at 1 January 2 747.5 0.0 2 747.5 4 110.3 0.0 4 110.3 Expected return on plan assets 68.3 0.0 68.3 127.0 0.0 127.0 Demerger Avinor Flysikring AS 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1 617.0 0.0 -1 617.0 Employer contributions 161.0 0.0 161.0 277.9 0.0 277.9 Actuarial (losses)/gains -74.6 0.0 -74.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Actuarial (losses)/gains addition of plan assets 91.7 0.0 91.7 -28.0 0.0 -28.0 Benefits paid -128.2 0.0 -128.2 -122.7 0.0 -122.7 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 2 865.7 0.0 2 865.7 2 747.5 0.0 2 747.5 Net pension obligation 941.2 14.1 955.3 1 325.4 11.4 1 336.8 Payroll tax, employers contribution 130.0 0.0 130.0 186.9 0.0 186.9 Net pension obligation recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 1 071.2 14.1 1 085.3 1 512.3 11.4 1 523.7 Actual return on plan assets last year 85.8 85.8 114.3 114.3 Expected employer contribution next year 255.4 255.4 218.0 218.0 Expected payment of benefits next year -150.1 -150.1 -129.0 -129.0 108 AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2014 FUNDED UNFUNDED TOTAL FUNDED UNFUNDED TOTAL Change in gross pension obligation: Obligation at 1 January 7 804.7 19.5 7 824.2 6 868.2 17.0 6 885.2 Current service cost 392.7 3.3 396.0 388.4 2.5 390.8 Interest cost 184.9 0.0 184.9 273.0 0.0 273.0 Change in life expectancy 0.0 0.0 0.0 -267.9 0.0 -267.9 Change in disability benefits 0.0 0.0 0.0 -125.0 0.0 -125.0 Actuarial losses/(gains) -853.5 0.3 -853.2 807.6 0.0 807.6 Benefits paid -160.6 0.0 -160.6 -139.6 0.0 -139.6 Gross pension obligation at 31 December 7 368.2 23.1 7 391.3 7 804.7 19.5 7 824.1 Change in pension funds: Fair value at 1 January 5 341.6 0.0 5 341.6 4 769.2 0.0 4 769.2 Expected return on plan assets 134.0 0.0 134.0 188.3 0.0 188.3 Employer contributions 302.4 0.0 302.4 440.5 0.0 440.5 Actuarial (losses)/gains -112.3 0.0 -112.3 83.2 0.0 83.2 Actuarial (losses)/gains addition of plan assets 170.7 0.0 170.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 Benefits paid -160.6 0.0 -160.6 -139.6 0.0 -139.6 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 5 675.8 0.0 5 675.8 5 341.6 0.0 5 341.6 Net pension obligation 1 692.4 23.1 1 715.5 2 463.1 19.5 2 482.5 Payroll tax, employers contribution. 231.9 0.0 231.9 347.4 1.6 349.0 Net pension obligation recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 1 924.3 23.1 1 947.4 2 810.4 21.1 2 831.5 Actual return on plan assets last year 123.9 123.9 134.8 134.8 Expected employer/employee contribution next year 263.8 263.8 444.0 444.0 Expected payment of benefits next year -163.0 -163.0 -153.0 -153.0 Movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2014 2015 2014 Obligation at 1 January 1 336.8 1 827.6 2 482.5 2 116.0 Pension cost charged to the income statement 208.0 116.4 446.4 82.7 Employer/employee contribution -164.5 -282.6 -310.4 -448.1 Administration fee 3.6 4.7 8.0 7.7 Demerger Avinor Flysikring AS 0.0 -749.7 0.0 0.0 Actuarial (gains)/losses recognised in other comprehensive income -428.5 420.4 -911.0 724.4 Liability in the balance sheet at 31 December 955.3 1 336.8 1 715.5 2 482.5 Actuarial (gains)/losses on post-employment benefit obligations Actuarial (gains)/losses -428.6 1 336.8 -911.0 724.4 Payroll tax on actuarial (gains)/losses -60.4 57.0 0.0 99.9 Effect change in payroll tax rate 0.0 68.7 0.0 68.7 Total actuarial (gains)/losses on post-employment benefit obligations -489.0 1 462.5 -911.0 893.0 The calculation of pension cost and net pension obligation are made on the basis of a set of assumptions. The determination of the discount rate to be used is made on the basis of Norwegian covered bond interest rates. The pension obligation's weighted average duration is 24 years. Assumptions regarding future salary and pension increases in addition to official pension benefit adjustments are made on the basis of historical observations for the group. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 109 2015 2014 Discount rate 2.70 % 2.40 % Future salary increases 2.50 % 2.75 % Future pension increases 1.75 % 1.75 % Early retirement scheme 15.00 % 15.00 % Average turnover rate (under 50 years of age) 3.00 % 3.00 % Average turnover rate (over 50 years of age) 0.20 % 0.20 % Plan assets The determination of premium levels and the calculation of provisions for pension obligations are based on ordinary actuarial principles The pension agreement is not directly funded. The payment of pensions are guaranteed by the Norwegian State (Section 1 of the Pensions Act). The plan assets are a simulation of the allocation of funds as if these funds were invested in long-term government bonds ( Simulated funds ). The pension fund may not be transferred in the same way as an ordinary private pension agreement. This calculation is made on the presumption the pension agreement continues in SPK. The simulation is made on the presumption that the bonds are held to maturity. The plan assets are therefore valued at the nominal value plus the return on the assets. SPK has supplied Avinor with additional plan assets as at 1 January 2015. The addition covers the net one-time premium (net change in reserves) which is a consequence of the transition to a strengthened mortality tariff, and a new disability pension. The total addition of plan assets amounts to MNOK 170.7. Pension obligation sensitivities Pension obligation sensitivities changes in weighted financial assumptions: Discount rate: A change of 1 per cent compared with the discount rate applied will result in a change in the pension obligation of MNOK 1,564/-1,188 (2014: MNOK 1,708/-1,406). Future salary increases: A change of 1 per cent in the expected inflation rate will result in a change in the pension obligation of MNOK -735/640 (2014: MNOK -1,392/1,722). NOTE 26 Provisions for other liabilities and charges Amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS EARLY ENVIRONRETIREMENT MENTAL SEVERANCE PAY PAY POLLUTION OTHER TOTAL At 1 January 2014 11.5 15.5 133.8 0.6 161.4 Additional provision 2014 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Reversed 2014 -1.9 -12.7 0.0 0.0 -14.6 Used in 2014 -2.4 -2.8 -28.6 -0.4 -34.1 At 1 January 2015 11.5 15.5 133.8 0.6 161.4 Additional provision 2015 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Reversed 2015 -1.9 -12.7 0.0 0.0 -14.6 Used in 2015 -2.4 -2.8 -28.6 -0.4 -34.1 At 31 December 2015 5.3 16.6 96.6 0.0 118.5 AVINOR GROUP EARLY ENVIRONRETIREMENT MENTAL SEVERANCE PAY PAY POLLUTION OTHER TOTAL At 1 January 2014 11.5 17.0 263.9 0.6 293.0 Additional provision 2014 0.0 2.9 6.2 0.0 9.1 Reversed 2014 -1.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1.9 Used in 2014 -2.4 -4.8 -64.8 -0.4 -72.3 At 1 January 2015 7.3 15.1 205.3 0.2 227.9 Additional provision 2015 0.0 37.0 0.0 0.0 37.0 Reversed 2015 -0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.2 Used in 2015 -1.8 -7.6 -38.4 -0.2 -48.1 At 31 December 2015 5.3 44.4 166.9 0.0 216.6 110 AVINOR AS The short-term part of provisions for other liabilities and charges are included in other short term liability. See note 3. Severance pay On 4 December 2003, the Board of Directors approved a substantial restructuring of the group, called Take-off-05. One of the consequences of this decision was a substantial cut in the workforce. Part of the cut was carried out by use of redundancy pay. According to the terms laid down for the establishment of the company, the employees of Avinor AS were entitled to redundancy pay until 31 December 2005. Redundancy pay is covered by the company. The period of time for the right to redundancy pay depends on age and seniority at time of resignation. The provision for redundancy pay is based on expectations about the redundancy pay period based on the above-mentioned rules. Early retirement pay air navigation management The group has entered into individual early retirement pay agreements covering 72 per cent of normal wages in the period 60-62 years. After this period the individuals will be covered by ordinary pension plans. Early retirement pay others This include optional retirement pay in accordance with the group's adjustmentpolicy. Environmental pollution A provison is made for surveys and identification, in addition to costs related to the clean-up of polluted ground (see note 29). NOTE 27 Borrowings Amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2014 2015 2014 Non-current State loan 0.0 0.0 2 971.7 3 416.1 Bonds 8 856.1 6 243.7 8 856.1 6 243.7 Bank borrowings 3 961.7 3 025.3 4 989.9 4 247.7 Others 277.8 31.0 277.8 31.0 Total long-term 13 095.6 9 300.0 17 095.5 13 938.5 Current Commercial papers 400.0 800.0 400.0 800.0 First year instalment on long-term debt 473.0 8.7 994.2 551.9 Total current 873.0 808.7 1 394.2 1 351.9 All borrowings in NOK. EFFECTIVE INFORMATION ABOUT STATE LOAN AND BANK BORROWINGS CURRENCY INTEREST RATE State loan NOK 2.16 % Bonds, inclusive commercial papers NOK/EUR 3.35 % Bank borrowings NOK 3.91 % The figures include interest hedging derivatives. The effective interest rate is calculated as a weighted average depending the relative size of the borrowings. See note 3 for a description of interest risk. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 111 INSTALMENT PROFILE: 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 THEREAFTER TOTAL State loan 444.4 444.4 444.4 444.4 444.4 749.7 2 971.7 Bonds 0.0 0.0 700.0 450.0 2 880.9 4 825.2 8 856.1 Bank borrowings 204.3 204.7 265.0 325.4 325.8 3 664.7 4 989.9 Other 11.9 4.6 2.5 2.8 0.0 256.0 277.8 State loan Borrowings are carried at fair value when they are drawn. Thereafter they are carried at amortised cost calculated by using the effective interest method. The loan is divided into six equal debentures with different interest terms. Debentures one to five have interest rates equal to the interest rate used by the State when lending to public sector enterprises (average interest rate on five-year government bonds in the period October-September) plus 30 basis points. The interest on one of the debentures is renewed each year. The interest on the last debenture is set at three, six or twelve months NIBOR plus 20 basis points. The interest is payable in arrears at 31 December. The loan had originally a payment period of 20 years starting 2002. The term of the loan has subsequently been extended so that the final maturity date is in 2024. The first instalment was paid 30 June 2002. Bonds The loans are carried at face value on the payment date. Thereafter the loans are carried at amortised cost by using the effective interest method. The loans, as at 31 December 2014, are as follows: ·· Face value MNOK 400, maturity date 20 May 2016, interest rate 6.56 per cent ·· Face value MNOK 450, maturity date 8 May 2020, interest rate 3.75 per cent ·· Face value MNOK 2,000, maturity date 8 May 2028, interest rate 4.45 per cent ·· Face value MEUR 300, maturity date 20 March 2021, interest rate 1.75 per cent ·· Face value MNOK 700, maturity date 30 October 2019, interest rate 3 months NIBOR pluss 0.37 per cent ·· Face value MEUR 300, maturity date 29 April 2025, interest rate 1.00 per cent Bank borrowings Borrowings are carried at fair value when they are drawn. Thereafter they are carried at amortised cost calculated by using the effective interest method. Avinor AS raised in 2011 a loan of NOK 1.5 billion from the Nordic Investment Bank (NIB). The loan, disbursed in December 2011, has a term of 20 years and is irredeemable for 8 years. In 2012 Avinor AS raised an additional loan of MNOK 1525.3 from the European Investment Bank (EIB). The loan, distributed in June 2012, has a term of 16 years and is irredeemable for 4.5 years. Avinor AS raised in 2015 a loan of NOK 1.0 billion from the Nordic Investment Bank (NIB). The loan, distbursed in November 2015, has a term of 20 years and is irredeemable for 8 years. Avinors Parkeringsanlegg AS, Flesland Eiendom AS, Værnes Eiendom AS, Sola Hotel Eiendom AS, Hotell Østre AS and Flyporten AS have issued a negative pledge clause. According to its Articles of Association the company is not allowed to pledge assets connected to the core business of the group as security. Drawing rights The group has an unused bank credit facility of MNOK 4,000 at a floating interest rate, expiring in 2020. The group can requeste a prolonged term, this require acceptance from all participating banks. The group also has an unused bank overdraft limit of MNOK 800 at a floating interest rate. Commercial papers Avinor AS has in 2015 raised several loans in commercial papers, amounting to MNOK 400 as at 31 December 2015. NOTE 28 Other short-term liability Amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2014 2015 2014 Holiday allowance 135.1 184.0 296.2 295.0 Advance from customers 135.9 60.8 180.9 131.5 Wages and social security 46.7 49.5 118.4 116.4 Accruals 369.8 416.8 1 017.9 776.9 Intra-group liability 2 778.1 1 800.2 0.0 0.0 Other short-term liability 530.7 414.1 559.1 434.1 Total 3 996.3 2 925.4 2 172.5 1 753.9 112 AVINOR AS NOTE 29 Contingencies Norwegian Defence: Work is currently being conducted to clarify the scope of the A cooperation agreement exists between Norwegian Defence and measures that will need to be implemented. The economic conseAvinor with corresponding local agreements concerning sharing quences of this depend on the extent of the localities that require responsibilities and expenses for airports where both parties have measures to be implemented, as well as the authorities' requireactivities. ments and the measures available. At Oslo airport measures are made, at the fire practice field, with cleansing of water from the Based on a mandate from the Ministry of Transportation and autumn of 2015. See note 26. the Ministry of Defence a new agreement has been entered into. The agreement was approved by the government in February Fighter plane base: 2011, with effect from 1 January 2010. The agreement establishes The Storting has resolved that Bodø's main air station shall be principles for the basis of allocation of investmentand operatioclosed down, while Evenes will be the advanced base for fighter nal expenses between the parties. The practical implementation planes in the north. The government have decided that Evenes of the agreement, including calculation of the cash-flow between shall not be established as an advanced base before 2020. Bodø the parties, has not been completed. There is therefore uncerairport shall function as an advanced base after the close-down tainty attached to the economic consequences as from 2010. of Bodø main air station. This will be an intermediate solution The involved parties have been in contact regarding the local until the new fighter planes are operational and have replaced agreements, without reaching an understanding. The Norwegian the existing planes. Avinor shall take over the responsibility of Defence has formally broken the negotiations for the settlement the operation of Bodø airport from the 1st of August 2016. The of the years 2010-2014. takeover is being iniated, and will have financial consequences for Avinor with regard to future investments in property, plant In a letter dated 11 March 2009, the Attorney General concluded and equipment and running operating expenses. that Avinor shall pay Norwegian Defence compensation for the right to use land at Værnes (Trondheim airport) and Flesland The head of Norwgian Defence has through his military counsil (Bergen airport). A legal assessment shall be carried out to deterin the atumn of 2015, advised a close-down of Andøya air station mine the value of the land at these airports. A legal discretionary and the establishment of a main air base for surveillance/advanassessment to determine the purchase price or annual user fee at ced base for fighter planes at Harstad/Narvik airport, Evenes. Værnes was presented on 13 August 2015, and involve a one-off If these advises are complied with, they might involve chages in payment of MNOK 256.0 or an annual rent amount of MNOK 18.0. the operational responsibilities at Andøya and at Bardufoss. It is assumed that this discretionary assessment also will be instructive for the assessment at Flesland, which is expected in 2016. Approach services for Rygge, Sandefjord and Skien airports: The external environment: Avinor has demanded compensation for approach services Environmentally hazardous additives in fire extinguishing foam rendered to Rygge, Sandefjord and Skien airports. According to which have spread to the natural environment have been detea judgement in Sandefjord District Court, Avinor Flysikring AS cted at several airports. Risk assessments have been conducted has an obligation to deliver without the service recipient having into the potential harm to persons and the external environment a corresponding payment obligation. The judgement has been from these pollutants. appealed and is expected to be tryed in 2016. NOTE 30 Commitments Amounts in MNOK The parent company and the group have contracted for capital expenditure not yet incurred at the end of the reporting period as follows: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2015 2014 2015 2014 Property, plant and equipment 929.1 1 175.6 2 131.7 4 419.9 Total 929.1 1 175.6 2 131.7 4 419.9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 113 NOTE 31 Related-party transactions Amounts in MNOK The Ministry of Transport and Communication As the sole owner of Avinor AS the Norwegian State represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communication (SD) is a related party. SD has the principal authority regarding the structure of the airport network and the traffic charges. Any closing down of an airport or other material changes in the airport structure shall be presented to SD. The final decision is made by the Storting. The charges regulation which decides the setting of air traffic charges shall be sanctioned by SD. Group companies Outstanding accounts between companies in the group: AVINOR AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 AVINORS AVINOR OSLO PARKERINGSFLESLAND VÆRNES SOLA HOTEL HELL FLYSIKRING AS AIRPORT AS SELSKAP AS EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS Loans to group companies 0.0 7 571.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Intra-group receivables 95.6 25.1 25.4 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 Total 95.6 7 596.4 25.4 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 Other short-term intra-group liability 574.1 147.9 120.4 80.6 55.8 81.2 16.7 Total 574.1 147.9 120.4 80.6 55.8 81.2 16.7 AVINOR AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 CONT. HOTELL FLYPORTEN OSLO AVINOR HOTELL ØSTRE TOMTETOMTEAIRPORT UTVIKLING AS ØSTRE AS FLYPORTEN AS SELSKAP AS SELSKAP AS TELE & DATA AS TOTAL Loans to group companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 7 571.3 Intra-group receivables -8.5 0.0 1.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 140.2 Total -8.5 0.0 1.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 7 711.5 Other short-term intra-group liability 1488.2 23.5 8.2 146.2 35.3 0.0 2 778.1 Total 1 488.2 23.5 8.2 146.2 35.3 0.0 2 778.1 114 AVINOR AS AVINOR AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2014 OSLO AVINORS AVINOR OSLO AIRPORT PARKERINGSFLESLAND FLYSIKRING AS AIRPORT AS EIENDOM AS SELSKAP AS EIENDOM AS Loans to group companies 0.0 5 971.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 Intra-group receivables 6.6 474.9 1.6 24.4 0.3 Total 6.6 6 446.2 1.6 24.4 0.3 Other short-term intra-group liability 312.0 1 085.0 89.8 75.3 78.6 Total 312.0 1 085.0 89.8 75.3 78.6 AVINOR AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2014 CONT. VÆRNES SOLA HOTEL HELL EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS TOTAL Loans to group companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 5 971.3 Intra-group receivables 0.3 0.3 0.2 508.6 Total 0.3 0.3 0.2 6 479.9 Other short-term intra-group liability 55.1 88.0 16.4 1 800.2 Total 55.1 88.0 16.4 1 800.2 The subordinated loan capital of Oslo Lufthavn AS amounts to MNOK 1371.3 at 31 December 2015. There have been no instalments on the loan. The interest on the loan has been determined as the average of 12 months NIBOR at 15.02, 15.05, 15.08 and 15.11 each year. A margin of 1.5 percentage points have been added. Loan from Avinor AS, financing the development of terminal 2 (T2) at Oslo Lufthavn AS, amounts to MNOK 6,200 at 31 December 2015. The interest on the loan has been based on the borrowing rate of Avinor AS. There have been no instalments on the loan. Avinor AS charges Oslo Lufthavn AS a ground rent of MNOK 421.4. NOTE 32 Events after balance sheet date Oslo Lufthavn AS merged with Avinor AS, as from 11 January 2016. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 115 RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE CEO We confirm, to the best of our knowledge that the financial statements for the period 1 January to 31 December 2015 have been prepared in accordance with current applicable accounting standards, and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the entity and the group taken as a whole. We also confirm that the Board of Directors' Report includes a true and fair view of the development and performance of the business and the position of the entity and the group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the entity and the group. Oslo, 30 March 2016 The Board of Directors of Avinor AS Ola Mørkved Rinnan Ola H. Strand Tone M. Lindberg Eli Skrøvset Chairman of the Board Vice Chairman Mari Thjømøe Herlof Nilssen Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen Per Erik Nordsveen Heidi Anette Sørum Grete Ovnerud Dag Falk-Petersen CEO 116 AVINOR AS AUDITOR'S REPORT Statsautoriserte revisorer Foretaksregisteret: NO 976 389 387 MVA Ernst & Young AS Tlf: +47 24 00 24 00 Fax: +47 24 00 29 01 Dronning Eufemias gate 6, NO-0191 Oslo www.ey.no Oslo Atrium, P.O.Box 20, NO-0051 Oslo Medlemmer av den norske revisorforening To the Annual Shareholders' Meeting of Avinor AS AUDITOR’S REPORT Report on the financial statements We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Avinor AS, comprising the financial statements for the Parent Company and the Group. The financial statements of the Parent Company and the Group comprise the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2014, the statements of comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in equity for the year then ended as well as a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. The Board of Directors' and Chief Executive Officer's responsibility for the financial statements The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with laws, regulations, and auditing standards and practices generally accepted in Norway, including International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the financial statements for the Parent Company and the Group. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 117 2 Opinion In our opinion, the financial statements of Avinor AS have been prepared in accordance with laws and regulations and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Parent Company and the Group as at 31 December 2015 and their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinion on the Board of Directors’ report [and on the statements on corporate governance and corporate social responsibility] Based on our audit of the financial statements as described above, it is our opinion that the information presented in the Directors’ report [and in the statements on corporate governance and corporate social responsibility] concerning the financial statements, the going concern assumption and the proposal for the allocation of the result is consistent with the financial statements and complies with the law and regulations. Opinion on registration and documentation Based on our audit of the financial statements as described above, and control procedures we have considered necessary in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, «Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information», it is our opinion that the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer have fulfilled their duty to ensure that the Company's accounting information is properly recorded and documented as required by law and generally accepted bookkeeping practice in Norway. Oslo, 30 March 2016 ERNST & YOUNG AS Jan Wellum Svensen State Authorised Public Accountant (Norway) (This translation from Norwegian has been made for information purposes only.) 118 AVINOR AS AVINOR'S REPORTS Quarterly and annual reports Quarterly reports and annual reports contain financial statements, showing the key figures and accounts, as well as a brief statement on finances. Avinor’s annual and quarterly reports are available at Avinor’s website. Article 10 plan Article 10 of Avinor’s articles of association state that the board shall prepare a report each year on the company’s overall activities, including plans for the future, and submit this to the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The document is available to the public and is called the Article 10 plan. At least every fourth year – once every parliament election period – Avinor’s Article 10 plan forms the basis for a report on Avinor’s activities to Norway’s parliament, the Storting. Avinor’s contribution to the national transport plan 2018-2027 The Norwegian National Transport Plan (NTP) presents the Norwegian government’s transport policy. It forms the basis of comprehensive political assessments, efficient use of policy instruments and strengthened interaction between the various modes of transport. The NTP is considered by the Standing Committee on Transport and Communications, who presents its recommendation to the Norwegian Parliament. Aviation infrastructure is also addressed in the report, which is published on www.ntp.dep.no Cover photo: Gaute Bruvik COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 119 Design and production: Artbox AS Avinor is responsible for the 46 state-owned airports and air navigation services for civilian and military aviation in Norway. This network links Norway together and links Norway to the world. Avinor is a driving force in environmental work in aviation and a driving force to reduce the combined greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian aviation. The company has a leading role in the work on developing and delivering biofuel for aircraft. Every year Avinor contributes to safe and efficient travel for around 50 million airline passengers. Around half travel to and from Oslo Airport. More than 3,000 employees are responsible for planning, developing and operating airports and air navigation services. Avinor is funded by aviation fees and commercial sales at the airports. AVINOR AS Org. No. 985 198 292 Dronning Eufemias gate 6 0191 Oslo, Norway P.O. Box 150 2061 Gardermoen avinor.no
