CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Columbus Statement Columbus joined the UN Global Compact in 2012. Columbus is committed to giving back to our Being signatory to the UN Global Compact has helped communities. We operate locally and in close us develop our business in a positive direction and proximity to our customers. We encourage and has increased the awareness of corporate social support our employees’ desire to use their time and responsibility. talent for charity work. As we share in this report, most of our subsidiaries are engaged in charity This Communication on Progress report states activities in their local communities helping people in Columbus’ engagement and compliance with the 10 need. principles of the UN Global Compact within the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiBeing an international consultancy, there are natural Corruption. differences in business cultures, rules and laws in the countries, where Columbus operates. To ensure that Columbus is a people business and our talented all subsidiaries operate within the same business employees are crucial for our successes. In Columbus, conduct, we have completed Columbus’ Code of our employees are experts within our core fields, and Conduct, which prospectively is the ethical guideline work closely together across country borders sharing for our business operations and at the same time the knowledge and expertise in order to grow and keep strategic guiding principle for our CSR. abreast of trends in our industry on a global level. Columbus considers the overall achievements in Employee well-being and development are the core relation to the company’s corporate social focus areas in Columbus’ CSR efforts. We strive to responsibility to be satisfactory. We commit to share create an environment in which we enjoy working this information with our stakeholders using our together and where our employees are satisfied with primary channels of communication. their job and continue to develop themselves professionally. We want our employees to be Thomas Honoré engaged in building a great company for the benefit of employees, customers and shareholders. CEO & President, Columbus 17.03.2016 Page 2/12 Corporate Social Responsibility Columbus – a “people business” Columbus is a global consultancy listed on the stock exchange in Copenhagen. We own subsidiaries and Columbus’ mission have partners all over the world, primarily in US, Columbus maximizes productivity England, Holland (To-Increase), Norway, Denmark, for organizations by implementing Poland, Baltics, Russia and India. On a global level, we leading end-to-end industry are 1,080 employees. solutions. Columbus celebrated its 25 anniversary in 2014, and our business is a unique combination of industry Columbus’ vison consultancy expertise and industry specific Our best practice services and software. repeatable industry solutions will change the way organizations Our core business is sale of consultancy services, sale implement and use business of our own software and subscriptions and sale of applications. support packages, together with sale of Microsoft software and subscriptions. Columbus aspires to be the leading global value provider in selected Our industry expertise and our software are targeted industries. towards companies worldwide within the food, manufacturing and retail industries. We operate across country borders, and a global delivery model is an integrated part of our business. This means, that we can provide services to multinational customers, and that our employees work closely together internationally. 17.03.2016 Page 3/12 Corporate Social Responsibility Highlights of 2015 Whistleblower system for reporting ethical Columbus2020 Social Engagement Program concerns In 2015, Columbus completed the program Columbus strongly disapproves of corruption in all its Columbus2020 Social Engagement Program, where forms, including extortion and bribery. To support 50 employees across countries and positions in that, Columbus decided to establish a whistleblower Columbus participated setting the direction of scheme in order to emphazise to employees across Columbus’ future strategy. Columbus that we do not accept any form of corruption and to encourage everyone to report any The participants in the program were all chosen due serious and sensitive matters relating to the to their visionary and innovate approach. Besides the company’s business ethics. opportunity to shine to management and colleagues, The whistleblower system has been approved by the the program ensures that employees are being Board of Directors in the final month of 2015 and will involved in setting the goals for Columbus strategy be implemented and communicated widely to all beyond 2015. Columbus subsidaries in 2016. Gift policy to avoid misuse of funds Columbus’ anti-corruption position is clearly communicated to all subsidiaries and is described in Columbus’ Authority and Risk Management Rules (CARMR), which is applicable for all companies in the Columbus Group. In 2015, Columbus adjusted the rules on entertainment and gifts in order to avoid misuse of funds in the subsidiaries. This means that spending of a higher amount on a customer or third party requires approval by a General Manager. 17.03.2016 Page 4/12 Corporate Social Responsibility Code of Conduct Respecting human and labour rights is fundamental which encompass rules on the authorization to our business. Columbus has established Code of hierarchy and ensure the senior management’s Conduct, which is our general ethical guideline for involvement in major contracts and investments. business conduct to ensure that we in Columbus on a global level are dedicated to promote ethical Multiplicity and Non-discrimination business practices and protect Columbus against All employees in Columbus have been carefully corruption and other unethical business behavior, selected on the basis of professional competencies which we believe is incompatible with the operation without regard to religion, race, skin color, gender, of a healthy business. age, disability or sexual or political orientation. We regard multiplicity as a strength and we will not Code of Conduct applies to Columbus’ parent tolerate discrimination or harassment. company and all subsidiaries. We expect and demand that all parties acting on behalf of Columbus respect our Code of Conduct. Diversity It is essential that all employees experience that Columbus has an open and unprejudiced culture Transparency and Credibility where each individual is able to make the best use of In Columbus, we are committed to show complete his/her competencies, and that all regardless of openness towards customers, employees, gender have the same possibilities for career shareholders, suppliers and other stakeholders. It is development and management positions. essential that their understanding of our services and products is accurate, updated and truthful. Therefore, there is no incongruence between what In 2013, Columbus defined targets and action plan on we communicate within the company and what we how to ensure a more equal gender distribution in do externally. Columbus. An action plan was implemented with the target to increase the proportion of female managers to 20% in 2015 and ensure that both genders are Anti-corruption represented in Columbus Board of Directors with at We will not tolerate corruption, money laundering, least 40% in 2017. bribery or other illegal or unethical business activity. Our performance and competitiveness are By the end of 2015, the gender distribution at strengthened solely through lawful conduct. The management level constituted 26% woman and Group’s anti-corruption position has been clearly 74% men, and thereby the 2015 targets have been communicated to all subsidiaries. achieved. Furthermore, we have implemented Columbus Authorization and Risk Management Rules (CARMR), 17.03.2016 Page 5/12 Corporate Social Responsibility In 2015, the target for woman in Board of Directors Implementing Code of Conduct has been changed to 20% by the end of 2018. Our Code of Conduct was completed in the beginning of 2013, and we are working determinedly to The future target for gender distribution is to obtain implement the guideline in Columbus on a global a distribution of both genders at management level level. of minimum 30% in 2020 globally. We do this internally by communicating Code of Taking Care of Employees Conduct to all employees, both from Headquarters In Columbus, we wish to attract the most competent and through Country Managers. employees and to retain them. Therefore, we strive to create a healthy and safe work environment. In Furthermore, on our monthly business reviews with addition, we aim to create high quality and the subsidiaries and on our update calls with the stimulating working conditions for all employees Country Managers, we make sure that Code of globally. Conduct is implemented in the daily operations. In regards to our customers, partners, suppliers and This is ensured through policies in our employee other external stakeholders, we communicate our well-being handbooks as well as our competence Code of Conduct via our website and in marketing development program, Columbus Competence and material. Furthermore, we make it clear to potential Career framework, and our monthly employee new customers and partners that we expect them to satisfaction survey Heartbeat, which has been rolled comply with our Code of Conduct, in particular the out. anti-corruption principles. As a fundamental aspect of our operation, all employees are encouraged to work in teams and share knowledge across borders. This is substantiated by our global delivery model. 17.03.2016 Page 6/12 Corporate Social Responsibility competences. The framework includes specific and Employee working well-defined targets on how the employees can improve and develop their career to the next level. conditions In 2015, we implemented a digital platform for CCF, named GROW across the Columbus Group, which digitalizes the processes, enable transparency of the documentation and streamlines the rating across Columbus is a people business. Our success depends subsidiaries. on our ability to attract and keep the best employees from our industry on a global level. It is crucial that we not only comply with human rights, but on top of Employee Well-being that also ensure attractive working conditions for our Employee well-being is a key focus in Columbus and employees, in particular in regards to salary, welleach month employee rate their job satisfaction being and competence development. This applies to through Heartbeat, our global employee satisfaction all our subsidiaries worldwide. survey. Heartbeat is a simple survey, where employees are asked to answer one question: One a We have decided that our employees’ working scale from one to ten the employees are asked to conditions are core focus areas of our CSR efforts. rate their job satisfaction in Columbus. Our employees in Columbus’ parent company and all The purpose of Heartbeat is continuously to improve subsidiaries are highly qualified and attractive on the the employee satisfaction in Columbus. The survey is global career market. Thus, employees’ working not anonymous, and this makes us able to follow the conditions in Columbus are already on a high level. development in employee satisfaction on Furthermore, the employee handbooks in our department, country and global level in Columbus. subsidiaries treat local policies on working conditions, employee well-being and employee The high frequency of the survey provides an exact development. In our CSR efforts, we focus on current and up-to-date picture of the employee satisfaction. initiatives, which apply to all employees globally, because we strive to do an even greater effort in this The result of the survey creates the basis for specific field initiatives and improvements. Employee Development Currently employee well-being is handled by our local Columbus Competence and Career framework HR departments. It is our objective, that Heartbeat in (CCF) is a system designed to ensure a targeted and the longer term will replace other employee wellstructured effort on our employees’ competence and being surveys. career development. During 2014, all employee in Columbus were enrolled in CCF, where they were In 2015, we reached an average Heartbeat response ranked, based on aspects as seniority and rate of 84%. In the same period, the employee 17.03.2016 Page 7/12 Corporate Social Responsibility satisfaction also increased, reaching above seven in borders in order to strengthen our community. The average, on a scale from one to ten. aim is that everyone feels as part of a global team, and that everyone's voice counts and is listened to. Employee Recognition Yammer is our social, digital forum where all In Columbus, we are proud of our many talented employees have the opportunity to debate with each employees, and therefore we launched the portal other, ask questions, post inspirational messages Faces of Columbus in 2012, where all employees are and follow each other's achievements. encouraged to share portraits. We utilize the pictures in both our internal and external communications. Once every month all employees in Columbus have The purpose is to promote Columbus as a company received a global newsletter. The newsletters which puts employees at the center of attention – ensures that all employees obtain a thorough and to show our employees that each of them are an knowledge of the strategy and the development in important part of Columbus, no matter profession. Columbus’ business. Furthermore, the newsletters are aimed to be inspiration and motivation to work Employee recognition is vital. This is why we have towards our common goals. launched our annual awards Columbus Awards on a global level. The purpose is to recognize and We continually strive to create more employee celebrate and teams, who made a special effort and involvement and dialog. Among other things, we will delivered extraordinary performances, in particular work determinedly to make the newsletters become towards our customers. The winners of Columbus our employees’ mouthpiece to an even larger degree. Awards are teams and subsidiaries. Employee Dialog We strive to grow the dialogue with our employees and dialogue between employees in Columbus across 17.03.2016 Page 8/12 Corporate Social Responsibility Environment Being mostly office based means that our business’ impact on environmental impact is relatively small. However, Columbus continuously optimizes our offices in order to be energy-efficient and healthy working environments for our employees. Furthermore, we aim to minimize unnecessary travel by plane and instead promote and develop virtual meeting, which also improve the efficiency in our business. 17.03.2016 Page 9/12 CCor Corporate Social Responsibility Community and charity initiatives In Columbus, we are proud, that several of our Columbus’ CEO Thomas Honoré was part of the subsidiaries are engaged in community and charity expedition. initiatives. We regard this as an expression of commitment and team spirit and the initiatives are important in two ways: They contribute to the employee well-being internally in Columbus, and they promote Columbus as a company, which engages in sustainable development in the communities, in which we operate. We fully support this, and we have decided to emphasize these initiatives in our CSR. It is essential, that we are involved in community and charitable initiatives. We have decided to emphasize these initiatives in our CSR report. By emphasizing local community and charity initiatives in Columbus, we hope to generate similar initiatives. However, these must always be based solely on our employees’ voluntary commitment. Below is a brief description of our local CSR initiatives. Parent company Columbus’ parent company supports the association Columbus Denmark Hjælperytterne on an annual basis. Hjælperytterne is Every year Columbus Denmark donates to charity a bicycle association, which supports the Danish instead of giving Christmas presents to customers. In association for rheumatic patients, Gigtforeningen. 2015, Columbus Denmark donated to Doctors without Borders. Columbus supports Climb for Charity Columbus is among the sponsors of Climb for Charity, Furthermore, the employees can choose to donate which supports The Child Accident Prevention their company Christmas present to charity and in Foundation. 2014, these Christmas presents were donated to Danish Hospital Clowns. In the last week of august, the non-profit organization Climb for Charity climbed the top of Columbus UK Mont Blanc du Tacul with six other participants. In 2015, Columbus UK arranged a Customer charity combined with their Christmas party raising money Corporate Social Responsibility for charity. The party included an auction, raffle, On first Friday of November, Lithuania celebrates photos, casino and games including spin the wheel to The Cakes Day. Columbus’ employees brought cakes raise £3,000 for a local hospice caring for the father to the office people can taste by donating money. of one of the employees as well as £12,000 for the The funds were spent for underprivileged children, national charity Macmillan Cancer Support. giving them warn clothes, boots and toys. Columbus Russia Community and Charity Initiatives in 2015 Columbus Russia also participate in the “Any coin's By emphasizing local community and charity cost” campaign, where people can donate small initiatives in Columbus we hope to generate more changes to “Life Line”, which provides hi-tech similar initiatives. However, these must always be operation for children with severe diseases. based solely on our employees’ voluntary commitment. Columbus Baltics Columbus Latvia initiated a Christmas campaign using Christmas cards to raise funds with the purpose of giving medical equipment to the emergency department of Children’s Clinical University. “Thank you all for nice shoes”. Thankfull Kamillė 17.03.2016 Page 11/12 Corporate Social Responsibility United Nations Global Compact In 2012, we joined the United Nations Global Reporting Compact. United Nations Global Compact is the During 2015, we focused on implementing the CSR world’s largest volunteer network for companies report’s initiatives. working with Corporate Social Responsibility, CSR. UN Global Compact was established in 2000 by 30 At the end of the year, we evaluate our CSR efforts companies from different nations together with the during the year and report these in our CSR-report, UN Secretary-General of the time, Kofi Annan. which will be uploaded on the UN Global Compact portal. By partnering with the UN Global Compact Columbus affirms that we embrace, support and enact ten general principles of corporate social responsibility. These principles are based on international recognized conventions on human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. Once every year Columbus has committed to upload a COP, “Communication on Progress”, on UN Global Compact’s website. In the COP we describe our CSR efforts and results. The motivation to partner with the UN Global Compact is that we wish to show our employees, customers, partners and investors that we take our corporate social responsibility very seriously. 17.03.2016 Page 12/12
