Suuzhou Ju utze Technologiess Co.,Ltd Wujiang Ad dd: No.111, Meixin Roaad, Zhenze Town T SIP Add: Un nit C, Buildinng 5, No.788, Xinlin Stre eet Co ommuniication on prog gress Fromm Jan1st, 20 015 to Dec31st, 2015 1. STATEME ENT OF CONTINUED SUPPO ORT BY TH HE CHIEF EXECUTIV VE OFFICER Jaan20th, 2016 6 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm th hat Suzhou Jutze J Technnologies Co..,Ltd reaffirm ms its supportrt of the Ten Principles P of the United U Nation ns Global Compact in the areas of Hu uman Rights, Labor, Environment andd Anti-Corrup ption. n this annual Communica In ation on Prog gress, we de scribe our acctions to continually imprrove the integ gration of thee G Global Compa ulture and da act and its prrinciples into our businesss strategy, cu aily operationns. We also commit c to sha aring th his informatioon with our stakeholders using our prrimary chann nels of communication. Sincerely S yours, Mr. M Gordon C Cui General G Mana ager 2. DESCRIP PTION OF ACTIONS S Human H Righhts a) Ensure workers are provided safe, suitable a and sanitary work facilities, and review w the work faacilities weekkly by manage ement team to improve th hem. b) Protect workers from m workplace harassmentt, including physical, p verb bal, sexual orr psychologic cal harassme ent, abuse o or threats, an nd all employ yees can givee the feedbaack to HR department. c) Take me easures to eliminate ingredients, des igns, defects s or side-effects that couldd harm or thrreaten huma an life and hea alth during manufacturing m g, usage or d disposal of products, and perform thee daily safety audit by manage ement team and team lea aders in prod duction line. Labor a) Ensuree that the com mpany does not participa ate in any forrm of forced or bonded laabour b) Complyy with minim mum wage sta andards of S Suzhou Gove ernment c) Ensuree that employyment-related decisions a are based on n relevant annd objective ccriteria and local laws.  Suzhou Jutze Technologie es 苏州矩度电 电子科技 All rights reserveed Pagge 1 of 2 Suuzhou Ju utze Technologiess Co.,Ltd Wujiang Ad dd: No.111, Meixin Roaad, Zhenze Town T SIP Add: Un nit C, Buildin ng 5, No.788, Xinlin Streeet Environme ent a) Avoid eenvironmenta al damage via regular ma aintenance of o production n processes aand environm mental protecction m (air pollution control, wa system aste treatmen t nt systems), and let the third environmmental party y to measure environnmental para ameter accorrding the locaal laws requiirement. b) Ensuree emergencyy procedures to prevent a and address accidents a afffecting the ennvironment and a human health, and arrrange annua al environmen ntal emergen ncy and safeety training fo or all employeees. c) Minimizze the use and ensure sa afe handling and storage e of chemical and other ddangerous su ubstances, we w only ke eep the daily usage in prooduction linee and preparee the MSDS for each cheemical materrial. Anti-Corru uption a) Assesss the risk of corruption c whhen doing buusiness b) Mentioon “anti-corru uption” and “e ethical behavvior” in purch hase contractts with businness supplierrs. c) Define the anti-corruption comm mitment in eemployee handbooks. An nd give the aanti-corruptio on commitme ent in employyees trainingg annual. 3. MEASUR REMENT OF O OUTCO OMES a) Manag gement team: total 8perso ons (Male 5, Female 3), Staff team: to otal 67persoons (Male 32, Female 35)), Workerr team: total 215persons (Male 44, Fe emale 171) b) No occcupational disseases and injuries i happpened in facttory in 2015y year. And eveery employee e has annuall leave/w weekend rest, and arrang ge holiday acccording to lo ocal Suzhou governmentt guideline. c) Percenntage of recyycled materiaals is about 1 00% in 20155, and in prod duction line wwe use the trransferring box to load annd transfer th he raw materrial and prod ucts to save packing material usage..  Suzhou Jutze Technologie es 苏州矩度电 电子科技 All rights reserve ed Pag ge 2 of 2
