Communication on Progress Year: JanuaryDecember, 2016 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT In May 2007, Serena Hotels Pakistan established a comprehensive corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative titled , Serena Environmental and Educational Development (SEED) programme. Serena Hotels Pakistan continues to strive to create sustainable impact through its Social, Environmental and Education Development Program (SEED) for the local communities where its units are located and , as a result, on the economy as a whole. The SEED programme has reached to a maturity stage where we would like to link this with UNGC and will continue reporting on annual basis. December, 2016, DR. MOIN UDDIN , DIRECTOR CORPORATE STRATEGY Contact: DR. MOIN UDDIN Email: moin.uddin@serena.com .pk Phone: 92-51-287-1687 Fax: 92-51-287-1181 p 1/14 Brief description of nature of business TPS P is a subsidiary company of Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development. Serena Hotels is the brand under which TPSP manages its hotels and resorts in Pakistan. Serena Hotels provides hospitality and tourism promotion services to some of the most demanding areas in different parts of Pakistan . Serena Hotels builds hotel capacity in underserved regions. Serena Hotels hold their presence in East Africa , Pakistan, Afghanistan and Taj ikistan . As part of AKFED's development ethos, Serena is both a commercial enterprise and a development project. All Serena Hotels are designed to be engines of economic growth through local employment and the development of human resources , sourcing, and the generation of tax revenues. From its beginnings, Serena has shown keen emphasis on cultural and environmental sensitivity, for which it has received number of awards. p 2/14 PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATJONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Actions taken The company supports human rights of its employees as well as stakeholders linked to its value chain. • HSE department in place to provide healthy environment to employees, customers ' s:::: 0 and business partners . +=i • OHSAS 18001 certified to ensure safe systems of work and safety of employees 0 <( • ISO 22000 and ISO 14001 certifications in the organization • Effective human resource policies to protect human rights Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company ~ • Ensure safe and healthy working environment 5 • Strong reporting mechanism o + • Strong commun ity linkage and participation ::::s 0 p 3/14 PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Actions taken (/) • The company has zero tolerance for any human right abuses . c: 0 • Effective human resource policies are in place to protect human rights in the company. +=i (.) <( Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company (/) Q) E 0 0 (.) :::l • • Strong human resource department Compliance with local laws and regulations where the company units operate p 4/14 PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Actions taken Union Agreements are negotiated in congenial environment and finalized with CBA. ~ );> Collective Bargaining Agents are free to hold meetings in their respective units. 0 +i o );> Management facilitate Collective Bargaining Agents to hold these meetings and <C provide them enabling environment to interact with associates. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company );> Peaceful Working Environment 'E Cl) );> Respect at Work Place 0 0 ..... :::l );> Enhanced Productivity & Morale of Associates 0 p 5/14 PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Actions taken );> Serena Hotels strongly believes it has the responsibility to engage in employment practice that meets the highest legal and ethical standards. U) s::: );> Company's Recruitment & Selection Policy is designed and executed to ensure 0 +::i eliminations of all ki nds of Force and Compulsory Labour. 0 <( );> It further encourages its vendors who provide all ied services to have a complete compliance with laws to discourage Force and Compulsory Labour Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company ~ );> Full Compliance with applicable labour laws E 8 ...... );> Socially Responsible Company :::J 0 );> Company's better image and repute p 6/14 PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Actions taken )> Company comply with all relevant and applicable labour laws related to Child Labour. Furthermore, the Company will not employ any person less than 18 years of age or deemed by law to be a child in any capacity in any hotel under its control. )> As a good Corporate Organization, the Company is committed to the principles of protecting children from child labour exploitation . )> Company's Recruitment & Selection Policy does not allow the hiring of people under 18 years of age. )> Company has ensured that staff deployment through third party must follow the Company's policy of hiring associates above 18 years of age. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company )> Improved Company's image and reputation 0 )> Helped to make sure Company have educated and capable workforce for the longCl) term E 0 ....::l (,) )> Free from Child Labour 0 )> Socially Responsible Company p 7/14 PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Actions taken ~ Serena Hotels recognizes that to stay at the forefront of the ever-evolving world, it is critical to open the doors of opportunity for all. Talent is not defined by an individual's race or religion, colour or sex, age or national origin, and Company is committed to tJ) identify and recruit the best talented Associates. t: 0 +=i ~ Company is committed to provide equal opportunity of employment and to the 0 <( implementation of positive procedures designed to ensure the prevention of any discriminatory practices, either intentional or inadvertent, with respect to race, colour, religion, national or ethnic origin, disability, veteran status, age or sex. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company tJ) ~ Diversity at Work Place Q) E 0 ~ Well respected by the Associates ....0 ::::::J ~ Enhanced Company Image 0 p 8/14 PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Actions taken • Celebration of all International day related to environment • Training of associates to create awareness World Mountain Day at Gilgit Serena Hotel GSH in collaboration with AKRSP, WWF, Karakoram International University, Government ofGB, GB association of Tour Operators and Focus Humanitarian Assistance organized a seminar to celebrate the World Mountain Day. A group of panel emphasized on importance of mountains to create awareness among the participants. World Earth Day Islamabad Serena Hotel in partnership with WWF celebrated world earth day. All the lights in restaurants and lobby were turned off and the candles were lit for an hour for the guests. World Water Day Gilgit Serena Hotel in collaboration with Gilgit-Baltistan environmental protection agency (GBEPA), Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources (PCRWR), Pakistan Agriculture Research Council (PARC), Karakoram International University (KIU) and Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) and Mountain Areas Farmer Support Organization (MAFSO) organized a seminar. The theme was Water tn and Jobs , a group of panel emphasized on the importance ofthe day in reference to the theme. c:: 0 +::; 0 World Environment Day <( ISH in collaboration with CDA and WWF celebrated the World Environment Day by organizing a joint event. Students ofNUST, Beaconhouse School and Mashal School demonstrated the importance of environment through presentations and tableaus. Gilgit Serena Hotel in collaboration with Environmental Protection Agency organized a walk. Students from various schools, government officials and local NGOs participated in the event. The purpose was to educate and create awareness regarding environment and its impacts on our lives. Swat Serena Hotel celebrated world environment day by conducting an environment awareness session at a local school in Mingora. The session was followed by a quiz among the participants. Faisalabad Serena Hotel celebrated world environment day by conducting a cleaning activity at club road. World No Tobacco Day Swat Serena Hotel Celebrated World No Tobacco Day by organizing an awareness session for the associates. Dr. Mohammad Hussain, was invited as the guest speaker to speak on hazards of smoking on health. p 9/14 Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company • healthier work environment en Cl) • Creating awareness among employees and communities about environment g • Promoting responsible tourism ... o ::::J • emphasis on clean environment 0 p 10/14 PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Actions taken • Annual Plantation Activity with local governments in Pakistan Tree Plantation Campaign Islamabad Serena Hotel in collaboration with CDA initiated spring tree plantation for the year 2016 by a tree plantation activity at the hotel premises. Diplomats, corporate heads and citizens were provided the opportunity to plant a tree inside and outside the hotel. CDA provided extended venue of the adjacent visual park for mass plantation. Serena Business Complex carried out annual spring plantation with country heads of organizations. Islamabad Serena Hotel also provided event management support to CDA for kick starting the annual spring plantation campaign at Fatima Jinnah Park, Sector F-9, Islamabad. Hunza Serena Inn held two tree plantation activities with AI Amyn School, Gulmit Gojal, Hunza and Aga Khan Diamond Jubilee School, Sust, Gojal. Gilgit Serena Hotel sponsored a tree plantation activity at Mehnaz Fatima Montessori & Inclusive Educational Centre. SBC WWF Green Office Award WWF-Pakistan has recently certified Serena Business Complex (SBC) as Green Office. The Green Office Initiative includes water conservation, energy conservation (via use of LEOs), enhanced waste U> management practices, regular tree plantations, celebration of environment days and adoption of ecos:::: friendly purchase policies. Serena Business Complex is the tirst office building of its kind in Pakistan 0 +=i to achieve this certification. (,) <( Cleaning Activity at Gilgit Serena Hotel GSH in collaboration with local Municipal Committee conducted a cleaning activity around hotel's surrounding areas. Associates from all the departments participated in the activity and removed plastic bags and bottles. The purpose was to create awareness about impact of plastic bags and bottles on plants and environment among employees. Cleaning Activity Quetta Serena Hotel conducted a clean-up activity at Hanna Lake to create awareness and promote clean environment. Takreeb-eGul Ceremony FSH participated in Takreeb e Gul ceremony. Takreeb e Gul is an annual flower carnival organized by Faisalabad Local Government. Lake View Park Clean Up ISH management arranged a park cleanup activity at the Lake View Park Islamabad situated on Murree-Islamabad Highway. The park is a favorite picnic spot for residents of Islamabad and Rawalpindi. It is constructed alongside Rawal Lake, which is an artificial reservoir that fulfills water needs for cities of Rawalpindi and Islamabad. p 11/14 Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company t/) • Awareness among employees and community about environment (J) • E 0 ....:::J0 0 p 12/14 PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Actions taken 1. Tree Plantation Monsoon in collaboration with CDA 2. Own your Tree Campaign by SSC ':;::::;s:: 0 3. Park Clean-up for ISH & SSC 4. WWF Chemical Handling training 0 <( 5. WWF Green Office Audit 6. ISO 14001 Surveillance Audit 7. Awareness Sessions on Water & Paper Conservation Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company • These initiatives, plantation and awareness among associates will improve and ' Cl) E promote healthy environment .. 0 .....::::s0 0 p 13/14 PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Actions taken )> Company has very strong Code of Conduct against all forms of Corruption including rn Extortion and Bribery. s::::: 0 .(.) )> Company has zero tolerance against illegal gratification in any manner or form & <( Associates involved in such activities shall be liable to disciplinary action. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company )> Strong Core Value System , Q) )> Strong Image in the Community E )> Honest Work Force 0 ._ (.) ::J 0 How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? p 14/14
