Richards Bay Coal Terminal Proprietary Limited 2015 Sustainability Report Coal to the world, growth to the nation 2 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Contents 2 COMPANY PROFILE 4 2015 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 5 STATEMENT FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (CEO) 9 RBCT STRATEGY 10 GOVERNANCE AND ADMINISTRATION 17 OUR STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE APPROACH 23 SUSTAINABLE HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE 34 OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE 38 VALUING AND EMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE 50 DELIVERING SOCIAL VALUE Coal to 57 DRIVING ENTERPRISE AND SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT the world, 59 BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT 64 BOUNDARY AND SCOPE growth to the nation Sustainabilty Report 2015 1 Company Profile Johannesburg GAUTENG NORTH WEST FREE STATE Bloemfontein Richards Bay Durban NORTHERN CAPE WESTERN CAPE Cape Town RBCT 276 2,2km Richards Bay Coal Terminal (RBCT) is a world class coal export terminal situated in the Port of Richards Bay. The terminal was opened in 1976 with an original capacity of 12 million tons per annum (mt/a). Hectares Quay The terminal provides South Africa’s Coal Exporting Mining 6 4 Companies (CEP’s) with a world class logistics service that facilitates the export of coal to Asia, Europe and other regions. RBCT is positioned at one of the world’s deep sea ports, Berths Ship Loaders and handles large ships and large volumes of coal. The 276 8,2m >900 hectare site currently boasts a quay that is 2,2 kilometres long with six berths and four ship loaders, with a stockyard capacity of 8,2 million tons (mt). RBCT shares a strong co-operative relationship with South Ton stockyard Ships per annum Africa’s national utility, Transnet, which provides the railway services linking the coal mines to the port, and the shipping coordination of more than 900 ships per annum. All RBCT’s operations and administrative functions are conducted in Richards Bay. 2 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Profile RBCT History Machinery Replacement Project launched Replacement of original 1976 machines 2015 The terminal completed the Phase V Expansion reaching a design capacity of 91 Mt/a 2010 The terminal increased its design capacity to 76 Mt/a 2008 The Brownfield’s expansion project was completed, increasing exporting capacity to 72 Mt/a 1999 The terminal enhanced its capacity and increased its exporting capacity to 63 Mt/a 1995 1991 Phase III was upgraded to an exporting capacity of 53 Mt/a 1984 The terminal further expanded its capacity to Phase III taking its export capacity to 44 Mt/a 1979 The terminal completed Phase II expanding its exporting capacity from 12 Mt/a to 24 Mt/a 1976 RBCT officially opened. Phase 1 of the terminal; with a capacity of 12 Mt/a; started exporting coal Sustainabilty Report 2015 3 2015 Performance Highlights Safety 3,9 million Lost Time Injury (LTI) free man-hour achieved as at 31 December 2015 Production Production 9200 9150 9100 9050 9000 8950 Trains 8900 9164 9103 RBCT has 8850 8874 moved Two 8800 Billion Tons of Coal 8750 8700 73.9mt Imports 72.4mt Imports 70.8mt Imports 925 Vessels 783 Vessels 658 Vessels 75.4mt Exports 71.3mt Exports 70.2mt Exports 2015 2014 2013 People Organisational Health Survey 6% improvement on the overall organisational health in 2015 Corporate Social Investment (CSI) R8,9 million Spend Donated to worthy projects in 2015 4 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Statement by the Chief Executive Officer In this message to our stakeholders we reflect on key areas of our performance as it relates to our sustainability over the year, and provides an outlook on our prospects going forward. We aim to tackle the issues that are most material for our business; this incorporates safety, economic, people, environmental and social imperatives. Providing a safe working environment Providing a safe workplace remains our core value and priority at RBCT. I am pleased to report that we closed the year 2015 with 3.9 million LTI Free ManHours, with no fatalities and with a lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) of 0.00 per million man-hours worked. The minor injury frequency rate (MIFR) for the year was 0.17 per million man-hours worked. In 2015, employees took part in our second employee Safety Survey. We regularly solicit views on safety. The overall Safety Culture results revealed that RBCT employees’ safety perceptions matured beyond Compliance to Proactive and even Resilient. About 71% of employees rated RBCT safety culture as proactive to safety, going beyond compliance. This is a significant improvement against the 33% in 2014. These improvements demonstrate that we can and should continue to strive towards our goal of operating without injury. Managing our environment Moving coal in a safe, cost effective and efficient manner, safeguarding the We aim to tackle environment and stakeholders is our mission. RBCT’s coal logistics activities are conducted within the framework of ISO 14001:2004 and a site specific the issues Environmental Management Programme (EMP). Compliance with ISO 14001:2004 is audited annually and recertified every 3 years. Protection of the that are most environment and compliance to environmental legislation remains paramount to RBCT. In 2015, the ISO 14001 recertification audit was a success. This is in line with RBCT’s commitment to maintaining excellence in environmental material for our management systems (EMS). RBCT complies with, and remains committed to environmental legislation, regulations and permits that govern its operation. business; this RBCT has prevention strategies which, together with ongoing mitigation measures, are aimed at reducing and mitigating the impact of its activities on incorporates the environment. safety, Natural resources economic, Some of the challenges that we had to contend with were drought and people, energy. These continue to pose a risk. An analysis carried out in 2015 shows that potable water consumption has been reduced by approximately 19% compared to 2014. environmental In 2015 RBCT embarked on a very impactful energy saving campaign. This and social drive was maintained during the year and continues to be a key focus area. Significant savings were realised. The goal is to reduce energy consumption by up to 15%. We are on track to meet our 2016 energy-reduction objectives and imperatives targets. Sustainabilty Report 2015 5 Statement by the CEO Valuing and empowering our people Enabling small business to thrive We continue to engage with employees and unions Small businesses are crucial to RBCT because they remain regarding the business performance ie. safety, operations, critical to economies, and to communities. In our direct finance, organisational health and the current prevailing buying business relationships, we give preference to small economic conditions. enterprises. Our long-term growth is dependent on small business to grow and thrive with us. This is in line with our We see employees as partners in innovation and cost responsible procurement strategy. optimising measures. We are proud to report that many of the cost optimising solutions came directly from our At RBCT, our purpose is to contribute to the economy’s employees and they continue to be cost sensitive. We are in growth through moving coal, if we do this passionately this together. and safely we will improve livelihoods and help build local communities. Over 90% of colleagues took part in the 2015 Organisational Health Survey. The staff results improved (from 2014) by 6%, and management by 10.6%. About 75% of respondents said they believe strongly in our strategic direction, leadership, Enterprise development are motivated to work for RBCT, and are willing to go the extra mile to help RBCT be sustainable. One of our major initiatives facilitated through our shareholders is to make available four mt of export capacity We aim to continue to engage, nurture and develop our to junior miners at commercially attractive rates. This means people to enable our terminal to perform at it’s best. We that junior miners can now have access to export markets are proud of the two RBCT employees who were selected through RBCT. The allocation of this capacity contributes to enrol into the International Executive Development significantly to enterprise development within the mining Programme (IEDP) facilitated by the Gordon Institute of environment. Business Science, SA in partnership with Rollins Business School, USA. RBCT recorded 52478 training hours in 2015, with a total of 16 Apprentices, 6 Operator Trainees. Our labour turnover in 2015 marginally increased from 6.7% in 2014 to 6.9% in 2015. A total of 26 appointments were made, of which 87% were recruited from local communities. 6 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Statement by the CEO Our product and performance It is important to remember that RBCT operates on a cost break-even basis and although the capital expenditure will RBCT received a total tonnage of 73,93mt in 2015 which have an impact on its cost per tonne, increased projected translates to an increase of 2.07% in comparison to the tonnage will progressively lower that impact. 72,44mt that was achieved in 2014. This performance is indicative of the partnership between CEP’s and TFR in To be installed are two 6 000 tonnes per hour (tph) raildelivering coal to the terminal. mounted stacker reclaimers, with the capacity to stack at an average rate of 5 500 tph and reclaim at 4 500 tph and two new 10 000 tph rail-mounted shiploaders, which will have a capacity to load ships at an average rate of 8 500 tph. Rail performance The plant will continue to operate with the current machines until the new machinery is fully assembled and ready to be RBCT achieved an average TTT of 3 hours, 42 minutes in commissioned. 2015. This is a 36 minute (14%) improvement against the targeted turnaround time. This project is on track and is due for completion in 2018. Coal Exports Finance RBCT exported 75,38mt in 2015, which is a remarkable The year 2015 was yet another challenging year for us and improvement of 5.7% from the 71.29mt that was exported we continue to optimise costs. The year was dominated by in 2014. It is worth mentioning that RBCT remains focused the unprecedented depressed price of coal. The price of coal on being sustainable and moving coal – this sterling in the month of December 2015 was averaging between $50 performance was achieved in the face of the current and $56. We had to take certain considerations into account economic downturn. RBCT continues to strive to make a in order to continue to move coal. RBCT management meaningful contribution to all its stakeholders. together with employees joined forces, and through this we were able to contend with the difficulties we faced. We have responded to and continue to heed the financial challenges with innovation and sustainable cost optimising ideas. Shipping performance The turnaround time of the vessels is what the terminal uses to measure world class performance and RBCT achieved an Looking ahead average turnaround time of 45hrs in 2015 against a target of 41.98hrs. The events of the past year have further highlighted the business significance of societal issues, and underlined the importance of maintaining a strong focus on sustainability. We will continue the good work we have done which is Plant maintenance reflected in this report, of building relationships with our employees, unions, government and local communities. In 2014 we reported that through the maintenance of our In pursuing this goal, we will draw on all our past and machines, we continue to improve the overall reliability and present investments: in safety, employee development, availability of the terminal infrastructure. The continued union engagement, community development, enterprise focus is on proactive maintenance as opposed to reactive development and environmental management. response resulting from breakdowns. Despite the challenges currently facing our industry, we Plant availability and reliability remains an integral measure remain optimistic that the industry will recover. Our efficient of performance at RBCT. Plant availability of 95.23% was organisation and value-driven strategy aim to create a achieved against a target of 90%, plant reliability of 95.31% sustainable, competitive and profitable business that will against the target of 95%. These results are showing deliver value to all our stakeholders in the short, medium significant improvement against the 2014 results, where and long term. In the next two years, we will continue to we achieved Plant availability of 90.72% against a target of focus on infrastructure development, plant health and cost 90%, and plant reliability of 94.2% against the target of 96%. optimisation strategies. The year ahead will continue to be challenging and we thank all our employees for their continued commitment Equipment Replacement to the Company. We also wish to thank our partners, shareholders, contractors and suppliers for their substantial The Phase 1 Machine Replacement Project is currently contributions in supporting our efforts to create sustained underway. We remain optimistic that the commodity value. We will continue to work to the best of our abilities to markets will recover and we would like to be ready and ensure the sustainability of the Terminal. well equipped when it does. This time provides us with an opportunity to look into what needs to be maintained and improved. Nosipho Siwisa-Damasane Chief Executive Officer Sustainabilty Report 2015 7 Our Mission Our Vision Moving coal passionately through a world class Port Terminal Moving coal in a safe, cost effective and efficient manner, safeguarding the environment and stakeholders. Our Core Values We will not engage in We treat each other with any unsafe activity respect and dignity We work to the best We care for of our ability the wellbeing of employees We care for the environment We are innovative and pro-active Our Slogan Coal to the world, growth to the nation 8 Richards Bay Coal Terminal RBCT Strategy RBCT STRATEGY 2015 2017 Framework of RBCT Strategy Increase Lifetime Value Increased Utilisation Decrease Total Cost In 2016, RBCT will focus on 2015-2017 the machinery replacement Growth and of Assets Sustainability project, plant health, cost optimisation and infrastructure development. We believe the focus on these core critical areas will Maintenance and Operations Stakeholder Management enable us to create value 2013-2015 Organisational Health Plant Health Safety Stabilising for our shareholders now that we have successfully stabilised the foundation in In the past three years, 2013 to 2015 RBCT has focused robustly on the following 2015. five key pillars in stabilising its foundation. It was critical that we get this right in We are cognisant that the order to be a safe and productive terminal with highly engaged talent. above will not be achieved without improving and Human Resource • Attract, develop and retain right talent maintaining the safety and Development organisational health status • Employee engagement we achieved in 2015. • Stable management-employee relations We aim to do this by • Healthy workplace climate adopting a Test-ActionRetest approach. We will implement improvements on the outcome of the safety Operational Our product and performance: and organisational health Efficiencies • Rail performance assessments that were • Coal Exports done in 2015 and it will be retested in 2016 and the • Shipping performance years going forward. This will • Reliability assist us to keep our eyes on safety and employee • Availability engagement targets. As shown on the graph, the paradigm of our strategy is Stakeholder • Internal and external communication divided into five elements Management • Brand management ie. organisaitonal health, safety, plant health, plant • CSI focus maintenance, production/ • Stakeholder engagement operations and stakeholder engagement. The above • Meaningful hosts of our shareholders will continue to form a solid foundation while supporting the three key focus areas. Health, Safety and • Safety performance The focus area for the Environment • Employee health and wellness current strategy is; increased utilisation of assets ie. • Caring for the environment getting the best value from our assets, optimisation of costs and increased lifetime value. Maintenance and Plant Plant and equipment maintenance Life Cycle Planning Sustainabilty Report 2015 9 Governance and Administration The King Code of Corporate Practices and Conduct During the year In line with the new companies Act and King III recommendations, RBCT recognises the need to conduct its business with integrity and in under review, accordance with the highest standards of corporate governance. During the year under review, in all material respects, RBCT applied the Code of in all material Corporate Practices and Conduct espoused in the King III Report. RBCT produces a separate Annual Financial Report which does not form respects, RBCT part of this report and is distributed to shareholders only. applied the Our website contains more details on RBCT operations, statistical data on our exports, our shareholder contact details, CSI projects and RBCT Code of Corporate contact details. You can access the details from – www.rbct.co.za. Practices and Conduct espoused in the King III Report Stakeholder Management RBCT maintains a strategic and proactive framework for developing and managing stakeholder relations. Stakeholders that have a defined level of impact and synergy to our business are categorised as follows: • Core stakeholders that are essential to the survival of RBCT • Strategic stakeholders that are vital to the organisation and the threats and opportunities we face at RBCT • Environmental stakeholders that are within our environment RBCT uses the guiding principles to manage stakeholder engagement: • Engagement that is mutually beneficial (growth) • Relevant and/or appropriate engagement (accountable, efficient) • Integrity (reliability) • Valuing relationships (trust) 10 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Governance and Administration Stakeholder Engagement • RBCT continued to support Ntabeni Primary School by funding much needed repairs and maintenance to the building structures RBCT operates within a network of critical stakeholders who are pivotal to our success. Key operational relationships • Continued support to Fantocy Creche to build additional were enhanced with Transnet National Ports Authority classrooms and an administration block, situated in the (TNPA), TFR, Department of Mineral Affairs, together with Mandlanzini reserve KwaZulu-Natal Provincial and Local Governments. • Building of the Vumukukhanya Crèche As part of our commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen, it is our policy to conduct business in • Fencing of the Martha Beyers school a manner that is compatible with the economic, social and environmental needs of the communities in which we • Painting of the Ikwezi Old Age Home operate. RBCT’s CSI strategy plays a key role in enhancing • Supplying 200 chairs and 100 desks to the Old Mill High the quality of life in the communities within which our School people live. We promote the development of self-reliant communities and to facilitate sustainable community • In addition to the above, RBCT makes annual development programmes. Our initiatives primarily focus on contributions to a further 19 charities within the Zululand education, HIV/AIDS, skills development, early childhood area development, community welfare, environment, sports development and crime prevention. During 2015, we donated R8.9 million to various worthy projects. Our main focus was in the following areas: RBCT Pensioner’s Lunch • The Trees for Life Project in partnership with the In June 2015 RBCT hosted a lunch in appreciation of our Wildlands Conservation Trust project provides more than pensioners. 600 community members of the Dube and Esikhaweni area with an alternative source of income The General Manager (GM) Finance, Mr. Alan Waller, reiterated that the pensioners are the foundation of RBCT’s • Partnering with the Department of Agriculture on poverty current success and their valued contribution over the years alleviation through encouraging rural communities to has paved the way forward for RBCT as it continues to plant their own vegetable gardens benchmark against previous achievements. • Continued support for the Amangwe Village, Home The group of retirees grew substantially in 2015, with 22 new Based Care project as well as paying the school fees for members joining this special group. orphans and vulnerable children being cared for at the Amangwe Village RBCT distributed gifts as a token of appreciation to the pensioners. • The Zamani Disabled People’s Organisation, which is managed by disabled people at Esikhaweni Sustainabilty Report 2015 11 Governance and Administration Organisational Profile The Board of Directors General Managers There are 12 director positions, of which 10 have been C Mbuyazi filled: 6 non-executive directors (with two vacancies), together with their 6 alternate directors, 2 independent J Mdaki non-executive directors, 1 executive director and the independent Chairman of the Board Z Mthiyane (Ms) W Murphy Directors K Naidoo MS Teke (Chairman) J Nzimande (Ms) ND Baloyi AJ Waller Z Docrat CM Ephron Company Secretary MJ Fraser AD du Toit (Ms) IA Swanepoel FJ Lopez Campo (Spanish) Registered Office KT Nondumo (Ms) South Dunes AJ Rogan Richards Bay Harbour N Siwisa-Damasane (Ms) (CEO) P O Box 56 Richards Bay 3900 Alternate Directors GJ Marrian Auditors RV Chetty Deloitte and Touche MJ Houston P O Box 10167 PK Masia Meerensee MR Walker 3901 J Lucini Baquerizo Registration No. 1973/014256/07 Visionary Leadership 12 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Governance and Administration Board Purpose and Function The Board provides strategic direction to RBCT through its quarterly Board meetings and the delegation of authority to Board sub-committees and executive management. The Board reviews and directs the company’s strategic objectives and annual budget. It further provides guidance on the performance of the company and ensures that RBCT adheres to triple bottom line reporting. Board Committees FINCO The FINCO functions include matters relating to finance, To enable the Board to efficiently carry out its responsibilities the Shareholders’ Agreement (governing relations between and duties, certain responsibilities have been delegated to shareholders and the company), taxation and various the sub-committees as recommended by King III. Each subadministrative matters. committee has detailed terms of reference approved by the Board. The audit committee functions of the FINCO include assisting the Board on matters of monitoring and control, Our Sub-Committees are as follows: as well as the practice of good corporate governance. • Operations Committee (OPCO) – Chaired by the CEO The committee also oversees the internal audit function. During 2013 it was approved that the internal audit function • Finance Committee (FINCO) – Chaired by one of the be outsourced to the shareholders and Anglo Business Shareholder nominated members Assurance Services (ABAS) was the first. Their mandate • Remunerations Committee (REMCO) – Chaired by an was to review the reliability and integrity of financial, as Independent Board member well as operating information, systems of internal control and the safeguarding of RBCT’s assets, as well as financial • Social and Ethic Committee (SECOM) – Chaired by an information. Independent Board member • Projects Committee (PROCOM) – Chaired by the CEO The following members form part of the Finance Committee: These sub-committees do not diminish the Board’s overall Members Alternates responsibilities. The Chairman of each sub-committee reports, as well as makes recommendations to the Board at each R Lawson (Chairman) Board meeting. The minutes of all sub-committee meetings Z Bhorat (Ms) NG Schneider are submitted to all directors prior to Board meetings and any N Cebekhulu (Ms) matters of concern or progress are discussed by the Board. R Cohen OPCO E Hanekom (Ms) The OPCO operates in terms of its mandate from the Board M Immelman (Ms) of Directors. The Committee deals with mutual matters M Lamprecht relating to the operations of the Terminal in order to provide an effective and efficient service to all RBCT users. The RJ Langford V Chaithram (Ms) following members form part of the Operations Committee: FJ Lopez Campo P Mohan Members Alternates KT Nondumo (Ms) N Siwisa-Damasane (Ms) (Chairperson) N Siwisa-Damasane (Ms) A Bernic N Gooding (Ms) G van den Heever N Burger (Ms) M Walker I Coetzee (Ms) RV Chetty J Ramdass B Dalton V Deeplaul REMCO J Jonker SJ Ferreira M Lamprecht RBCT’s philosophy is to set renumeration levels that are able to attract and retain the executive directors and General KC McNeice Management needed to manage RBCT successfully. A A Moepadir L Andrews portion of executive directors and General Management’s M Steyn (Ms) C Taljaard remuneration is structured so as to link corporate and individual performance ensuring a sustainable organisation. E Theron S Mely (Ms) H Viljoen (Ms) C Taljaard In accordance with these objectives, the REMCO annually reviews and evaluates the contribution of the executive GFT Warnasuriya director, as well as the General Management members and D Yiotopoulos C Burns (Ms) determines their annual salary adjustments. N Ziphethe V Deeplaul Sustainabilty Report 2015 13 Governance and Administration For this purpose, it considers salary surveys compiled by • Monitor the company’s performance and interaction independent organisations. No executive director or general with its stakeholders and ensure that this interaction is manager is involved in any decisions as to his/her own guided by the Constitution and Bill of Rights remuneration. • Determine clearly articulated ethical standards and The committee also determines the annual and long ensure that RBCT takes measures to achieve adherence term performance bonus of the executive director while it to these in all aspects of the business, thus achieving a confirms that of the General Management, as determined by sustainable ethical corporate culture within the company the executive director. • Provide effective leadership based on an ethical The following members form part of the Remuneration foundation and ensure that the company is a Committee: responsible corporate citizen RBCT subscribes to the highest ethical standards and Members Alternates behaviour and requires total honesty and integrity from its AJ Rogan (Chairman) employees at all times. A “Code of Business Conduct and Ethics” has been approved by the Board of Directors and all MS Teke employees are required to subscribe to the code. Z Docrat R Chetty C Ephron MJ Houston MJ Fraser PK Masia PROCOM In September 2014 the Board formally established the PROCOM. This committee is required to meet 4 times per SECOM year. The Social and Ethics committee was established on 19 April PROCOM members deal with Major Projects, as well 2012 and the roles and responsibilities of the Committee as Engineering matters and other matters as may be were incorporated into those of the already established referred to it by the Board. The committee also makes Remuneration Committee. recommendations to the Board for final decision. The responsibilities of the committee are as follows: The following members form part of the Projects Committee: • Monitoring the Company’s activities with regard to matters relating to: Members Alternates oo Social and economic development, including N Siwisa-Damasane (Ms) (Chairperson) RBCT’s standing in terms of the goals and purposes B Murphy (Vice Chairman) of W Bezuidenhout »» the ten principles set out in the United Nations AE Conradie BH Miles Global Compact Principles M du Plessis »» the recommendations of the Organisation for R du Plooy Economic Co-operation and Development, F de Waal regarding corruption RP Hugo »» the Employment Equity Act GC Leibbrandt »» the Broad-Based Black Economic J Lucini Baquerizo Empowerment (BBBEE) Act T Schmidt oo Good corporate citizenship, including the L Turvey Company’s commitment to the promotion of equality, prevention of unfair discrimination, reduction of corruption, contribution to development of the communities in which its activities are predominantly The Board reviews and conducted, the environment, health and public safety, including the impact of the company’s provides guidance on the activities and of its products or services like: performance of the company »» consumer relationships, including the Company’s advertising, public relations and and ensures that RBCT compliance with consumer protection laws, adheres to triple bottom line »» labour and employment reporting 14 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Governance and Administration Our Board Providing strategic direction MS Teke (Chairman) ND Baloyi Z Docrat CM Ephron MJ Fraser FJ Lopez Campo KT Nondumo (Ms) AJ Rogan IA Swanepoel N Siwisa-Damasane (Ms) (CEO) Sustainabilty Report 2015 15 Governance and Administration RBCT Senior Management as at 31 December 2015 Nosipho SiwisaDamasane (CEO) Alan Waller Jabu Mdaki Judith Nzimande Bill Murphy GM: Finance GM: Operations GM: Human Resources GM: Projects Kubendren Naidoo Zanele Mthiyane Casper Mbuyazi, GM: Asset GM: HSEC GM: Strategy and Management Compliance Modelling the Way 16 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Our Strategy and Governance Approach Internal Controls The RBCT internal audit function with ABAS applied a riskbased approach to planning and assessing the needs and expectations of its key stakeholders and ensured a level The Directors are cognisant of their responsibility with of audit reporting was maintained to meet the needs of internal controls and the monitoring of their effectiveness as management and FINCO. a Board. The ethical behaviour, compliance with legislation and sound accounting practices, underpins the internal The assessment of RBCT’s strategic, financial, IT, control process at RBCT. This robust process included operational, human and environmental risks were conducted the engagement of the services of ABAS to perform the to ensure: internal audit and risk management function in a co-sourced arrangement with RBCT. The audit focuses not only on • Alignment of RBCT risk assessment process and financial processes but also on operational processes an assessment of the effectiveness of the control to ensure that there are no gaps in the plant and that environment best practices are applied at all times while enhancing stakeholder value and primarily focusing on cost savings • Addressing risks identified by management initiatives. • Keeping up to date with emerging industry risks General Management and Directors of RBCT consider that systems are properly designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded against material loss In 2015, we enhanced the strong working relationship or unauthorised use and that the transactions are properly between RBCT risk management and internal audit authorised and recorded. Nothing has come to the attention personnel, ABAS and the FINCO, who meet quarterly to of the Directors to indicate any material breakdown in the present reports on their audits conducted. functions of these systems during the year under review. The Internal and Risk Management Audits covered in 2015 The Board acknowledges their responsibility for the Internal included the following: Audit function as this ensures RBCT keeps up to date with the complexity and rapid changes of the business • Payroll environment, organisational dynamics and regulatory frameworks. • Legal appointments The Internal Audit function plays an important role in the • Contracts management combined assurance framework by providing independent assurance over governance, systems of internal control and • Employee legislation risk management, as well as over the combined assurance • Insurance and event risk management framework. • Information management and IT general controls The key responsibility of Internal Audit to the Board and/or its committees is discharging its governance responsibilities • Coal handling and sampling by: • Overall licence usage • Performing reviews of the company’s governance process including ethics, especially the ”tone at the top” • Stockpile accounting • Performing an objective assessment of the adequacy • Enterprise wide risk management and effectiveness of risk management and all other elements of the internal control framework • Business continuity management • Systematically analysing and evaluating business • Executive risk summary processes and associated controls • Providing a source of information, as appropriate, regarding instances of fraud, corruption, unethical While there was no major breakdown in the internal controls behaviour and irregularities in 2015 which could materially compromise the system of internal controls, control breakdowns and weaknesses were identified. These breakdowns were addressed timeously by management. Sustainabilty Report 2015 17 Our Strategy and Governance Approach Risk Management Establish Context At RBCT, work is carried out daily to identify, measure and manage risk. RBCT classifies its risks into two main Communication and Consultation categories: • Strategic risks including a possible source of loss that Risk Assessment Monitoring and Review might arise from the pursuit of an unsuccessful business plan. For example, strategic risk might arise from Risk Identification making poor business decisions, from the substandard execution of decisions, from inadequate resource allocation, or from a failure to respond well to changes in Risk Analysis the business environment Risk Evaluation • Operational risks including a probability of loss occurring from internal inadequacies of a business or a breakdown in its controls, operations or procedures Risk Treatment The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for the total process of risk management and sets the risk strategy, which is based on the need to identify, assess, manage and monitor all forms of known risks, in liaison with the CEO and General Management. The FINCO (through its Audit Committee function) seeks to • Gift registers to manage gifts received and issued by ensure that there are adequate systems of internal control employees and management with reports issued to the in place to mitigate significant risks faced by the company RBCT risk committee to ensure adequate monitoring is to an acceptable level. Systems are designed to manage, in place to comply with RBCT policy rather than eliminate, the risk of failure or to maximise opportunities to achieve business objectives. • Monthly audits are conducted by management to identify risk areas The RBCT management team is inherently accountable to the Board for designing systems, implementing and • Through Jardine Lloyd Thompson (JLT) as an insurance monitoring the process of effective risk management and broker, RBCT runs an insurance programme which integrating this process into daytoday activities at RBCT, covers all assets and liabilities including the management of risks to ensure adherence to • Control self-assessment (CSA) process is in place, the risk tolerance levels set by the Board. where management conduct reviews of key business RBCT risk management have aligned their risk framework objectives, risks involved in achieving those objectives to comply with ISO 31000 and the King III report as risk and internal controls designed to manage those risks management processes are directly aligned to the company • Monthly status reports are generated to track and close strategic and business processes. out audit findings from reports issued both internally and by external service providers, these reports are issued to the RBCT risk committee and FINCO quarterly ISO 31000 Risk Management Process • Monthly reviews of the risk report with General Management which addresses operational risks at All risk assessments and risk information both strategic RBCT and operational, are stored within the CURA system which is the in house RBCT risk management tool available to management only. In 2015, we revised the business continuity management RBCT uses a number of business tools in the management plan from the company’s 13 key risks. The next phase of risk which include: is to standardise the company-wide business continuity management plan across RBCT. • Declaration of interest annually or whenever there is a change in the conflict of interest status of the employee • Code of conduct booklet issued to employees annually • Formal policies and procedures are in place to assist with the application of company standards 18 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Our Strategy and Governance Approach Integrated Business Policy (IBP) Fair Competition The IBP is RBCT’s mandatory, company-wide policy for In 2015, RBCT developed an Anti-Trust and Competition appropriate business behaviour and responsibility towards Compliance Procedure. The procedure was rolled out our stakeholders. Its content is based on both national and through a workshop to those employees affected by international policies, including the United Nations Global Anti-Trust and Competition Compliance. Each employee Compact (UNGC). was required to sign and submit a self-certification letter to confirm that they understand the procedure and The IBP applies to all employees and relevant stakeholders. acknowledge that they will comply with antitrust law as set RBCT managers are responsible for communicating and out in the Procedure. demonstrating the content and spirit of the policy and for complying with its rules and objectives. The IBP includes The purpose of the procedure is to: the business ethics, human rights, social justice and environment principles to be applied in all our policies, • Outline how RBCT will comply with the Competition Act decisions and activities and outlines RBCT’s principles 89 of 1998 and minimum standards for conducting business in an • Provide basic guidance to RBCT employees with appropriate, responsible and transparent manner. regards to the Competition Act It is complemented by around 20 other policies relating to • Enable RBCT employees to recognise dangerous areas such as accounting and reporting, code of conduct, competition situations, which require care and possible anti-discrimination and environmental care that describe in legal advice, when conducting business more detail how to address the policy’s minimal standards. Our code is reviewed every three years and continuously updated as and when required. It is publicly available on In addition, the intention of the RBCT Anti-Trust and RBCT SAP DMS. All new employees, as part of the formal Competition Compliance Procedure is to set out the ‘Do’s’ induction programme, are trained on the content of the and ‘Dont’s’ in respect of the types of activities that must be Integrated Business Policy. avoided and where caution must be exercised and advice given. The standard purpose of competition law is to sustain a Adhering to Ethical Standards and free market economy where vigorous, but fair competition will result in the most efficient allocation of goods and Preventing Corruption services, the lowest prices, the highest quality with the maximum innovation. The ultimate goal is to establish a free Business Ethics system where each company takes its business decisions independently and where enterprises do not restrict or For many sectors globally, business ethics was a hot topic distort competition by colluding or engaging in other in 2015, with various stakeholders demanding greater unlawful business practices. transparency from Corporations. Ethics is not just a policy statement at RBCT but a way of life in conducting the FINCO undertakes to ensure compliance with all legislation business with all relevant stakeholders. applicable to RBCT including but not limited to the Competitions Act 89 of 1998 as amended. As a globally recognised entity, we are aware that corruption is a high risk to any business. We have robust systems FINCO consists of representatives of RBCT’s shareholders in place to ensure we respond and adapt our business who may be competitors of each other. practices and activities to address identified risk areas. RBCT ensures that the Shareholders are guided by the As RBCT adheres to the principles of the King III report, Competition Law principles, contained in the Terms of the Board and Management ensure RBCT is managed with Reference from various Shareholder Committees, which integrity and ethically as this is the foundation of and reason apply to all RBCT Shareholders. for Corporate Governance. FINCO members take cognisance that engagements with competitors or potential competitors may contravene the competition laws if it is intended or is likely to have adverse effect on competition. All employees are expected and encouraged to report any suspected violations of our IBP to their superiors or risk management department. Sustainabilty Report 2015 19 Our Strategy and Governance Approach FINCO Members have no intention and shall not collude with each other in any way, including: Functional Structures • Discussing, fixing, raising, lowering or stabilizing prices RBCT has standing committees that are assigned to for goods and services sold or purchased or fixing manage, monitor and guide the organisation in regard to the pricing formulae for goods and services sold or good governance and ethical matters. These committees purchased are tasked to discuss matters related to their respective mandate and make decisions in compliance with RBCT • Discussing of fixing other competitive terms such as values and business strategy. discounts, margins, rebates, allowances, commissions, or credit terms • Limiting production, or agreeing to reduce or limit Tender Committee production capacity Terms of reference of the committee is ensuring procurement • Rigging or colluding in respect of a bid or otherwise activities are in compliance with RBCT procurement illegally coordinating bidding or tendering activities processes. or discussing actual or intended response to tender invitations and tenders awarded The Committee comprises of: • Allocating markets, customers, suppliers, specific types • General Manager Capital Projects of goods or services or geographic territories • General Manager Finance • Boycotting any customer or supplier • General Manager Health, Safety, Environment and Compliance (HSEC) All employees are expected and encouraged to report any • General Manager Human Resources suspected violations of our IBP to their superiors or risk management department. If reporting to superiors or risk • General Manager Strategy and Compliance management is not feasible or possible, the Whistleblower • General Manager Asset Management procedure is available, which gives employees access to the Whistleblower Committee consisting of the CEO, GM • General Manager Operations Strategy and Compliance, GM Finance and Risk Specialist. RBCT does not tolerate retaliation against a person for making complaints of suspected improper behaviour in By Invitation: good faith. All incidents are investigated and appropriate action taken. • Supply Chain Manager In 2015, one case was reported through the Whistleblower • Management Accountant hotline. This case was dismissed following the investigation as there were no grounds for the allegations. All cases investigated are reported to the FINCO. Monthly Risk Committee reports are issued by the independent Whistleblower hotline management company on the status of reported cases from As part of our risk management strategy, RBCT uses the RBCT. A status of these reports is discussed by the RBCT Risk Committee as the final gate keeper of risk within the Risk Committee. company. This committee consists of the CEO, GM Finance, GM Strategy and Compliance, GM HSEC, Risk Specialist and Senior Internal Auditor. Value Chain Risk Management Forum RBCT is represented on the Value Chain Risk Management Forum which consists of risk management representatives from TNPA, TFR, Engen and Bidvest Tank Terminals. The committee’s primary objective is to review risks which would affect the South Dunes Region, as these risks will have an impact on the respective value chains in which these organisations operate. Meetings are held on a regular basis and feedback is provided to the senior management of these organisations. 20 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Our Strategy and Governance Approach uMhlathuze Risk Management Forum Corporate Social and Investment Committee RBCT is represented on the uMhlathuze Risk Management The committee is responsible for executing RBCT’s CSI Forum which consists of representatives of organisations initiatives. operating within the uMhlathuze region. Meetings are held on a regular basis and feedback is provided to Senior The 13 member strong committee is made up solely of RBCT Management of these organisations. employees: • J Nzimande (MS) (Chairperson) Protection of Personal Information Act (PoPI) • N Mgabhi (MS) • M Mhlongo The PoPI Act was passed in November 2013 in line with other jurisdictions that have similar legislation. PoPI will • C Bhengu place a significant compliance burden on companies and public bodies; as such bodies are likely to possess • M Forbay (MS) substantial personal data records both on electronic and hard copy format. PoPI will significantly affect the manner in • C Gumbi which companies collect, store, process and disseminate • Z Lembede personal information. • R Llale RBCT embarked on training management and employees who are directly involved in the handling of personal • S Mbuyazi information to ensure compliance with this new legislation. This process involved the use of an external service provider • L Meneon and the training covered the following areas: • K Ramgobin • Effect to the constitutional right to privacy • P Sibiya (MS) • Regulations on the manner in which personal information may be processed • T Zwane • Rights and remedies to protect personal information • The protection of personal information processed by private and public sectors The PoPI process is currently in the implementation stage and ongoing meetings have been held with those affected by the PoPI process in order to assess readiness in preparation for when this new legislation becomes effective. Executive Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Committee The executive SHE committee is the custodian of health, safety and environmental compliance at RBCT. The committee meets monthly to discuss, evaluate and make decisions pertaining to occupational health, safety and the environment. The committee comprises of 22 members, including all General Managers, 7x divisional committee chairpersons, 2x union shop stewards, 2 x health representatives, 4x safety and environment specialists. The divisional committees are an important link between the executive SHE committee and employees. The divisional committees meet monthly and the meetings are attended by the section managers, safety representatives, employee wellness representatives and site contractor representatives. Sustainabilty Report 2015 21 PROPRIETARY LIMITED Our 10 GOLDEN SAFETY RULES to live by: Our 10 Golden Safety Rules to live by 1. VEHICLE AND MOBILE EQUIPMENT Respect speed limits of 40km/h on tar roads and 20km/h on gravel roads. The section from the Main Gate to the T-junction after the Clinic is now strictly a 20km/h zone. 2. LIFTING EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL HANDLING Do not stand or walk under suspended loads; protect your hands from sharp edges. 3. RAILWAY AND LOCOMOTIVE As a vehicle driver: Stop at railway level crossings. Check both sides trains can come from either direction at any time. 4. ROTATING MACHINERY Beware of unprotected pinch points/ingoing nip points; ensure rotating or moving machinery is safeguarded. 5. WORKING AT HEIGHTS Protect yourself against falling when working at heights of 1.8m and above. ENERGY AND MACHINERY ISOLATION 6. You must turn off, lock-out and tag-out all energy sources and test that they are isolated before working on equipment. 7. PERSONAL PROTECTION EQUIPMENT (PPE) Wear your Personal Protective Equipment for the task you are doing. 8. PERMIT TO WORK Know which permit is required; work with a valid permit when required. WORK PERMIT 9. CONFINED SPACE Obtain authorisation before entering a confined space. 10. HAZARDOUS CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES MSD Conduct a chemicals assessment and wear specified PPE when required S as per MSDS. 01 December 2014 Nosipho Siwisa-Damasane Date Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 22 We will not engage in any unsafe activity. Richards Bay Coal Terminal Sustainable Health and Safety Performance RBCT continued to focus on safety, health and wellbeing of Delivering on our Safety Strategy employees as well as on environmental stewardship during 2015. Our safety strategy and management approach focuses on improving our ability to anticipate and prevent injuries RBCT’s HSEC Management systems are assessed against to our people. Our principal safety risks relate to railway, the requirements of OHSAS 18001:2007, ISO 14001:2004 vehicles and mobile equipment, rotating machinery, working and SANS 16001:2013. In 2015 RBCT was successfully at heights, energy and machinery isolation, lifting equipment recertified to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. RBCT was and material handling. In 2015 RBCT focused on the audited for SANS 16001: 2013 (Wellness and Disease following golden safety rules: Management) in September 2015. The outcome of the audit confirmed RBCT to be complaint to the requirements of the • Vehicle safety standard expected. We are looking for a certification body, and plan to go for certification by December 2016. • Isolation • Railway safety • Lifting equipment and material handling Safety Providing a safe and healthy workplace is a core RBCT value and remains our priority. Effectively and efficiently managing workplace safety is a direct objective in our workforce and Providing a safe and healthy the business. workplace is a core RBCT value RBCT’s HSEC policy sets out our commitment to eliminating illnesses, injuries and fatalities from our business. RBCT and remains our priority. Effectively maintains a comprehensive HSEC management system which is fully aligned to OHSAS 18001:2007. and efficiently managing workplace safety is a direct objective in our workforce and the business. Sustainabilty Report 2015 23 Sustainable Health and Safety Performance Our risk-based approach is outlined in our HSEC strategy 2015 SAFETY CULTURE SURVEY RESULTS document which is a comprehensive framework of safety (Generative, Creative and Excellence) roadmaps supported by a set of safety procedures. This underpins the delivery of our safety strategy, which is built on the value of “we will not engage in any unsafe activity”. Safety-related training extends to our workforce in various forms, from formal training initiatives to regular or daily safety briefings. Over the past year we have concentrated on embedding and reinforcing six specific steps of our safety programme: • Personal risk attitude • Caring and respect • Management safety, leadership and commitment • Safety accountability 2014 SAFETY CULTURE SURVEY RESULTS • Workforce involvement in safety and consultation (Preventative, Compliance and Understanding) • Safety coaching and mentoring These will remain the key areas of focus for 2016. Our Safety Culture Journey RBCT continues to focus on safety. A dipstick of RBCT’s safety culture was conducted to evaluate employee perception on safety. The objective for 2015 was for safety to become a way of life at RBCT, to be proactive beyond compliance, both anticipating and preventing issues. Our focus for 2015 was to: • Engage leadership and the entire workforce on safety • Simplify safety systems, processes and procedures • Rollout the RBCT 10 golden safety rules • Learn from and share incidents and risks • Implement safety innovations meant to mitigate these risks The overall Safety Culture results for the survey conducted in 2015 revealed that RBCT employees’ safety perceptions had matured beyond compliance to proactive and even resilient. We encourage the sharing and exchanging of safety ideas through various platforms at RBCT, including innovations. While we acknowledge that there is currently a window of opportunity to make a meaningful change, we know where we are going – together. We will use the safety successes to leverage a wider safety objective of Zero Injuries to all our employees and contractors. 24 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Sustainable Health and Safety Performance Types of Injuries Our Safety Performance RBCT is proud to report that we continued to make a significant improvement in safety. Our quest to create and sustain an injury-free work environment for our employees and contractors continued during 2015 and our safety performance improved considerably over 2014. There were no fatalities at RBCT during the year and the LTIFR for the year was at 0.00 per LTIFR Performance million man-hours worked. The MI frequency rate for the year was 0.17 per million man-hours worked. This is an excellent performance by RBCT employees and its contractors. Ensuring the safety of our employees and contractors in the workplace is of paramount importance and TIFR Performance RBCT continues to focus on the increased and improved reporting of, and learning from high risk incidents as a preventative tool to improve safety performance. We aim to conduct our operations with ‘zero injuries’ to our employees and contractors, and believe that all work-related illnesses and injuries are preventable. MIFR Performance Safety Leadership Strong leadership is the first step in making safety part of all our decisions and actions. Our management team regularly visit our operations and play a visible role in daily activities. Visible felt leadership (VFL) was a key area of focus during the year. We will not engage in any unsafe activity Sustainabilty Report 2015 25 Sustainable Health and Safety Performance 2015 Objective 2015 Target 2015 Performance Maintain OHSAS 18001 Certification Recertification to OHSAS 18001 No major findings Recertified Maintain ISO 14001 Certification Recertification to ISO 14001 No major findings Recertified Obtain certification to SANS 16001:2013 Certification to SANS 16001:2013 Certified Fatality free year Zero Fatality Zero Fatality Reduce Lost Time Injuries LTIFR </= 0 0 Reduce Minor Injuries MIFR </= 0.56 0.17 Total Injury Frequency Rate (TIFR) TIFR</= 4.99 2.25 COBRA Observations conducted >/=95% 100% No external environmental complaints 0 1 Preparing for Potential Emergencies Our emergency preparedness committee conducts annual exercises to prepare for a range of scenarios that may affect the corporation or require coordination across multiple operating divisions. In 2015, RBCT worked extensively on emergency preparedness planning. This plan was piloted to test its effectiveness. RBCT revised the full suite of emergency preparedness and response procedures at our disposal, and we piloted these procedures during the course of the year to help us further develop our emergency preparedness plan. The pilot provided us with an opportunity to learn and further streamline our procedures. Our emergency management plans are focused on prevention, preparedness, response and recovery. We have streamlined our emergency response, crisis management and business continuity efforts to ensure swift response and recovery in the event of an unforeseen event. SHE Seminar In the last quarter of 2015 a two day SHE seminar was held for RBCT employees, contractor SHE representatives and divisional SHE Chairpersons where they shared learnings and best practices with each other. Representatives from the most improved divisions each did a presentation on how they used the SHE systems to help them achieve their targets. Presentations were also done by the RBCT Peer Educators and a representative from Careways. During the seminar, random questions were posed to employees present and small incentives were awarded to those providing the correct responses. 26 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Sustainable Health and Safety Performance Occupational Health and Wellness • Health risk management which focuses on occupational health and hygienethus ensuring legal compliance Effective management of health risks protects our people, • Employee wellness programme (EWP) is a promotive enhances productivity and is essential for minimising exercise that seeks to optimize employee productivity potential long term liabilities. • Primary Health care (support services) provides for treatment of health issues thus minimizing lost time through ill heath Delivering On Our Health and Wellness Strategy • Strategic management includes environmental health, During 2015, RBCT put a number of occupational health and HIV/Aids, incapacity and any other conditions which wellness strategies in place, including: may affect the long-term success of the business. • Biggest loser competition – all employees are encouraged to adopt a healthy lifestyle by exercising and eating healthy. A healthy workforce is a happy Our Occupational Health and Hygiene Performance workforce Primary Healthcare Management (PHC) • An ongoing occupational hygiene programme for monitoring stressors in the workplace i.e. noise, RBCT provides a first level/essential diagnostics and gravimetric dust and silica, ergonomic, illumination, therapeutic Health Care Service founded on the principals of vibration, diesel, belt splicing and welding fumes , evidence based medicine to accurately diagnose and treat thermal stress acute/ common ailments. Our PHC programmes include the following components: • Development of a plan to reduce the above based on recommendations from the occupational hygienist • Assessment and treatment of illnesses;-e.g. (Colds, diarrhoea, headaches etc.) • Risk based medical surveillance programme • Reproductive health programme • A programme to manage and reduce the impact of musculoskeletal disorders such as repetitive strain • Health screening and promotion programme including injuries and backaches of our workforce through vaccination of our employees and tests such as: early identification, tracking and incidence reporting. Qualified Biokineticists are working with RBCT medical oo blood pressure staff on an ongoing basis to identify opportunities to oo blood sugar improve employees’ posture through adjustments to the working environment and individual behaviors. oo cholesterol oo HIV counseling and treatment Occupational Health and Hygiene • Emergency care The health and well-being of our employees is important to • Chronic disease monitoring (Anaemia, diabetes, us and a healthy workforce means a productive, efficient hypertension, gout, high cholesterol, Tuberculosis (TB) and energized workforce. RBCT aims at providing a etc.) working environment that maximizes wellness and minimizes incidents, illnesses and disorders through health related • We have a visiting Dietician who manages the activities. Our occupational health programme seeks to employees on the biggest loser programme or who prevent and mitigate occupational health risks that may need chronic disease monitoring impact the health and wellbeing of our employees. The wellness management programme focused on the Non-Occupational Disease Management overall wellness of employees and contractors. RBCT has an onsite Biokineticist working hand-in-hand with the company RBCT continued to focus on Wellness for both employees doctor and clinic to improve the wellness of employees and and contractors during 2015. Monitoring and management contractors in order to sustain a healthy and productive of employees with clinical risk factors (Body Mass Index workforce. (BMI), Blood Pressure (BP), glucose, cholesterol) remained a priority during the year. RBCT’s approach to managing health related issues in the workplace covers the following: There were some improvements on these chronic conditions. BMI has remained the same at 56% for the year, however, there are commitments from employees to lose weight based on the increased number of employees seeing the Biokineticist and adopting a controlled exercise regime. Sustainabilty Report 2015 27 Sustainable Health and Safety Performance In 2016, we will continue to focus on awareness of healthy lifestyle programmes, especially weight control management. Awareness and engagement of employees on these clinical risk factors, as well as the top 4 wellness risks, which are the major contributors to the burden of disease at RBCT, is an ongoing process. There was an improvement in the number of employees doing monthly checks for their chronic conditions. The status of the 2015 medical surveillances is at 100%. The HIV prevalence rate at RBCT is 13.26%, with 67.65% of the HIV positive employees on Anti-retrovirals (ARV’s). 71% of our employees know their HIV status. 120 106 100 87 80 60 Noise 40 25 32 Accredited occupational health and hygiene specialists 20 6 11 conduct baseline, periodic, transfer and exit audiometric 0 examinations on employees. Noise is generally treated at Newly Diagnosed Raised Cholesterol Hyperlipidemia source but where noise cannot be eliminated, signage is 2014 2014 posted to remind employees and contractors to wear their 1600 hearing protection. All affected personnel are appropriately 1339 trained and provided with the necessary personal protection 1200 equipment to deal with possible dangers. 800 777 Medical surveillance, including examinations, biological monitoring and specific testing (such as lung function and 380 400 220 225 audiograms) are scheduled and conducted in order to meet 165 legal and company requirements. Lung function testing 0 BMI Respiratory CNS by spirometry is carried out regularly to address concerns 2014 2014 regarding dust and silica exposure in conjunction with chest X-rays. Last year, no occupational illness or noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) cases were identified. Occupational Health Management Occupational Hygiene surveys conducted for the year were Health Risk Assessment (HRA) noise, whole body vibration, diesel emission, ventilation, dust, silica monitoring and welding fumes. The review of the HRA and occupational risk and exposure profiles (OREP) is an ongoing process. Preliminary preparation for HRA and OREP was conducted and Coal Dust and Silica medical baselines per position at RBCT identified. Each year RBCT conducts a HRA in order to identify, evaluate, Our principal occupational health risks relate to coal quantify and control all non-occupationally induced health and silica dust, ergonomics and noise. RBCT has taken risks that may impact negatively on the RBCT employee’s reasonable steps to ensure dust and silica exposures to health status. employees and contractors are kept to a minimum. Dust and silica monitoring takes place annually, and where dust levels HRA Conducted by RBCT risk Assessment Process utilising are found to be high, measures to minimize dust are applied. the following Methodologies – SANS 16001:2013 Wellness and Disease Management System (WDMS) e.g. SANS 16001: 2013 certification 28 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Sustainable Health and Safety Performance Ergonomics Management Programme An onsite Biokineticist works with Clinic staff with the aim of improving the wellness of our employees thereby ensuring a healthy and productive workforce. The Biokineticist operates from our fitness centre and runs the rehabilitation programme for employees recovering from different conditions i.e. stroke, musculoskeletal injuries etc. and conducts various ergonomic assessments of employees driving and operating mobile equipment. RBCT’s EWP A healthy SANS16001:2013 (Wellness and disease employee is management system standard – including HIV and TB) requires the employer to a happy assess non-occupationally induced health risks that may negatively impact the employee workplace. Research has shown that most workplace health cases are not caused by occupationally induced injuries or illnesses but by nonoccupationally induced illnesses or injuries. The key priority areas identified from our risk assessment analysis were headaches, BMI, flu and financial wellbeing. To mitigate the risk our areas of intervention are on prevention, early diagnosis, treatment, care and support. As at end of 2015 significant improvements in these areas were noted. RBCT recognizes that personal problems may have an impact on work performance, production and behaviour thus RBCT has an onsite EWP which works in partnership Annual RBCT wellness week offered the following services: with Careways. This service is an integral part of the EWP and operates 24 hours per day, seven days a week and 365 • Health screening and assessments days a year. Employees and their immediate family members • Vision screening are able to access the service via short message sending (SMS), telephone or e-mail. • V Box classes The purpose of the EWP is to have a referral system in • Psychological assessments place through which RBCT employees can use the services • Flu vaccines provided by Careways to overcome personal, performance and behaviour problems. The EWP is a voluntary and • Free massages confidential programme that provides problem identification • Biokineticist services and referral services for RBCT employees and their families. The scope of interventions provided within the EWP • Financial wellness and wills addresses all aspects of health and wellbeing. • Awareness on drug and alcohol abuse Wellness Week ZCCI Excellence Award: SABCOHA Wellness The first step to improving the health status of our employees RBCT is committed to employee wellness and has taken is to identify the areas of risk. Unlike reactive health care, related initiatives in ensuring a healthy and productive RBCT proactively identifies the symptoms of diseases, workforce hence the recognition afforded. The award providing the opportunity for maximizing prevention and recognised that RBCT has successfully demonstrated aims to treat the root cause of the disease followed by the leadership in health and wellness programmes and services implementation of measures to prevent the progression of by implementing related initiatives that have resulted in the disease. significant and measurable benefits to the organization. We care for the wellbeing of our employees Sustainabilty Report 2015 29 Sustainable Health and Safety Performance HIV Counselling and Testing SANS 3000-4: 2011 Railway Safety Regulator (RSR): Human Factors HIV/Aids remains a significant risk to the South African society. RBCT recognises that the management of HIV/Aids SANS 3000-4 is a national standard for health assessment is an integral part of its approach to ensuring the wellbeing of rail safety workers that RBCT subscribes to and is based of its employees and raising awareness of HIV/Aids among on a risk management approach. RBCT has adopted employees remains a high priority. this standard and has developed procedures for the management of human factors in order to mitigate the Access to help regarding HIV related problems is available potential effects of these factors on railway safety. These on a 24hr basis at our onsite occupational health centre factors include: where we are working in partnership with the Lifesense disease management programme. The purpose of the • Human factors in design (human-system interface) programme is to assist RBCT employees with maintaining ARV adherence, to help them overcome any barriers that • Psychological factors: e.g. shift work, physical and may prevent adherence to coordinate and centralize the HIV mental stress, return to work after a period of absence treaters and treatment records and to ensure that employees are able to maintain a healthy, productive lifestyle. • Psychosocial factors e.g. substance abuse (the abuse of medication, drugs and alcohol) RBCT has a WDMS policy in place thus ensuring that the workplace is free of unfair discrimination of HIV/Aids • Psycho physiological factors e.g. chronic, acute and life sufferers. Our policy aims to create and sustain a work threatening illnesses, impact of medication on the ability environment that will support and promote quality of life, of affected employees to execute their duties healthy development and healthy behaviours through various • Physical environmental factors e.g. noise, lighting, programmes developed for RBCT. vibration, toxic substances and thermal conditions In 2015, we continued our efforts through initiatives such • Organizational factors e.g. shift pattern, procedures and as our World aids day campaign, wellness week, clinic policies consultations and annual medical testing. At the same time we ceased providing employees with incentives when testing. In 2015, 71% of our employees tested without being incentivised. RBCT is targeting 100% of employees to know The RSR conducted a human factors audit at RBCT during their status by the end of 2016. September 2015 and the audit report confirms that we have made good progress. World Aids Day On 30 November 2015, RBCT commenced a week of Managing our Environment voluntary HIV/Aids testing in commemoration of World Aids Day. On 1 December, a candle lighting ceremony was held RBCT has a legal and social responsibility to minimise in every division in remembrance of those who have lost the impact on the environment, as well as to eliminate their lives to HIV/Aids. Pamphlets were also handed out with unplanned events, such as unsanctioned water discharges information pertaining to HIV/Aids. and exceeding air emission standards. Delivering on our Environmental Strategy RBCT’s coal logistics activities are conducted within the framework of ISO 14001:2004 and a site specific EMP. Compliance with ISO 14001:2004 is audited annually and recertified every 3 years. Protection of the environment and compliance to environmental legislation remains paramount to RBCT. In 2015, the ISO 14001 recertification audit was a success. This is in line with RBCT’s commitment to maintaining excellence in EMS’s. 30 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Sustainable Health and Safety Performance RBCT seeks to comply with, and Currently, our primary environmental focus areas are: remains committed to environmental legislation, regulations and permits • Air quality management that govern its operation. RBCT has • Reducing the impact of coal transport on the environment prevention strategies which, together with ongoing mitigation measures, • Controlling the water quality of our storm water and processed water are aimed at reducing and mitigating discharges into Richards Bay Harbour and surrounding waterways the impact of its activities on the environment. • Reducing our fresh water usage Responsibility for environmental • Energy efficiency management at RBCT rests with senior management, supported by the • Waste management environmental specialist and HSEC officer. Operations and maintenance departments also play a vital role in the management of our environment. Water Usage and Management The Integrated Waste and Water Management Plan (IWWMP) is central to the application process for a water use licence with the Department of Water Affairs Our Environmental Performance (DWA). The main objectives of the IWWMP are to: During the year, no major • Provide technical and management related information to underpin the environmental incidents occurred, application for the water use licence however we received one external • Update RBCT’s water balance environmental complaint. This performance comes under extremely • Identify (qualify and quantify) water and waste related impacts from RBCT’s unfavourable conditions where we had activities the lowest average rainfall per annum. Stringent environmental monitoring • Comply with Regulation 704 of the National Water Act 36 of 1998 and site cleaning services can be attributed to the good environmental performance during the year. The nature of the product we handle contaminates storm water. To prevent The environmental systems upgrade contamination of the surrounding environment, storm water and water collected project to harness all processed water from the coal stockpiles does not go directly into the marine environment; instead to prevent pollution of the harbour and it is drained into settling ponds. In the settling ponds, contaminants are separated to recycle water, was commissioned from the water before it can be pumped into an offsite storage dam known as in 2009. An analysis carried out “the ESUP dam”. At the ESUP dam water is further chemically treated through a in 2015 shows that potable water chlorination process and RBCT uses this recycled water for the suppression of consumption has been reduced by dust, mostly from coal stockpiles. RBCT treats and recycles its sewage effluent approximately 19% compared to 2014. and the quality of the final effluent has in the past 12 months met the requirements A serious drive towards conservation of the National Water Act, 1998. of energy was also maintained during the year and significant savings The quality of our underground water is monitored quarterly through borehole have been realised. Energy saving sampling to ensure no adverse pollution of the underground water. The results are programmes continue with the goal sent to an independent laboratory for analysis and all samples were within legal being to achieve the site’s objective for limits. In 2015 RBCT conducted a site assessment to better understand RBCT’s reducing energy consumption by up waste footprint and the stockyard area soil layout. to 15%. Water Usage RBCT is firmly committed to protecting the environment together with resource conservation. RBCT has assessed the environmental impacts of our operation and keeps an environmental impacts and aspects register. Controls have been put in place to reduce the negative impact of our business on the environment. Sustainabilty Report 2015 31 Sustainable Health and Safety Performance Potable Water Usage The quality of potable water is continuously monitored and treated to prevent and minimize the risk of potable water contamination. In 2015, 179.27 megalitres of potable water were used compared to 220 megalitres used in 2014. This is a 19% improvement on water usage during a tough year where the site had the lowest rainfalls on record. Air Quality Dust management is a priority at RBCT. There was a slight increase on dust fallout recorded in 2015 compared to 2014, however the results averaged well below 0.6 g/m2 which is the maximum allowable level. In line with RBCT’s focus on the well-being of employees and our stakeholders, RBCT monitors ambient dust through real time particulate dust monitors. RBCT Monitors PM10 as well as PM2.5 to effectively deal with dust ambient and currently uses RDC20 as dust suppressant on dirt roads around the stockpiles. RDC20 is a waterbased binding agent that forms a layer on the road surface to suppress dust. Resource and Energy Use 40 Account Target Electricity % Reduction During 2015 there was a significant 30 Diesel % Reduction Petrol % Reduction improvement in the use of electricity and petrol. 20 Diesel however still requires a more focused approach which will be seen 10 in 2016 with the addition of a vehicle monitoring system. It was also noted 0 that a new baseline would need to be 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 established as a result of the Phase Signed the EE -10 Signed the EE V equipment coming on line and this accord on 01 pledge on 25 September Engaged with PSEE on an Energy Management Aug ‘06 would lead to a new 5% reduction Campaign target being set for 2016 to 2020. -20 We care for the environment 32 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Sustainable Health and Safety Performance Waste Management The management of waste remains one of RBCT’s environmental challenges. RBCT believes that protection of Biodiversity the environment is an integral part of good business practice RBCT facility is situated within the Port of Richards Bay and that it has a duty to minimize and manage waste in the uMhlatuze Local Municipality which has a warm without any environmental risks. RBCT provided separate to hot and humid subtropical climate, with warm moist waste bins for different types of wastes generated that can summers. The 276ha facility is completely transformed be recyclable. Improving waste sorting and disposal has from its once natural state; however, maintained become an extremely important aspect for RBCT. vegetated and landscaped areas do exist within the site RBCT’s waste streams are, but not limited to the following: boundary. • Used oil Eight specimens of Hibiscus tiliaceus (Lagoon Hibiscus) are available at RBCT on the South of Phase 3. These • Oil contaminated waste trees are listed as protected indigenous plants in terms of The KwaZulu-Natal Nature Conservation Management • Clinic waste Amendment Act, 1999 (No. 5 of 1999). These species were planted for landscaping purposes. 2750 Casuarina • Sewerage effluent equisetifolia (Coastal Beefwood) exist in the eastern • Settling pond effluent parts of this Phase 3, planted for wind diversion. Three specimen of Bersama lucens (Glossy White Ash) • Electronic waste are available onsite. This tree is listed as a protected indigenous plant in terms of the KwaZulu-Natal Nature • Paper Conservation Management Amendment Act, 1999 (No. 5 of 1999). Included in the landscaped gardens are species • Rubber that are protected by Provincial and/or National legislation which include 2 specimens of Podocarpus falcatus (Outeniqua Yellowwood) to the north of the control tower, In 2014 RBCT obtained a Waste License 59 of 2008, RBCT Aloe, Encephalartos (Cycads), Hibiscus tiliaceus (Lagoon improved its waste management programmes by improving Hibiscus) and Eugenia capensis (Dune Myrtle). its waste audits and implementing sustainable plans. The In the northern side of RBCT, there occurs a species-rich implementation of a comprehensive waste management wetland dominated by relatively short herbs reflecting strategy aims to reduce the amount of waste being the variation of species. Amongst the many interesting consigned to local dumpsites. components of this assemblage is tropical sedge, The generated waste is measured on a monthly basis and Pycreus unioloides, possibly the best standing in this targets have been set to reduce the quantities. Some waste region nowadays. White and black mangroves are also is recycled and some disposed of in an environmentally found on this wetland where water is fresher and plenty. responsible manner. The black mangroves are >17m in height, making these amongst the taller to be found along the KZN Coasts. Dolphins are regularly seen alongside the coal quay and a flourishing marine reserve exists on RBCT’s doorstep – home to pelicans, flamingos, fish eagles, waders, crabs and a host of other bird and marine life. An area within this reserve has been identified as a possible National Heritage Site, bearing testimony to the health of the surrounding natural environment. On an annual basis, RBCT partners with the Department of Agriculture and Environmental Affairs to commemorate specific days such as environmental week and water week. Employees and their families are always encouraged to participate in our annual coastal clean-up programme which is very popular with employees. RBCT’s activities have not impacted the biodiversity within RBCT and surrounding areas. In order to manage and mitigate impacts on diversity, the following plans were implemented: • Alien Invasive Vegetation Management Plan • Indigenous Planting Plan Sustainabilty Report 2015 33 Operational Performance We work to the best of our ability Sustainable Development Performance TTT vs number of trains RBCT is a world class Port Terminal. As a vital link in the 4:19 9400 9,164 coal export chain, we work closely with our key partners 3:50 9,104 9200 TFR, TNPA and CEPs. RBCT coal is railed by TFR, the only 3:21 8,875 9000 National Rail Operator. TNPA provides the marine services to 2:52 8,718 8800 berth and un-berth the vessels. 2:24 8,413 8600 1:55 8,325 8400 RBCT prides itself on being an efficient and reliable export 1:26 8200 0:57 terminal and it’s efficiency is dependent on the different 8000 0:28 business functions and all stakeholders working together. 0:00 3:42 3:16 3:27 3:02 3:24 3:41 7800 The joint effort of RBCT and our partners ensured that the 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 performance targets were exceeded in 2015. TTT Trains Coal Deliveries to RBCT Railings RBCT received a total tonnage of 73,93mt in 2015 which represents an increase of 2.07% from the 72,44mt in 2014. The terminal offloaded 9 164 trains in 2015 and achieved This performance once again underlined the important a TTT of 3 hours 42 minutes which is within the target of 4 progress made by the CEPs and TFR in delivering coal to hours 18 minutes. 18% of the trains received were bypassed the terminal. directly to the vessel. This assisted RBCT to improve vessel load rates and save energy by avoiding double handling, 74,000,000 i.e. stacking the coal on the ground and reclaiming it later to 72,000,000 load onto the vessel. 70,000,000 The TTT is the contracted duration for handling a train after 68,000,000 it is handed over to RBCT by TFR (offloaded and handed 62,860,748 65,000,000 back to TFR). The TTT is reflected in the signed service level 64,000,000 agreement (SLA) between the terminal and TFR. 65,705,933 68,518,354 70,810,805 72,435,941 73,925,548 62,000,000 RBCT continues to work with TFR to improve rail efficiencies. 60,000,000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 34 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Operational Performance Exports Shipping Performance RBCT exported 75,38mt in 2015, which is an improvement The turnaround time of the vessels is what the terminal uses of 5.7% from the 71.29mt that was exported in 2014 and to measure world class performance and RBCT achieved an the first time in the Terminal’s history that we reached and average of 45hrs in 2015 compared to a target of 41.98hrs. exceeded 75 Mt’s. This impressive growth in volumes was achieved under challenging global economic conditions and Average vessel turnaround time vs number of vessels depressed commodity prices. 70 1000 925 900 60 783 716 A record 925 vessels were loaded in 2015 compared to 786 50 636 646 656 800 700 vessels loaded in 2014. 600 40 500 The key performance indicator on the water side is Port 30 400 Load Rate (PLR) and we achieved 1828 tons per hour 20 300 against a target of 1 748 tons per hour. 10 200 100 47 57 65 59 42 45 0 0 Coal Export 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 76,000,000 Avg PLR hr Per Vsl No of Vsl’s 74,000,000 72,000,000 70,000,000 RBCT Plant 63,427,448 68,000,000 66,000,000 Plant availability and reliability are key operational elements of RBCT’s performance. Plant availability of 95.23% was 65,511,840 68,340,710 70,234,625 71,286,142 75,379,067 64,000,000 achieved against a target of 90% and the plant reliability was 62,000,000 95.31% against the target of 95%, both better than 2014. 60,000,000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 The plant downtime was below the target of 14.50 minutes per 10 000 tons (annual target: 13.82 minutes per 10 000 tons), this is however an impressive 9.6% improvement Export Destinations on the 2014 plant downtime of 16.24 minutes per 10 000 Western Europe South America 582 606 (0.8%) Caribbean 168 499 (0.22%) tons. The maintenance and engineering teams continue 3 588 888 (4.8%) Northern Europe Eastern Africa 3 016 623 (4%) to improve the overall reliability and availability of the 618 070 (0.8%) Northern Africa 5 569 917 (7.4%) terminal infrastructure with continued focus on preventative Southern Europe 6 295 075 (8.4%) maintenance as opposed to responding to breakdowns. A Southern Africa 98 975 (0.1%) restructuring of existing manpower to achieve greater 24 Eastern Asia hour coverage has significantly enhanced the plant reliability Western Africa 1 824 049 (2.4%) 1 317 243 (1.7%) as well as the turnaround times on outages. Good cooperation between maintenance and operations continues to facilitate increased opportunities for maintenance through South Eastern Asia 1 136 492 (1.5%) greater access to plant. Throughput Tons Long-term plant health, through Plant Life Cycle planning Received 73 933 848 focuses on operational and strategic aspects ensuring Shipped 75 379 067 Southern Asia periodic inspection programmes and refurbishment outages 41 524 278 (55.1%) are strictly followed. The engineering team completed all the planned plant outages through sound planning with operations and ensuring priorities are adhered to with no roll over’s into 2016. The terminal has completed the life cycle replacement plan for all major equipment. In July 2015, the terminal officially announced a Major Machinery Replacement exercise which will see the replacement of the four Phase 1 machines namely Stacker Reclaimers 1 and 2 and Ship loaders 1 and 2 and also see the addition of one new electrical substation and the reconfiguration of the ten existing substations. Sustainabilty Report 2015 35 Operational Performance Construction is taking place without disruptions to the current facility and the project is expected to be complete by May 2016 at an estimated cost of R50-million. RBCT is pleased to confirm that keeping in line with local economic development (LED) imperatives as mandated by government, the project will create job opportunities and the architectural design will sustain the terminals world class status, therefore positively impacting global buy-in. On completion of the replacement, increased reliability in operations will be achieved. The project value is substantial and South African suppliers as well as Richards Bay based companies will benefit through this investment. The project is due for completion in 2018. New Coal Sampling Laboratory The need for a new coal sampling laboratory was realized when RBCT Management noticed limitations on current operational efficiencies. Besides supporting efficient laboratory operations and workflow, the new building will increase the throughput capacity of the current laboratory from 91Mt to 120Mt per annum, facilitated by a 60% increase of physical space. The overall efficiency will increase by 25% and this will be achieved in the coal preparation, analysis and certification areas. 36 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Operational Performance Terminal Control System (TCS) Upgrade The project is due for completion in 2017 with the end result being one picture, one integrated system seen by operations, engineering and maintenance. The TCS is the heartbeat of RBCT comprising of many different software programmes which live off of each other and create a symbiotic relationship but, because these programmes age differently – the relationship between them started to break up putting the whole system at risk. In 2015, RBCT embarked on a 4 Phase project to reSpending establish the symbiotic relationship by replacing or less upgrading the current software in order to keep the terminal will achieve running. more! Phase 1, which dealt with the operations side of the system i.e. how the Ops Planning schedules and Ops Production team run the plants, was completed in the 4th quarter of 2015. The main components of phase 1 were: • Re-writing of all forms and reports into a Microsoft platform, almost 1 000 000 lines of code • Upgrading the Oracle Database and moving it to a Windows platform Finance • Replacing Promace Software with Wonderware Software In 2015 the market conditions facing our stakeholders further declined with commodity prices falling significantly • Re-writing of G2 (intelligent version) to Windows format across the board including coal. • Re-writing and migration of all software integration and This has rightfully placed increased pressure on the bridges Terminal to reduce expenditure further while enhancing the The unique and advantageous aspect of this project was effectiveness of the service provided. The true value of that the contractor re-wrote all the software onsite allowing the Terminal continues to be how efficiently we are able to the old and new system to run concurrently and also move a ton of coal within the context of the full value chain. allowing for live testing. As an integral part of the value chain, the focus continues The final phases of the project will concentrate on the to be a low cost terminal. The 2015 budget was approved Wonderware SCADA software upgrade which drives what on the basis of RBCT taking the cost per ton back to engineering and maintenance use for managing and 2013 levels in real terms. RBCT in 2015 managed to maintaining the plant. deliver against this target with a 0.1% increase against our budget. The efforts in maintenance over the last A key deliverable of this project phase is machine standards three years have yielded good results, with expenditure that will be used in all future plant expansion projects. The remaining largely unchanged while downtime continues to Object -Oriented Programming (OOP) model, organised decrease. around objects rather than ‘actions’ and data rather than ‘logic’ is a key standard that the project will adopt and apply. Critical challenges remain keeping overtime and temporary labour under control, while ensuring operational efficiencies are maintained at all times. All areas of the business have and continue to be reviewed to identify further opportunities to reduce expenditure. Manpower is being optimized with vacancies frozen unless positions are regarded as critical together with working together with contractors to extract efficiencies out of existing resources as well as eliminating unnecessary waste. Our approach continues to drive a holistic approach which balances RBCT’s spend, however which is aligned to optimising the overall cost impact to the coal export value chain. We continue to strive to be a low cost facility with increased efforts on cost control through driving continuous improvements within the key elements of our business. Sustainabilty Report 2015 37 Valuing and Empowering our People Our ability to attract, retain and develop high-performing, values driven employees depends on providing a safe and Enhancing Workforce Diversity stimulating work environment that reflects the diversity of the communities in which we operate. Our people are the Attracting, Developing and Retaining Talent backbone to the success of our business and factor in every policy formed and each decision taken. RBCT has a proud record and as a world leader in the international coal-exporting market as an effective, efficient In 2013 RBCT commenced with the strategy of and consistently reliable coal-handling facility. In order to organisational health, which yielded really good results maintain and improve our competitive edge, we rely on an throughout all aspects of the business. We have intensive recruitment and selection process to attract and continued along these lines with an increased focus on select skills that serve as an input to RBCT coal export people performance and talent management. Due to the strategy. increasingly difficult economic climate, RBCT has made some significant adjustments in terms of how we celebrate In 2015, our labour turnover marginally increased from 6.7% as well as recognise achievements. This requirement and in 2014 to 6.9%. In line with our cost optimisation process, process has been broadly communicated to employees with where possible vacancies have not being filled while we a key focus on the sustainability of the greater business and continue to make good progress with filling critical vacancies thereby job retention. through internal appointments and restructuring. This is aligned to our talent management strategy and is ensuring the retention of key skills. There has and will continue to be a major drive to optimise on manpower, and more We treat each other with specifically in the services areas of the business. respect and dignity 38 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Valuing and Empowering our People We conduct intensive searches for local candidates, There are various noticeable achievements in the plan. relying on our relationships with reputable local recruitment Firstly, the composition of our top management structure agencies and our own databases of local professionals. is reflective of the demographics of the country and in We seek to ensure strong internal candidate representation consideration of skills pool in our industry. Secondly, female for employment opportunities and this is supplemented participation is increasing in all occupational levels and the by external recruitment. The recruitment and selection business remains committed to narrowing the gap between process is executed in such a manner that the incumbent male and female representation. Thirdly, we have maintained joining RBCT is assessed for suitability to the job itself our target achievement of employing People Living with and having the right character aligned to the company’s Disability (PLWD) and we have modified access points and mission, vision and values. The recruitment and selection other facilities for friendly use by PLWDs. strategy and decision is to ensure that “the right people were on the bus and the wrong people off the bus, and Gender Representation ensure that the right people were in the right seats” – Jim Collin, Good to Great. It is critical to our recruitment and 120% 100% selection decisions that our new recruits have an ideal fit to 100% 79% work for RBCT. 80% 71% 71% 74% 52% 60% 48% To achieve this, we embark on intensive and rigorous preemployment processes because attracting and employing 40% 29% 21% 29% 26% the right fit, talented and motivated people is critical to 20% RBCT’s long-term strategy. 0% Top Senior Professionally Skilled Semi-Skilled Unskilled In 2015, 26 appointments were made with 87% being Management Management Qualified Technically recruited from the local community. Local employment is Male 0% 71% 79% 71% 74% 52% important to minimise the negative impact of Fly in, Fly out Female (FIFO) candidates on our retention targets. Our endeavour 100% 20% 21% 29% 26% 48% is to minimise, where possible, employment of FIFO candidates. Employment Equity Analysis The objectives of the EE plan for RBCT remained: 32 8 • To eliminate unfair discrimination which may exist in 71 employment policies, practices and procedures Top Management • To implement affirmative action measures to Professionally Qualified achieve reasonable progress towards the equitable RBCT representation of suitable qualified person in the 227 Skilled Technical WORKFORCE workplace Semi-skilled 170 • To promote diversity and respect for all employees in Unskilled the workplace • To implement appropriate measures regarding the training and retention of designated persons • To address barriers identified in the previous year Workforce profile as 31 December 2015 Employment Equity (EE) RBCT EE Targets Diversity and transformation are critical imperatives at RBCT Occupational Target Status 2014 2013 and significant progress has been made in building a more Level 2015 representative workforce. In 2015, we achieved most of our E &F Band 75% 75% 75% 75% EE targets. DU Band 57% 64% 52% 56% Our Top Management, for example, is made up of 8 members, representing Blacks, Indian and White. Three DL Band 83% 92% 93% 80% members are Black Female, two are Black Males, one Indian C Band 86% 82% 83% 83% Male and two are White Males. Our Employment Equity Plan B Band 88% 88% 93% 88% ended in 2015 and a new Employment Equity Plan (20162019) has been submitted to the Department of Labour. Sustainabilty Report 2015 39 Valuing and Empowering our People In 2015, RBCT made significant progress in respect of all RBCT 2015 Company Talent Profile is shown below: components of the EE plan for 2014/2015, however C Band remains a key focus area. The target for C Band is 86%, as Future Star High Flyer at 30 December 2015 we had achieved 82%. This is the only Turn Diamond in the rough 8% 11% 6% level where we remain under target. Trainee development programmes aim to address this challenge. Potential Danger Zone Key Performer Achiever Growth 13% 3% 14% Employment Equity Consultative Committee (EECC) Moment of Truth Performer Solid Achiever Mastery 18% 22% EE is one of RBCT’s strategies towards achieving operational 4% excellence and it is through the implementation of EE that we can achieve diversity in the workplace. Sustained Performance Below Expectations Meet Expectations Exceed Expectations The objectives of EECC at RBCT are: Talent management assists not only in identifying talent in • To eliminate employment practices and procedures that middle management but also assists in creating a talent pool are barriers to employment equity from the lower levels right up to top management. Below are • To review career management practices some of the successes of talent management at semi-skilled and skilled level. Also through this tool we are able to gauge • To ensure equitable access to training and development trainee and contractor talent and put effort in place not to opportunities lose talent that creates value for the business. • To eliminate employment barriers for people with disabilities RBCT Effective Leadership • To promote a culture that values diversity in the workplace In 2015 a total of 19 leaders attended a three day session post the assessment of their leadership effectiveness style. • To ensure effective communication of objectives of EE to This assessment was done through the means of a well all staff in order to ensure understanding and buy-in utilised leadership assessment tool known as the 360 degree assessment. Each leader on the programme was appraised by his/her direct leader, his/her team, and peers. One of the Talent Management strengths of this programme can be attributed to the varied source of information provided by different participants who have first-hand experience of the candidate. Post At RBCT we apply a rigorous approach to managing this assessment, the leader was sent to a 3 day coaching employees, especially in identifying those employees who programme – coached on world class effective leadership bring competitive advantage to the business. The talent tools. All candidates received comprehensive feedback and a management strategy continues to add significant value report on their dominant styles. The strength of this assessment to the organisation. The process embodies a nine box tool is found in its focus on style not personality – this suggests matrix and requires open and transparent discussions that change can be effected and should be embraced. between managers and subordinates while at the same time incorporating the greater view of the larger organisation. Employees are provided with clear understanding of their performance while at the same time formulating individual Managerial Assessment of Proficiency (MAP) development plans. The process has now been rolled out across the company. This also provides a key input into A total of 16 leaders attended MAP. MAP has provided us future succession planning which is part of the process. a means of taking stock of our management talent. This process evaluates managers against twelve management RBCT considers the whole workforce to be talent, but core competencies that influence management style and differentiates the way in which parts of the workforce are values. The outcome of this process is a detailed report managed. Our formal talent management process yields on the managers’ level of competence against global and benefits for both employees and the business. Employees organisational levels of competence. enjoy increased satisfaction with current and future career development opportunities. Managers are then coached in a group and one-on-one to assist them to gain awareness on their competency levels. It The business benefits from improved workforce skills and is only through awareness that we can change or improve. competencies, long-term planning, cost saving through MAP has become a good vehicle of choice in preparing staff retention and narrowing of the skills gap. In a skills identified talent for management roles as well as in constrained environment such as South Africa, effective accelerating the newly appointed and promoted managers. management of talent is critical to achieving business goals. 40 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Valuing and Empowering our People 12 MAP Competencies RBCT’s health was rated by both employees and management as healthy in the following categories: Our managers have received personal one-on-one coaching on the following competencies. • Direction • Leadership • Culture and climate Time Management and Prioritising Training, Coaching and Delegating Appraising People and Performance Identifying and Solving Problems Making Decisions, Weighing Risks Thinking Clearly and Analytically Setting Goals and Standards Planning and Scheduling Work Getting Unbiased Information Discipline and Counselling • Accountability Listening and Organizing Giving Clear Information • Coordination and control • Motivation • Learning and innovation • Building capabilities Culture Initiatives Organisational Health Survey RBCT celebrates Heritage Day as we recognise and value the diversity of our employees. RBCT conducts an annual Organisational Health Survey that is aimed at validating how healthy RBCT is. The process Heritage Day is a national holiday where South Africans is built on a test-action-re-test approach. Whether at the have the opportunity to celebrate their cultural heritage individual, group, or organizational level, the process and embrace their diverse traditions and values. These remains the same: values contributed to the national theme for the 2015 Heritage Month which was ‘living heritage’. At RBCT we • measure what is currently happening were celebrating “UBUNTU”. UBUNTU are the values and principles that represent our humanness and how we value • develop strategies for change the community. At RBCT we embrace heritage through our • implement these vision, mission and values that sets the tone and ethos for this company. • re-test to evaluate the effectiveness of the change strategies RBCT employees dressed in their traditional attire and shared an array of meals. Overview Maintaining Positive Employee Relations: Communication Elite Ailing 29% 31% A transparent and open line of communication with all our stakeholders remains integral in fostering a shared vision. In 2015, RBCT management and employees were informed, consulted and provided with feedback about company performance. Cost optimisation measures were discussed with employees and all employees were given an opportunity Able to ask questions, and to suggest more cost optimising ideas. 40% In each department, employees are empowered to run their area of operation as a mini business and to be entrepreneurs in their area of operation. This is further embedded in their teams through the Mission Directed Work Teams (MDWT) process. Ailing: Below Expectations Information was communicated swiftly and in an open and Able: Meeting Expectations honest manner. The following structures/forums were used to Elite: Meeting and Exceeding Expectations communicate key information: In 2015, the results showed a 6% improvement in the overall attitude of employees. What makes this achievement more impressive is the continued difficult economic climate, together with the pressures that this places a business under. Sustainabilty Report 2015 41 Valuing and Empowering our People RBCT Established Communication Channels Developing and Empowering HighThis communication structure has further strengthened the internal stakeholder relations. Employees are abreast with performing People the Terminal strengths, opportunities and possible threats and they are part of the solution. Employees are engaged Employee Development on all subjects that matter the most to them. They are given the opportunity to shape the future of RBCT, as we learn and Our structured employee development and training share together. We view communication as a sign of respect programmes aim to raise competence levels, encourage and we respect and acknowledge that we all have a role to engagement and productivity, and retain talent. Our play in keeping RBCT sustainable, in all matters that relate to leadership development programmes develop skills and moving coal and people. competence in specific areas. During 2015 the RBCT talent management and performance management systems continued to operate, with no real changes. The Nine Box Method was conducted for senior EXCO Meeting Extended EXCO SATAWU Leadership Leadership Forum IMBIZO managers, middle managers and supervisory staff. This was underpinned by the performance management comprising of individual performance management, an individual scorecard for Mangers, D Band and above, The company scorecard – linked to the monthly and annual performance bonus, individual (at manager level), team and departmental Listening and Engaging with Employees scorecards. Our employees play a crucial role in our success. We have developed progressive and productive partnerships with trade union South African Transport and Allied Worker’s Training and Development Union (SATAWU) on collective bargaining and other matters. The overall goal of training and development at RBCT is to We regularly solicit employees’ views and listen to their ensure that RBCT permanent staff members have the correct ideas. In 2015 we held 3 Leadership Forums and IMBIZOs skills, knowledge, motivation and alignment to perform and conducted an Organisational Health Survey. optimally in support of the company’s vision, mission, values and strategic/operational objectives. Over 90% of RBCT employees took part in the Organisational Health Survey. About 75% of respondents Training and development is primarily carried out to meet said they believe strongly in RBCT’s strategic direction and the business needs of RBCT while, where necessary and leadership. They are motivated to work for RBCT and are possible, also addressing the wider skills development willing to go the extra mile to help RBCT be sustainable. needs of the country. Almost 70% of respondents believe that RBCT systems are not cumbersome and are well coordinated and controlled, Our focus is to facilitate continuous operational improvement making it easy to collaborate with other teams. through the development of intellectual capacity. Therefore it is our aim to provide everyone at RBCT with an environment 63% of employees believe that: in which they can flourish based on well-defined and developed competencies. • people are truly and fully held accountable Our process offers employees clear purpose and roles that • people receive appropriate performance corrective will develop knowledge, skills and attributes in a focused measures for poor performance manner while providing clear objectives that are linked to the concept of reward for performance. • those who perform exceptionally well receive appropriate recognition for a job well done Training and development will be pursued on the basis of the following guidelines: We are implementing initiatives across all divisions to improve how we show appreciation for the hard work • all training and development will be based on the of our people and how we can effectively manage poor needs of the company, as well as wider stakeholder performance. engagement, especially, at strategic levels, as established through a needs analysis Throughout all IMBIZO sessions, the CEO emphasised the following: • managers are responsible for the competency levels of their staff in order to ensure adequate succession • Safety management in their departments • Cost • all activities will aim at optimally satisfying the long and • Productivity short term needs of various competencies required by RBCT 42 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Valuing and Empowering our People Average Hours of Training The average hours of training per year per employee by occupational category of employee as at 31 December 2015 were: Occ. Occ. Cat. Text Total Hours Number of Average Hours Category per Level Staff Trained per person per level 1000 Legislators, senior officials and managers 1959 30 65 2000 Professionals 454 5 91 3000 Technicians and associate professionals 6958 89 78 4000 Clerks 1718 45 38 7000 Craft and related trades workers 17263 97 178 8000 Plant and machine operators and assemblers 9444 157 60 9000 Elemetary occupations 14252 45 317 Grand Total 52048 468 Training and development at RBCT is delivered through the Management Development Programme (MDP) most appropriate medium for the organisation in line with national requirements. In order to maximise investment in RBCT continues to develop management and supervisory our staff and training development programmes, managers skills, through an intense MDP aimed at creating critical and staff who have attended training or development management capacity amongst our employees. The main programmes may be requested to provide mentorship and aim is to bridge gaps in previous qualifications and to coaching where necessary. address those who do not have any formal qualification, in particular in management science. The formal programmes Specific policies and programmes for skills management or being the University of South Africa (UNISA) MDP and for lifelong learning are designed to empower employees FMP programmes, while foundational skills are laid through who aspire to be in management positions. more hands-on SAQA accredited skills programmes at the supervisory (CORE) and management (BMS) levels. To achieve operational excellence, superior people performance becomes key to succeeding in a challenging International Executive Development Programme business environment. As part of RBCT’s company-wide commitment to attract, develop and retain valuable talent, (IEDP) skills management programmes are in place in all divisions. RBCT is proud to be represented by two senior managers in Specific policies and programmes for skills management or the IEDP that incorporates local and global immersion. This for lifelong learning are designed to empower employees programme is proudly sponsored by the Transport Education who aspire to be in management positions. Training Authority (TETA) and delivered jointly by GIBS, SA and Rollins College, USA. The programme brings together 25 managers from different transport sector industries. This Executive Development Programme is designed to lay a Staff Development solid foundation for those executives who are assuming strategic and business leadership responsibilities, with a joint focus on local and global business. RBCT’s career development strategies continued to focus on management development, supervisory and leadership One of the strengths of this programme is the wide variety of development, the employee development programme delegates it attracts from both the private and public sector, (EDP), operator training as well as technical and general which provides a wonderful opportunity for networking skills development of employees. The implementation of the and building relationships that will be mutually beneficial coaching and mentoring processes are on-going. long after the programme has ended. This provides delegates the opportunity to think beyond their industry Management Development and contribute meaningfully to their respective positions In 2015, the focus remained on CORE skills and leadership while preparing them for development, especially for the front-line leaders. Training more strategic and senior was delivered to close the gap as identified through the roles. Individual Development Planning (IDP) process. MAP and 369 degree assessment as well as coaching were done for all D Lower (middle management) and C Upper (supervisory) leaders. Sustainabilty Report 2015 43 Valuing and Empowering our People EDP The aim of the programme is to develop the core competencies required by employees making the transition to management or supervisory positions. The key focus is on managing yourself and a project is identified, investigated and where possible completed. After completion of this programme, delegates present their projects to the General Management. Those requiring further work or capex and deemed suitable are then further developed via the bright ideas system. ‘I enjoyed last year’s EDP, I found it interesting and informative. It definitely made me think differently about certain situations, especially in the workplace.’ – Lika Becker Bursaries ‘Informative, useful and great for entry level management.’ – Alain Bezuidenhout RBCT grants bursaries in various forms, open bursary ‘It highlighted many areas which we are involved with daily scheme, closed bursary scheme (study grants) and staff enabling us, well me anyway , to apply and make use of education assistance. on a regular basis. I found it useful and I recommend it to Open Bursary Scheme anyone.’ – Theo Schoeman RBCT grants bursaries to assist with sourcing and 18 developing bright young talent in anticipation of meeting our 16 future skills requirements and in key areas of the community. 14 In 2015, RBCT awarded 9 open bursaries sponsoring 12 learners in fields such as Engineering, Industrial Psychology, 10 Finance, Education and Nursing. Employment equity targets 8 Total require at least 80% of bursaries to be awarded to previously 6 disadvantaged persons and in 2015 RBCT achieved 100% 4 in this area. 2 0 To ensure that bursars succeed in their studies, individual 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 progress is monitored and assistance is provided where required. During holidays, bursars work at RBCT where EDP Attendees they are helped to grow their knowledge through practical application. This approach helps each bursar bridge the Once projects have been approved, the Business gap between education and the world of business. Improvement division facilitates implementation. Harina Ndaba has been on the RBCT Open Bursary Scheme Status on 2015 EDP Projects since 2013 and this year she received the Wits Dean’s Recognition Award for Accounting. Projects Responsible Status Says Harina, “Much of my motivation comes from the desire Smart Track on vehicles Chris Varney (Garage to build a house for my mother as the condition of the house we live in is not good. I am also motivated to study hard, get Bulldozer training philosophies Alain Bezuidenhout good results and a good job so that I can live a decent life Revising maintenance schedules Stephani du Plessis where we will never go hungry again”. Automated grease port at ship Vusi Nzuza Harina thanks RBCT for their financial assistance, vocational loader tripper work opportunities and continuous support. Aligning of remittances with Estelle Paxman payments proposals Closed Bursary Scheme As an extension of the bursary system, in 2015, RBCT offered 16 study grants to employees’ children who are registered to study at a recognised tertiary institution. 50% of these grants should be focused on continued education. 44 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Valuing and Empowering our People Technical Training Infrastructure With the RBCT technical training being outsourced, it was identified that staff have difficulty transferring the knowledge learnt into plant specific equipment. Taking this into consideration, RBCT created a technical training workshop. During 2013, a mini substation, PLC racks and small conveyor system were completed to assist with electrical fault finding and a larger number of RBCT specific technical training programmes were run with the aim to improve the quality of artisans and reduce down time, based on skill set is identified by line managers. During 2014/15 this was further developed to include backstops training and basic hydraulics training. During 2015 RBCT applied for Manufacturing, Engineering and Related SETA (MERSETA) accreditation through the MERSETA Board. This accreditation is imminent and the plan over the next two years 2016/2017 is to move the maintenance assistant training on-site, reducing costs and work disruption to the relevant sections. The centre is also used as an artisan assessment centre to test new artisans during the recruitment Harina Ndaba is congratulated by Ms Nosipho Siwisaphase ensuring they have the appropriate minimum skills. Damasane, RBCT CEO and Jabu Mdaki, RBCT GM Operations Plant Operator Traineeships Artisan Recognition Training/Artisan in Training (ART/AIT) RBCT also has a one year training programme for plant operators to ensure succession is in place and operations The ART and AIT programme was introduced with potential are therefore not interrupted in the event of a resignation. maintenance assistants being selected for artisan training. RBCT has reviewed and implemented Key Operations These candidates were sent on the apprenticeship Training Programmes as part of our ongoing continuous modules with the aim to write Section 28 Trade tests in improvement programme. We are currently registering a 2015/16, depending on the individuals pace of learning and learnership for the 12 months with the TETA, which will mean application of the skills. the trainee’s should achieve a national certificate in plant operations. Education Assistance Programme (EAP) Employees have access to funding for part-time education through our EAP where RBCT pays for tuition and employees are only required to repay should they not pass the courses. This encourages employees to improve their knowledge and workrelated skills and to prepare them for the next step in their careers. 74 staff members participated in this scheme during 2015. Apprenticeships and Traineeships At RBCT we have an apprenticeship system registered with TETA (Transport Education and Training Authority). Apprentices are registered with the MERSETA via a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between the SETA’s. Bursars who have completed their degrees and diplomas are often given opportunities to gain the experience required. In 2015, RBCT’s commitment was as follows: Trainee Type Number Comment Bursar Apprentices 16 Millwright Apprentices Electronic Technician 1 Automation and Control Y Electrical Engineer 1 Diploma Technician Y ART/AIT Trainees 10 Current maintenance assistants identified for artisan development Electrical Technician 1 Diploma Technician doing P1 & P2 Y IT Trainee 1 Bsc. Computer Science N Sustainabilty Report 2015 45 Valuing and Empowering our People Training Accreditation Industrial Relations In addition to being accredited with the MERSETA for on-site The Industrial Relations climate of 2015 was stable without training of Millwrights and Boilermaker Apprentices, RBCT any labour disputes, stayaways from work, or industrial action is also a fully accredited training provider with the TETA impacting on the operational requirements of the Company. for Operations Training courses that include ship-loading, bulldozing, tipping, stacking and reclaiming, shunting and loco The following initiatives were implemented during 2015 operating. All trainees who undergo this training can have their enabling a sustainable Industrial Relations Climate: credits registered on the National Learner Record Database. Assessments on the programmes above are done by Collective Agreements accredited line assessors with a training assessor in attendance. The assessments are then internally moderated Revised grievance and disciplinary procedures were and are further moderated by the TETA on an annual basis. negotiated with the trade union, as part of ensuring that Each year RBCT’s assessments have been approved by the collective agreements do not become outdated and nonTETA with minor recommendations for improvement. compliant with changes in labour law provisions and/or in terms of continuously required assessment and improvement in relation to aspects of fairness and effectiveness. The CAT Training Aid Company’s disciplinary code was also reviewed and amended as necessary. In 2015, RBCT purchased a CAT training aid. The purpose of this training aid is to improve the skills of Bulldozer Operators and to allow practice and lessons to be conducted in a safe Productivity and Remuneration and cost effective environment. This prevents bulldozers being taken out of production and a saving on approximately The existing company performance incentive scheme 48 hours of diesel usage per trainee. Trainees do the CAT expired on 31 December 2015 and it was therefore required E-learning module, the RBCT specific theory and then do the that the scheme be reviewed and together with the new lessons on the CAT training aid. measures be implemented for the next 3-year term, i.e. 2016 – 2018. The measures are designed to promote alignment The training aid is a mock-up of a bull dozer but does not to the overall company objectives which drive productivity have motion. Each lesson provides the candidate with initiatives. It was not necessary to negotiate annual wage feedback which is something that a normal instructor increases and wage-related matters with the trade union, would not be able to do. When doing pushing, slot dozing, because the parties are still bound by the last leg of a 3-year levelling and trench back filling exercises the candidate wage agreement. gets feedback on the % that the blade is full as well as how often the blade dug below the intended level and over revs. Operators requiring to be relicensed or who have not Conditions of Employment operated a dozer for some time can quickly and safely be re-orientated. Conditions of employment were reviewed and updated as required to ensure ongoing legal compliance, particularly The training aid simulates in a normal construction in the light of recently legislated amendments to the Labour environment but the operating principles remain the Relations, EE and Basic Conditions of Employment Acts. The same, thus the candidate still has to do observed training Company’s industrial relations policies and procedures were in the yard on climbing coal dumps and building platforms. also reviewed in terms of a required in-company 3-yearly It is believed that the training aid will improve operator revision process. The 12 hour shift work system exemption, performance, reduce wear and tear on equipment, achieve conditional to exonerate Company operations from the training best practices and save on training costs. previous Basic Conditions of Employment Act in terms of working hour’s limitations, expired in November 2015, so it required that the Company re-apply for the next 2-year period. This was done successfully and exemption was reaffirmed for 2016 and 2017 by the Department of Labour. Disputes No disputes were lost at the CCMA. There was a 3-hour work stoppage by employees in one department, who were demanding to be paid earlier than the official pay date. The necessary corrective action was taken to defuse the situation. Two National Protest Action (NPA) marches were called for by Trade union Federations because of socioeconomic issues but RBCT was not directly affected by these as its employees did not participate. 46 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Valuing and Empowering our People RBCT Focuses on Diversity and Women’s Day Cook Off Development of Women Celebration of Women’s month took the form of a cook off in 2015. Zululand Chamber of Commerce (ZCCI) – Women in Ladies were split into teams and each team had to choose Business Conference ‘cooks’ and ‘decorators’. The RBCT ladies who attended the ZCCI’s Annual Women The cooks were given everything they needed to prepare a in Business Conference came back motivated and delicious meal from a variety of ingredients including, beef, enthusiastic. This event showcases women leaders with chicken, prawns, mince and fresh fish. success stories and is a unique opportunity for women to learn from, connect with and inspire one another. The cooks were given 90 minutes to prepare a meal and salad which was then presented to the judges for tasting. Inspired was certainly the unofficial theme of the event, with guest speakers like Zelda la Grange and Margaret Meanwhile their team mates (the decorators) were busy Hirsch together with RBCT’s GM Human Resources, Judith preparing the tables from an assortment of table clothes, Nzimande. flowers, vases and various other décor. The tables were then judged which formed part of the final scoring. After the judging lunch was enjoyed by all with the added excitement of the CEO arriving to share in the festivities and offer some words of wisdom. RBCT ladies at the ZCCI Women in Business Conference The cook off winners Diversity and Development of Women Womens Day cook off in action Sustainabilty Report 2015 47 Terminal Highlights and Achievements Africa’s most influential women in logistics and shipping: RBCT CEO: Nosipho Siwisa-Damasane RBCT’s CEO, Miss Nosipho Siwisa-Damasane was recognised as Africa’s most influential woman in logistics and shipping in the SADC region in 2015. The awards were hosted by Celebrating Excellence in Organisations Communication (CEOC). The judging criteria that made her a winner was based on demonstrated impact and evidence in the following areas: • Sector influence and professional achievements Top Award for RBCT CEO • Leadership elements that the nominee Businesswomen’s Association developed in her industry (BWA) • Contribution to the company overall sustainability objectives RBCT CEO, Miss Nosipho Siwisa-Damasane was named 2015 Business Woman of the Year by the • Promotion of best practices through Business Women’s Association of SA. implementation of performance standards The annual Business Woman of the Year Awards • Individual social responsibility (BWOYA) honours the country’s most outstanding female leaders in the corporate and entrepreneurial It is evident that Nosipho is a visionary and sectors. relevant leader with the necessary skills and acumen that is recognised in Africa as a whole Nosipho was chosen amongst high performing finalists and she is a befitting brand ambassador for RBCT. in the Corporate Category and made history as she is the first KZN based woman to win the award. Through her leadership there has been a renewed focus on transformation and mentorship within RBCT and in the surrounding communities. All these resulted in business success. CEO takes RBCT to Japan In September, a filming crew from NHK (Nippon Hòsò Kyòkai) – Japan’s national public broadcasting organisation came to RBCT to interview Nosipho for a programme called International Report. The programme covers various topics around Africa and is aimed at the overseas market, similar to BBC World News. The interview was for a special on ‘Women leading the future of Africa’. The channel is based in Tokyo, Japan and the service is broadcast through satellite and cable operators throughout the world as well as online and though its mobile apps. 48 Richards Bay Coal Terminal BWA Business Woman of the Year – Corporate Category Mrs Judith Nzimande, RBCT’s GM-Human Resources was awarded this prestigious award in July 2015. The event was the Women’s Achievers Awards and it was organised by the BWA-Zululand Branch. The category was highly contested as it had 4 finalists all of whom are renowned and phenomenal women leaders and who have made progressive marks in various industries they serve and in their respective professions. This unique category was looking for an exceptional leader who demonstrated qualities of an ideal role model and who had to be influential and be actively making a difference within the company and community – with specific focus on transformation and beyond. Institute of People Management (IPM) 2015 HR Director of the Year Award RBCT GM Human Resources, Mrs Judith Nzimande won the IPM 2015 HR Director of the Year Award. The IPM Excellence Awards seek to recognise business and people leaders who contribute significantly to furthering excellence in people management for the benefit of employees, organisations, communities and the country as a whole. Judith, a leader in the People Management (PM) space represented RBCT and was assessed and recognised as leading the way with innovative and excellent people programmes and practices. The IPM has been recognising and rewarding excellence since 1956. Sustainabilty Report 2015 49 Delivering Social Value We bring commitment and growth, improve livelihoods and Our CSI efforts predominantly focus on: help build local communities. At RBCT we know that many of the communities where we work face big challenges in their • Education environments and societies, which we share with them. We • Early Childhood Development know that when they prosper, so do we. • Skills Development We have not had any incidents of community discontent. This includes demonstrations, operations stoppage and • Community welfare formal complaints. The CSI Programmes are monitored by a robust CSI Committee that meets monthly to approve, review • Environment and track the status of CSI programmes. This committee is made up of RBCT permanent employees from different • Crime Prevention divisions and indifferent organisational structures/levels. • HIV/Aids Responding effectively to community needs and expectations is important for maintaining good relations. • Sport Development Community expectations and the lack of development in some of our neighbouring communities continue to motivate us to remain committed in our long standing Criteria for funding of projects: programmes. In 2015 a total of R8 949 801.00 was spent on CSI programmes. We pride ourselves with the long-standing • It must benefit a wider community relationships with our communities within the uThungulu District. • It must be developmental in nature Our approach to community development is based on • It must be sustainable understanding local contexts and using our core business to promote development. Creating Value through Social Investment 50 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Delivering Social Value Our Commitment Environmental Initiatives Our slogan, “Coal to the world, growth to the nation” depicts Coastal Cleanup our sustainable commitment to community development over the years. Our aim is to participate in programmes In September 2015, RBCT employees and 50 students that benefit the wider community and sustainable projects from two RBCT assisted schools Ntabeni Primary and that can build a better South Africa. In 2015 we recognised Khula High School, joined forces to assist with the Coastal the need to focus on early childhood development and Cleanup. education as we regard this as an integral component in building a better future and life for all. Despite the gloomy weather, spirits were high and the participants were very enthusiastic. Breakdown of some of the items collected: Our communities matter to us Polystyrene = 35%, Alcohol bottles = 20 %, Plastic packets Over the last five years RBCT committed the following = 10%, Plastic bottles =30%, Cans = 5 %, Other = 10% amounts to our communities: Stranger items collected = Remains of a sting ray fish, paint Our approach to Socio-Economic Development (SED) has brush, PVC gutter pipe. moved towards a philosophy that is fully accountable and The RBCT participants enjoyed a sponsored meal after the geared towards providing sustainable solutions to real needs event. identified in the community. The success of this philosophy hinges on the recognition that any social involvement should make a meaningful improvement to the lives of the people and communities that it is designed to benefit. Ntabeni Primary School Education Hosting the RBCT Board of Directors once a year is custom Community Welfare 7% (R 4 917 234) 10% (R6 767 663) but in 2015 RBCT decided to do things a little differently. Early Childhood Development Instead of hosting the Board on site it was decided to take 16% (R10 504 835) Other them to the RBCT’s flagship CSI Projects – Ntabeni Primary 16% (R10 384 003) School. It was a first time visit to Ntabeni for the Board members and, together with RBCT General Management; they were warmly welcomed with traditional dancing and singing. Following the Board meeting, the Wildlands Conservation Skills Development 51% (R34 497 498) Trust did a presentation on the Trees for Life project and graciously donated sports kits and much needed Jo Jo tanks to assist the school with water preservation. The founding school principal, Mrs Thandi Magubane thanked RBCT and the Board for their continued support and for their Total CSI from 2010 t0 2015: R67 071 233 life changing contribution to the community of Ndindima. Other Education 2% (R 186 909) 3% (R 276 689) Community Welfare Early Childhood 14% (R 1 287 554) Development 19% (R 1 653 257) Skills Development 62% (R 5 545 392) Ms Nosipho Siwisa-Damasane, RBCT CEO, Mrs Judith Nzimande, RBCT GM Human Resources and Alister Rogan, RBCT Board member at Ntabeni Primary School Sustainabilty Report 2015 51 Delivering Social Value Trees for Life Project RBCT does not only make a difference to the lives of people, but also to the environment. Each year RBCT is a catalyst for many Treepreneurs to be able to feed their families, buy school uniforms, receive bicycles, and purchase basic building materials for their homes. This is achieved by Treepreneurs growing indigenous trees and then exchanging the trees for items or consumables they need. The project teaches the communities entrepreneurial skills as wells as educating them about the environment. In 2015, RBCT once again supported this project by donating R300 000 to the Wildlands Conservation Trust who oversees the management and long term sustainability of this project. The handover took place at Ntabeni Primary School in October 2015 and the Ndidima community was there in large numbers to be a part of this annual occasion. About Ntabeni Primary School Prior to RBCT’s involvement with Ntabeni Primary Amangwe Village School, lessons for approximately 70 learners were conducted under a tree. Over the years RBCT, through RBCT once again showed commitment to Amangwe by the SDC Committee has assisted the school to the value donating R350 000. of over R4.5 million for the construction of classrooms, ablution facilities, playground equipment, fencing, Amangwe Village renders services to people infected and a kitchen, an administration block as well as a fully affected by HIV/Aids through strengthening communities equipped computer centre. by implementing activities that will enable and empower communities to take care of their vulnerable members. Today, 850 students are registered at the school which is a truly remarkable achievement for the community The money will be used for: of Ndidima, clearly depicting RBCT’s commitment to • Crèche R50 000 community development. oo Sponsorship of 12 children for 1 year oo Building security oo Maintenance of the buildings, playground equipment and toys oo Transport costs for attending the Regional Toy Library meetings 52 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Delivering Social Value • Home Based Care Programme R300 000 oo Stipends for the 28 Home Based Carers for 1 year oo Non-medical supplies for the treatment of 411 patients oo Food parcels for patients in need oo Transport/fuel for the weekly visits to the patients and Home Based Carers oo Monitoring of the 17 patient support groups – visits/ training/mentoring oo Facilitation fees (staff costs) oo Quarterly meetings/training of the Carers 4 x a year – this will cover their travelling to Amangwe Village and light refreshments. Training is also given during these visits on topics requested by the carers Old Mill High School The Old Mill High School was the recipient of 100 desks and 200 chairs generosity donated by RBCT. The decision to donate these items was taken after the management of Ubuhlebomhlanga Women’s Cooperative the school wrote to the Terminal to request some help in obtaining the much needed furniture. In October 2015, RBCT proudly handed over 350m2 of fencing to the Ubuhlebomhlanga Women’s Cooperative in the Ngwelezane Community just outside of Empangeni. Food security is a daily struggle for many households and Martha Beyers School it was for this reason that RBCT undertook to partake in this agricultural initiative and assist these ladies in the good work Martha Beyers is the only English medium school in that they are doing in their community. The vegetables and Nongoma – affording mostly previously disadvantaged crops that are grown are vital as they are used to feed the learners an opportunity to develop their English vocabulary community as well as offering sustainable income through without relocating to the private schools which are often the sale of the crops. beyond parents means. In 2015, RBCT supplied palisade fencing to the value of R200 000 for the school after being approached by the school management requesting help in curbing the criminality (break-ins) that had been taking place. The school was started by the community after identifying a vital need for a school in the area. In 2015 the Martha Beyers Academy proudly graduated their first grade 12s. RBCT donated a mini science laboratory in order for the pupils to carry out their science practical exams. Sustainabilty Report 2015 53 Delivering Social Value Vumukukhanya Crèche The Community of Port Dunford, situated just outside of Esikhaweni, will remember 2015 as a historical year after RBCT replaced a shack crèche with a fully-fledged crèche consisting of four classrooms, two admin offices, a kitchen and ablution facilities. After lengthy consultations with the community leadership, RBCT made a commitment to build the crèche to the value of R1.3 million and today children can access education without walking long distances. The crèche also doubles up as a multipurpose centre for the community making this the first centre of this kind in the area. Before Vuyakhe Soccer Club The RBCT CSI committee members handed over a soccer kit to the under 13 soccer team of Vuyakhe Soccer club based in Esikhaweni. After Zamani Disabled People Wheelchair Donation Zamani Disabled People Centre became part of the RBCT CSI beneficiaries in 2013 when RBCT committed to donate an embroidery machine to the value of R120 000. In 2015, RBCT handed over six wheel chairs to the centre. Two of the recipients were the centre chairperson and the centre secretary who were both very grateful to be able to Computer Donation Handover move around the centre with ease. RBCT is continuously changing the lives of the uThungulu communities for the better and creating new partnerships to ensure that our communities grow with us. Working hand in hand with the Department of Education, uThungulu District, RBCT donated ten computers to schools identified by the department in collaboration with the uThungulu District Municipality. 54 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Delivering Social Value RBCT Open Days and Career Expo Computer and Technology Kit Donations RBCT played host to approximately 720 scholars during the As a result of a partnership between RBCT and the open day and career expo in 2015. Scholars arrived at RBCT Department of Education, in September 2015, the RBCT CSI and were shown the RBCT Corporate and Safety DVD’s. committee handed over 30 computers to various schools in the uThungulu District. A presentation on the importance of making the right choices was given which emphasized that students should A technology kit was also donated to Thambolini work hard at school as the greater the effort they put in the High School in Esikhaweni to assist with their learning greater the reward they will reap when choosing careers. outcomes. Educational Institutions such as Boston, Mega Training, Umfolozi TVET College, DUT, UNISA and Zululand University were on hand to give the scholars career and study advice. After the presentation, scholars enjoyed a complete site tour and a light lunch. Schools that attended were: • Richards Bay Secondary • Richards Bay Christian School • John Ross College • Ngebeza High School • Isikhalenisenkosi High School • Emkhayideni Technical High School • Martha Beyers Academy (travelled all the way from Nongoma) • Birdsview Academy • Mgitshwa High School We are innovative and • Duduzile High School (travelled all the way from the South Coast) proactive Sustainabilty Report 2015 55 Delivering Social Value Ikhwezi Welfare Organisation Annual Standard Donations From a building in desperate need of renovations to a RBCT fully understands that it is operating within local revamped building which is bright and beautiful – that communities and thus always strives to ensure growth is the change which RBCT made to the Ikhwezi Welfare through its community development initiatives. Organisation in Mandeni when it approved R170 000 to paint the outside of the buildings. In July 2015, RBCT invested an amount of R680 000 in its local communities through the annual standard donations. These funds go a long way in helping charities with all the Before wonderful work that they do in the communities. The receiving charities were: • Business Against Crime • Empangeni Child and Family Care • Empangeni SPCA • Life Line Zululand • National Sea Rescue Institution, Station 19 • Pathway School for Autism • Richards Bay Family Care • Richards Bay SPCA • Reaching Out After • SANCA • Siyabonga Shelter • The SA Red Cross Society • Thuthukani Special School • University of Zululand Science Centre • UThungulu Community Foundation • Zululand Hospice • Zululand Mental Health • Izulu Orphan Projects • Ezemvelo Wildlife Honorary Group 56 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Driving Enterprise and Supplier Development Procurement Enterprise Development In line with the Department of Trade and Industry’s BBBEE Enterprise development has always been a key focus at Codes of Best Practice, RBCT works closely with our RBCT, and one of our ongoing initiatives facilitated through suppliers to ensure compliance thereby embracing the our shareholders was making available four mt of export codes and assisting in the empowerment of our business capacity to junior miners at commercially attractive rates. partners. The allocation of the four million ton capacity is managed by the Department of Mineral Resources. Aligned with driving sustainability in the Zululand environment, procurement preference is often focused on This means that junior miners can now have access to export local suppliers with additional considerations to the small markets through RBCT, and maintain improved operational and medium enterprise categories where ever possible. performance and profitability within their businesses. The South African export facilities are often constrained due to RBCT has actively and progressively driven preferential infrastructure challenges, so the allocation of this capacity procurement spend for the past 13 years and insists on contributes significantly to enterprise development within the suppliers providing approved verification certificates to mining environment. ensure compliance within the codes. We maintain an extensive, customized database in our SAP system and Supplier and enterprise developments initiatives within the are able to continuously improve our position with up procurement area further contribute to RBCT’s responsible to date and reliable statistics on the various criteria as procurement strategy. We partner with committed exempt defined in the codes. Decision making is therefore easily micro enterprises and qualifying small enterprises that are facilitated when considering elements such as black both suppliers and potential supplier to RBCT in developing ownership, as well as black woman controlled business self-sufficient business partners. This is achieved via a that are suppliers or potential suppliers to RBCT. To ensure stringent selection criteria due to the nature of the terminal’s maximum procurement spend contributes towards RBCT’s maintenance spend being predominantly on specialized empowerment performance, it is our preference to engage high quality engineering items. with businesses that maintain a minimum level four BBBEE rating. Where commercial criteria are the same, preference is Maintaining Positive Relations with given to the higher BBBEE rated supplier. RBCT does not pay a premium to empowered companies, as commercial Customers competitiveness is a key determinant in decision making. From time to time, RBCT may require long-term contractors RBCT’s customers are its terminal users, which includes and suppliers to share their plans to maintain and improve shareholders, Quattro participants, and other commercial their empowerment ratings. users. Engaging with them, through the operations committee, helps us to better understand their needs. Standard Procurement Criteria Quality Management • Compliance with RBCT’s health, safety and environmental standards All coal at RBCT is sampled and analysed for quality. RBCT has continuous sampling plants that meet ISO 13909 • Adherence to RBCT’s quality specifications standard. RBCT laboratory is managed by an independent service provider, SGS, who are internationally renowned and • Competitive market related pricing are ISO accredited. • Valid BBBEE verification certificate • Service excellence Customer Information and Confidentiality RBCT takes appropriate steps to preserve confidential or market-sensitive information. Where deficiencies are identified within our systems or processes, actions are taken to remedy the situation. Sustainabilty Report 2015 57 Driving Enterprise and Supplier Development BBBEE Procurement Spend 120% 105% 104.61% 100.00% 99.66% 100% 93.84% 89.87% 80% 71.90% 68.35% 60% 51.04% 52.13% 40.01% 40% 24.63% 20% 0% 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 58 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Business Improvement (BI) The BI division was established to ensure direct focus on business improvement and sustainability, aligned with the RBCT Project Hopper company strategy. The BI department provides the following services to the organisation: Project Hopper Phases: • Business Improvement • CONCEPTS General idea or understanding of something to improve a system or service oo Lean Six Sigma – Introduction and LT – Culture Change • IDENTIFIED PROJECTS Within departments or generated through the innovations system as oo RBCT Project Hopper improvement or cost saving initiatives. These ideas are still in the quantification stage business case one oo Operational Excellence pagers • Company Innovation System • PROJECT PRIORITY Business case has been completed and highest ROI to the business are • Simulation – Capacity Studies, Feasibility Studies prioritized • Company Strategy • DEVELOPMENT Allocation of resources and completion date supported with signed validation of expected saving The focus of this department is on supporting business • EXECUTED Projects that are being implemented sustainability through improvement of business systems and people skills, in order to continuously improve efficiency, • DELIVERED PROJECTS Completed projects cost management and employee morale. BI is the gate keeper to business rules regarding the SLA, TCS reporting and company performance measures. 2015 Delivered Projects Department Status Money Market Fund Finance Lean Six Sigma Reduction in statutory audit fees Finance Eliminating real time payments Finance In 2014 RBCT commenced on a journey which involved the training of 10 candidates on the Lean Six Sigma Green Maintenance Shifts Maintenance Belt level. This was RBCT’s strategic approach, growing Change of insurance broker Legal and capability in the organisation and to start a lean foundation Compliance into the business. Lean Six Sigma is a business strategy tool that educates the organisation on identifying inefficiencies in the business process, which are corrected by implementing sustainable improvements. It is envisaged that, as the Lean Six Sigma system delivers results, it will become selffunding and be further rolled out into the business. Tracking of the projects and their respective results is conducted through Project Hopper, which is physically displayed on the Executive Committee (EXCO) performance board in the main admin block. This summarises the projects currently being tackled and the projected cost saving against each project. This is also reviewed at the monthly EXCO meetings. Sustainabilty Report 2015 59 Business Improvement (BI) Innovations RBCT’s Innovation System is a living tool, where the entire organisation gets an opportunity to take part in generating ideas that promote safety, efficiency and cost saving. Ideas are logged onto the Workflow System and follow the path depicted below: The innovation process is facilitated by the business improvement team, in conjunction with innovation champions from all the divisions. INNOVATION PROCESS Requirements for a good Innovation A good innovation must solve a problem or enhance a system The investigation stage must address the following questions: • What is the problem? • How do you know it’s a problem, and for how long has it been a problem? • How do you propose the problem is solved? • How much is it going to cost? • How much will RBCT benefit? SUBMISSION SUPERVISOR B.I. GROUP • Idea is generated • Supervisor engaged for further investigation • Idea is prioritised • Idea is investigated for merit • Improves quality of idea • Idea discussed with the Sponsor • Idea is shared with line manager • Encourages the implementation of the idea • Allocated an Implementer • Max duration 7 days • Idea is tracked for progress • Maximum duration 20 days SPONSOR IMPLEMENTATION Champions received feedback from the implementer and • Idea is prioritised for implementation • Final clarification on what to be done track progress • Allocates resources • Idea is implemented • Idea is tracked for progress • Maximum duration 90 days Innovations logged and implemented in 2015 ORIGINATORS TITLE SPONSORS Rob Wickham Improve apprentice quality Clive Honman Scelo Mhlongo Display number of primary cutter cuts per hour on the SCADA Scelo Mhlongo Melinda Forbay Align GL Codes to Managers on Workflow Michael Mhlongo Elize Hall Courier Prepaid Vouchers Anri Du Toit Khumbulani Tenza Finger saver tool Bheki Ngcobo Perumal Reddy Link operator licence expiry date on SAP with entrance into RBCT Mabutho Zulu Muzi Mlotshwa A wash basin installed at the loco shop Mcebo Sangweni Lavinia Govender SHD & CRP planner group Pearl Nxumalo Sithembiso Ndlovu Pay slips not to show confidential information outside Cynthia Dlamini Elize Hall Vox monthly telephone usage reports Anri Du Toit Nelson Murugan Printing of SAP PM schedules on double sided A4 paper Deshigan Padayachee 60 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Energy Management Journey RBCT first embarked on their energy management journey in 2006 and in 2015, the ‘Yongamandla’ team was re-energised to ensure the successful implementation of new projects and to ensure the long term sustainability of all existing energy initiatives at RBCT. In November 2015, the themes for Energy Saving were well articulated and role played by an employee industrial theatre team at the year-end Imbizo. This team brought to life the key drivers of energy saving at RBCT and made learning fun and enjoyable. Sustainabilty Report 2015 61 Glossary ABAS Anglo Business Assurance Services EAP Education Assistance Programme Aids Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome, a disease of the immune system caused by HIV infection EDP Employee Development Programme AIT Artisan in Training EE Employment Equity ART Artisan Recognition Training EECC Employment Equity Consultative Committee ARV Anti-retroviral Employee turnover BBBEE Broad-based black economic rate Calculated from the number of employees who empowerment. This represents a left the Company during the reporting period broadening of earlier BEE (see below) policy and attempts to spread the benefits EMP Environmental Management Programme of economic empowerment to the widest EMS Environmental Management System possible spectrum of black South Africans Energy use Sum of energy from electricity purchased, total BEE Black economic empowerment. BEE is a energy from fossil fuels and total energy from policy of the South African Government, renewable fuels. aimed at increasing the access black South Africans have to productive assets. It seeks EWP Employee Wellness Programme to ‘promote new opportunities for and increase the levels of participation of black EXCO Executive Committee people in the ownership, management and FIFO Fly In, Fly Out control of economic activities’ FINCO Finance Committee BMI Body Mass Index Fuels Diesel, petrol and paraffin consumed by BP Blood Pressure processes and utilities BWA The Businesswomen’s Association GIBS Gordon Institute of Business Science BWOYA Business Woman of the Year Awards GM General Manager CCMA Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and HIV/Aids Human immunodeficiency virus/acquired Arbitration immune deficiency syndrome CEO Chief Executive Officer HRA Health Risk Assessment CEOC Celebrating Excellence in Organisations HSEC Health, Safety, Environment and Community Communication IBP Integrated Business Policy CEP Coal Exporting Parties IDP Individual Development Plans CITT Coal Industry Task Team IEDP International Executive Development CSA Control Self-Assessment Programme CSI Corporate Social Investment IMBIZO An open forum chaired by the CEO to address CURA Governance Risk and Compliance all employees on business performance and Software/Enterprise Risk and Compliance all key matters. Software IPM Institute of People Management C Upper This is a grading statement level, a level ISO International Standard for Organisation. assigned to a manager responsible for the Published in 1996 by the International department Organisation for 14001 Environmental D Upper This is a grading statement level, a level Standardisation, it specifies the actual assigned to a manager responsible for the requirements for an environmental department management system. D Lower Is a grading system level, a level assigned ISO 14000 An environmental management system to a manager responsible for a shift standard published by the ISO DWA Department of Water Affairs IWWMP Integrated Waste and Water Management Plan 62 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Glossary JLT Jardin Lloyd Thompson RBCT Richards Bay Coal Terminal King Report The King Committee on Corporate REMCO Remunerations Committee Governance in South Africa was formed in 1992 (under the auspices of the Institute of RSR Railway Safety Regulator Directors in Southern Africa and SANS South African National Standard LED Local Economic Development SAP DMS Systems Application Product Document LTI Lost-time injury. Refers to an injury resulting Management System in the injured person being unable to attend/ return to work to perform the full duties of SATAWU South African Transport and Allied Workers his/her regular work, as per the advice of a Union suitably qualified medical professional, on the SECOM Social and Ethic Committee next calendar day after the injury. SED Socio-Economic Development LTIFR Lost-time injury-frequency rate. The number of lost-time injuries (see above) per 200,000 SHE Safety, Health and the Environment hours worked. SLA Service Level Agreement MAP Managerial Assessment of Proficiency SMS Short Message Sending MDWT Mission Directed Work Teams TB Tuberculosis MDP Management Development Programme TCS Terminal Control System MERSETA Manufacturing, Engineering and Related SETA TETA Transport Education Training Authority MI Minor Injury TFR Transnet Freight Rail MIFR Minor Injury Frequency Rate TIFR Total Injury Frequency Rate MOA Memorandum of Agreement TNPA Transnet National Port Authority Mt Million Tons TPH Tons per Hour Mt/a Million ton per annum TTT Train Turnaround Time NHK Nippon Hòsò Kyòkai UNGC United Nation Global Compact NIHL Noise-induced Hearing Loss UNISA University of South Africa NPA National Protest Action USA United States of America OHS Organisational Health Survey VFL Visible felt leadership: Process in OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment which management regularly visits all Specification workplaces/operations in an organisation, and engages with employees and OOP Object-Oriented Programming contractors to address safety issues. OPCO Operations Committee WDMS Wellness and Disease Management OREP Occupational Risk and Exposure Profiles System PHC Primary Healthcare Management ZCCI Zululand Chamber of Commerce and Industry PLR Port Load Rate PLWD People Living with Disability PM People Management PoPi Protection of Personal information PROCOM Projects Committee Sustainabilty Report 2015 63 Boundary and scope of this report This sustainability report covers our financial calendar year which is the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015. Our 2014 report, though not externally assured, is available on our website. In this report we cover all our operational activities during that relate to coal handling. We handle coal effectively and efficiently once the train is handed over to us by TFR. The report does not cover any data on derailments as these are not direct part of our operations. The arrival and departure of all vessels is managed and coordinated by TNPA. The report excludes the quality of coal and analysis processes as these are conducted by the on-site independent laboratory. The report excludes any information on how BEE companies can get an allocation in the 4 mt Quattro programme. RBCT is not directly involved in the selection process or criteria of who has allocations or entitlements within Quattro; this is handled by Department of Mineral Resources and the Coal Industry Task Team (CITT). RBCT produces a separate Annual Financial Report which does not form part of this report and is distributed to shareholders only. For this report: • Safety data is inclusive of data for our employees and contractors on site • HIV/Aids data is only for our permanent employees 64 Richards Bay Coal Terminal Sustainabilty Report 2015 65 To share your views or comments, contact: Corporate Affairs Department Richards Bay Coal Terminal (Pty) Limited South Dunes, Richards Bay Harbour P O Box 56, Richards Bay, 3900 Tel: 035 904 4020 Email: communications@rbct.co.za Visit our website: www.rbct.co.za 66 Richards Bay Coal Terminal
