Doing Business for a Better World 2016 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2016 01 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Contents Editorial Policy 02 Respect for Human Rights 39 Directions Support for International Standards 42 You can move easily between pages via the category tabs and navigation buttons. Promotion of Management System for Human Rights 43 Corporate Information 03-04 Enhancement of Local Industrial Corporate Profile 03 Bases & Quality of Life 44 Mitsui & Co.’s Approach to Business Development and Value Chains 04 Development of the Social Infrastructure 47 • Category tabs Provision of Safe, Reliable Products and Services 47 Participation and Development in Communities 48 Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Message from Our CEO 05-06 Contribution to Developing People with International Mindset 49 Contents Protection of the Global Activity Reports by Material Issue Respect for Human Rights Environment Stable Supply of Resources CSR at Mitsui & Co. 07-12 & Materials 51 Resource Development, and the Securing and 54 Click on the tabs to go to the top page of each category Interactive Communication with Mitsui & Co.’s Stakeholders 09 Stable Supply of Materials and Food Participation in Initiatives 11 Promotion of Supply Chain Management 54 • Navigation buttons • Link buttons Corporate Governance Five Material Issues in the CSR Field & Human Resource Development 60 Go forward one page Link to website 13-16 Corporate Governance & Internal Controls 63 Go back one page Mitsui & Co.’s Approach 14 Reinforcement of Sustainability Governance 65 Identification and Review Processes for Material Issues 16 Return to previously viewed page Link to related information Compliance & Risk Management 67 Human Resources to Translate into Assets 70 Human Resource Development 71 Activity Reports by Material Issue 17-79 Promoting Diversity Management 73 Occupational Safety and Health Initiatives 76 Protection of the Global Environment 18 Data of Personnel Affairs 77 Cover: Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Enhancement of Environmental 22 Management System Doing Business 2016 Mitsui & Co. has defined Five Material Issues in the CSR Field for the company to focus on, Evaluation by Society 80 for a Better World Sustainability Report Initiatives toward Environmental Value Creation 26 with the aim of meeting the expectations of a variety of stakeholders and contributing to the Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Load, Including 31 creation of a future where the aspirations of the people can be fulfilled, as set out in our Curbing Global Warming (With Environmental Data) corporate mission. Initiatives for Preserving Biodiversity 35 Independent Practitioner’s The images shown on the cover represent the Five Material Issues outlined in the Assurance Report 81 Addressing Environmental Issues through 38 Strategic Focus sections of this year’s Report. Contribution to Society Sustainability Report 2016 02 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Editorial Policy Mitsui & Co. defines practice of CSR as contribution to the development of a sustainable society by Scope of Coverage in the Sustainability Report: creating new value through business activities that lead to the solution of various issues confronting Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and major consolidated subsidiaries and associated companies. The scope of coverage for contemporary society. numerical data is provided individually in appended notes. We have added a number of features to our “Sustainability Report 2016” to help stakeholders Period Covered: understand our CSR philosophy and activities. Mainly the fiscal year from April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016, but also including some information about policies and activities for the fiscal year ending March 2017 ‌ Mitsui & Co. has identified Five CSR Material Issues as a framework for our contribution to “a future where Independent Practitioner’s Assurance the aspirations of the people can be fulfilled”, as stated in our corporate mission. We recognize each of these The “(” logo indicates that the sustainability information concerned has been given limited assurance, for material issues to be a societal priority that relates to all of our business activities. We also verify the main the purpose of increasing its reliability, by Deloitte Tohmatsu Evaluation and Certification Organization Co., risks and opportunities for Mitsui & Co. based on the effects of these societal issues, and we disclose our Ltd. in its independent practitioner’s assurance report. approach to each issue. Publication Date: ‌Specific information about our efforts to create value that will contribute to the solution of societal issues August 2016 (Previous publication date: August 2015; next publication scheduled for August 2017) is disclosed in “Strategic Focus” for each of the Five CSR Material Issues, and in “Activities for FY Ended March 2016”. Reference Guidelines GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, 2013 ‌We have sought to make information accessible in ways that reflect the interests of stakeholders. On our For a comparison of the GRI guidelines and the content of this report, please visit the following website: website, we present our CSR concepts and policies and other key information, such as our main activities (www.mitsui.com/jp/en/csr/gri_index/) relating to the Five CSR Material Issues, and in the PDF version of our annual “Sustainability Report 2016”, GRI Guidelines Comparison Chart we provide more details, including the aforementioned. Environmental Accounting Guidelines (2005 version) established by the Ministry of the Environment of CSR Report 2016 and Website (CSR) Contents Japan Some CSR information is also included in our Annual Report so that you can understand our overall ISO 26000 (Guidance on Social Responsibility) activities in conjunction with our financial information. Published by: CSR Promotion Committee, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. A Cautionary Note on Forward-looking Statements This Sustainability Report contains statements (including figures) regarding Mitsui & Co., Ltd. (“Mitsui,” “Mitsui & Co.,” “Company”)’s Contact: corporate strategies, objectives and views of future developments that are forward-looking in nature and are not simply reiterations of Corporate Planning & Strategy Division, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. historical facts. These statements are presented to inform stakeholders of the views of Mitsui’s management but should not be relied on 1-3, Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8631, Japan solely in making investment and other decisions. You should be aware that a number of important risk factors could lead to outcomes that differ materially from those presented in such forward-looking statements. These include, but are not limited to: (i) changes in Nippon Life Marunouchi Garden Tower economic conditions that may lead to unforeseen developments in markets for products handled by Mitsui, (ii) fluctuations in currency exchange rates that may cause unexpected deterioration in the value of transactions, (iii) adverse political developments that may create : Csr@mitsui.com unavoidable delays or postponement of transactions and projects, (iv) changes in laws, regulations or policies in any of the countries : 81 (3) 3285-1111 where Mitsui conducts its operations that may affect Mitsui’s ability to fulfill its commitments, and (v) significant changes in the competitive environment. In the course of its operations, Mitsui adopts measures to control these and other types of risks, but this does : 81 (3) 3285-9906 not constitute a guarantee that such measures will be effective. : www.mitsui.com/jp/en/csr/ Sustainability Report 2016 03 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Corporate Information Corporate Profile (as of March 31, 2016) Company Name Major Business Areas • Organization Chart (As of July 1, 2016) MITSUI & CO., LTD. Utilizing our global operating locations, network and information resources, we are multilaterally pursuing business that ranges from General Meeting of Shareholders Date of Establishment product sales, worldwide logistics and financing, through to the July 25, 1947 development of major international infrastructure and other projects in Audit & Supervisory Board Members Audit & Supervisory Board the following fields: Iron & Steel Products, Mineral & Metal Resources, Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Head Office Infrastructure Projects, Integrated Transportation Systems, Chemicals, Board Member Div. 1-3, Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8631, Japan Energy, Food, Food & Retail Management, Healthcare & Service, (registered head office location) Consumer Business, IT & Communication Business, Corporate President & Chief Executive Officer Corporate Management Committee Nippon Life Marunouchi Garden Tower Development Business. Internal Auditing Div. (Head Quarter Business Units) Iron & Steel Products Business Unit 3-1, Ohtemachi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8631, Japan Number of Affiliated Companies for Consolidation Secretariat Mineral & Metal Resources Business Unit JA Building Subsidiaries: Japan 68 Overseas 207 Human Resources & General Affairs Div. Infrastructure Projects Business Unit Equity Accounted Investees (associated companies and joint ventures): Legal Div. Integrated Transportation Systems Business Unit Representative Japan 34 Overseas 153 Trade & Logistics Control Div. Basic Materials Business Unit Tatsuo Yasunaga, President and Chief Executive Officer Corporate Logistics Development Div. Performance Materials Business Unit Total Assets ¥10.9 trillion New Head Office Building Development Dept. Nutrition & Agriculture Business Unit Corporate Planning & Strategy Div. Energy Business Unit I Common Stock Total equity* 1 ¥3.4 trillion Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute Energy Business Unit II ¥341,482 million Revenue ¥4.8 trillion Investment Administrative Div. Food Business Unit Investments and Loans Result ¥600.0 billion Information Technology Promotion Div. Food & Retail Management Business Unit Number of Employees EBITDA ¥336.4 billion Regional Business Promotion Div. Healthcare & Service Business Unit 6,006 Core Operating Cash Flow* 2 ¥471.7 billion Corporate Communications Div. Consumer Business Unit Environmental • Social Contribution Div. IT & Communication Business Unit Consolidated 43,611 *1 Total equity attributable to owners of the parent CFO Planning & Administrative Div. Corporate Development Business Unit *2 Core ‌ Operating Cash Flow=“cash flows from operating activities” Global Controller Div. Number of Offices and Overseas Trading Affiliates “changes in operating assets and liabilities“ Finance Div. Domestic Offices: Total 12 138 offices Risk Management Div. Head Office: 1 Domestic: 12 (Head Office: 1 Offices: 6 Branches: 5) Investor Relations Div. Office: 6 (Business Supporting Unit) Branch: 5 Overseas: 126 (Overseas offices: 30 Planning & Administrative Div. (Metals) Overseas Offices & Trading Subsidiaries: Total 126 Overseas trading subsidiaries: 96 (Head Offices: 34)) Planning & Administrative Div. Overseas Trading Subsidiaries: Head Office 34 (As of July 1, 2016) (Machinery & Infrastructure) Overseas Trading Subsidiaries: Others 62 Planning & Administrative Div. (Chemicals) Overseas Offices: Branch 2 Worldwide Network Planning & Administrative Div. (Energy) Overseas Offices: Others 28 65 countries/regions Planning & Administrative Div. (Food & Services) Planning & Administrative Div. (Consumer & Healthcare) (As of July 1, 2016) Planning & Administrative Div. (Innovation & Corporate Development) Financial Management & Advisory Div. I Worldwide Network Financial Management & Advisory Div. II Financial Management & Advisory Div. III Financial Management & Advisory Div. IV Sustainability Report 2016 04 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Mitsui & Co.’s Approach to Business Development and Value Chains The Medium-term Management Plan (“Challenge & Innovation for 2020—Demonstrating Mitsui Premium”) identifies seven Key Strategic Domains in which Mitsui will implement strategic initiatives based on its unique strengths. Outlined below are areas in which Mitsui will develop business activities in its value chains in each of these domains. Mitsui has defined Five CSR Material Issues as focal points for its efforts to provide solutions to increasingly diverse and complex societal issues, such as global warming, human rights and labor, urbanization, health and safety, energy, and food. Mitsui will work with its 462 group companies and around 22,000 business partners to respond to the P.13 Five Material Issues in the CSR Field needs of society. Related Product Segments Iron & Steel Products Mineral & Metal Business Development 7 Key Strategic Domains Resources Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals Energy Lifestyle Resource Construction, Manufacturing, Wholesale, Retail, Global Trading Logistics Services Innovation & Corporate Development Development Operation Processing Trade Finance Hydrocarbon Chain Crude oil, Crude oil and gas Petroleum products, Energy steel products, Storage, logistics Product sales IoT Gas, production facilities, Chemical products, Sales of petroleum and networks, Energy upstream to downstream and development of related Coal Pipelines, LNG chemical products, Oil and LNG carriers, businesses Gas-fired power generation, Trading Gas distribution, LNG terminals Chemical tank terminals Mineral Resources (Underground & Urban) and Iron ore, Collection facilities, Steel products processing, Steel products, Commodity derivatives IoT Copper, Port facilities Green chemicals, Resins, Materials Coal, Lightweight materials Scrap, Mineral mining to material processing, building a recyclingSalt, Electronic materials oriented society Others Food and Agriculture Grains, Collection facilities, Edible oils, Grains, Marine transport, Fertilizers and Agriculture IT Salmon, Port facilities Refined sugar, Coffee, Rail transport agrochemicals Provide solutions for increasing and stabilizing food supply Phosphate rock Tea Fertilizers and agrochemicals Infrastructure IPP, Logistics infrastructure, Infrastructure steel Power transmission Retail sales of power and Port terminals, Water supply and gas, Engineering, Contribute to nation building and develop business derived wastewater treatment, Infrastructure funds Thermoelectric supplies, from infrastructure Various plants, IoT Smart city development Mobility Railways and ports Automobiles, Automobiles, Automobiles, Distributors, Ship ownership and Automotive parts, Construction and mining Automotive parts Dealers, operation, Services related to manufacturing, marketing and financing of Engine development machinery, Ships, Aircraft, Sales finance, Freight and passenger transportation machinery Rolling stock, Leasing and rental transport, Parts and components IoT Medical / Healthcare Pharmaceutical products, Key raw materials for Pharmaceutical products, Hospitals, Key raw materials for pharmaceuticals Pharmacies, Ancillary service Business development in healthcare and pharmaceutical value pharmaceuticals Funds for pharmaceutical businesses, chain development Healthcare staffing services Lifestyle Products and Value-added Services Paper-manufacturing Office buildings, Apparel OEM, Construction materials, Logistics facilities TV shopping, Fashion brands, Senior living, resources, Smart cities Housing materials, Paper materials Housing materials, Contract food services, Consumer-linked businesses utilizing innovative functions (IT, Lumber Packaging Food distribution, Retail Facility management, finance, logistics) support, Electronic payment, High-speed Fund business telecommunications, IoT Sustainability Report 2016 05 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Message from Our CEO Creating value through business activities Societies everywhere face challenges as economic development continues. We are challenged by environmental problems such as global warming and loss of biodiversity, we find human rights violations persisting in different parts of the world, and the increasing global population is straining our energy, water and food resources. At the same time there is growing demand for power, transportation and communications infrastructure, along with fundamental community Mitsui & Co. will services such as education and healthcare. In the face of these challenges, we have seen contribute to a better, developed and developing countries join together in a number of groundbreaking global more sustainable future initiatives, including the Paris Agreement decided at the 2015 UN Climate Change Conference where the aspirations of (COP21) and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) decided at the UN Sustainable people can be fulfilled Development Summit. As these multilateral accords and other initiatives build momentum, we are doing our utmost at Mitsui & Co. to understand the real needs of the countries and regions in which we operate, aiming to ensure that we help meet these needs through our business activities while increasing our own corporate value. Cultivating human resources and embracing diversity Tatsuo Yasunaga Representative Director People are our most valuable resource and the driving force of everything Mitsui & Co. does as a President and Chief Executive Officer company. We have always focused on fostering the personal and professional development of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Mitsui’s people, and concomitant with globalization we are strengthening our employment and training initiatives in every region around the globe. Sustainability Report 2016 06 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development The modern business world is large and complex, and operating as a global business requires a ensure compliance with these policies throughout our group. diverse range of people and abilities. We embrace this need for diversity as an opportunity to Similarly, after careful consideration of the core concerns and expectations expressed by our express the true abilities of our workforce. At the same time, we understand that we cannot rely stakeholders, we have defined “Five Material Issues in the CSR Field” to be used as important only on business knowledge and expertise. We need people who combine business sense with management guidelines throughout the company. In 2016 we will continue to expand on integrity and humility. We need people who are strong individuals but who can work together concrete initiatives and engage all employees in addressing these issues. as a tight-knit group—people who can earn the trust of business partners and customers with In recent years there has been increasing interest in ESG investment indexes and other diverse values. approaches that identify the extent to which companies are providing added-value to society My aim is to ensure that we cultivate a workforce of people with the attitude and business through their business activities. At Mitsui & Co. we welcome this trend, and through “360° ability to take on the challenges continually thrown up by a changing and globalized world— business innovation.” seek to extend our track record in Japan and worldwide as a company that people who, with free-thinking creativity, can work together to turn these challenges into is valued by society and contributes to a better, more sustainable future where the aspirations of opportunities. people can be fulfilled. Contributing to a sustainable society In October 2004, Mitsui & Co. announced its support for the UN Global Compact, a charter of Tatsuo Yasunaga Representative Director voluntary principles for businesses and institutions concerning human rights, labor, the President and Chief Executive Officer environment, and anti-corruption. Since then we have been working to realize the aims of the Mitsui & Co., Ltd. compact. We drew up our Basic CSR Policy in the same year and our Supply Chain CSR Policy in December 2007 and, while adapting to changes in social norms, we have been working to Sustainability Report 2016 07 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development CSR at Mitsui & Co. Contribution to Society Mitsui’s Management Philosophy While modern society is becoming increasingly diverse and dynamic, undergoing ever faster change and growth as In 2004, Mitsui systematically and clearly set forth in written form the implicit values we share, and issued our globalization and the integration of information and communications technologies accelerate, it is also facing a long “Mission, Vision and Values (MVV)”. We believe that sharing this management philosophy is even more important and varied list of economic, environmental, and social challenges: climate change, food, energy, water, and other than ever as we work to create true value around the world through our global activities. environmental and resource-related issues, and problems with human rights, including poverty, child labor, and educational inequality. Our sustainable growth as a corporation cannot be achieved without improvement in the sustainability of society as a whole. We believe that our duty as a member of society is to assist the local communities, nations, and international Mission, Vision and Values (MVV) society in which we operate as they take steps to overcome these challenges toward a better future. Mitsui believes its corporate social responsibility is to continually contribute to society through its business Mission Strive to contribute to the creation of a future where the aspirations of the people can be fulfilled. activities. As we launch business, create new value, and build interpersonal relationships, we hope to contribute directly and indirectly to the healthy growth of local communities—domestic and abroad—and the global economy, for better standards of living for everyone. Vision Aim to become a global business enabler that can meet the needs of our customers throughout the world. Mitsui & Co.’s Core Values Values • Build trust with fairness and humility. The former Mitsui & Co.,* which was established in 1876, was disbanded as part of the dissolution of Japan’s zaibatsu • Aspire to set high standards and to contribute to society. (industrial conglomerates) shortly after the end of World War II. The current Mitsui was founded by employees of the • Embrace the challenge of continuous innovation. former Mitsui & Co. that shared the values of the original company: “Challenge and Innovation”, “Open-Mindedness”, • Foster a culture of open-mindedness. • Strive to develop others and oneself to achieve full potential. and “Focus on Human Resources”. The Mitsui of today continues to contribute to the creation of new value for society. The way we work and the way we think are still very much based on the values espoused by Takashi Masuda, the first president of the former Mitsui & Co., and are reflected in our stance toward our work. The principles of Mitsui’s CSR have always reflected its founder’s values, a way of thinking unchanged to this day. * ‌The current Mitsui & Co., Ltd. was established through mergers of the various new companies that had been established after the disbandment of the former Mitsui by the order of GHQ, so legally speaking, there has been no continuation between the former Mitsui & Co. and the current Mitsui & Co. “Avoid infatuation with immediate advantage. To achieve enduring prosperity, harbor grand aspirations”. “I started Mitsui & Co. with the goal of realizing trade on a large scale, not in pursuit of money, but from the desire to work”. “Mitsui has a pool of very talented individuals. This is Mitsui’s most important asset”.  Takashi Masuda, the first president of the former Mitsui & Co. Sustainability Report 2016 08 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Creating Value with CSR at Mitsui & Co. Basic CSR Policy Companies can only be sustainable if the societies they operate in are sustainable, and unsustainable 1. We will conduct our business activities with honesty and integrity, make prudent efforts to understand the culture, companies cannot fulfill their social responsibilities. traditions, and customs of countries and regions around the world, and reinforce the importance of CSR with each of our employees. Based on our conscientious management, we will strive to enhance corporate value to stakeholders and to At Mitsui & Co., we try to anticipate changes in society with each era. We reflect on how we should produce value to society. advance our capabilities, and ceaselessly challenge ourselves to express our potential in ways that bring 2. We will make every effort to actively contribute to the achievement of a sustainable society through the promotion of sustainable development as well as maintaining a strong awareness of the importance of preserving the global the most benefit to society. environment. We will also emphasize the importance of interactive communication with stakeholders to understand their We believe that we must continually improve the way we engage with environmental and societal concerns and fulfill our accountability for our CSR activities. issues, listen closely to our stakeholders, and ensure we have a clear understanding of key concerns, issues, 3. We recognize the significance and importance of the human rights contained in the general principles of international standards such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Throughout all occasions of our entire business activities, and expectations. It is then our responsibility to contribute to addressing issues and meeting expectations we will give due consideration to basic labor rights. in the most effective way possible. 4. As a global company with operations throughout the world, we will support Mitsui & Co.’s group companies in the We will continue to ensure that all of our employees share our Management Philosophy, as expressed practice and implementation of our CSR policies, and will sincerely seek our business counterparties’ understanding and cooperation to support this initiative. in our Mission, Vision and Values, and to strengthen our robust management platform, including our governance and risk management systems. At the same time, working alongside our stakeholders, our aim is to pursue business in a manner expressed in our “360° business innovation.” slogan. This slogan symbolizes that one of our greatest strengths is our ability to connect ideas, information, CSR at Mitsui & Co. A better future customers and business partners to create new value around the world, and we believe that in doing so we can both meet our corporate social responsibilities (CSR) and contribute to a future where the aspirations of people can be fulfilled. Value creation Basic CSR Policy 360° business innovation.* Mitsui & Co.’s Basic CSR Policy, which is built upon the foundation of our business activities and our management philosophy of “Mission, Vision and Values”, was formulated in 2004 and reviewed in 2013 to reflect input from society Business and our stakeholders. Business associates• activities Consumers Government bodies In addition, our “Long-term Management Vision” (formulated in 2009) for the Mitsui of 2020 upholds our goal of Corporate providing industrial solutions to meet the changing needs of the times. This goal sums up the core message of our Shareholders• Mission, NPOs•NGOs Investors Vision and corporate mission. To make this vision a reality, we will continue to practice our CSR policies, which is essential for Values realizing Mitsui’s Medium-term Management Plan, “Challenge & Innovation for 2020—Demonstrating Mitsui Premium” (formulated in 2014). Employees Management Communities platform Recognition of environmental and societal issues * 360° business innovation. is our corporate slogan. It expresses our message of connecting ideas, information, customers, partners and business across the planet to create new possibilities. Sustainability Report 2016 09 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Interactive Communication with Mitsui & Co.’s Stakeholders Mitsui & Co.’s Stakeholders Initiatives in the Fiscal Year Ended March 2016 Mitsui closely monitors the effects of its diverse and global business activities on society, identifies and acknowledges • Dialogue with Partners (Supplier On-site Surveys) Mitsui & Co. conducts supplier on-site surveys each year under its Supply Chain CSR Policy. Any issues identified through stakeholders of particular interest, and strives to have interactive communication with them in all areas of its business on-site surveys and discussions are used to improve business operations. operations. In the fiscal year ended March 2016, we implemented an on-site survey concerning suppliers engaged in the forest In particular, we are committed to the development of relationships based on mutual trust with a diverse range of resources business for pulp and paper manufacturing in Australia. During interviews at the companies concerned, we stakeholders, including local communities, NPOs and NGOs, government bodies, business associates and consumers, were told that there was strong pressure from investors to obtain forest certification under the international system shareholders and investors, and employees through proactive information disclosures and continual communication administered by the FSC®, but that there were also cost issues, because certification did not result in price premiums. An external expert who was also present at the meetings commented that there are still few inquiries for FSC® certified with our stakeholders. products in the Japanese market. Through interactive communication with its stakeholders, each of Mitsui’s employees and officers is endeavoring to Mitsui & Co. has obtained FSC® certification (License code FSC®C057355) for all of the forests that it owns acquire a firm understanding of what society expects from and requires of Mitsui. Based on this understanding Mitsui (approximately 44,000 hectares). As the biggest supplier of FSC® certified forest products from privately owned forests in strives to respond to changes in market environments, constantly evolves, and, through its business activities and by Japan, Mitsui & Co. also serves on the board of directors of FSC Japan and cooperates in efforts to promote the use of exercising its unique capabilities, creates new value that is useful to society. certified raw materials and paper in the Japanese market. • Dialogue and Collaboration with NPOs and NGOs A business corporation cannot find solutions to complex and multi-layered societal and environmental issues solely through its own efforts. There are NPOs and NGOs that engage in specialized frontline efforts to solve problems, and cooperation with these organizations is essential. Mitsui holds dialogues with these organizations to gain an Business Associates Government understanding of their perceptions of issues and expectations toward business activities of corporations, and consider & Consumers Bodies those points in the deliberations about changes to our activities, or other actions that may be required. Jointly respond to society’s Business promotion Through dialogue with NPOs and NGOs, we identify environmental and societal issues in the regions where we aligned with expectations government policies engage in or plan on doing business, in order to formulate strategic CSR programs that lead to the creation of corporate value through the challenge of resolving these issues. In the fiscal year ended March 2016, we commenced a forest conservation initiative in collaboration with environmental NGOs, with the aim of halting forest destruction, which is a cause of global warming, through a program designed to raise quality of life in local communities. Appropriate Shareholders Collaboration NPOs & • Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors (ESG Investment) & Investors prompt information Mitsui & Co. for solving social issues NGOs disclosure During the fiscal year ended March 2016, we exchanged views about the initiatives and disclosures required for companies in relation to ESG investment with investors and ESG survey companies. We will continue our efforts to maintain high standards of accuracy, timeliness, and quality in our disclosure of information, and to foster good communication with the investment community. Harmony with Focus on human Local residents • Dialogue with Academics and Other External Experts resources Mitsui & Co. actively engages in dialogue with academic experts in the field of CSR research. In the fiscal year ended Employees Communities March 2016 we specifically obtained expert views in accordance with the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, 2013, and we obtained advice about the importance of boundaries setting. Experts also expressed the view that we should provide a clearer statement of the relationships between CSR initiatives and the related product segments concerned. We are using this input to improve our CSR disclosures. Sustainability Report 2016 10 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Relationships with Stakeholders, Main Modes of Communication Communities NPOs & NGOs Government Bodies We contribute to growth and prosperity through our wide-ranging business We identify solutions for environmental and societal issues by networking We are committed to compliance with related laws and regulations activities in countries and regions throughout the world. We also aim to and collaboration with various NPOs and NGOs. Through the Mitsui & Co. formulated by government agencies and local governments in the countries achieve harmonious coexistence with local communities through Environment Fund, we provide support for research and initiatives by NPOs where we engage in business activities. Furthermore, through cooperation contributions in such areas as local industry development, creation of and NGOs that are working to solve environmental problems. with governmental agencies and local governments, we propose and employment opportunities, and the improvement of educational promote business projects that align with their policies and deliver the environments. unique value that only Mitsui can offer. • Activities through the Mitsui & Co. • Support for activities in overseas • Periodic dialogue with NPOs and • Questionnaires from NPOs and NGOs • Participation in policy councils • Training programs for local Environment Fund through various funds NGOs directed at joint work • Activities through the Mitsui & Co. • Participation in consultation and government bodies • Activities through Mitsui’s Forests • Support for Brazilian residents in Japan • Participation in seminars hosted by Environment Fund advisory meetings with government • Activities through business and • Activities through scholarships, Mitsui • Employee participation in the Mitsui NPOs and NGOs agencies and offices industry groups endowed lectures, and Japan studies Global Volunteer Program (MGVP) programs • Training programs for local government employees Mitsui & Co. Business Associates & Consumers Shareholders & Investors Employees We contribute to the development of a sustainable society through our We strive for continuous improvement of our corporate value and Employees are our most important assets. We strive to carry out diversity efforts to identify the needs and expectations of our business partners and appropriate market recognition by fulfilling transparency and accountability management to enable each employee to exert his/her full potential to consumers, supply safe and reliable products and services, and disclose in management with timely and accurate disclosure of information, and by undertake new challenges, by promoting work style innovation and accurate corporate information, and through initiatives to address problems engaging in interactive communication with shareholders and investors. enhancing workplace environment human resources development in supply chains. programs, personnel systems, and other things. • Mitsui & Co. websites • Supplier questionnaire and on-site • General meetings of shareholders • Newsletter to Shareholders • Intranet • Volunteer Month • Corporate Brochure/Advertisements/ surveys • IR meetings (presentations on • Mitsui & Co. websites • In-house newsletter of Mitsui & Co. • Training programs and seminars; TV commercials • Initiatives that align with our policies financial results and projects, • Surveys from ESG research • Roundtable gatherings awareness surveys • Recruitment pamphlets and rules on the handling of briefings for individual investors) organizations (conversations among officers and • In-house and external whistle• Annual reports consumer products: “Consumer • Securities Report employees) blowing channels • Activities based on the Supply Chain Product Handling Policy”, “Consumer • Annual reports • Diversity Cafe • Discussions with labor unions CSR Policy Product Handling Regulations” • Mitsui Environment Month Sustainability Report 2016 11 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Participation in Initiatives United Nations Global Compact UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The United Nations Global Compact is a set of voluntary action principles for corporations proposed by the former UN In May 2008, Mitsui became a signatory to a proclamation promoted by Secretary-General Kofi Annan at the World Economic Forum held in Davos, Switzerland in January 1999. He proposed a then U.K. Prime Minister Gordon Brown, which encourages businesses to means to harness the creative powers of the private sector to fulfill the wishes of underprivileged people and meet the take action toward the attainment of the United Nations MDGs by 2015. needs of future generations. It is neither a regulatory means nor a legally binding code of conduct, but rather a strategic With the approach of the MDG deadline in September 2015, the policy initiative that encourages corporations to come together as global citizens to solve the various problems that United Nations held the Sustainable Development Summit, at which it could arise as a result of economic globalization. Participating corporations are asked to support and put into practice announced the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as a post-MDG ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, program. The SDGs consist of 17 goals with 169 targets based on the environment, and anti-corruption. As of April 2016, over 12,000 corporations, labor concept of three-way harmony between the economic, society, and the unions, and civil society organizations from around the world are participating in the environment. As a member of the Global Compact Network Japan, Mitsui is engaged in a range of activities, including Global Compact. research on recent initiatives by businesses and educational initiatives concerning the Global Compact. At the same In October 2004, Mitsui pledged its support for the Global Compact. Mitsui has been time, placing high priorities on SDGs targets, Mitsui pursues subsidy programs closely connected to its business (with participating as a member of the Global Compact Network Japan and is complying with funds earmarked for external organizations), aiming to enhance business value via the provision of solutions to the principles as part of its own corporate guidelines. Currently, Mitsui conducts a environmental and societal issues. In this way, we work toward the development of a sustainable society. company-wide survey every other year in order to check compliance with the Global Compact principles, and is working to comply with and to put into practice the World Economic Forum principles on a global group basis. The World Economic Forum is an independent international organization, which engages leaders from the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact worlds of business, politics, academia, and other sectors of society to shape global, regional, and industry agendas in the spirit of global citizenship, through cooperation between the public and private sectors, for Human Rights Environment the improvement of the world situation. 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to internationally proclaimed human rights; and environmental challenges; As the only Japanese corporate member of the Oil & Gas Community of the World Economic Forum, 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Mitsui participates in discussions about important issues concerning the oil and gas industry. abuses. responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Labor Anti-corruption 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; including extortion and bribery. 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Sustainability Report 2016 12 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Japan Foreign Trade Council, Inc.: Global Environment Committee, CSR Study Committee Japan Forum of Business and Society As a member of the Global Environment Committee of the Japan Foreign Trade Council, Mitsui monitors energy use for Mitsui is a GOLD member of the Japan Forum of Business and Society (JFBS), an academic association which conducts all trading companies (“shosha”) and promotes reuse/reduce/recycle (“3R”) activities. We also gather information about academic research/discussion on the relationship between business and society focusing on global trends with new energy technology through our business activities and contribute to the development of the trading company encouraging cooperative relationship among academia, industry, government, labor and NPO/NGO. Human resource sector’s voluntary action plan for environmental initiatives for a low-carbon, recycling-oriented society. In addition, we development of young researchers and practitioners is another major topic for the forum. work actively to raise awareness and gather information by hosting study groups and presentations by experts on environmental laws and regulations. Japan Business and Biodiversity Partnership Mitsui is also a member of the Japan Foreign Trade Council, Inc.’s CSR Study Committee, which studies CSR-related issues and conducts surveys and research about trends in Japan and overseas. We work with other members on The Japan Business and Biodiversity Partnership was established through a collaborative initiative by the Keidanren activities that include the formulation and review of Supply Chain CSR Action Guidelines based on the principles of the (Japan Business Federation), the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and the Keizai Doyukai (Japan Association Shosha’s Corporate Code of Conduct (code of conduct for trading companies). of Corporate Executives). As a member company, Mitsui shares information and its own experience to contribute to developing biodiversity conservation initiatives that go beyond the boundaries of organizations and individuals, such as business corporations, business communities, NPOs, NGOs, researchers, and official agencies. Japan Business Federation (Keidanren): Committee on Corporate Behavior & Social Responsibility, Committee on Gender Diversity, Committee on Environment and Safety, Committee on Nature Conservation Mitsui is a member of Keidanren’s Committee on Corporate Behavior & Social Responsibility, which works to ensure Forest Stewardship Council ethical behavior by businesses, promote CSR, and expand and encourage social contribution activities by businesses The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®) is an international non-profit organization with members that include and business people, including support for disaster recovery efforts. We are also a member company of the Committee environmental NGOs, private business corporations, and organizations representing indigenous communities. It on Gender Diversity, which implements the Action Plan on Women’s Active Participation in the Workforce and promotes the sustainable use of the world’s forests by certifying forests and the processes involved in the distribution formulates an action plan to urge employers to promote women to managerial and executive positions. Mitsui is also a and processing of lumber taken from those forests. member of the Committee on Environment and Safety, which works toward the implementation of environmental Mitsui has obtained FSC® forest management (FM) certification at all 74 of its forests, while Mitsui Bussan Forest Co., policies designed to be compatible with economic activities, including the promotion of voluntary action plans, and Ltd., a Mitsui & Co. subsidiary, has obtained Chain of Custody (CoC) certification for the processing and distribution of countermeasures relating to warming, waste, recycling, and environmental risks. Moreover, since 2012, a Mitsui & Co. cut lumber. Mitsui & Co. is the biggest supplier of Japanese-grown lumber with FSC® certification. As a member of FSC employee has been seconded to Keidanren’s Committee on Nature Conservation, which works to conserve biodiversity Japan’s Board of Directors, Mitsui & Co. is helping to promote the FSC® in Japan, and to study and prepare principles, and protect the natural environment. standards and risk assessments for Japan. Council for Better Corporate Citizenship The Council for Better Corporate Citizenship (CBCC) was established by Keidanren (Japan Business Federation). As a CBCC member, Mitsui works to ascertain the views of various stakeholders, including overseas CSR-related organizations, by participating in presentations and seminars on CSR-related themes. Sustainability Report 2016 13 Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues Evaluation by Society Independent Practitioner’s in the CSR Field Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Five Material Issues in the CSR Field (Materiality) Mitsui prioritizes corporate social responsibility (CSR) in its corporate management. We have identified Five Material Issues in the CSR Field for the company to focus on, with the aim of meeting the expectations of a variety of stakeholders and contributing to the creation of a future where the aspirations of the people can be fulfilled, as set out in our corporate mission. We recognize these Five Material Issues as societal issues relevant to all of our business activities. We assess the risks and opportunities that arise from the effects of these issues and disclose our approach to each of them. Enhancement of Local Industrial Bases Stable Supply of Resources Corporate Governance Protection of the Global Environment Respect for Human Rights & Quality of Life & Materials & Human Resource Development P.14 Mitsui & Co.’s Approach P.14 Mitsui & Co.’s Approach P.15 Mitsui & Co.’s Approach P.15 Mitsui & Co.’s Approach P.16 Mitsui & Co.’s Approach At the same time, as a management approach in line with the GRI Guidelines (G4 Guidelines), we define specific themes to work on and categorize each of our Five Material Issues accordingly and clearly indicate relevant policies and set targets. We strive to implement measures to address issues by identifying material aspects and boundaries, as indicated by the G4 Guidelines, through this approach. Detailed reports on each of the themes addressed in “Five Material Issues in the CSR Field” (p. 14–16) can be found in “Activity Reports by Material Issue” (p. 17–79). Sustainability Report 2016 14 Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues Evaluation by Society Independent Practitioner’s in the CSR Field Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Mitsui & Co.’s Approach Protection of the Global Environment Respect for Human Rights Recognition of societal issues Main risks and opportunities Recognition of societal issues Main risks and opportunities • ‌Global warming, climate change • ‌Risks • Greater ‌ responsibility for human rights in the supply • ‌Risks • ‌Loss of biodiversity Negative impact on business activities brought about by chain (security practices, labor practices, etc.) Disputes or protests concerning human rights issues in • ‌Energy and water shortage abnormal weather due to climate change, and higher • Consideration ‌ for indigenous people in conjunction every spectrum of business that could hinder the start-up • ‌Environmental pollution environmental costs resulting from ecosystem destruction, with resources development or continuation of business. As a corporation that operates across countries and degradation, etc., as a consequence of business activities. As a company with a diverse range of value chains in • ‌Opportunities regions around the world, we recognize the importance • ‌Opportunities many countries and regions, we regard respect for human Strengthening of the ability to ensure stable supply of giving consideration to impacts on the global Expansion of environment-related markets due to rights, including those of business associates and through consideration for human rights across all supply environment. increased environmental awareness and the tightening of consumers, based on international standards as the chains. regulations, and expansion of business domains as a result foundation of CSR management. of energy diversification. Mitsui & Co.’s Approach Mitsui & Co.’s Approach We will comply with environment-related laws, regulations, and treaties. We will work to prevent environmental pollution Being aware of our role as a member of the international community, we will work to understand the culture, traditions, and curb greenhouse gas emissions, and to maintain biodiversity. We will be alert to environmental impacts and work to and practices of each country and region. We will also work to ensure that human rights are respected in the supply mitigate those impacts. We will use our integrated strengths and work in cooperation with our partners to achieve rational, chain, and that there is no discrimination based on race, beliefs, gender, social status, religion, nationality, age, or mental long-term industrial solutions to environmental problems. We will continue to provide grants, through the Mitsui & Co. or physical abilities. We will take action to rectify labor practices that violate human rights, such as forced labor and child Environment Fund, for research and activities by NPOs, universities, etc., relating to the solution of environmental problems, labor. efficient resource utilization, and harmonious coexistence between ecosystems and human beings. Examples of how Mitsui & Co., Ltd. creates value for society through its business activities Examples of how Mitsui & Co., Ltd. creates value for society through its business activities P.18 Strategic Focus P.39 Strategic Focus GRI specific standard disclosures Boundary GRI specific standard disclosures Boundary Related policies and guidelines, and Related policies and guidelines, and Theme Within the Outside the Theme Within the Outside the targets set Identified material aspects targets set Identified material aspects organization organization organization organization Enhancement of Environmental • ‌Environmental Policy Overall Support for International Standards • ‌Basic CSR Policy Security Practices Management System Compliance Indigenous Rights Initiatives toward Environmental Value Products and Services Promotion of Management System for [Targets set] Investment Creation Human Rights •A‌ CSR training participation rate of Assessment Initiatives to Reduce Environmental [Targets set] Energy 90% Load, including Curbing Global • ‌An annual reduction in energy Emissions Warming consumption rate of at least 1% on Transport average Water Initiatives for Preserving Biodiversity • ‌Environmental Policy Biodiversity • ‌Forest Management Policy Addressing Environmental Issues • ‌Social Contributions Policy through Contribution to Society Sustainability Report 2016 15 Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues Evaluation by Society Independent Practitioner’s in the CSR Field Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Mitsui & Co.’s Approach Enhancement of Local Industrial Bases Stable Supply of Resources & Materials & Quality of Life Recognition of societal issues Main risks and opportunities Recognition of societal issues Main risks and opportunities • Ageing infrastructure in developed nations • Risks • Population ‌ increase and expansion of demand for • ‌Risks • ‌Infrastructure development in emerging countries Loss of credibility due to safety or health problems resources and materials Suspension of business operations and instability in the • Food safety and reliability affecting infrastructure users or final consumers of • Expanded ‌ responsibility for environmental and social supply of energy and food resources because of climate • ‌Maintenance of health, securing of medical, nursingproducts and services. aspects in supply chains change and population growth. care, and welfare services • Opportunities The establishment of supply sources for resources, such as • ‌Opportunities We recognize the importance of contributing to the lives of Expansion of markets for the infrastructure development energy, metals, water, food resources, chemicals, and Sustainable resources development, reinforced people in the countries and regions where we do business, with business to enhance quality of life, especially in emerging materials, as well as the stable supply of these resources competitiveness through consideration for the respect to the enhancement of quality of life, development of countries, and creation of markets by promoting ICTand materials have become important social priorities environment, labor and social aspects, and measures to local industries, development of the educational environment, based business to build urban social infrastructure in because of demand expansion driven by population ensure traceability across entire supply chains. and the creation of employment opportunities. response to the move toward developing smart cities. growth and the desire for a better standard of living, especially in emerging countries. Mitsui & Co.’s Approach Mitsui & Co.’s Approach Through our business activities, we will work to develop the infrastructure needed for growth and prosperity in We will work with suppliers, users, and business partners in Japan and overseas to engage in resource development, countries and regions all around the world, including electric power, transportation and communications. We will also production, product distribution, processing, and recycling initiatives in various parts of the world. We will also build strive to improve basic services, such as healthcare and care for the aged, to create new value, envisaging a future in the optimized supply chains through the improvement of infrastructure and logistics, including the development of railroad next-generation business domains that embody innovation, and to develop local industries and create employment. transportation and port facilities. At the same time, we will work to identify CSR priorities and achieve comprehensive We will also contribute to developing human resources with global perspectives and improving the educational improvements and solutions across the supply chain as a whole. environment through the hosting of endowed lecture programs at major universities and through a variety of education funds and scholarships. Examples of how Mitsui & Co., Ltd. creates value for society through its business activities Examples of how Mitsui & Co., Ltd. creates value for society through its business activities P.44 Strategic Focus P.51 Strategic Focus GRI specific standard disclosures Boundary GRI specific standard disclosures Boundary Related policies and guidelines, and Related policies and guidelines, and Theme Within the Outside the Theme Within the Outside the targets set Identified material aspects targets set Identified material aspects organization organization organization organization Development of the Social Indirect Economic Impacts Resource Development, and the Indirect Economic Impacts Infrastructure Securing and Stable Supply of Materials Provision of Safe, Reliable Products • ‌Consumer Product Handling Policy Customer Health and Safety and Food and Services • ‌Consumer Product Handling Promotion of Supply Chain • Supply ‌ Chain CSR Policy Supplier Environmental Assessment Regulations Management Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Participation and development in • ‌Social Contributions Policy Local Communities Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society communities [Targets set] Supplier Human Rights Assessment Contribution to Developing People • ‌Social Contributions Policy • Ensuring ‌ that 100% of new suppliers Freedom of Association and with International Mindset are aware of the policy Collective Bargaining Child Labor Forced or Compulsory Labor Sustainability Report 2016 16 Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues Evaluation by Society Independent Practitioner’s in the CSR Field Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Mitsui & Co.’s Approach Identification and Review Processes for Material Issues Corporate Governance & In specifying CSR Material Issues, Mitsui & Co. has taken into account its ongoing dialogue with business associates, Human Resource Development NPOs & NGOs, experts, and others. Also, we have verified compatibility with international frameworks, such as the UN Global Compact, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, GRI Guidelines, and ISO26000, as well as with Mitsui & Co.’s key corporate initiatives and the strategy for each of the business domains. Recognition of societal issues Main risks and opportunities Then, through discussions at the CSR Promotion Officer meetings and CSR Promotion Committee meetings, five • ‌Malfunctioning of corporate governance and internal controls •R‌ isks CSR Material Issues (materiality) were identified as important management indices. These were approved by the • ‌Stagnation in productivity due to cookie-cutter Corruption in business of high public significance in Corporate Management Committee in March 2015 and then shared with all officers and employees. working styles emerging countries and other markets, and suspension of The Material Issues will be periodically reviewed in order to meet the changing needs and expectations of society. • ‌Diversification and globalization of human resources business operations due to information security problems. We will strive to resolve societal issues through all of our business activities by creating value in a way that is unique to Corporate governance is the foundation for our efforts to •O‌ pportunities Mitsui & Co., and in doing so contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. make a continuing contribution to society through our Contributions to labor productivity improvement via business activities and maintain our status as a company innovation in working styles, promotion of fair and equitable trusted by society. We regard the enhancement of treatment and meaningful human resources training, Recognition of society’s concerns & expectations, and environmental corporate governance and internal controls as key enhancement of individual competitiveness through & social issues through communication with stakeholders priorities, in addition to the fostering of human resources promotion of diversity management, and creation of new —Stakeholders identified for communication— —International initiatives for reference— who support these efforts and constitute the foundation business opportunities focusing on the solution of societal Shareholders/investors, business associates/ UN Global Compact, for all of our company’s business activities. issues through heightened employees’ CSR awareness. consumers, government bodies, NPOs/ OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, NGOs, local communities, employees, etc. SDGs, GRI Guidelines, ISO26000, etc. Mitsui & Co.’s Approach In order to maintain our status as a company trusted by society, we will work to maintain effective governance, ensure fair business practices, and prevent corruption. We will review working styles from the perspectives of productivity and efficiency, while creating Verification of compatibility with Mitsui & Co.’s management philosophy, an environment in which diverse individuals can reach their full potential. In this way, we will enhance our corporate policies and business plans competitiveness. Moreover, to strengthen the driving force of Mitsui & Co., we will further demonstrate our integrated strengths —Compatibility perspectives— and our ability to connect at an even greater magnitude, and develop human resources capable of taking responsibility for global Management philosophy, Long-term Management Vision, Medium-term Management Plan, Impact Assessment on Management (growth potential, profitability, opportunities and risks), Specially Designated Business Management System group management equipped with the capacity to create businesses that would make a meaningful contribution to the society. Periodic Periodic Examples of how Mitsui & Co., Ltd. creates value for society through its business activities reviews reviews P.60 Strategic Focus GRI specific standard disclosures Boundary CSR Promotion Committee (organization under the Corporate Management Committee) Related policies and guidelines, and Theme Within the Outside the Identification of material issues & obtaining internal approvals targets set Identified material aspects organization organization Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Corporate Governance & Internal Controls • C‌ orporate Governance and Internal Control Principles Protection of the Respect Enhancement of Stable Supply of Corporate Reinforcement of Sustainability Governance • S‌ pecially Designated Business Management System Local Industrial Bases Governance & Human Global Environment for Human Rights & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Compliance & Risk Management • ‌Business Conduct Guidelines for Anti-corruption Employees and Officers Public Policy • P‌ ersonal Information Protection Guideline • ‌Rules on Information Management Anti-competitive Behavior • ‌Rules on IT Security Compliance Value creation and solution for social issues through Mitsui & Co.’s entire business activities, Human Resources to Translate into Assets • ‌Three key policies of human resource which include environmental & social contribution activities Human Resource Development system Training and Education Promoting Diversity Management • ‌Action plan for the Act of Promotion of Women’s Diversity and Equal Opportunity Participation and Advancement in Workplace Equal Remuneration for Women and Men • ‌Voluntary action plans on promotion of Employment women to managerial and board position Occupational Safety and Health Initiatives • B‌ asic Policy on Health Management Occupational Health and Safety Sustainability Report 2016 17 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Material Issue Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Activity Reports by Material Issue Enhancement of Local Industrial Corporate Governance Protection of the Global Environment Respect for Human Rights Stable Supply of Resources & Materials Bases & Quality of Life & Human Resource Development P.18-38 P.39-43 P.44-50 P.51-59 P.60-79 Sustainability Report 2016 18 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Protection of the Global Environment Strategic Focus Key Strategic Domain: Hydrocarbon Chain Aiming for zero-emission generation from coal-fired power stations through carbon capture and storage (CCS) Related Product Segment: Energy with oxyfuel combustion to capture CO2 and store it in compressed form underground Amid the diffusion of renewable energies, reducing the environmental burden has become an urgent issue for the continued operation of coal-fired power stations, which have the merits of being a low-cost, stable source of power. As a solution to this problem, CCS with oxyfuel combustion, which is one of Japan’s high-level clean coal technologies (CCT), is attracting attention. Together with the Electric Power Development Company (J-Power) and IHI Corporation, Mitsui has jointly implemented and successfully completed the Callide Oxyfuel Project, a public-private initiative by Japan and Australia to implement oxyfuel combustion technology at the Callide-A coal-fired power station in Australia. By generating electricity through the burning of coal using oxygen instead of air, it is possible to reduce the total volume of gas emissions, boost CO2 concentration in the emitted gas, thus making it easier to recover the CO2, and also remove impurities in the series of processes, such as SOx, NOx, and mercury. The world’s first test operation of this method on a utility boiler was completed successfully in February 2015. A CO2 liquefaction device recovered 75 tons of CO2 per day, of which a total of approximately 30 tons was transported by land and injected underground. Based on the results of this project, Mitsui has also participated in a feasibility study at a coal-fired power station in Canada conducted by New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO) of Japan. Since the incentive given by the Canadian Government for implementation of CCS for coal-fired power stations is applied in this new approach, and the effective use of CO2 and N2 discharged from the air separation unit can be expected to improve economic efficiency, we look forward to seeing the first commercial unit installed at the site. Mitsui is continuing its efforts to promote the commercialization of coal-fired power generation with zero emissions of CO2, SOX, NOX, and mercury and thereby contribute to the alleviation of global warming. Amount of CO2 recovered in the Callide 75 Oxyfuel Project: tons/day (Approx. 11% of total gas emissions) Share of coal-fired power generation 41 worldwide: % (International Energy Agency, World Energy Outlook 2015) Sustainability Report 2016 19 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Protection theGlobal Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Protection of the Global Environment Mitsui & Co.’s Approach We will comply with environment-related laws, regulations, and treaties. We will work to prevent environmental pollution and curb greenhouse gas emissions, and to maintain biodiversity. We will be alert to environmental impacts and work to mitigate those impacts. We will use our integrated strengths and work in cooperation with our partners to achieve rational, long-term industrial solutions to environmental problems. We will continue to provide grants, through the Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund, for research and activities by NPOs, universities, etc., relating to the solution of environmental problems, efficient resource utilization, and harmonious coexistence between ecosystems and human beings. Activities for FY Ended March 2016 Business Area Metal Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals Energy Lifestyle Innovation & Corporate Development Corporate & Others Theme Business Activities Theme Business Activities Enhancement of Assessment and promotion of adopting ISO14001: 2015 Initiatives toward Boosting modal shift by developing railway network and introducing highly fuelEnvironment Implemented seminars on environment and social due diligence relevant to Environmental efficient aircraft through our leasing expertise Management business activities for officers and employees (approx. 200 participants in 3 Value Creation Promotion of green chemicals business, such as palm oil and other natural oil-derived Platform seminars for business units; approx. 300 participants in 15 seminars in overseas oleo chemicals business (Malaysia, China) and corn-derived glucose based biolocations) chemicals business (Canada) Development of renewed networking with international NPOs and NGOs to drive Investment and participation in wood biomass power generation plant (Japan) business-synergy creating CSR activities Commencement of surface surveys and excavations for the promotion of Implemented environment-related law seminars for officers and employees of geothermal power generation projects by Mitsui Oil Exploration (Japan) Mitsui & Co. and its affiliates (approx. 110 people in 2 seminars) Completion of CCS demonstration at a coal-fired power station (Australia) Implemented environment seminars entitled Lecture on Environmental Waste Investment and participation in fuel and chemical products development and Tour of Processing Facility for officers and employees of Mitsui & Co. and its business utilizing microbial fermentation (U.S.) affiliates (approx. 120 people in 2 seminars) Construction completion and operation commencement of a waste gas recycling Implemented a seminar during Mitsui Environment Month for officers and plant for LNG project (Qatar) employees of Mitsui & Co. and its affiliates (approx. 320 people) Sale of solar power generation unit (Sumisho & Mitsuibussan Kenzai) for the residential market (over 1,000 houses) Initiatives toward Stable supply of high environmental-friendly automobile parts through an intensive Acceleration of obtaining certifications (Mitsui Bussan Techno Products): for Environmental collaboration with Gestamp (America) outdoor clothing fabric business, Bluesign® certification, which sets criteria aimed Value Creation Investment and participation in Gonvarri Eólica (Spain) to supply materials for wind at abolition of child labor and forced labor, elimination of discrimination, freedom power generation-related infrastructure of association, labor health and safety, in addition to consideration of Establishment of J/V with Honest (Japan) and GEM (China) for remanufacturing auto environmental aspects; for recycling business, GRS certification Sales promotion parts by means of Japanese technology of such products (Europe, U.S., etc.) Promotion of renewable energy IPP business, such as solar power generation (Japan), Promotion of Fujisawa Sustainable Smart Town project (Japan), (CO2 reduction wind power generation (Australia), and run-of-the river type hydroelectric power target: 70%; renewable energy utilization target: 30% and above) generation (Brazil), (Our equity-share power generation capacity: 2 GW) Promotion of smart-city business (Malaysia) Sustainability Report 2016 20 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Protection theGlobal Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Protection of the Global Environment Activities for FY Ended March 2016 Business Area Metal Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals Energy Lifestyle Innovation & Corporate Development Corporate & Others Theme Business Activities Theme Business Activities Initiatives toward Production and sales of lithium-ion secondary batteries for new-energy vehicles, Initiatives for Support for the production of rice using farming methods that develop Environmental such as electric, hybrid, and plug-in hybrid automobiles (China) Preserving biodiversity, and sales promotion of the rice produced (Toho Bussan), (Japan) Value Creation Investment and participation in smartphone flea market app business, which Biodiversity contributes to the development of the “sharing economy” (Japan, U.S., etc.) Addressing Provision of grants to organizations such as NPOs and universities for their Inhibition of N2O emissions by optimizing the volume of fertilizers applied to Environmental activities and research that contribute to environmental issues through the Mitsui farmlands (Canada, U.S., Brazil, Russia, etc.) Issues through & Co. Environment Fund, and employee participation in grant recipients’ Formation and sale of solar power infrastructure funds (Japan Alternative Contribution to activities (grants totaling 220 million yen for 25 recipients; 377 persons Investment) Society participated in 8 activities) Investment in renewable energy projects through the Emerging Markets Implementation of school visit classes for elementary, middle, and high school Infrastructure Fund students, utilizing Mitsui’s forests (approx.1,060 people in 14 classes) Shortening of transportation distance for logistics services (Trinet group) by Implementation of forest experience events for shareholders, elementary school utilization of local ports (Japan) kids’ family, employees’ family and others, utilizing Mitsui’s forests (approx. 420 Initiatives to Promotion of effective use of waste products, such as poultry manure as fertilizer people in 11 events) Reduce and poultry manure-derived snow melting agent (Prifoods), and residual tea Endowed course at Keio University to contribute to human resources training in Environmental leaves as fertilizer material (Mitsui Norin) forestry and the wood industry (approx. 290 people) Load, including Verification by the Power and Energy Strategy Committee of midto long-term Implementation of a “wood-use (kizukai) summer seminar” in Fukushima for high Curbing Global environmental changes in and future directions of environment, energy, and gas school students to contribute to the region’s recovery (16 people) Warming value chains, and the electric power industry, and implementation of relevant initiatives (4 times per year) Management of CO2 Emissions, the Water Consumption Survey • ‌For the Mitsui Group in Japan Mitsui will monitor changes in CO2 emissions over the year, seeking areas where cuts can be made, as Mitsui aims for an annual reduction in the energy consumption rate of at least 1% on average from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 (Mitsui’s Head Office, subsidiaries and associated companies, branches and other facilities) • For ‌ the Mitsui Group worldwide Mitsui will monitor changes in CO2 emissions over the year (overseas subsidiaries and associated companies) • An ‌ investigation of the amount of water consumption in major domestic and overseas subsidiary companies has begun Absorption of CO2 by appropriate management and maintenance of Mitsui’s forests (Simulated gas absorption volume: about 160,000 tons per year) Sustainability Report 2016 21 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Protection theGlobal Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Protection of the Global Environment Policy Environmental Policy Revised April 2011 Guiding Principles A Message 1. ‌Mitsui & Co. believes that one of its most important management themes involves providing a positive response to from Mitsui’s Environmental environmental issues on a global group basis, in order to contribute to the creation of a future where the dreams of the inhabitants of our irreplaceable Earth can be fulfilled. General Manager 2. ‌Mitsui & Co. will make every possible effort towards realizing a “sustainable development” which is aimed at creating a harmony between the economy and the environment on a global group basis. Hiroyuki Kato Representative Director, Executive Vice President, In view of the above principles, and in accordance with the Action Guidelines shown below, Mitsui & Co. will design, Environmental General Manager periodically evaluate, and continually improve an adequate risk management system, including response to matters Mitsui & Co., Ltd. such as global warming, nature conservation with consideration given to biological diversity, and the prevention of pollution, which will cover the wide range of activities that it undertakes on a global scale. At the same time, we will strive to ensure the development and dissemination of earth-friendly technologies and further reinforce our responsibility with respect to the environment on a global Group basis. Society today faces the fact that the Earth is not a limitless frontier. Environmental issues on numerous fronts, such as climate change, energy sustainability, water resource management, sustainable food supply, and conservation of biodiversity, are all global issues that require efforts across multiple Action Guidelines generations and regions. These issues will be difficult to resolve without initiatives involving partnerships between corporations, stakeholders, governments, and international institutions. Accordingly, enhancing 1. Compliance with relevant We will comply with various relevant environmental laws and regulations, as environmental laws and well as all agreements signed by the company for promoting business activities. business value in the context of a sustainable society calls for augmenting the collective value of a wide regulations range of stakeholders in corporate activities. 2. Efficient utilization of We will strive to reduce the burden on the environment within each of our In line with our Management Philosophy, we at Mitsui will actively contribute to protecting our resources and energy workplaces and in our business activities through the efficient utilization of irreplaceable Earth and fulfilling the dreams of its inhabitants. Mitsui’s management is committed to resources and energy, as well as the reduction, reuse, and recycling of waste and its proper disposal. addressing environmental issues. While actively engaging in dialogue with our stakeholders, we take proactive steps to address environmental issues on a global basis throughout the Mitsui & Co. Group to 3. Environmental care for We will give the utmost consideration to the environment to the extent products and services technologically and economically feasible by exercising an appropriate degree achieve harmony between economy and environment. It goes without saying that creating business that offered, as well as existing of influence in enlisting the understanding and support of involved business makes a positive contribution to the global environment entails far more than simply reducing and new businesses partners, as well as evaluating the impact that we have on the environment, not only in the prevention of pollution, but on such issues as global warming and environmental burdens across the entire spectrum of our business activities. We will continue taking on the conversation of biological diversity as well. the challenge of achieving sustainable development by creating opportunities to resolve environmental 4. Contribution to providing We will engage in business activities with the goal of providing rational and and societal issues through our business activities. industrial solutions to permanent industrial solutions, and contribute to the realization of sustainable environmental issues development by exploiting our individual abilities and the collective strengths of our organization in cooperation with our global partners. Sustainability Report 2016 22 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Protection theGlobal Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Protection of the Enhancement of Environmental Management System Global Environment System Environmental Management System System Addressing Environmental and Social Risks and Opportunities in Business Approach to Environmental Management Mitsui & Co. is expanding its business globally through six business segments: metals, machinery and infrastructure, Since Mitsui & Co. acquired ISO14001 certification in 1999, we have maintained and utilized chemicals, energy, lifestyle, and innovation and corporate development. In conducting business in each of these areas, that certification with the aim of making continuous improvements through the PDCA cycle. we divide our activities into a “new business phase” and an “existing business phase” as shown in the following diagram, From fiscal year 2016, we changed our management system in accordance with ISO14001: and we have put in place mechanisms to ensure that the utmost consideration is given to the environment and society 2015, and are now operating under that system. Specifically, we are strengthening the during our business activities in each of these phases. integration with business processes, the approach to business risks and opportunities, and In order to properly understand and manage the environmental and social risks involved in the various types of awareness toward the importance of our stakeholders’ perspectives in accordance with the purpose of the revision. business we engage in, Mitsui & Co. encourages its subsidiary companies that have a significant environmental impact to establish environmental management systems that are in accordance with the international ISO14001 standards and Environmental Management System international guidelines relating to environmental and societal concerns. While promoting autonomous environmental To facilitate effective environmental management, Mitsui & Co. has implemented an Environmental Management management by the subsidiaries themselves, we have also established a system for making improvements by following framework on a global basis across the entire Group, applicable to all operational areas. up and reviewing measures to prevent recurrence based on reports concerning environmental accidents. A Chief Environmental Officer has been appointed to assist the President with his management responsibilities in Furthermore, in accordance with the SDG targets, we identify programs, such as biodiversity protection programs, relation to environmental issues, and the general manager of the Environmental · Social Contribution Division has been which are closely related to our business, as “opportunities”, and we introduced an internal subsidy system for such appointed to conduct environmental management. In addition, a number of environmental managers have been programs in 2016. Mitsui & Co. is seeking to build a sustainable society by simultaneously resolving environmental and appointed, including the general managers of each corporate staff division, the Chief Operating Officers of each societal issues and enhancing business value. business unit, the general managers of each branch and office in Japan, the chief operating officers of overseas regional Addressing environmental and social risks in business (as of March 2016) business units and headquarter-managed regions area unit leaders. This organizational framework enables environmental management on a Group-wide basis. New Business Phase Existing Business Phase New project Environmental management based on ISO14001 Environmental Management System information (as of April 2016) Identification of Extraction Headquarters notable environmental Office activities Maintenance President & CEO (Corporate, business aspects New businesses with material supporting units) environmental impact (specially designated business) branches and offices Legal & other licensing/ Chief Environmental Officer General Manager Compliance registration requirements (Officer in Charge of Corporate Staff Divisions (in Charge of the Environmental & Social Contribution Division) ) of the Internal Auditing Division Environmental & Environmental Management Administrative Manager Societal Advisory Committee (General Manager of the Environmental · Social Contribution Division) Independent and autonomous Global warming, NGOs/NPOs Response to environmental/societal risk Subsidiaries with Proposals, advice Environmental Managers operation through establishment Follow-up a material environmental Environmental accidents Domestic/ of environmental management General Managers (Department General Chief Operating Officers Heads of Domestic Offices and Chief Operating Officers Improvement review Managers) of Each Corporate Staff Division of Business Units Branches of Regional Business Units, foreign subsidiaries Extract impact and Headquarter-managed Regions Planning & system under ISO14001, etc. Compliance with environmental regulations Coordination Divisions Domestic/ Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental foreign affiliates Managements Managements Managements Managements Managements Managements Managements Managements Managements Managements Managements Managements Sustainability Report 2016 23 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Protection theGlobal Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Protection of the Global Environment extraction in the environmental management system use. In addition, our Business Units observe and participate in System Activity Environmental Management for New Business subsidiaries’ ISO14001 internal audits and external audits, enabling us to understand the status of their environmental management and provide accurate guidance and support. Specially designated business management systems and Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee Onsite environmental consultation New projects are examined internally, and must receive approval prior to their implementation. Reports will be made on As a part of our stakeholder engagement, we visit business sites to examine how environmental and social issues are an ad-hoc basis by the CSR Promotion Committee and the Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee, with final being addressed during business operations. In 2016, we visited the site of the Jirau Hydroelectric Power Plant, where approval coming from the representative directors through Ringi (circular approval letter) approval. Members of the we inspected the measures being taken in relation to the environment and local residents, and held talks with the Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee will primarily be selected from among external experts, lawyers, and people in charge of operating the project. others who possess a broad range of perspectives on measures in global warming, environmental restoration, ambient water and air pollution, soil contamination, and environment impact assessment as well as stakeholders’ concerns. Example: Jirau Hydroelectric Power Plant (Brazil) Use of environmental and social due diligence checklists The Jirau Hydroelectric Power Plant, located on the Madeira River in New business investment projects that will have a significant impact on the environment are investigated by experts. the State of Rondonia in northern Brazil, generates power using the When conducting these investigations, we share and utilize environmental and social due diligence checklists listing the “run-of-river power generation” method, utilizing the natural flow of environmental and social risks for each business with reference to international standards relating to environmental and the river. The plant supplies electricity to approximately 10 million social concerns, for the purpose of identifying the environmental and social risks in advance, and at the same time residents of the Greater Sao Paulo metro area, and contributes to helping to narrow down the matters to be investigated by the experts. limiting fossil fuels combustion as a means of generating power. Due to the scale of the project and its location on the Madeira River, which An aerial view of the power plant is a tributary of the River Amazon and which is rich in biodiversity, and taking into account also the crisis of substantial deforestation facing System Activity Environmental Management for Existing Business the Amazon region, the project is attracting close attention from the local community, NGOs, and other stakeholders. There are strict restrictions placed on the power sector in Brazil in relation to the environment and local communities, Mitsui & Co.’s non-consolidated environmental management and companies are required to go through several stages of authorizations, including obtaining construction permits Up until 2014, we had focused primarily on reducing paper, waste, and electricity in our office operations as a part of our and operating licences. Companies are also required to conform to the Equator Principles. After commencing activities based on ISO14001. In 2015, once the environmental awareness of the officers and employees had reached a operations, companies are required to continue contributing to the environment and local communities, and to certain level, we sought to link environmental activity more closely to our business operations. For this purpose, a provide regular reports. Through such site inspections and by talking directly with the persons concerned at the company-wide environmental target of raising the environmental awareness of officers and employees in relation to frontline, Mitsui & Co. seeks to gain an accurate understanding of the situation on the ground, and to bring about business activity was set, and each division and office began undertaking target management in keeping with the better stakeholder engagement. conditions in their respective organizations. This resulted in raising the awareness of officers and employees in relation to the environmental and social risks associated with business activities, and the environmental target was achieved. Environmental management for subsidiaries Responding to environmental accidents We designated a number of our domestic & overseas subsidiaries to acquire ISO14001 certification, taking into account During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, there were no environment-related incidents at Mitsui and its subsidiaries. the type of business, the impact on environment/biodiversity, requests from stakeholders, etc. As of the end of March Mitsui & Co. employs various measures to prevent recurrences of environmental accidents, including the use of 2016, 35 subsidiaries had acquired ISO14001 out of the 41 which we had targeted to acquire ISO14001. The remaining 6 collections of case studies to raise employee awareness. Any accident is promptly reported, and comprehensive steps subsidiaries are currently establishing environmental management systems in line with international guidelines. are taken to prevent recurrence, beginning with the identification of the true cause of the accident and an assessment Every year, we hold ISO14001 training for internal auditors of ISO standards, which helps to improve understanding to determine appropriate corrective and preventive measures. regarding the application of environmental management systems and to enhance knowledge of the problem Sustainability Report 2016 24 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Protection theGlobal Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Protection of the Global Environment Energy Reduction Policy System Complying with Environment-Related Laws and Regulations Selection of transportation Use of railways, shipping (modal shift) method Use of sophisticated freight services Mitsui & Co. makes a serious effort to comply with environment-related laws and regulations in conducting its business. Measures to improve Use of shared/mixed loading As a global group, we not only establish working practices to ensure the relevant compliance through our environment transportation efficiency Selection of appropriate vehicle class management system, but also conduct diverse training, research and site verification activities for our employees so that Optimization of routing and method they can develop full awareness of various environment-related laws and regulations in domestic and international Scaling up of vehicle size settings to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations. Use of most efficient freight vehicles We, and those of our subsidiaries with significant environmental impacts, endeavor to acquire ISO14001 Review of schedules to avoid congestion certification or an equivalent, and implement proper working practices through our environment management system Alliances between Review of distribution frequencies in line with the above certifications, to ensure environment-related compliance. transportation service providers Adoption of coordinated logistics planning and users Energy saving laws and regulations Measures to increase fuel Eco-drive driving techniques With the idea of compliance and environmental conservation in mind, we abide by energy saving laws and regulations efficiency Installation of fuel-saving equipment (laws related to rationalizing energy use), and are involved in work related to environmental logistics and the implementation of energy saving use during shipping and logistics. Compliance with Waste Disposal laws Since we handle more than 30 million gross ton-kilometers*1 of domestic freight annually, Mitsui is classified as a Mitsui operates in compliance with the Waste Disposal and Public Cleansing Law (also referred to as the “Waste Disposal Specified Consigner. We therefore calculate the total amount of freight based on Mitsui-owned cargo as well as freight Law” or “Waste Law”). Disposal of industrial and general waste generated through commercial activities is managed by arranged for transportation in Japan. When Mitsui became a Specified Consigner, to meet the requirements of the Mitsui’s Logistics Management Division, which formulates waste handling process flows, answers questions, and offers Energy Saving Act we began to carry out an array of company-wide initiatives to promote efficient energy use in our other ongoing support to business units within Mitsui. In addition, the Logistics Management Division holds periodic logistics business. These initiatives included making improvements to our operating systems and arranging seminars seminars to increase awareness and understanding of proper waste disposal practices, covering such matters as the and other information events. selection of waste management subcontractors, manifest compilation and management, and other related issues. The In each of our business units, we collaborate with our logistics partners and promote economical driving practices division also holds seminars for associated companies, providing guidance from experienced personnel and offering and other fuel-saving techniques. We also work to raise efficiency by using larger transport vehicles, introducing cargo other waste management related assistance, with the aim of promoting appropriate handling of industrial waste. consolidation arrangements, and reviewing transport routes. We implement energy saving measures through modal shifts, making use of rail and ship transport. Responding to REACH regulations Each business unit is responsible for formulating and implementing specific energy reduction plans.*2 These plans (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and restriction of Chemicals) are gradually being implemented with the support of the Logistics Management Division as the administrative body, REACH is legislation developed by the European Union (EU) that places restrictions on the registration, assessment, and which consults with government and administrative agencies (Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry), permits required for chemicals. The REACH legislation became effective on June 1, 2007, with pre-registration compiling data, conducting checks based on the PDCA cycle, and holding in-house seminars, and the Environmental completed by November 30, 2008 and the first full registration by November 30, 2010. and Social Contribution Division, which is responsible for overall company-wide environmental management systems. Under these regulations, compliance with the REACH law is required of all related businesses manufacturing in or *1 Ton-kilometers are calculated by multiplying the number of metric tons of cargo by the distance they are transported (in kilometers). importing into the EU. Mitsui has worked in cooperation with its European offices to complete a database on all the *2 Plans are prepared on an annual basis, with monthly status reports. relevant chemical substances and to structure systems to confirm compliance with REACH regulations. Sustainability Report 2016 25 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Protection theGlobal Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Protection of the Global Environment Seminars and training sessions held in fiscal 2015 System Activity Environmental Education/Communication Title Number of times per year Target audience Outline Environmental law training Held twice Mainly Mitsui, subsidiaries and Management methods based on ISO14001, recent As we work to accelerate environmental initiatives across the global group, it is vital that we raise the environmental Approx. 110 participants affiliated company employees environmental law trends, basic knowledge, and key law amendments, etc. awareness of each of our employees at all levels. We conduct seminars and training sessions to promote these Internal environmental Held twice Mitsui, subsidiaries and For the purpose of improving the Company’s messages internally. auditor training (ISO14001) Approx. 50 participants affiliated company employees environmental management and support systems based on ISO14001 Internal environmental Held twice Internal environmental auditors, Role-play based training which aims to improve the Regular seminars and training sessions auditor practical training Approx. 40 participants department representatives in efficiency of internal audits and self checks At Mitsui, we work to raise awareness of environmental issues among employees of Mitsui, our subsidiaries and affiliated (ISO14001) charge of self checks companies, through regular seminars, environmental law training sessions, and ISO14001 training programs. Environment seminar Held twice Officers and employees of Lecture on the responsibilities of Generator (waste-disposing Lecture on Environmental Approx. 120 participants Mitsui & Co. and its affiliated parties) and precautions related to industrial waste. The tour Waste and Tour of Processing companies of the processing facility aims to promote understanding of Facility the importance and efficacy of on-site verification ISO14001 revisions and Mitsui Held twice Environmental management Aiming at overall improvement of the effectiveness of the Environmental education policy, planning and aims & Co.’s initiatives under these Approx. 100 participants managers global group’s environmental management system by revisions explanation of summary of ISO14001:2015 and next fiscal year’s initiatives based on the revisions Awareness activities (seminars, etc.) Environmental auditor training Environmental and social due Held 3 times (HQ Business Units) Mitsui & Co. officers and Seminar on due diligence covering environmental and diligence seminar Approx. 200 participants employees social risk analysis, etc. relating to the business activities of Held 15 times (overseas offices) each business unit Approx. 300 participants Internal Environmental Auditor Training Course New hires Induction Course (Environment) Internal Environmental Auditor Practical Course New staff induction training Held once New employees In accordance with ISO14001 requirements, explain Mitsui (environment) Approx. 190 participants & Co.’s environmental policy as part of the induction ISO14001 Environmental Legal Requirements Course training conducted by the Human Resources & General Induction Course for Temporary Staff Temporary staff induction Held 10 times Temporary employees ISO14001 Provisional Auditor Training Affairs Division designed to instil in employees the (Environment) training (environment) Approx. 50 participants Accept ISO14001 Lead Auditor Training necessary understanding of the company’s management Induction Course for Contract employees, Induction training for general/ Held 4 times General and seconded philosophy (MVV), various rules, the importance of Secondees working at Mitsui (Environment) seconded contract staff Approx. 100 participants contract employees compliance, etc. (environment) Environmental Management Continuing Environment Month (Seminars, lectures) Environmental Representative Induction Course education Environment Seminar management Plant visits (learning key aspects of Mitsui Environment Month environmental management) Mitsui & Co. has designated June as the “Mitsui Environment Month” each year, during which a variety of programs for officers and employees of Mitsui & Co. and affiliated companies are held as a part of Mitsui’s environmental education activities. During Mitsui Environment Month 2015, we held the following lectures and “Forest School” presentations about the company’s forests. Training seminars on environmental laws and regulations Lecture: “Abnormal Weather and Global Warming as Seen Through Buzzwords” We hold seminars for employees of Mitsui, subsidiaries and affiliated (Tsukasa Yoda, Meteorologist) ; Approx. 130 participants companies on environmental laws and regulations. From fiscal year Feedback responses via a questionnaire administered after the lecture included 2013, we began co-hosting these seminars with other trading firms, comments such as “The detailed explanation of the current state of global warming given through figures and simulations has made me realize again just how dangerous thereby helping to further environment-related compliance. In fiscal the situation is”, and “I realized how essential it is to be more aware of energy saving in year 2015, approximately 110 people participated from Mitsui & Co. order to ensure a safe future for our children”. group companies. We also conducted a separate training seminar on Tsukasa Yoda, Meteorologist Lecture: “Innovative Ways of Thinking! Can We Solve Environmental Problems the Waste Management and Public Cleansing Law, providing Through Sport?” (Shogo Sugiura, representative of Sugiura Environment Project) ; Approx. 80 participants classroom training focused on precautions in regard to complying with Forest School: “Let’s Learn More! Mitsui & Co.’s Priceless Assets: The Multi-faceted Use of Mitsui’s Forests” (Environmental•Social the Law, as well as training that covered the procedures for on-site Contribution Div.) ; Approx. 100 participants checks at waste disposal facilities and actual visits to such facilities. Sustainability Report 2016 26 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Protection theGlobal Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Protection of the Initiatives toward Environmental Value Creation Global Environment Environment-Related Business Mitsui engages in a wide range of business in the world around us, and, under the Environmental Policy Action Guidelines, it positions active participation in finding industrial solutions for environmental issues as one of its highest management priorities. Accordingly, we carry out a broad spectrum of environment-related business activities on a global group basis. The increasing seriousness of global warming, population growth, resource depletion, and other issues is reflected in growing public interest in nature and biodiversity conservation, the low-carbon, recycling-oriented society, and renewable energy, and in an expanding range of initiatives targeting these issues. Outlined below are some of our efforts to find solutions for environmental problems. Wind power generation business SOP Wind Canada 40MW Activity Renewable Energy West Cape Wind Canada 99MW Caribou Wind Canada 99MW Mitsui has set an objective of maintaining a constant ratio of renewable energy generation assets among its Harrow Wind Canada 40MW holdings of power generation assets as a policy for dealing with global warming and building a sustainable PAR Wind Canada 49MW society. Accordingly, Mitsui is pursuing and strengthening its initiatives related to renewable energy projects in Plateau Wind Canada 27MW the United States, Europe, Australia, and other parts of the world. ELSC Wind Canada 99MW Erieau Wind Canada 99MW As of March 31, 2016, renewable energy, including hydroelectric power, accounted for approximately 13% of Cape Scott Wind Canada 99MW Mitsui’s total generating capacity of 41GW (including 11GW of equity-share capacity). Brazos Wind U.S.A. 160MW Eoliatec del Istmo Mexico 164MW Project Company name Country Generating capacity/Scale Eoliatec del Pacifico Mexico 160MW Solar power generation business Haneda Solar Power Co., Ltd. Japan 2MW Zajaczkowo Windfarm Poland 48MW Tottori Yonago Solar Park Japan 42.9MW Bald Hills Wind Farm Australia 106.6MW Izumiotsu Solar Park Japan 19.6MW Biomass power generation business Green Power Ichihara Japan 50MW Tomatoh Abira Solar Park Japan 111MW Tomakomai Biomass Power Generation Co., Ltd. Japan 5.9MW (Under Construction) Kumamoto Arao Solar Park Japan 22.4MW Run-of-river hydroelectric power Energia Sustentavel do Brasi Brazil 3,750MW (Under Construction) generation business Spanish Hydro Spain 84MW Omuta Miike Port Solar Park Japan 19.6MW Hamamatsu Solar Park Japan 43MW (Under Construction) Tahara Solar-Wind Joint Project Japan 50MW Example: Mexico’s Bii Stinu & Santo Domingo Wind Projects Brockville Solar Canada 10MW Mitsui began participation in the Bii Stinu Wind Project (164MW) in Beckwith Solar Canada 10MW February 2013 and in the Santo Domingo Wind Project (160MW) in IPM Eagle Desarrollos Espana Spain 1.5MW December of that same year. Both projects are located in Oaxaca state Solar thermal power generation business Guzman Energia S.L. Spain 50MW in Mexico. Wind power generation business NS Wind Power Hibiki Japan 15MW Tahara Solar-Wind Japan 6MW Wind Farm Hamada Japan 48MW Bii Stinu Wind Project (Oaxaca, Mexico) Norway Wind Canada 9MW Sustainability Report 2016 27 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Protection theGlobal Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Protection of the Global Environment Activity Modal Shift Building and improving the social infrastructure is a top-priority issue when it comes to economic growth and Example: Railway Rolling Stock Leasing promotion of global industrial development in countries and regions around the world. To respond to these needs in Our rolling stock leasing business, in the United States, Brazil, Europe, various regions, Mitsui is strengthening its functions and capabilities on a global group basis. We have identified the and Russia, is helping its customers enhance the efficiency of their railway freight transportation and railway passenger transportation businesses as key fields, and leveraging in particular operations by meeting their needs for leasing different types of rolling the achievements of our long-term railway lease business, we are promoting initiatives to develop and operate a wide stock as well as drawing on Mitsui capabilities as a general trading variety of railway projects as part of our on-going modal shift. company to offer added value by providing operation and maintenance management services. This business conforms to the Business investment Quantitative effects/ Siemens Electric locomotive in Europe Main business Country modal shift promotion policies for railway transportation that are being (Company name) project size worked out by countries and regions around the world from the Trinet Logistics Co., Ltd. Tokyo Bay barge transportation Japan 92.3% reduction in CO2 (Ichihara to Yokohama) emissions compared to truck perspective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and other aspects transportation of global environment conservation. MRC (Mitsui Rail Capital, LLC) Freight wagon leasing business U.S.A. Four global basis (US, Brazil, Europe, Russia) MRC-LA (Mitsui Rail Capital Participacões) Freight wagon rental business Brazil Freight wagons: approx. 16,000 Example: Passenger Railway Business MRCE (Mitsui Rail Capital Europe B.V.) Locomotive leasing business Europe Locomotives: approx. 300 In the urban transport concession and PPP field, we began funding MRC1520 (MRC1520 LLC) Freight wagon leasing business Russia Brazil’s São Paulo metro line no. 4 in 2007 and began operating the line VLI Freight transportation business Brazil Operating a railway network of in 2011. In addition, we began participation in four projects in 2014: approx. 10,700 km and port terminals the Rio de Janeiro suburban railway, the São Paulo metro line no. 6, the Rio de Janeiro LRT (light rail transport), and the Goiânia LRT. We SuperVia (Supervia Concessionária de Passenger railway transportation Brazil Transportation record: Approx. Transporte Ferroviário S.A) business 700,000 passengers per day effectively used the railway technology, know-how and other (Rio de Janeiro suburban railway) (December 2015) Suburban railway in Rio de Janeiro (“SuperVia”) resources of Japanese railway companies and manufacturers to Via Quatro (Concessionária da Linha 4 do Passenger railway transportation Brazil Transportation record: Approx. increase the value of these projects. At the same time, by developing Metrô de São Paulo S.A.) business 700,000 passengers per day (São Paulo metro line no. 4) (December 2015) the urban transportation infrastructure, we provide passengers with safe and secure transport and help alleviate the serious traffic congestion and air pollution problems in Brazilian cities. Sustainability Report 2016 28 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Protection theGlobal Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Protection of the Global Environment Activity Recycling Activity Paper Manufacturing Resource Business In addition to development of underground resources, Mitsui has positioned the recycling of aboveground resources as Business investment (Company name) Country Business size (*target) an area for emphasis within its comprehensive energy and environmental strategy. The objective of these activities is to offer industrial solutions to environmental problems and provide stable supplies of various resources. BTP (Bunbury Treefarm Project) Australia 20,000 ha (*) GTP (Green Triangle Treefarm Project) Australia 10,000 ha (*) Business investment AAP (Australian Afforestation Pty., Ltd.) Australia 2,000 ha (*) Main business Country Business size (Company name) PTP (Portland Treefarm Project) Australia 3,000 ha (*) MM & KENZAI Metal scrap collection and sales Japan Handles 7 million tons/year of BFP (Bunbury Fibre Plantations Pty., Ltd.) Australia 14,000 ha Corporation business metal scrap Kyoei Recycling Co., Ltd. Industrial waste processing and gas Japan Processing capacity of 27,000 production mt/year, 140,000 Nm3/day Example : Forest Resources Business for Pulp and Paper E.R. Japan Corporation Recycling and reuse of used compact Japan Recycling capacity of 24,000 mt/ Manufacturing home appliances year Since 1996, Mitsui has been engaged in two afforestation projects in Mitsui Bussan Metals Co., Non-ferrous metal scrap and nonJapan Handles 100,000 tons/year of Ltd. ferrous metal product trading business non-ferrous metal scrap Victoria and three in Western Australia with the aim of securing Sims Metal Management General recycling business (metal North America, Europe, Australia, Handles 1.2 million tons/year of resources for pulp and paper manufacturing. By cultivating sustainable Ltd. scrap, electronic device recycling, etc.) New Zealand, and elsewhere metal scrap, etc. forests, these projects contribute to protecting valuable natural Wuhan GHM Auto Parts Remanufacturing of automotive parts China 360,000 units of remanufactured resources, absorbing and chemically immobilizing carbon dioxide, Remanufacturing Co., Ltd. automotive parts per year Forest Resources Business (Western Australia) preserving biodiversity, and preventing soil erosion and salt pollution. Example: General Recycling Business for Metal Scrap, Electric Devices, etc. In June 2007 Mitsui invested in Sims Metal Management Ltd., the world’s largest recycler of ferrous and non-ferrous metal as well as electronics, and, as of March 2016, Mitsui was the largest shareholder with an approximately 18% stake. Today, Sims Metal Management has more than 240 locations on five continents with a focus on North America, and more than 5,000 employees. In addition to the metal scrap business, the company also operates the world’s largest electrical and electronics recovery and recycling business, as well as New York City municipal waste processing business. Sims Metal Management is, therefore, continuing to grow as a total recycling enterprise. Sims scrap yard (U.S.) Sustainability Report 2016 29 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Protection theGlobal Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Protection of the Global Environment Activity Other Environment-Related Business Project Main business Example : High-grade Urea Solution AdBlue® Business Materials for secondary battery use Structuring systems for the stable production and supply of secondary battery materials, Mitsui Chemicals’ AdBlue® is a detoxifying agent of water and nitrogen including principally those used in lithium-ion batteries which works as a reduction agent for nitrogen oxides including gas Rooftop gardening, green wall building, and Proposal sales of greening (landscape)-related materials and development of sales emissions of trucks and buses. Mitsui is building and enhancing a greening at educational institutions business for greenery to improve the environment through Mitsui Bussan Agro Business Co., Ltd. (Japan) nationwide network of sales and logistics locations and infrastructure High-pressurized tank for NGVs and FCVs Import and sale of tanks for installation on vehicles powered by natural gas and fuel cells as the sole agent of Mitsui Chemicals’ AdBlue®. Mitsui contributes to Car-sharing business Operation of a car-sharing business that utilizes high fuel-efficiency, low-pollution the environment by steadily supplying AdBlue® for diesel vehicles vehicles (Singapore) supporting the gas emission regulations set down by the government. AdBlue® is a registered trademark of the German Association of the Automobile Industry (VDA). Water treatment business in Mexico Participation in four major water treatment projects (including one still under Demand for a stable supply of AdBlue® is expanding due to further construction) in the State of Jalisco and other parts of Mexico through a consolidated tightening of automobile emission standards (2016 standards). subsidiary, Atlatec, S.A. de C.V. (headquartered in Mexico) Water and sewer concession business in the In September 2013, Mitsui and FCC Aqualia, a leading water management company in Czech Republic Spain, entered into a water concession business in Ostrava, Czech Republic. The project Example: Solar Power Generation Monitoring Service company is currently supplying drinking water, including bulk water, and sewage water treatment service for approximately 1.3 million users Solar power facilities are often thought to be maintenance free, but in fact, panels can be damaged or contaminated, equipment failures can Water treatment business in China Galaxy NewSpring Pte. Ltd. established in August 2010 as a 50-50 joint venture with Hyflux Ltd., a leading provider of integrated water management solutions based in occur, and facilities deteriorate with age. Therefore, making systems to Singapore, currently operating drinking water, sewage treatment, and water recycling rapidly detect these irregularities is essential. Mitsui Knowledge systems at 24 sites in China. Industry Co., Ltd., a consolidated subsidiary, uses its abilities in High-grade urea solution: AdBlue® business See P.29 integration of information and communication technologies to Solar power generation monitoring service See P.29 provide cloud services for remote monitoring of solar power Cloud-based energy saving service See P.30 generation facilities. Investment for the development of microbe See P.30 Conceptual image of solar power generation facilities gas fermentation technology and a remote monitoring screen Precision agricultural solutions business See P.30 Lithium ion secondary cell business in China See P.30 The Callide Oxyfuel Project—Demonstration See P.18 “Strategic Focus” for zero-emission electricity generation with coal Sustainability Report 2016 30 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Protection theGlobal Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Protection of the Global Environment Example: Cloud-Based Energy Saving Services Example: Precision Agricultural Solutions Business Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd., a consolidated subsidiary, uses Mitsui has acquired an equity stake in Farmers Edge, a global leader in information technology to provide energy saving services to precision agriculture and independent data management solutions commercial facilities, enabling customers to easily save energy while headquartered in Canada, which provides one-stop access to services maintaining a comfortable environment. ranging from farm analysis to consultation. It helps to raise crop yields Features of Energy Saving Services and reduce costs by using satellite remote sensing, soil analysis and ‌Automated remote control of air conditioning to eliminate wasteful various other information resources to support the implementation of efficient fertilizer application plans. Using these methods, it has Precision Agricultural Solutions energy consumption and cut costs. ‌Effective use of existing air conditioning facilities without dependence reduced fertilizer costs by an average of 5% and improved yields by an on a specific manufacturer or energy source (electricity or gas). average of 9%. While the company provides these services mainly in ‌Fast and inexpensive installation. Canada at present, it is also expanding into the United States, Russia, ‌Real-time automated operation based on measured values. Brazil, and Australia. It provides services to a global customer base of ‌Control areas can be precisely divided for individual control of each over 2,200 farm operators. area. ‌Flexible control, even in environments susceptible to temperature System overview and control screen Example : Lithium-Ion Rechargeable Battery Business in China changes, for efficient energy use without waste. Mitsui contributes to realizing a sustainable energy consumption society by providing solutions to save electricity through our business Example: Investment for the Development of Microbe Gas participation in Tianjin EV Energies Co., Ltd., which manufactures and Fermentation Technology sells lithium-ion rechargeable batteries for electric automobiles, hybrid Mitsui invested in the US venture company LanzaTech New Zealand automobiles, plug-in hybrid automobiles and other applications in Limited that is developing microorganism gas fermentation China. Tianjin EV Energies factory technology which converts carbon monoxide (CO) and carbon dioxide (CO2) into fuel and chemicals such as ethanol and butadiene. We aim to develop businesses that can tackle global warming by commercializing technology that converts emissions containing Demonstration project with Shougang Steel in China carbon dioxide into energy. Sustainability Report 2016 31 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Protection theGlobal Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Protection of the Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Load, Including Curbing Global Warming (With Environmental Data) Global Environment Activity Management of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Mitsui is carrying out initiatives for the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions on a global Group basis. From the CO2 Emissions( fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, Mitsui has continually surveyed its domestic GHG emissions in order to understand its fixed quantity of emissions year by year. Mitsui has also announced its objective of reducing energy consumption (intensity target) since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 for Mitsui itself as well as for its domestic subsidiaries, by an 1,600 1,503 average of over 1% per year. In this way the entire group is promoting the reduction of GHG emissions from energy 1,400 1,403 sources. In addition, Mitsui has begun surveying the GHG emissions of its overseas subsidiaries since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 and we are continuing to consider new initiatives to reduce GHG on a global Group basis. An 347 343 382 368 327 323 300 investigation of the water amount of consumption in a main domestic and abroad subsidiary company is begun from fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. 150 310 328 327 312 0 17 19 16 11 Concerning the data marked with (, an independent practitioner’s assurance report prepared in accordance with the international standard ISAE 3000 and 3410 was given by Deloitte Tohmatsu Evaluation and Certification Organization Co., Ltd. (Unit: FY13/3 FY14/3 FY15/3 FY16/3 1,000t-CO ) Domestic locations Energy Consumption( Subsidiaries and associated companies in Japan Overseas subsidiaries and associated companies FY12/3 15,000 Energy Consumption 13,299 13,158 19,462TJ (Unit:1,000t-CO2) 10,000 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 6,240 SCOPE1 1,364 1,460 384 317 6,176 6,116 6,094 5,764 5,927 5,000 SCOPE2 366 390 341 374 5,808 5,745 5,783 5,544 Total 1,730 1,850 725 691 0 368 371 311 220 (Unit: TJ) FY13/3 FY14/3 FY15/3 FY16/3 Energy Consumption 19,475 19,274 12,334 11,691 Domestic locations Subsidiaries and associated companies in Japan Overseas subsidiaries and associated companies Sustainability Report 2016 32 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Protection theGlobal Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Protection of the Global Environment Activity Reducing the Environmental Impact of Offices All employees at Mitsui strive to reduce the burden on the environment not only when conducting business, but also in Electricity Consumption( their office activities through the efficient utilization of energy resources, as well as the reduction, reuse, and recycling of waste and its proper disposal. 30,000 27,165 27,112 Concerning the data marked with (, an independent practitioner’s assurance report prepared in accordance with the international standard ISAE 3000 and 23,999 3410 was given by Deloitte Tohmatsu Evaluation and Certification Organization Co., Ltd. 20,000 19,131 Electricity Consumption( 10,000 30,000 0 (Unit: MWh) FY13/3 FY14/3 FY15/3 FY16/3 20,000 20,155 20,434 19,097 15,739 10,000 Water Consumption 0 FY16/3 (Unit: Thousand m3) (Unit: MWh) FY13/3 FY14/3 FY15/3 FY16/3 Subsidiaries and associated companies in Japan 15,549 Overseas subsidiaries and associated companies 13,761 Total 29,310 Water Consumption( < Scope of coverage> 1 Figures for Energy Consumption, CO2 Emissions and Water Consumption: * ‌Domestic locations are based on the computation criteria stipulated in the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. The scope includes not only Mitsui’s Head Office, 80,000 subsidiaries, and branches, but also buildings owned in Mitsui’s name in Japan as well as rental buildings, offices, and training centers. 70,228 65,921 * ‌Subsidiaries and associated companies in Japan are domestic subsidiaries as specified in the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law. Estimates are based on 60,000 59,553 the computation criteria stipulated in the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. 55,827 * ‌Overseas subsidiaries and associated companies are overseas subsidiaries included within the scope of consolidation. Estimates are based on the computation criteria stipulated in the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and GHG protocols ”Emission Factors from Cross Sector Tools (April 40,000 2014).0”, “GHG emissions from purchased electricity (Version 4.7) and Act on the Rational Use of Energy. * We ‌ reviewed the data in FY15/3 in accordance with surveying in FY16/3, also expand the scope of coverage, including some estimates from FY16/3. 2 Figures for Electricity Consumption: It is based on the computation criteria stipulated in the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. The scope includes not only 20,000 Mitsui’s Head Office, subsidiaries, and branches, but also buildings owned in Mitsui’s name in Japan as well as rental buildings, offices, and training centers. 0 (Unit: m3) FY13/3 FY14/3 FY15/3 FY16/3 Sustainability Report 2016 33 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Protection theGlobal Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Protection of the Global Environment Activity Work in Environmental Logistics Paper Consumption( At present, we handle a diverse range of freight, including iron and steel, other metals, chemical products, and foods. We handle a total of 635 million ton-kilometers*1 of domestic freight annually. About 87% is carried by 60,000 ship, about 13% by truck, and the remainder by rail or airplane. 57,833 56,588 50,155 50,369 Concerning the data marked with (, an independent practitioner’s assurance report prepared in accordance with the international standard ISAE 3000 and 3410 was given by Deloitte Tohmatsu Evaluation and Certification Organization Co., Ltd. 40,000 Freight Volumes Handled by Mitsui( 20,000 1,000 0 (Thousand sheets: FY13/3 FY14/3 FY15/3 FY16/3 A4-size sheet equivalent) 624 635 580 0.0 0.0 0.1 510 92 85 500 89 0.0 89 Waste( 491 421 532 550 0 2,000 (Unit: Million ton-kiloFY13/3 FY14/3 FY15/3 FY16/3 meters) 1,500 1,421 Ship 1,140 1,171 Truck 1,000 941 Air/Rail 1,222 871 988 500 753 0 269 183 199 188 (t) FY13/3 FY14/3 FY15/3 FY16/3 Result for Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2016*2( Specific consumption*3 18.3 Amount of final disposal Amount recycled *1 Ton-kilometers are calculated by multiplying the number of metric tons of cargo by the distance they are transported (in kilometers). *2 Results based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy were reported in June 2016. *3 ‌Specific consumption: An expression of energy efficiency, calculated as energy used (liters of oil equivalents) divided by thousand ton-kilometers, where a FY13/3 FY14/3 FY15/3 FY16/3 smaller number represents higher transportation efficiency. Recycling rate (%) 76.4 84.4 86.0 80.0 P.81 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report * Figures for Electricity Consumption and Paper Consumption are for all offices in Japan (Mitsui & Co., Head Office Building (Tokyo), 6 Offices, 5 Branches). * ‌Figures for Water Consumption and Waste are for the following Mitsui & Co. Head Office Building (Tokyo) and Mitsui-owned buildings (Osaka and Nagoya). Also we reviewed the data in FY15/3 in accordance with surveying in FY16/3. Sustainability Report 2016 34 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Protection theGlobal Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Protection of the Global Environment Activity Environmental Accounting/Environmental Liabilities Activity Activities to Prevent Global Warming through Business Environmental conservation costs Environmental conservation is an integral part of economic and social activities. To achieve sustainable development, The cost of environmental conservation for all of Mitsui’s domestic offices during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 is we must carry out development in a way that meets the needs of the present generation without reducing the capacity outlined below. to meet the needs of future generations.*1 (Unit:1,000JPY) Mitsui & Co. concluded an equity participation agreement with Category Investments Expenses New Forests Pty Limited (“New Forests”, head office: Sydney, Australia), Business areas costs 552,832 554,748 which manages forest assets in Oceania, Asia, and North America. Through this relationship, Mitsui & Co. aims to participate in the stable Upstream/downstream costs 0 86,523 supply of forestry resources while contributing to sustainable social Administration costs 146 531,445 development. Social activity costs 0 666,309 New Forests was founded in 2005. The forestry funds that it Other cost 11,410 1,268 manages and invests in under trust amount to A$2.8 billion Management of forest land in new forests in Australia Total 564,388 1,840,293 (approximately ¥240 billion), and its forestry plantations and other * Based on the Environmental Accounting Guidelines (2005 version) published by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan Scope of coverage: All offices in assets cover a total area of 600,000 hectares. In Oceania, the company Japan Target period: April 1, 2015– March 31, 2016 invests its forestry funds mainly in plantations to produce materials for paper manufacturing and construction. New Forests is helping to ensure stable supplies of timber resources to Asian markets, where demand is expanding in step Environmental conservation/Economic effects with rising living standards. It also invests in sustainable forestry resource initiatives, including rubber plantations, in Mitsui’s environmental conservation and economic effects for paper consumption and energy consumption, during the Southeast Asia. New Forests is also active in North America, where in addition to its forestry assets, it also manages a fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 are shown below. fund that sells greenhouse gas emission rights to meet the needs of energy utilities and other organizations. New Forests combines its global business development and management capabilities with a commitment to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment,*2 which form the basis for its forestry asset investment and Environmental conservation effects Economic effects (Unit:1,000JPY) management policies. In principle, all of its investment and business activities are subject to verification by independent Paper consumption △214 Thousand sheets 2,887 organizations. Electricity consumption 3,598 MWh 74,664 This investment will allow Mitsui & Co. to support the sustainable development of forestry resources to meet * Environmental conservation/Economic effects are calculated by Actual numerical results for the previous year Actual numerical results for this year anticipated demand growth, while also making a positive contribution in a field that is closely linked to the global Scope of coverage: Paper: All offices in Japan / Sheet: A4-size sheet equivalent environment. Electricity consumption: Mitsui & Co. Head Office Building (Tokyo), Mitsui-owned buildings (Osaka and Nagoya) *1 The final report of the 1987 United Nations World Commission on Environment and Development (WCED) (the Brundtland Commission) *2 ‌United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment: Published by the United Nations in April 2006, these six principles define the philosophy needed to reflect perspectives relating to the environment, society, and corporate governance (ESG) priorities in the investment decision-making processes of Assessment of environmental liabilities institutional investors, and in policies on share ownership. Currently, demands are being placed on corporate management to make proactive efforts regarding environmental issues. Mitsui endeavors to understand the environmental risk—particularly asbestos, PCB, and soil pollution—of tangible fixed assets such as the land and buildings of Mitsui itself, as well as those of its domestic group subsidiaries, through on-site investigations. It also works to respond in a timely manner in order to ensure its usefulness during decisions and judgments related to management policies, in addition to responding to legal requirements. Sustainability Report 2016 35 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Protection theGlobal Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Protection of the Initiatives for Preserving Biodiversity Global Environment result, these activities also serve to protect native species, headwaters, Activity Conservation of Biodiversity through Business: Tree-Planting Program in Australia and water quality. Mitsui is carrying out a eucalyptus tree-planting program in Australia, together with partners such as Nippon Paper The greatest threat to biodiversity is posed by bushfires. To Industries Co., Ltd., for the stable provision of wood chips (the raw material for paper). Australia was chosen for its very prevent these, we install mandatory firebreaks throughout the tree flat topography compared to mountainous Japan, and because its tree-planting areas are highly productive and farms, maintain a fire truck response system, and operate a continuous intensively managed—so much so that they are often called “tree farms.” The trees grow for approximately 10 years monitoring network. In cooperation with neighboring farmers, we between planting and harvest, known as one ‘rotation’. After harvest, reforestation (or coppice regeneration) is done so make use of the Australian location to allow sheep to graze the forest as to grow subsequent rotations of trees in a sustainable manner. undergrowth, helping prevent the spread of fire at the same time as Sheep that contribute to preventing the spread of fires As of the end of March 2016, the total forested area, both solely possessed as well as jointly owned and operated reducing the need for weed killers and other such chemicals. with partners including Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., was approximately 200 km2, equivalent to an area slightly larger than Washington D.C. Since tree planting commenced in 1996, the current areas are in their second rotation after the first-rotation forestation was logged, with full consideration for the environment over the long term. These tree-planting areas have all acquired either FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council) certification (an international Policy About Initiatives at Mitsui’s Forests certification) or the international Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC), in order to promote sustainable forest management. With periodic certification audits, the following items are observed in respect to criteria Overview of Mitsui’s Forests set by the relevant certification bodies, and work is undertaken while taking the needs of biodiversity and conservation Mitsui owns forests in 74 locations in Japan, from Hokkaido in the north to Kyushu in into consideration. the south. Mitsui’s forests cover a total area of approximately 44,000 hectares, which is equivalent to about 70% of the area of Tokyo’s 23 wards, and 0.1% of Japan’s 1. Compliance with local laws and regulations territory. We have worked under our Forest Management Policy to nurture these 2. Monitoring of the forest’s health, results of forestry operations, and production results forests and make productive use of the benefits that they provide. Mitsui gives its 3. Creation of and adherence to longand short-term forest management plans forests the status of assets with a high degree of public use that benefits the whole 4. Forest management that takes into consideration the environment and local communities of society . Forests provide timber, which is a renewable resource. When properly managed and developed, they also provide a wide range of public benefits. For As an example of our adherence to these criteria, we are being example, forests help to clean the atmosphere by absorbing carbon dioxide and Mitsui’s Forests careful not to disrupt the many kinds of flora and fauna that live in the emitting oxygen. They also clean and enhance water resources, while their water wetland and headwater ecosystems of the land we manage. We are storage capacity helps to prevent natural disasters and maintain ecosystems. Based also actively preventing the supplanting of native vegetation by on a quantitative assessment using Forestry Agency data, the estimated value of Mitsui’s forests is ¥120 billion per year. controlling specific invasive weeds. One example of that value is the fact that our forests absorb and fix around 160,000 tons of carbon dioxide annually. All forest management activities near water and tree-planting Furthermore, around 14,000 hectares of our forests have been officially designated as “Water Conservation and Water areas are carried out with reference to the database of rare species (for Replenishing Forests” because of their role in securing water resources and preventing floods. native reptiles, mammals, birds, fish, etc.) of Australia’s Department of Recognizing these public benefits provided by its forests, Mitsui sees itself as having an important social Tree-planting areas in Australia Sustainability, Environment, Water, Population and Communities. As a responsibility, as a forest owner, to maintain and manage these forests properly over the long term. Sustainability Report 2016 36 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Protection theGlobal Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Protection of the Global Environment Policy Forest Management Policy Policy Forest Social Value Adopted July 2009 Appropriate forest management is just part of our commitment. We are also actively engaged in initiatives to utilize forest resources on various levels. As part of our contributions to society and to local communities, we use our forests for 1. ‌Guiding In line with its Management Philosophy, Mitsui will actively contribute to protecting our Principle environmental education activities. Resources from our forests are also used to support cultural activities and traditional irreplaceable Earth and fulfilling the dreams of its inhabitants, and we are committed to events in surrounding areas, as well as reconstruction in areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011. carefully nurturing our forests to pass them on to the next generation. Mitsui supports the campaign to promote the use of Japanese-grown timber as a way of revitalizing the Japanese 2. ‌Management Mitsui gives its forests the status of assets with a high degree of public use that benefits the forestry industry and providing additional impetus for regional development. We use Japanese-grown timber from our Policy whole of society . As well as providing the reusable natural resource of lumber, forests can fulfill forest in our offices. We utilize Mitsui’s forest resources for a wide range of other purposes. For example, wood biomass a range of socially beneficial functions if properly managed and enhanced on a consistent is a dependable source of fuel for local biomass power generation projects. basis; for instance, they can purify the atmosphere by absorbing carbon dioxide to produce In the area of environmental education, Mitsui’s forests are used for field studies that teach people about the role of oxygen, and they can act as a reservoir that stores and purifies rainwater. On the other hand, if forests, for forestry experience programs, and for various other activities within and beyond the Mitsui organization. We forests are neglected and not adequately maintained, they may increase the likelihood of also provide “Visiting Lectures” at elementary and junior and senior high schools throughout Japan to present lessons natural disasters and develop into a source of other social problems. Aware of the social value about the functions and management of forests and the role of forestry. that its forests possess, Mitsui regards their long-term ownership and maintenance as an We are also helping to protect culture. We have entered into agreements with the Biratori Ainu Association and the important social responsibility. So as to maximize the socially beneficial functions of our forests, town of Biratori in Hokkaido concerning the protection and fostering of Ainu culture and the reconstruction of we work to enhance these functions based on the FSC®’s Forest Management Principles and traditional Ainu living spaces. Under those agreements, we are helping to protect and foster Ainu culture. Under an Criteria, and also SGEC’s Forest Management Certification Principles and Indicators. agreement with the Kyoto Model Forest Association, we are supporting efforts to ensure the continuation of traditional 3. Policy In its concrete activities in the context of its forest holdings, Mitsui will act conscientiously on events in Kyoto by protecting and nurturing forests in the region. the basis of the management policy outlined above, giving full consideration to their social We also contribute to local communities through forestry activities in forests owned by Mitsui. We have started to significance and maintaining a strong awareness of their environmental impact. Accordingly, promote the use of wood biomass as an alternative to fossil fuels. For example, we are providing steady supplies of we will redouble our efforts in the following areas: wood biomass from Mitsui’s forests for a biomass power generation project, which will become operational in • ‌Offering Forest Environmental Programs to stakeholders December 2016, in Tomakomai, Hokkaido. • ‌Research work and concrete action to preserve biodiversity • ‌Achieving sustainability in the production of wooden material as a reusable natural resource and promoting its utilization as wood biomass Sustainability Report 2016 37 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Protection theGlobal Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Protection of the Global Environment System Cultivating Different Types of Forests: Forest Management Zoning Approximately 70% of Japan’s land area is covered by forests, 40% of which are Forests for Regeneration and Harvest, or forests created and tended by human hands. When considering the benefits of forests in Japan, working out Mitsui’s forests are divided into Forests for Regeneration and Harvest how to maximize the benefits of Forests for Regeneration and Harvest is very important. Forests for Regeneration and (approximately 40%) and Natural Forests and Naturally Regenerated Harvest need to be constantly tended by human hands. Forests for Regeneration and Harvest, when not managed Forests (approximately 60%). Forests for Regeneration and Harvest are properly, tend to become dark and overgrown. When managed well, Forests for Regeneration and Harvest are bright forests that have been planted and cultivated by human hands, and and open to sunlight. In such forests, which are bright because they are well-managed, underbrush grows, animals follow a repeated cycle of planting, cultivating, harvesting, and utilization thrive, and new soil is created. As a result, groundwater is purified and nutrients are carried to the rivers and the sea. for the production and supply of lumber resources. Natural Forests are These forests also store water, thus preventing floods and other natural disasters. The economic benefit of this is that forests that have been cultivated through natural action, while Naturally trees grow well and provide lumber. When forests are not properly managed and therefore are dark, they not only fail to Regenerated Forests are forests that have grown back mainly through provide these benefits but also lose the biodiversity and end up actively contributing to regional environmental natural action following deforestation due, for instance, to a natural disaster or tree-harvesting. Forests in these degradation. categories are maintained in their natural state. Areas within these forests that are particularly important from the viewpoint of biodiversity are designated as Biodiversity Conservation Forests (approximately 10% of all Mitsui’s forests). Mitsui manages Mitsui’s forests in accordance with the Forest Management Zoning categories as shown below. Appropriate management is applied to each forest category. System Forest Certification Management zoning categories of Mitsui’s forests (as of December 31, 2015) Forest certification is given based on assessments regarding whether fixed criteria are met concerning forest Category Definition Area (ha) management methods. The spread of such certification prevents unregulated deforestation, preserves healthy forests, Forests for Harvest-oriented Sustainable Forests for the production and supply of lumber resources through the 6,839 and helps protect the global environment. Regeneration Cycle Forests repeated cycle of harvesting, planting, and cultivating. In December 2009, we achieved certification for all Mitsui forests under the FSC® international forest and Harvest Natural Restoration Forests Forests to be restored as Naturally Regenerated Forests consisting of 10,631 standards. We took this step to obtain independent assessment and certification as confirmation that coniferous and broad-leaved trees. our forests are being managed appropriately and with care for biodiversity. Mitsui was the first private Forests for Biodiversity Special Forests judged to have irreplaceable biodiversity value at the regional and 324 company in Japan to obtain this certification for large-scale forests covering an area of over 10,000 Regeneration Conservation Conservation national level and requiring stringent protection. and Harvest, Forests Forests hectares. Natural Environmental Forests confirmed to support a large number of rare creatures whose 875 The FSC® certification is a type of certification established by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®), an international Forests and Conservation habitat requires protection. Naturally NGO with a membership system that operates an international forest certification system. FSC® has 10 principles and 70 Forests Regenerated criteria for Forest Management from a wide perspective of multi-stakeholders. Certification criteria focus not only on Forests Water and Soil Forests with plentiful water stocks that form a water resource, reduce the risk of 3,164 Conservation natural disasters, or have other major socially beneficial functions which contribute whether the forest manager is carrying out appropriate management from an economic standpoint, but also look at Forests to the safeguarding of the water supply and the preservation of ecosystems. consideration for the environment, maintaining favorable relationships with regional communities near the forest and Cultural Forests requiring protection due to the particularly high value of their 117 other factors. When Mitsui completed the certification procedures, a survey was given to stakeholders in our 74 Conservation cultural services —functions that nurture traditions and culture and form forestlands across Japan. This survey confirmed that Mitsui and our subsidiary Mitsui Bussan Forest Co., Ltd., which Forests part of the ecosystem services that are dependent on biodiversity. manages the forestlands, have built a favorable relationship with all local communities. Naturally Productive Naturally Forests to be cultivated for tree species useful as a source of lumber. 1,814 Regenerated Regenerated Forests Among the different types of FSC® certification, Mitsui has received Forest Management (FM) certification, while Forests General Naturally Regenerated Forests not composed of productive species but to be cultivated for 19,149 Mitsui Bussan Forest has received Chain of Custody (CoC) certification for the processing and distribution of cut lumber. Forests increased social value. As a result, Mitsui became the largest supplier of domestic FSC®-certified wood in Japan. Other Naturally Regenerated Naturally Regenerated Forests other than in the above categories. 1,504 Forests Total 44,417 Sustainability Report 2016 38 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Protection theGlobal Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Protection of the Addressing Environmental Issues through Contribution to Society Global Environment Activity Overview of The Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund Activity Grants Awarded of The Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund In July 2005, Mitsui launched the Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund as a grant program that aims to contribute to the sustainable development of society and address global environmental problems by supporting various Number of projects activities and research projects. 517 Since FY2011, when the Great East Japan Earthquake occurred, Mitsui has been engaged in recovery efforts aimed at achieving the sustainable development of society through initiatives to mitigate and resolve Value environmental problems caused by the earthquake. ¥5,389 Million In addition to its financial support for the activities and research conducted by NPOs, universities, and other groups or organizations, the fund is also encouraging Mitsui & Co.’s officers, employees and their families to participate in the activities, conducted by groups or organizations that received our grants, as volunteers. Activity Research Grants Grants Launched July 1, 2005 CSR Promotion Committee, Project Deliberation Panels, Project Selection Meeting (composed of outside Screening structure experts, Mitsui management, and staff) Grants Awarded (Unit: “Number”: number of project, “Value”: ¥ million) • Activity Grants • Research Grants Activity Grants Research Grants Total Grant program For practical activities or research providing concrete proposals, which contribute to the sustainable Number Value Number Value Number Value development of society and address global environmental problems. FY06/3 15 117 — — 15 117 A. Global environment B. Resource Circulation FY07/3 18 217 — — 18 217 Focus fields C. Ecosystems and the Symbiotic Society D. Relationship between People and Society FY08/3 48 437 23 456 71 893 Eligible groups or NPOs, NGOs, general incorporated associations & foundations, public interest incorporated associations & FY09/3 51 523 24 368 75 891 organizations foundations, special civil foundations, universities FY10/3 34 311 17 213 51 524 FY11/3 28 244 22 285 50 529 FY12/3* 52 (43) 528 (463) 46 (34) 603 (481) 98 (77) 1,131 (944) FY13/3* 36 (22) 237 (157) 14 (2) 112 (13) 50 (24) 349 (170) FY14/3 20 165 15 150 35 315 A. Global environment FY15/3 21 118 8 85 29 203 FY16/3 15 155 10 65 25 220 C. Ecosystems Total 338 3,052 179 2,337 517 5,389 B. Resource and the Sustainable development of society circulation symbiotic * ‌Figures in parentheses show Restoration grants for the Great East Japan Earthquake. However, since FY14/3, we have continued to support restoration projects society within the framework of regular programs, without providing a separate additional framework. The total value of the restoration projects since FY12/3 is ¥1,288 million. D. Relationship between people and society The Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund Sustainability Report 2016 39 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Activity Reports by Material Issue Environment Respect for Human Rights Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Respect for Human Rights Strategic Focus Key Strategic Domain: Food and Agriculture Food product industry responds to the growth in demand in the halal market, Related Product Segment: Lifestyle and demonstrates respect for the needs of different cultures As the world population expands, the growth rate is expected to be particularly high among Muslims. According to the Pew Research Center, it is estimated that Muslims will number 2.2 billion people in 2030, accounting for one-quarter of the world’s population. As a consequence, demand for halal foods sanctioned by Islamic law is going to increase. In 2015 Mitsui, together with Kagome Co., Ltd. and Longson Food Products Sdn. Bhd., a Malaysian condiment manufacturer, established Kagome Longson Pdn. Bhd. to manufacture and sell processed tomato products and condiments for the halal market. This company’s products have obtained Malaysian halal certification, which is highly trusted around the world, verifying that its products contain no alcohol, pork, or other prohibited ingredients and that all manufacturing processes comply with Islamic standards. In the region of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), where economic development and population growth are continuing, there are around 240 million Muslims accounting for over 40% of the region’s total population of about 600 million people, so the halal market can be expected to expand further. In addition, as Western restaurant chains open outlets, the market for pizza sauce and other tomato products and condiments can be expected to grow as well. Taking advantage of our global procurement capabilities and networks, Mitsui is supplying food products that devout Muslims can consume with complete peace of mind, and at the same time, through our response to the Westernization of eating habits, contributing to the diversification of food beyond religion and culture. Muslims in the ASEAN region Approx. 240 million (40% of total population) Source: Pew Research Center, 2010 World halal food market in 2013 US$ 680 billion Source: Halal Industry Development Corporation Sustainability Report 2016 40 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Activity Reports by Material Issue Environment Respect for Human Rights Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development R e s pe c t f or Human Rights Mitsui & Co.’s Approach Being aware of our role as a member of the international community, we will work to understand the culture, traditions, and practices of each country and region. We will also work to ensure that human rights are respected in the supply chain, and that there is no discrimination based on race, beliefs, gender, social status, religion, nationality, age, or mental or physical abilities. We will take action to rectify labor practices that violate human rights, such as forced labor and child labor. Activities for FY Ended March 2016 Business Area Metal Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals Energy Lifestyle Innovation & Corporate Development Corporate & Others Theme Business Activities Theme Business Activities Support for Contribution to sustenance and enhancement of living environments via Promotion of Inculcation of the mindset for developing human resources based on International various business activities around the world related to water, power Management understanding of individuality through interviews and dialogue with Standards generation, gas, and other areas System for Human individuals, paying great respect to their diversity Promotion and support of the sale of RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Rights Collection of a commitment to comply with the Business Conduct Guidelines Oil) certified palm oil for Employees and Officers and the Standards for Discipline of the Employment For outdoor clothing fabric business (Mitsui Bussan Techno Products), further Regulations from all the applicable employees and officers promotion of Bluesign® certification, which sets criteria aimed at the abolition Provision of e-learning opportunities about compliance for those who have not of child labor and forced labor, elimination of discrimination, freedom of taken the same before association, labor health and safety, in addition to consideration of Implementation of the Compliance Review Week, in which we held seminars environmental aspects and opportunities to share information and exchange opinions Continuation of our donation activities for school lunches in developing Implementation of the Compliance Awareness Survey (for domestic employees countries through AIM Services “Table for Two” (approx. 500,000 meals) and officers). Formulation and implementation of compliance activities based Designation of Mitsui’s Saru forest, for which an agreement has been concluded on the results of the Survey with the Biratori Ainu Association and the town of Biratori, as an Important Formulation of the plans for compliance activities for FY 2017/03 ended based Cultural Landscape Site selected by the Agency for Cultural Affairs because of on the review of FY 2016/03 ended activities undertaken by the Compliance the cultural scenery of the Saru river basin, which is characterized by Ainu Committee (once a year) traditions and modern-era reclamation Promotion of compliance activities in affiliate companies in accordance with those of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Visits to key affiliate companies to provide advice on the development and operation of compliance activities (8 companies) Conveyance of alerting messages about compliance (via intranet, meetings, etc.). Sharing information about actual disciplinary cases through reporting lines Sustainability Report 2016 41 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Activity Reports by Material Issue Environment Respect for Human Rights Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development R e s pe c t f or Human Rights Activities for FY Ended March 2016 Business Area Metal Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals Energy Lifestyle Innovation & Corporate Development Corporate & Others Theme Business Activities Promotion of Implementation of the e-learning course “CSR at Mitsui & Co.” (for 8,806 officers Management and employees in Japan and overseas, taken by 92.8% of the targeted people) System for Human Implementation of the e-learning course “CSR Risk Management—Human Rights Rights” (for 5,000 officers and employees in Japan, taken by 98.3% of the targeted people) Implementation of a workshop facilitated by an external expert on the theme of business and human rights at the CSR Promotion Officers Meeting Enhancement of the efficacy of the professional advices concerning environmental and social risk management through the Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee Sustainability Report 2016 42 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Activity Reports by Material Issue Environment Respect for Human Rights Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development R e s pe c t f or Support for International Standards Human Rights Policy Human Rights Initiatives Policy ILO Core Labour Standards Conducting business globally in many countries and regions of the world, Mitsui considers the protection of human The International Labour Organization (ILO) was founded in 1919 as an international organization responsible for rights in accordance with international standards to be its CSR management platform. Mitsui’s Basic CSR Policy states, drawing up and overseeing international labor standards. The ILO is a tripartite agency that brings together “make prudent efforts to understand the culture, traditions, and customs of countries and regions around the world” representatives of governments, employers, and workers to shape programs together on the subjects of human rights, and “recognize the significance and importance of the human rights contained in international standards”. occupational safety and health, hiring policies, and the development of human knowledge for the adoption of ILO The “Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers of Mitsui & Co., Ltd.” prescribe and require Mitsui agreements and recommendations. employees and officers to observe: full consciousness of their role as members of international society; understanding of In 1998, the ILO established the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. As the basic rights and respect for the cultures, customs, and history of individual nations; protection of human rights; and eschewing any of workers (ILO Core Labour Standards), they are defined in the 8 conventions in 4 fields (freedom of association and the form of discrimination based on race, creed, gender, social status, religion, nationality, age, or physical or mental ability. right to collective bargaining C87/C98; the prohibition of all forms of forced labor C29/C105; elimination of the worst Furthermore, regarding measures to prevent any kind of discrimination and sexual harassment, we are raising employee forms of child labor C138/C182 and non-discrimination in employment C100/C111). and officer awareness by providing compliance seminars and other opportunities tailored to each job level. Mitsui supports the 8 conventions constituting the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We also support various international standards, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO (International Labour Organization) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Policy Universal Declaration of Human Rights Activity Respecting Indigenous Peoples The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is a common standard of objectives for all peoples and all nations to respect When conducting operations, Mitsui strives to comply with all laws of the applicable country or region, and to respect human rights and freedoms. The Declaration was proclaimed on December 10, 1948 at the third United Nations General the human rights and cultures of its indigenous peoples in accordance with international standards such as the United Assembly and occupies an important position in the history of human rights. Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and the Convention concerning Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Following this declaration, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR) and the in Independent Countries (ILO Convention: C169). International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) were adopted by the 21st United Nations General Assembly For example, in our forest resources business for pulp and paper manufacturing in Australia, we are exercising due on December 16, 1966. They both recognize the majority of the rights indicated in the Universal Declaration of Human diligence by assessing the level of impact that Mitsui’s projects might have on the indigenous Aboriginal population. As Rights. Japan ratified both treaties in 1979. part of our research into available solutions in the event that any problems are discovered, we conduct advance surveys Mitsui supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ICESCR and the ICCPR. from the viewpoint of cultural protection to ensure that our operations will not destroy Aboriginal historical sites. In our iron ore mining operation in Brazil, we maintain close communication with the indigenous Parketêjê people to foster mutual respect. In Japan, Mitsui has entered into agreements with the town of Biratori in Hokkaido, where a part of Mitsui’s forests is located, and with the Biratori Ainu Association to cooperate in activities to protect and pass on Ainu traditional culture through the conservation of forests. Sustainability Report 2016 43 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Activity Reports by Material Issue Environment Respect for Human Rights Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development R e s pe c t f or Promotion of Management System for Human Rights Human Rights Activity Guidelines for Appointing a Security Firm System Management System for Human Rights and Labor Conditions The UN Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials was adopted in December 1979 so that the UN can promote Mitsui conducts an internal survey in alternate years concerning compliance with the UN Global Compact, to raise the and ensure that law enforcement authorities such as the police and the military in member countries take on awareness of management and employees regarding human rights and labor issues at its business units, corporate staff appropriate roles as well as respecting and protecting human dignity. The Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms divisions, and domestic and overseas organizations (branch offices and consolidated subsidiaries). by Law Enforcement Officials was also adopted in August/September 1990 as the standard for the use of force and firearms by law enforcement officials. 1. Do you fully understand the UN Global Compact? Mitsui bases its appointment of security firms on these codes of conduct and principles. 2. ‌Have there been any violations of the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact? If so, report the details of the violation and what measures were taken to handle the situation. As a consequence of this survey, if it is found that we have a unit, a division, or an organization that materially lacks an understanding of the UN Global Compact, we will take measures, such as providing additional training seminars. In addition, we continue to hold e-learning courses, in-house seminars and other training activities to remind employees of the importance of addressing and managing risks related to human rights and labor problems in the supply chain. In the fiscal year ended March 2016, 8,806 (92.8%) of our officers and employees in Japan and overseas underwent an e-learning program entitled “CSR at Mitsui & Co.”, which included content relating to human rights issues in supply chains. In addition, 5,000 (98.3%) of our officers and employees in Japan completed the “CSR Risk Management— Human Rights” e-learning program. We also invited an external lecturer to lead a workshop on the theme of business and human rights at a meeting of CSR Promotion Officers. With regard to our main suppliers, we promote initiatives for improving our supply chain management by conducting supplier surveys which involve sending out questionnaires and carrying out on-site surveys based on a checklist. In the fiscal year ended March 2016, we sent questionnaires to 39 of our suppliers, and conducted on-site surveys at suppliers of pulp and paper manufacturing resources. Through these surveys, we confirmed their compliance with our Supply Chain CSR Policy, which covers human rights, labor conditions, and other aspects. Moreover, through our participation in working groups of Global Compact Network Japan, such as the Human Rights Due Diligence (HRDD) Working Group and the Supply Chain Working Group, we learn about international trends related to human rights, and can make use of the information we obtain from other companies to enhance our CSR promotion activities. We continue to deepen our awareness of human rights and labor issues in reference to international guidance, such as the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, in part, by inviting outside experts to hold seminars. Sustainability Report 2016 44 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Enhancement of Local Industrial Bases & Quality of Life Strategic Focus Key Strategic Domain: Lifestyle Products and Value-added Services Developing the high-speed mobile data communication business in sub-Saharan Africa Related Product Segment: Innovation & Corporate Development with the aim of reforming education, healthcare, agriculture, etc. The countries lying south of the Sahara Desert, a region known as sub-Saharan Africa, continue to face serious poverty and economic disparities. However, with their abundant natural resources and growing populations, they are on the threshold of achieving spectacular economic growth. In the process of realizing such growth, the enhancement of infrastructure, improvement of agricultural productivity, and training of human resources are going to be essential. In 2015 Mitsui invested in the Afrimax Group, which is developing fourth-generation long-term evolution (4G LTE) high-speed mobile data communication service in sub-Saharan Africa. Although mobile phone penetration in the region has reached around 70%, broadband is still lagging and Internet penetration is only about 7%. By 2019, however, the volume of mobile data traffic is expected to increase by about 20 times over the 2013 level. This project is responding to the growing demand by contributing significantly to improvement of the information and communications environment. Based on our track record with LTE business in Indonesia, which started in 2013, Mitsui is striving to meet the rising demand and enhance the Internet environment. The improved social infrastructure and human networks created by this project will also form the platform for Mitsui’s business in Africa. Utilizing the wide-ranging business channels and development capabilities that are our strengths, we aim to develop business in such fields as education, healthcare, and agriculture and thereby contribute to the development of sub-Saharan Africa. Internet penetration in sub-Saharan Africa Approx. 7 % (2013 figure) Source: Broadband Commission, The State of Broadband 2014: Broadband for All Projected mobile data traffic in sub-Saharan 20 Africa in 2019 times more than in 2013 * ‌This project was developed under the new Business Innovation Project framework. It is designed Source: Ericsson, to promote new business endeavors which is to enhance Mitsui’s new regional strategies, new business focus areas and challenge for new business model, and which have the potential to Sub-Saharan Africa Mobility Report Appendix generate excellent returns over the mid and longer term. Sustainability Report 2016 45 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Enhancement of Local Industrial Bases & Quality of Life Mitsui & Co.’s Approach Through our business activities, we will work to develop the infrastructure needed for growth and prosperity in countries and regions all around the world, including electric power, transportation and communications. We will also strive to improve basic services, such as healthcare and care for the aged, to create new value, envisaging a future in the next-generation business domains that embody innovation, and to develop local industries and create employment. We will also contribute to developing human resources with global perspectives and improving the educational environment through the hosting of endowed lecture programs at major universities and through a variety of education funds and scholarships. Activities for FY Ended March 2016 Business Area Metal Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals Energy Lifestyle Innovation & Corporate Development Corporate & Others Theme Business Activities Theme Business Activities Development of the Promotion of water supply and sewerage business (Mexico), port container Development of the Contribution to the enhancement of the distribution network for consumer Social Infrastructure terminal operations (Indonesia), international cargo terminal operations Social Infrastructure products through TV shopping business (India, China) (Japan), and co-generation business (Thailand, Brazil), etc. Support for overseas market development (Asia, Latin America) by local Job creation in local communities through infrastructure business around the companies and promotion of consumer goods logistics (Trinet group), (Asia, world mainly in Japan) Promotion of efficient operations of airline and railway companies through the Meeting demands for developing infrastructure through heavy lifting & lease of aircraft and rolling stock transport (Huationg Holdings), (Southeast Asia, mainly Singapore) Improvements of transportation methods and logistics in emerging nations Provision of Safe, Establishment of a fund to widely spread breast cancer screening (Singapore) through sales, financing, and leasing of automobiles, motorcycles, trucks, and Reliable Products with a plan for providing free-of-charge treatment for breast cancer patients buses and Services (120 people in 2 years starting from 2016) Support for improvement of local communities’ industrial bases and livelihoods Contribution to providing required medical treatment for people afflicted by through sales and maintenance of mining and construction machinery large-scale floods through the support of IHH group’s Global Hospital (India) Reduction of transportation costs for grains, steel products, fertilizers, etc. Promotion of pharmaceutical development which contributes to through integrated logistics business operations (Brazil) enhancement of patients’ quality of life (NovaQuest) Contribution to the ensuring of safe and reliable railway transportation by Support for the development of pharmaceuticals, IT, and agrochemicals developing the network of urban transportation infrastructure for passenger through NovaQuest and venture capital investments undertaken by MGI (Brazil) Promotion of tank terminal business in distribution collection sites that serves as Participation and Support for community revitalization by holding the Mitsui Foods Food Show the basic distribution infrastructure for the petrochemicals industry (U.S., Development in for the exhibition and sales of products from regions throughout Japan (Japan) Belgium) Communities Continuous support for food education activities through the Kids Kitchen Development of communications infrastructure and spread of internet use Association (Mitsui & Co., Mitsui Foods, Bussan Food Service) through engagement in high speed mobile data communications business Promotion of SENDAI UMINO-MORI AQUARIUM operations (Japan), (Sub-Saharan Africa, Indonesia) (approx.1,496,700 visitors for the initial fiscal year: July 1, 2015-March 31, 2016) Sustainability Report 2016 46 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Enhancement of Local Industrial Bases & Quality of Life Activities for FY Ended March 2016 Business Area Metal Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals Energy Lifestyle Innovation & Corporate Development Corporate & Others Theme Business Activities Theme Business Activities Participation and Support for developing reliable, safe childcare environments with a special Contribution to Continuation of support for human resources development of junior and senior Development in focus placed on the personality and development stage of each child, via the Developing People high school students as part of our initiatives for recovery of the region from Communities promotion of the communication app “Kids Note” service business for with International the Great East Japan Earthquake (940 participants) childcare facilities, such as kindergartens, and guardians (Japan) Mindset • ”Visiting Lecture Project” featuring people who were profiled in the TV program “Textbook for Our Future”, as the lecturers for the Project (Japan: 6 Contribution to Continuation of personnel exchange training program with Baosteel (China), schools in Iwate, Miyagi and Fukushima Prefectures) Developing People (Total since 1992: 82 trainees from China and 502 dispatched to China; in FY • ”English Conversation Project” for which employees are serving as volunteer with International 2016/03 ended 2 trainees from China and 4 dispatched to China) teachers (Japan: Onagawa Town) Mindset Continuation of personnel exchange training program with Vale (Brazil) (10 Provision of scholarships for Brazilian students as part of our support activities trainees dispatched to Vale) for Brazilians living in Japan (440 students in 26 schools) Promotion of support, through Vale and Valepar, for activities such as education Implemented the Young Professional Leadership Program for Japanese and U.S. programs that contribute to society, Japanese language courses, and professionals through participation in the TOMODACHI Initiative arranged by introduction of Japanese culture (Brazil) the U.S. government and US-Japan Council (19 participants in total from Japan Implementation of science educational programs at primary schools attended and the U.S.) by the children of workers in iron ore mines (Mitsui Iron Ore Development), Continued implementation of Mitsui endowed courses at Peking University (Australia) (China) and St. Petersburg State University (Russia), (6 times in total) Implementation of scholarship programs and Japanese language education for Support for short-term training programs in Japan for university students from the local community and workers in coal mines (Mitsui Coal Holdings), Australia and Russia (11 trainees) (Australia) Support for Indonesian students to study in Japan through the Mitsui Bussan Participation in the scholarship program run by Takatuf Oman to support Scholarship Program for Indonesia (12 students) Omani students to study abroad (Oman) Provision of scholarships and accommodation for overseas students through Donation to education-contributing events held at The Petroleum Institute in the Mitsui Bussan Trade Promotion Foundation (10 students) Abu Dhabi (UAE) Continuation of SASUGAKU Academy classes (Education for Sustainability) to Scholarships to study abroad programs in Japan for faculty members of the support children’s “power to create a sustainable future” (25 children) Universidade Lurio (Mozambique) Support for construction of a dormitory for nurses (Ghana) through the Mitsui Teaching and training cybersecurity experts by dispatching lecturers for Global Volunteer Program (program participants: 6,375; donations: ¥6,375,000) universities and devising curriculums (Japan) Sustainability Report 2016 47 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Enhancement of Local Industrial Development of the Social Infrastructure Provision of Safe, Reliable Products and Services Bases & Quality of Life Initiatives Through Business Policy Ensuring Safety and Consumer Confidence Mitsui will continue to contribute to the enhancement of people’s quality of life through its business activities in such The Consumer Affairs Agency was established in September 2009 in order to proceed with the measures to protect and areas as electric power, water treatment, water supply and sewerage systems, logistics, railroads, healthcare, and enhance consumer benefits and deliver a society where every consumer can enjoy a safe, secure and prosperous life. communications, by developing infrastructure that is essential for the growth and advancement of countries around the Likewise, Mitsui & Co. is also well aware of that consumer safety, confidence and security are of major importance in world and local communities. conducting its business. In the area of electric power and renewable energy, while we engage in power generation and gas distribution, we With such concerns in mind, Mitsui has established its Consumer Product Handling Policy and Consumer Product recognize the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions as a material issue and are reinforcing our environmental Handling Regulations, and has also prepared detailed regulations for each business unit to ensure the appropriate business, such as solar photovoltaic and solar thermal power projects, wind power projects, and biomass related plant handling of consumer products. projects. Moreover, in the foods area, Mitsui works to secure food products to supply Japan, which has the lowest rate of There is a growing need for improvements in convenience and safety, against the backdrop of growing population, food self-sufficiency among the industrialized countries. Food Business Unit Food & Retail Management Business Unit rising living standards, and changing lifestyles. Mitsui is responding to that need by developing and operating sewage place maximum priority on food safety and security and accordingly has established internal rules and committee for and water supply systems, desalination systems, and wastewater treatment facilities, and by engaging in urban food sanitation, maintains a food-safety database, and monitors related activities overseas down to the food production development projects, such as the development of logistics and industrial facilities, especially seaport and airport stages. projects, and smart city development projects, to respond to changing societal needs. To manage the risk against food safety and security, we have been holding ongoing food safety seminars for our In the Mobility domain, with regard to ship business, Mitsui is focusing on vessel ownership and operation and the employees and those of Mitsui subsidiaries and associated companies, and have been redoubling efforts to ensure that LNG carrier business, to adapt to tighter environmental regulations and growth and change in maritime cargo traffic. As details on labels such as country of origin, product quality, and product grade are accurate, and to facilitate product for railroads, which form a major artery for land transportation, we export freight cars and related facilities and undertake traceability. rail transportation infrastructure projects using Japanese institutional finance. Other business activities in this area When it comes to product safety and peace of mind, consumers can rest assured that the overriding priority that include rail leasing, the general freight business, and passenger transportation. Mitsui places on ensuring the safety and security of consumer products and food extends to all of the items that we Mitsui is also taking initiatives for basic services, such as medical care and nursing care, which address the problems handle. posed by aging societies throughout the world, changes in disease incidence patterns, and other issues. In addition to the development of hospitals and clinics, and related business, especially in Asia, we are also helping the The Consumer Product Handling Policy pharmaceutical industry to develop and manufacture new drugs by providing solutions across the entire value chain, Placing More Emphasis on the Consumer and Ensuring Product Safety from drug development to manufacturing and distribution. Whether engaging in manufacturing, importing, or domestic marketing of consumer products, Mitsui reaches Mitsui also promotes the utilization of ICT in such areas as high-speed communications, electronic settlements and beyond its goal of providing products that offer cost savings or superior performance, and thereby additionally other communications and service platform businesses, especially in emerging countries, aiming for the enhancement emphasizes a consumer-oriented approach by which the utmost priority is placed on handling safe products that of quality of life and social infrastructure. At the same time, in our effort to build new social systems, we strive to create consumers can use with total confidence. This policy is aligned with our management philosophy comprising our new business, including medical healthcare services, agriculture, and energy management. Mission, Vision and Values (MVV). Developing and Operating a Risk Management System To ensure that the Consumer Product Handling Policy functions in practice, we have developed a sound risk management system and are working to maintain and improve systems used in collecting, disseminating, and disclosing information on accidents involving products, and arranging for product recalls in the event of productrelated accidents. Sustainability Report 2016 48 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Enhancement of Local Industrial Participation and Development in Communities Bases & Quality of Life Policy Social Contribution Concepts Activity Social Contributions (Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2016) Today’s increasing trend towards globalization, advances in IT, and other The breakdown of social contribution expenses, which totaled ¥1,317 million on 612 activities, is shown below. developments in society have brought considerable diversity and change to the Percentages are based on monetary amounts. world we live in; as we pursue greater convenience and enrichment in our lives, we also face a broad range of issues, including global warming and other Assistance for disaster-prevention community work 0% 1 activity Human rights 0% 3 activities environmental problems, poverty, and educational inequality. Mitsui & Co. works to Assistance to disaster-stricken communities 8% 19 activities NPO infrastructure-building work 1% 5 activities address local and global societal issues through various social contribution activities. Local community involvement Mitsui’s Operational Guidelines for Social Contributions Policy specify three 2% 105 activities International exchange and Archaeology, preservation of cooperation 12% 60 activities areas of focus: international exchange, education, and environment. traditional culture 2% 2 activities Within these three areas, Mitsui utilizes its strengths and know-how by focusing its social contribution activities on multicultural symbiosis, human resource Arts and culture 10% 67 activities Total development with an international perspective, and the global environment. By Academic activities, research ¥1,317 continuing our initiatives in these fields, working together and sharing them with 3% 19 activities Education, social education million 26% 128 activities society, we believe our activities will have follow-on effects that will lead on to solutions to larger-scale social issues. Sports 1% 18 activities Health and medicine 612 In addition, we are planning and promoting volunteer programs with the hope of building interest and sensitivity towards social 1% 23 activities activities issues amongst our executives and employees and management personnel. Social welfare 3% 84 activities Policy Social Contributions Policy Revised July 2015 Environmental protection 31% 78 activities Guiding Principles We will build a congenial relationship with our stakeholders by striving to create harmony with the global community and local communities in accordance with the Mitsui & Co. Management Philosophy (Mission, Vision and Values), and we will Social contribution activities actively contribute to the creation of a future where the dreams of the inhabitants of our irreplaceable Earth can be fulfilled. Action Guidelines 1. ‌In order to respond in an appropriate manner to the needs of the global environment, and of international and regional society, Mitsui actively promotes social contributions. 2. ‌Mitsui will establish the three important areas of ”International exchange”, ”Education” and ”Environment” for its social contributions, and will implement social contribution activities befitting of Mitsui & Co. 3. ‌In addition to the making of economic contributions, such as donations, etc., Mitsui also aims to carry out proactive social contributions that involve the participation of its executives and employees. 4. ‌Mitsui promotes social contributions with an emphasis on transparency and accountability in respect of its stakeholders. It also aims for the continued improvement of activities through communication and cooperation with its stakeholders. Sustainability Report 2016 49 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Enhancement of Local Industrial Contribution to Developing People with International Mindset Bases & Quality of Life Activity TOMODACHI Mitsui & Co. Leadership Program Activity Mitsui Bussan Scholarship Program for Indonesia Mitsui & Co. is participating in the TOMODACHI Initiative, which aims to foster Our relationship with Indonesia reflects the culmination of many years young generations of people who will contribute to the strengthening of the of conducting business with the nation. Aspiring to build even Japan-U.S. relationship in the future. This initiative is spearheaded by a publicstronger ties between Japan and Indonesia, Mitsui & Co. established private partnership involving the U.S. government and the U.S.-Japan Council, the Mitsui-Bussan Scholarship Program for Indonesia in 1992 to a public interest corporation, while drawing its inspiration from the spirit of support exceptional individuals who will someday contribute to the cooperation and friendship between Japan and the U.S. in Operation further development of their country. TOMODACHI, launched after the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011 to A distinguishing feature of the scholarship is that, rather than provide assistance in devastated areas through the joint efforts of the U.S. targeting international students already studying in Japan, it is military and the Japan Self-Defense Forces. awarded instead to high school students in Indonesia who are Under the TOMODACHI Mitsui & Co. Leadership Program, launched in 2013, ten young professionals selected from both Japan excellent in both performance and personality and show a strong desire to study in a Japanese university, providing and the U.S. spend approximately one week visiting the other country. Members of the American and Japanese delegations interact such recipients with support for their studies and living expenses for five and a half years, including the time needed to with one another, engage in dialogue with top government officials and industry executives and young professionals in leadership prepare for university entrance exams. Selected on the basis of test and interview results, recipients of the scholarship roles, and tour local sites of interest. Through the program, they develop extensive professional networks while forming the broader come to Japan after graduating from high school. They initially spend one and a half years learning Japanese and knowledge and perspectives necessary for the next generation of global leaders who will take an active part in strengthening studying for university entrance exams. They then take university entrance exams for the university faculties/ U.S.-Japan relations. The network of Japanese and U.S. delegations has expanded to a total of 59 members over the past three years. departments that they hope to enter, and subsequently begin attending university after passing the respective exams. Mitsui has decided to implement this leadership program for another three years beginning in 2016. Under this program, we This scholarship program goes beyond providing financial backing; it also involves fine-tuned support extending to plan to select some of the members of the Japanese delegation from the three prefectures (Iwate, Miyagi and Fukushima) that were care for the psychological needs of recipients. For instance, staff members affiliated with the program meet with devastated by the Great East Japan Earthquake, while arranging a visit by the American delegation to the areas affected by the recipients monthly to check on their studies and living situations, and also create opportunities for recipients to interact disaster. Through the creation of new opportunities for exchange and communication of information regarding the region within with other current recipients and former recipients who have already graduated. Japan and abroad, we will strengthen the program as a disaster reconstruction support initiative that also contributes to promoting The scholarship program has thus far seen the successful graduation of 26 former recipients, and currently provides tourism and industry in the region. support to 10 individuals. We remain committed to this and similar initiatives even beyond Japan and Indonesia that further educational opportunities for individuals who are poised to play a role on the global stage. Activity Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy 2015 • Other Scholarship Programs Mitsui Bussan Trade Promotion Foundation National University of Singapore Mitsui named the program “SASUGAKU” (Education for sustainable Royal University of Phnom Penh (Cambodia) development), which develop children’s capability of learning, thinking and communicating, they surely take on the very important role to create the sustainable society, and has designed Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy from 2014, which is the 5-day capacity building program for primary schoolchild upper grade, by taking up Mitsui’s business activities the teaching materials. The theme of the program in 2015 was “my occupation in 2050” and “creating the future city in 2050”. The participants challenged to create the city they would like to live in the future, by referring to Mitsui’s project developing a sustainable and environmentally-conscious city (smart city) in the Iskandar region of Malaysia. Sustainability Report 2016 50 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Enhancement of Local Industrial Bases & Quality of Life Activity Scholarships for Brazilian Children in Japan Activity Educating the New Generation Who Will Drive Reconstruction in the Tohoku Region From 2005 till 2008, Mitsui & Co. donated education-related materials to 30 Brazilian schools. Over the five years that have passed since the Great East Japan Earthquake, Mitsui & Co. has continued to work toward The recession triggered by the economic crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers in the autumn of ensuring steady reconstruction and development in the disaster-affected area through its contribution to community 2008 also impacted Brazilians living in Japan who were contributing to the Japanese economy. Many of them lost their revitalization. Our recovery support activities continue to be focused in particular on the education of the new jobs and returned to Brazil. An increasing number of families also became unable to send their children to Brazilian generation of people who will drive the reconstruction process. schools in Japan because of the high tuition fees. Under the “Visiting Lecture Project” launched in 2014, a textbook has been prepared featuring 12 individuals out of Mitsui responded to this situation by establishing a scholarship the roughly 300 people that have been profiled in the “Textbook for Our Future” program on the BS12 Channel, which is program in place of the previous support activities that had been operated by a Mitsui subsidiary. The 12 selected individuals visit schools, where they act as teachers for a day, and hold based on the donation of teaching materials to schools. Under this classes that encourage children to think about making a contribution to the region and regional revitalization as a key new program, we began to provide scholarships to subsidize the cost factor in their future career choices. To date, approximately 2,000 students at a total of 15 schools in Iwate, Miyagi, and of monthly tuition fees for children attending Brazilian schools in Fukushima Prefectures have taken part in this project. Japan. Mitsui also supports the efforts of Katariba, a certified non-profit As of the end of March 2016, 440 children were attending school organization that operates its afterschool Collaborative School in thanks to this scholarship program. Onagawa Town in Miyagi Prefecture. Katariba provides English conversation classes for junior high school students, with the goal of nurturing globally active human resources. A total of 53 students have Activity China: Lecture Program at Peking University (Peking University-Mitsui Innovation Forum) participated in this program since we began our support in 2014. The students learn practical English through classes provided via Visiting lecture project Skype. They also broaden their horizons by taking part in a short-term In 2006, in conjunction with Peking University, Mitsui & Co. established an endowed lectureship called the Mitsui residential study program in Japan during the summer vacation. Mitsui Innovation Forum at Peking University. This 10-year program, ongoing until 2015, brings in heads of leading companies staff act as volunteer teachers for career education classes, during and distinguished Chinese and Japanese scholars to present their views on “innovation” to an audience of young which they share their experiences of living and working overseas, and people who are poised to forge China’s future. Six lectures are held annually, featuring two speakers from Japan and work together with students to envision students’ futures in which four from China. All of the lectures have attracted audiences numbering between 200 and 300 people, comprised of they can make use of the English they have learned. Peking University undergraduate and graduate students, graduates of the university, as well as individuals affiliated with Mitsui will continue to support education in disaster-affected areas leading corporations, and students from neighboring universities. through career education programs designed to motivate children to Moreover, the vibrancy and enthusiasm of the Chinese youth build their own career paths and futures. English conversation class project attending the lectures has been clearly apparent, with some postlecture question and answer sessions running for almost a full hour. We remain committed to this program in hopes not only that it will help to educate individuals, but also that it will lead to a deeper mutual understanding between Japan and China and encourage interaction between the two nations. Sustainability Report 2016 51 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Stable Supply of Resources & Materials Strategic Focus Key Strategic Domain: Mobility Participating in a newly emerging economy’s integrated logistics business Related Product Segment: Machinery & Infrastructure to support the stable supply of resources and food at the transport level Although Brazil has an abundant supply of mineral and metal resources, agricultural products, and other export items, its domestic transport infrastructure is lagging. Reliance on trucks is higher than in developed countries, and expensive transport costs are an issue. In 2014 Mitsui invested in VLI S.A., a Brazilian integrated logistics enterprise set up by the major iron ore extractor Vale S.A., and provides integrated logistics services using 10,700 kilometers of railroads connecting to port terminals. Mitsui’s participation has enhanced business value through the utilization of our knowledge and experience in such areas as the procurement of rolling stock and equipment, as well as our port engineering subsidiary. Mitsui has been involved in the iron ore business in Brazil since the 1970s and, in collaboration with Vale, has engaged in mine development and infrastructure construction taking local communities and the global environment into consideration. The latest venture into the logistics business aims for the stable supply of not only raw materials for steelmaking and steel products but also other resources and food, such as grain and fertilizer. The modal shift from trucks to rail will also help to alleviate Brazil’s serious traffic congestion and air pollution. While contributing to the solution of environmental and social issues, Mitsui is promoting the response to increased demand for resources and food due to world population growth by supporting the stable supply of resources and food on the logistics side. VLI’s railway network Approx. 10,700 (about 35% of Brazil’s railway network) km Logistics volume in this project 34.85 billion ton-km (2015) Sustainability Report 2016 52 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Stable Supply of Resources & Materials Mitsui & Co.’s Approach We will work with suppliers, users, and business partners in Japan and overseas to engage in resource development, production, product distribution, processing, and recycling initiatives in various parts of the world. We will also build optimized supply chains through the improvement of infrastructure and logistics, including the development of railroad transportation and port facilities. At the same time, we will work to identify CSR priorities and achieve comprehensive improvements and solutions across the supply chain as a whole. Activities for FY Ended March 2016 Business Area Metal Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals Energy Lifestyle Innovation & Corporate Development Corporate & Others Theme Business Activities Theme Business Activities Resource Stable supply of the materials, such as rails, steel pipes, steel sheets, rebars, Resource Promotion of efficient transportation through sales of marine ships (52 newlyDevelopment, and required for infrastructure projects around the world Development, and built ships) the Securing and Investment and participation in Gonvarri Eólica (Spain) to supply materials for the Securing and Contribution to stable supply of natural resources through sales and Stable Supply of wind power generation-related infrastructure Stable Supply of maintenance of mining machinery (in 6 countries) Materials and Food Stable supply of metal materials, such as cobalt and lithium, for secondary Materials and Food Contribution to improvement of agricultural productivity through sales and batteries for EcoCars and hard metal tools for automobile manufacturing maintenance of agricultural machinery (Asia) Continuation of iron ore project development and securing of stable supply of Reduction of transportation cost for grains, steel products, fertilizers, etc. by iron ore (Australia, Brazil) engaging in integrated logistics business operations (Brazil) Promotion of the Moatize coal mine project (Mozambique) Securing of material ingredient sources for fertilizers by engaging in Promotion of effective use of copper resources by engaging in the concentrate phosphorus ore deposit development, etc. (Peru) ore blending business, which operates a process that adjusts the concentration Promotion of fertilizer distribution business (Japan), animal feed additives level of complex ore and clean ore manufacturing business (U.S.), and agrochemicals sales business (U.S., Europe) Continuation of copper project development and securing of a stable supply of Global, highly sophisticated hybrid distribution of ammonia and sulfur copper (Chile) Expansion of a diverse and stable supply and securing of energy sources such as Promotion of energy-related infrastructure business, such as natural gas crude oil, petroleum products, and LNG around the world. distribution business (Mexico, Brazil), gas-fired power generation business Expansion of upstream oil and gas assets production volume [Equity-share (Myanmar), and sales of electricity from renewable energy sources (Japan) production: 254,000 barrels/day (FY 2015/03 ended)→ 258,000 barrels/day Stable supply of various commodities, including LNG from Mitsui project, (FY2016/03 ended)] through the possession and operation of an LNG carrier fleet (17 ships; our Development and launch of LNG projects (Mozambique, U.S., etc.) equity-share of LNG production volume: about 5 million tons per year, approx. Promotion of E&P business via affiliated companies (Australia, Middle East, Asia, 6% of the entire LNG imports into Japan) Europe, U.S., etc.) Sustainability Report 2016 53 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Stable Supply of Resources & Materials Activities for FY Ended March 2016 Business Area Metal Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals Energy Lifestyle Innovation & Corporate Development Corporate & Others Theme Business Activities Theme Business Activities Resource Maintenance of FSC® CoC certification (by Mitsui Bussan Packaging: FSC® Promotion of Supply Expansion of the scope of suppliers from whom we will obtain written consent Development, and C009939) to ensure that the supply chain of certified paper contributes to Chain Management to our “Supply Chain CSR Policy”, by including vendors with whom we have a the Securing and sustainable forest resources management transaction history of 3 years or more, in addition to our new suppliers (Mitsui Stable Supply of Maintenance of FSC®/CoC certification (Mitsui & Co.’s Life Essentials Business Bussan Inter-Fashion), (241 companies for FY 2016/03 ended with the Materials and Food Div., Forest Resources Marketing Dept.: FSC® C104107; Mitsui Bussan Woodchip accumulated number of 4,391) Oceania Pty. Ltd.: FSC® C107463) and PEFC/CoC certification, to contribute to Implementation of supplier questionnaire surveys concerning our Supply Chain ensuring responsible management and handling of forest resources CSR Policy (39 suppliers) Stable supply of wood products from T.M. Baikal (Russia) for the Japanese, Implementation of on-site survey of suppliers of pulp and paper manufacturing Chinese and Russian markets (approx. 110,000 m3) resources Securing and stable supply of food [grain trading volume: 17.5 million tons/year (FY 2015/03 ended)→18 million tons (FY 2016/03 ended)] Promotion of large-scale agriculture being conducted by Agricola Xingu (Brazil) Increased supply of food resources through the provision of precision agriculture solutions (Canada, U.S., Brazil, Russia, etc.) Promotion of international transportation services (Trinet group) Provision of hedging functions through commodity derivatives business (Japan, U.K., U.S., Singapore) Continuation of forest management and lumber production in accordance with FSC® certification and SGEC for all Mitsui’s forests (approx. 44,000 ha) Stable supply of ligneous resources through production of round raw timber from Mitsui’s forests, which constitutes about 0.1% of entire domestic wood consumption in terms of round timber (approx. 62,000 m3) Supply of round raw timber from Mitsui’s forests as wood fuel for a wood biomass power generation plant in Tomakomai (Japan), which is scheduled to be operational in 2016 (approx. 10,000 m3) Sustainability Report 2016 54 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Stable Supply of Resource Development, and the Securing and Stable Supply of Materials and Food Promotion of Supply Chain Management Resources & Materials Initiatives through Business Policy Supply Chain CSR Policy Mitsui has built optimal supply chains, spanning all stages from upstream to downstream, including production, Mitsui has built diverse value chains throughout the world and provides a wide range of functions and services. In distribution, processing, and logistics, and contributes to the stable supply of energy, metals, food, chemicals and other conducting business globally, we are fully aware of our responsibilities, such as complying with laws, respecting human resources and materials. rights, and maintaining safe and sanitary working conditions, giving comprehensive consideration to reduction of the As part of its efforts, Mitsui engages in investment and trading business in such areas as oil, natural gas/LNG, and environmental burden, and ensuring safety and consumer confidence. Together with our business partners, we coal, to secure and supply the energy resources needed by industrial society. In particular, we participate in natural gas/ endeavor to solve various issues present in our supply chains in order to meet society’s expectations. LNG development projects in various parts of the world to ensure stable supplies of this clean energy resource. Our In order to correctly assess and solve CSR-related supply chain issues, Mitsui formulated its Supply Chain CSR Policy extensive involvement covers the entire value chain, from production to marketing. We are also strengthening our oil in December 2007, and has since worked to ensure that all of Mitsui’s business partners fully understand our standards trading capabilities through our business in Asia. In addition, looking ahead toward the realization of the low-carbon and cooperate in the implementation of the policy. We are working to ensure compliance with and implementation of society, we are engaging in the commercialization of renewable energy technologies, such as bio-fuels, and the this policy while conducting reviews based on society’s changing expectations and demands, and we revised the policy creation of business models for hydrogen transportation and storage. in September 2011 and November 2013. We are making every effort to enhance our supply chain management by Mitsui actively participates in the development of iron and steel raw materials and non-ferrous metals resources. We identifying potential problems in our supply chains and identifying key CSR issues based on the characteristics of each endeavor to ensure stable supplies of mineral and metal resources, such as iron ore and copper, for Japan and other supply mode, country, and industry. markets around the world. We are also building a supply network of metal scrap and rebuilt automotive parts in preparation for the global recycling society of the future. With iron and steel products, we are building supply structures Supply Chain CSR Policy for infrastructure projects to meet buoyant demand in rapidly growing emerging economies. At the same time, we procure and supply iron steel products for a wide range of industrial sectors, including the motor vehicle industry and 1. ‌Mitsui & Co., Ltd. will strive to contribute to the creation of a sustainable society by understanding and solving issues the energy sector. associated with the supply chains of its businesses, consistent with the wishes of its stakeholders. 2. ‌Mitsui & Co., Ltd. will strive to support improvements in the supply chains by seeking understanding and implementation of In the automotive sector, we not only export vehicles, but also conduct local logistics business in respective the following principles by its business associates: regions, and have built a stable global chain spanning from production to finance. As regards our rail transport business, 1. To engage in fair trade, prevent corruption, and comply with all applicable laws and regulations in addition to the export of freight cars and related equipment, we also engage in leasing business and other services to 2. Not to be complicit in human rights abuse and violations meet a variety of needs across the railroad value chain. 3. To prevent discrimination with respect to hiring and employment In our food business, against the backdrop of world population growth widening the gap between food supply and 4. To respect the rights of employees to associate freely and bargain collectively demand, and expanding regional imbalances in supply capacity, we strive to ensure the stable and efficient supply of 5. ‌To appropriately monitor employees’ working hours, holidays, and leaves of absence, and prohibit unlawful excessive safe, reliable food resources. We place particular importance on traceability management for grain crops, such as wheat, work corn, and soybeans, starting at the production and harvest stages. 6. ‌To prevent forced labor, child labor, unlawfully-cheap labor, physical discipline, and physical, sexual and other forms of Mitsui is also deepening its engagement in the agricultural sector, including the manufacture of the nutritional harassment element methionine, as well as the development of phosphate rock fertilizer resources, and global trading of fertilizer 7. To ensure a safe and sanitary work environment raw materials, such as sulfur and sulfates. We are also developing our chemicals business through wide-ranging 8. To reduce and mitigate business impact on the global environment 9. To ensure the safety and reliability of products and services transactions and investments that contribute to various industries, including new initiatives focused on carbon fiber and 10. To disclose adequate and timely information relevant to the above green chemicals. Sustainability Report 2016 55 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Stable Supply of Resources & Materials Activity Current State of Implementation of Supply Chain CSR Policy Activity Future Actions We attach great importance to interactive communication with suppliers. We also conduct supplier questionnaire We will continue taking appropriate measures to ensure that all suppliers of Mitsui and its subsidiaries understand our surveys and on-site surveys based on our Supply Chain CSR Policy. Supply Chain CSR Policy, and that we grasp the actual situation of the business, with regard to how the supply chain follows our CSR Policy. We will also continue sending out letters to new suppliers to obtain their agreement to follow 1. Company-wide uniform supplier communication forms our Supply Chain CSR Policy prior to starting business relationships with them. In the event that we discover violations Beginning in the fiscal year ended March 2009, we started sending letters (in Japanese, English, Chinese, French, of this policy in our supply chain, we will urge the supplier to remedy and improve the situation, while providing Spanish, and Portuguese) to all suppliers of Mitsui’s business units, overseas offices, and subsidiaries (more than 38,000 support to the suppliers as needed. However, if there are no improvements to the situation by the suppliers, we will suppliers in total) requesting their understanding and cooperation in regard to our Supply Chain CSR Policy, in a move determine carefully whether to continue our business with that supplier. to ensure that all Mitsui suppliers are fully aware of this policy. In addition, we conduct internal examinations in alternate To increase the sensitivity of all employees with respect to human rights, labor, and other issues in our supply years, to verify that the letters were dispatched to the suppliers. chains, and to prevent problems, we will continue to heighten employee awareness and provide training seminars (683 participants in the fiscal year ended March 2016). 2. Supplier questionnaire surveys In promoting compliance with this policy, we consider interactive communication with our suppliers to be very important. We work to build relationships of trust, and strengthen our supply chains by working jointly on ideas for improvements with our partners, wherever needed. For this reason, we regularly conduct questionnaire surveys targeting the suppliers of Mitsui and its subsidiaries to confirm (1) the status of their compliance with our Supply Chain CSR Policy, and (2) whether they have CSR policies related to the areas of legal compliance , protection of human rights , workplace safety and health , and product and service safety and security . In the fiscal year ended March 2012, Mitsui conducted supplier questionnaire surveys for coffee, cocoa, and other agricultural products (39 companies), as well as for consumer products such as apparel (153 companies). In the fiscal year ended March 2015, as part of a new initiative, we selected our main suppliers from all our business domains for the survey (72 suppliers in FY ended March 2015, 39 suppliers in FY ended March 2016). While all the companies we surveyed responded that they were in compliance“, we requested suppliers that were not equipped with a CSR policy to formulate one. 3. On-site survey of suppliers In addition to the above-mentioned supplier questionnaire surveys, we also conduct on-site surveys of suppliers in order to conduct interviews with responsible persons and check the situation at the operation sites, in accordance with the checklist for compliance with the Supply Chain CSR Policy. In the fiscal year ended March 2015, we conducted on-site surveys of coffee bean farms in Brazil that supply coffee beans to us and to our subsidiary Mitsui Alimentos. In the fiscal year ended March 2016, our targeted supply source was suppliers of pulp and paper manufacturing resources, and we visited the plantation sites of vendors in Australia that supply raw timber to us and to our subsidiary South West Fibre to conduct on-site surveys. In addition to the raw timber suppliers, we conducted on-site surveys of other suppliers in the supply chain together with external experts to check operation site situations with regard to such areas as “legal compliance”, “environment”, “labor practices”, and “traceability maintenance”. No violations of our Supply Chain CSR Policy were found. Sustainability Report 2016 56 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Stable Supply of Resources & Materials Activity Summary of Supplier On-site Survey (Procurement of pulp and paper manufacturing resources) Mitsui conducts interviews with supplier representatives and on-site surveys, along the lines of the checklist prepared in stockyard, and interviews with representatives of log suppliers and accordance with the provisions set forth in our Supply Chain CSR Policy, and reviews their CSR initiatives surveys. forest management contractors. The purpose of these activities was to In March 2016, we conducted a survey of forests, processing/exporting companies, raw timber suppliers, and forest check various aspects of suppliers’ operations, including management contractors at six locations in the Green Triangle region of western Victoria, Australia, from where Mitsui & environmental performance, labor practices, and regulatory Co. and our subsidiary (South West Fibre) procure pulp and paper manufacturing resources. Mitsui Bussan Woodchip compliance. Oceania Pty. Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Mitsui & Co., provides overall management of our forestry investment Results from the survey showed that all suppliers were acting business in Australia. Australia is an important business base in our supply chain, with shipments from there accounting appropriately, and no items that did not meet the requirements of our for around 75% of our total procurement of paper resources. Supply Chain CSR Policy were identified. We will continue to carry out Woodchips are the main raw material for pulp and The survey consisted of on-site inspections of forest plantations, the processing facility (woodchip crusher), and the on-site surveys as part of our supply chain CSR management. paper production. Results of Supplier On-site Survey Environment Labor Practices Regulatory Compliance ‌Biodiversity: The forest plantations are habitats for large numbers of koalas, which are ‌Working hours: Logging is carried out during a single shift lasting 10.5 hours from early ‌We confirmed that the suppliers are complying with local laws and regulations relating attracted to eucalyptus trees (Eucalyptus globulus). Australia is promoting harmonious morning. The suppliers control total monthly working hours, including days on which to the environment, working hours, employment and other matters, and that they coexistence with wildlife, and Australians have a particularly strong affection for the koala. operations are not possible due to the weather or other factors. have the required operating licenses. Our suppliers place great importance on measures to protect these animals. To ensure their ‌Workers: The workforce, including field workers, is made up of local people. The safety, spotters are deployed in the forests to check that no koalas are present in the area suppliers do not employ low-wage foreign workers. before trees are cut. The suppliers are actively working with the state government and ‌Management of labor safety and health: We confirmed that safety measures are being International Certification and Traceability research organizations to protect koalas in forest plantations. In addition, they cooperate in implemented in factories and stockyards, including the use of helmets and masks, and The supplier has obtained forest certification (FSC® CoC) for the plant. Around 80% research concerning protection of koalas in the plantation area, and koala movements after the provision of fire extinguishers. Safety manuals have been compiled for work in the of the lumber procured is FSC® certified. Timber procured from uncertified private trees have been logged. The suppliers also exercise care over other rare flora and fauna and forests, and the employees have a high awareness of safety. growers is directly checked by Mitsui’s woodchip processing company, South indigenous cultural sites. ‌Creation of amiable working environments: Offices West Fibre Pty. Ltd., to ensure that it is controlled wood and that the level of care is ‌Noise: Noise levels are not high in nearby affected equivalent to FSC® certification. We checked the documentation for certified are thoroughly cleaned and hygienic. Many female areas. The suppliers maintain good relations with products and controlled wood, including that procured from unincorporated workers are playing active roles in the business. There local communities by limiting working hours and plantations. Supplier (forest) traceability is being ensured in lot units. are plans to create a better workplace environment maintaining good communication. by expanding the office space to keep pace with the ‌Irrigation: The forests are not irrigated, for economic Care is taken over koalas and other growing volume of work. Eucalyptus plantations are properly reasons, including direct costs. rare flora and fauna. managed. Carrying Out the Supplier On-site Survey C.E.O. Dr. Naoki Adachi, Response Ability, Inc. In recent years, there has been an increase in the number of wild koalas living in forest plantations. I was impressed To carry out this survey, we traveled to the State of Victoria in Australia, the region which is the main source of to observe that far from treating the presence of these animals as a problem, the operator sees it as a natural occurrence woodchips for paper manufacturing handled by Mitsui & Co., and visited a subsidiary of Mitsui & Co. and that and is taking steps to ensure their safety. I even felt that it would be appropriate to emphasize the care taken over this subsidiary’s direct suppliers, as well as the forest plantations that supply the raw timber, to conduct on-site surveys. aspect when marketing paper made from these raw materials to Japanese consumers. Many operators in Australia have obtained FSC® or AFS forest certification. The woodchip processing company we The thing that raised my concern was the decline in rainfall due to climate change. At present, this factor has had visited has also obtained FSC® CoC certification. The raw materials are being handled appropriately, including measures little effect on forest management, but I hope that thought will be given to measures to minimize the future impact and to ensure traceability, and we did not find any issues in other areas, such as labor safety and health. to reinforce the supply chain to ensure a stable supply of paper resources to Japan. Sustainability Report 2016 57 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Stable Supply of Resources & Materials Examples: Assessing and Solving Supply Chain Issues Intensifying Supply Chain CSR Initiatives Apparel Operations Supply Chain CSR Activities at MIF Mitsui Bussan Inter-Fashion Ltd. (MIF)—a Mitsui subsidiary that handles the production and procurement of apparel and October 2008 MIF established its Supply Chain CSR Policy. The company began sending notices to its fashion goods—outsources the production of goods for apparel companies to subcontracted suppliers in Japan and suppliers, including contracted manufacturers in Japan and overseas, to request their overseas. understanding of and support for MIF’s Policy, and began obtaining their written confirmation. MIF established a “Supply Chain CSR Policy” in October 2008, and the company has promoted various initiatives to deepen understanding of the policy by its officers and employees, and sent notices to its suppliers, including August 2014 MIF conducted a questionnaire survey of its 93 main suppliers concerning the utilization of the manufacturing subcontractors both within Japan and overseas, to make sure they understand this policy and agree to it. Technical Intern Training Program. In 2014 MIF went one step further by adding the phrase, “we understand the policy and observe it”, to the notice when MIF started to require its suppliers to understand and comply with its Supply Chain CSR Policy, the company sends it to new suppliers to obtain their consent. MIF sends out the revised notices also to the existing and started to obtain written consent from its 26 main suppliers and new suppliers. suppliers, which had already consented to the policy, to make sure that they practice the policy in their operations. January 2015 MIF required the aforementioned 26 suppliers to conduct a CSR self-check concerning their With global society’s ever increasing expectations for companies’ commitment to sustainable procurement, MIF compliance with the Policy. took into consideration the CSR trends brought about by the changes in the surrounding environment and implemented the following September 2015 MIF asked the 241 suppliers from which it had obtained “written confirmation” to replace these supply chain CSR initiatives in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. with “written consent”. As part of the in-house efforts to increase understanding of supply chain CSR initiatives, MIF implemented a CSR e-learning course for all As of March 31, 2016 MIF had obtained “written confirmation” and “written consent” from a total of 4,391 (1,172*) officers and employees. At the same time, the company requested its suppliers: 3,444 (849*) in Japan, and 947 (323*) overseas. 241 main suppliers to agree to the revised consent form, which *Figures in parentheses indicate the number of “written consents” obtained. includes the phrase “we understand the policy and observe it” to replace the previous form, which just stated “we understand the policy”, and obtained consent from all of them. If an infringement to the Supply Chain CSR Policy or related laws and regulations has occurred at a supplier, MIF has a system in place to support and follow up the supplier for them to take remedial actions and make improvements. MIF continues its efforts to increase suppliers’ awareness by keeping communication with and providing feedback to suppliers on a regular basis, in order to support developing an appropriate labor Visit to the manufacturing plant of a Japanese supplier environment, and MIF strives to create a sustainable supply chain environment. Sustainability Report 2016 58 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Stable Supply of Resources & Materials Examples: Assessing and Solving Supply Chain Issues Initiatives designed to ensure a stable supply of green coffee beans Food and Food Products Farm to become one of Brazil’s leading specialty coffee farms. With assistance from Mitsui & Co., Bau Farm is building The production volume of coffee, a product enjoyed by people throughout the world, is greatly affected by natural new sales channels in Asian and European countries, as well as Japan. events including frosts and droughts, as well as climatic conditions such as rainy and dry seasons, and this has a major Bau Farm values its employees and improves the quality of its products by improving the quality of the labor. Mr. effect on the market price. Thus, it is difficult to purchase coffee at a stable price and maintain a balance between supply Fukuda believes that careful work comes from motivation, and motivation is created by the good treatment and and demand. education of employees . The owner’s philosophy is reflected in the efforts made by the employees themselves to Mitsui & Co. plays the role of liaison between producers and improve the working environment and consistently apply the 5S methodology. Employees also gain a deeper consumers in the supply chain. Mitsui & Co. works to improve relations understanding of the world of coffee through training and workplace education, giving them relevant knowledge and with suppliers around the world in order to guarantee a stable supply experience of the product and about trends in coffee-consuming countries. This commitment to high-quality of high-quality green coffee beans carefully selected from regions employee education has enabled Bau Farm to maintain a stable workforce, giving it an important advantage over other around the world, such as Central and South America, Southeast Asia, coffee farms. and Africa. Moreover, under the slogan of “kaizen”, the Farm actively introduces new technologies to produce even better In particular, our base of operations in Brazil, Mitsui Alimentos (a coffee. Bau Farms’ another distinctive characteristic is its commitment to constantly trying new ideas that utilize new wholly owned subsidiary), has built alliances with superior producers, methods and kinds of coffee trees. For example, by installing an irrigation system for avoiding drought damage, Bau and, by ensuring traceability, transparency and identifiability at all Farm also increases the efficiency of its workforce by controlling the flowering period of the plants in order to stagger stages of business in the supply chain, has created a stable supply the harvest periods. It has also introduced GPS for effective soil improvement. system for high-quality green coffee beans. The green coffee beans that Mitsui & Co. supplies to consumers embody the producer’s determination to grow For example, Mitsui & Co. is cooperating with Mitsui Alimentos to high-quality beans through initiatives such as these. We bring the owner of Bau Farm to Japan once every two years to provide comprehensive marketing and sales support to Bau Farm in engage in direct dialogue with coffee shop proprietors and beverage manufacturers. These visits provide excellent the Cerrado region. We have maintained an excellent relationship with opportunities to gain a deeper understanding about the needs of consumers. Similarly, when Mitsui & Co. customers Bau Farm for over 20 years by providing financial support as needed for who handle Bau Farm coffee visit Brazil, we create opportunities for the development of new plantations, and by entering into long-term them to visit the farm so that they can learn more about the place agreements as the basis for stable business. Leveraging this excellent where the coffee is grown. Through initiatives such as these, Mitsui & relationship, we are devising new initiatives for further expansion of the Co. works to bring producers and consumers together in a value chain business. based on face-to-face communication. Bau Farm is owned by Mr. Tomio Fukuda, a second-generation Mitsui & Co. will continue its efforts to provide consumers Japanese-Brazilian. As a former engineer, Mr. Fukuda is totally throughout the world with stable supplies of high-quality coffee, and committed to the production of excellent coffee based on the quality to contribute to the success of producers through its business control concepts of kaizen and “5S”. This approach has allowed Bau activities. Bau Farm is owned by the Fukuda family. Sustainability Report 2016 59 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Stable Supply of Resources & Materials Examples: Assessing and Solving Supply Chain Issues Tea Leaves Procurement in Consideration of Quality, Safety, the Environment and Work Conditions Food and Food Products Improving Procurement Reliability Through Legal Compliance and the Forest Certification System Lumber Procurement Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd., our subsidiary, markets Nittoh Black Tea , which is a very familiar brand in Japan. The Significant deforestation and reduction and degradation of biodiversity and forest ecosystems caused by illegal logging company procures tea leaves from tea producers around the world to meet a wide range of customer needs. At have become major environmental issues globally. In 2006, as a countermeasure against illegal logging, the Japanese present, it procures tea leaves from approximately 450 tea producers in eight countries, including India, Sri Lanka, government enacted the Green Purchasing Law, which requires that government agencies only purchase lumber that is Kenya, and Indonesia. Mitsui Norin designates as its preferred suppliers those tea producers which give appropriate consideration to quality and safety, the environment, and work conditions, for example by carrying certified to have come from legal logging in sustainably managed forests. out controls based on Rain Forest Alliance certification and Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) As one of Mitsui’s missions is to ensure the stable supply of building materials, paper resources, and other wood certification, being committed to Fair Trade, and engaging in organic cultivation. products, we cooperate with suppliers from around the world to ensure that our purchases contain no illegally logged In the Darjeeling district of India, for example, one producer makes various efforts to improve both the work lumber. conditions of employees and the profitability of the business, for example by introducing a small hydroelectric For example, in our forest resources business for pulp and paper manufacturing in Australia, Mitsui implements generator on the farm, entrusting its management and operation to the workers, growing and selling organic produce such as ginger and oranges, and producing honey. The producer also raises cows on the farm to environmental management and operation procedures based on the two major forest certifications, the Forest provide milk to children to enhance the quality of life of the workers and their families, and uses the manure as Stewardship Council (FSC®) and the Pan-European Forestry Council (PEFC), and we conduct regular checks to ensure fertilizer for organic cultivation to contribute to reducing environmental load. that only reputable plantation operators are used, that operations do not result in environmental destruction, for Mitsui & Co. and Mitsui Norin undertake comprehensive quality control in all phases of the value chain. To example through chemical soil contamination, and that the obligation to replant logged areas is being fulfilled. In ensure complete traceability in all product stages from procurement of raw materials to manufacturing, addition to Australian companies, in 2014 Trans Pacific Fibre, a forest resources business for pulp and paper inspection, shipment, and delivery, both companies together created an original traceability system. In tea producing regions, Mitsui & Co. and Mitsui Norin periodically visit tea farms to conduct on-site surveys of tea manufacturing joint venture company in Chile, obtained both FSC® and PEFC certification. growing environments, quality control, and agrochemical controls and other aspects. As regards agrochemical Increased awareness of environmental conservation has led to controls, both companies conduct tests for residue agrochemicals on the tea leaves at a third party contract increased numbers of companies and consumers who choose institution, in addition to on-site visits and confirmations at the tea farms. products with the above-mentioned forest certifications when they The Black Tea Manufacturing and Sale Business Value Chain purchase wood and paper products. Mitsui & Co. cooperates with its partners and manufacturers to increase the use of FSC® and PEFC certified products in the supply chain, in order to create products that Tea leaf appraisal are in accordance with higher awareness of environmental by tea-tasters conservation. Woodchip processing plant (Bunbury Port in Western Australia) Overseas production locations Japan Tea Factory Shipper Customers plantations Mitsui & Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Consumers Fresh tea Black leaves tea ••Importation •• Packaging Products •• Procurement Blending Appraisal • Cleaning Inspection Blending process Quality management guidance Tea-picking Deciding on the tea leaf Agrochemicals management guidance blending Sustainability Report 2016 60 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Human Resource Development Corporate Governance & Human Resource Development Strategic Focus Realizing diversity management by building an environment in which individual employees can fully display their abilities Mitsui aims to boost the competitiveness of the company by realizing diversity management in which employees with diverse backgrounds, including such factors as nationality, gender, and sense of values, tolerate and stimulate one another, thereby generating new values in business and creating innovations. In order to realize such diversity management, we are implementing “work style innovations” by reviewing conventional patterns of work from the perspectives of efficiency and productivity and introducing reforms as necessary. In the fiscal year ended March 2016, we conducted an employee opinion survey on work styles targeting employees in Japan. The survey, which we plan to conduct on an annual basis, serves as the starting point for implementing the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle aimed at improving work styles in each workplace. As a new measure starting in the fiscal year ending March 2017, we introduced a “mobile work scheme” enabling employees to work at home outside working hours. We also introduced measures enabling employees to take annual paid leave, nursing care for child and family leave in units of one hour. We plan to introduce various other measures in the future as well and build a workplace environment that, through the realization of varied work patterns with high levels of efficiency and productivity, enables employees to engage in their jobs with greater motivation and dedication and thus strengthens the competitiveness of the company as a whole. From Mitsui Employee Opinion Survey on Work Styles 2015 Ratio of employees feeling motivation 70.6 in their work % Ratio of employees feeling personal 75.2 growth through work % Sustainability Report 2016 61 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Human Resource Development Corporate Governance & Human Resource Development Mitsui & Co.’s Approach In order to maintain our status as a company trusted by society, we will work to maintain effective governance, ensure fair business practices, and prevent corruption. We will review working styles from the perspectives of productivity and efficiency, while creating an environment in which diverse human resources can exert their capabilities to the full. In this way, we will enhance our corporate competitiveness. Moreover, to further demonstrate our integrated strengths and our ability to connect at an even greater magnitude, we will develop people that will assume global-group managerial positions, equipped with the capacity to create useful and meaningful business for local communities, to strengthen the driving force of Mitsui & Co. Activities for FY Ended March 2016 Business Area Metal Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals Energy Lifestyle Innovation & Corporate Development Corporate & Others Theme Business Activities Theme Business Activities Corporate Implementation of highly transparent disclosure of information and disciplined Reinforcement of Increase in the applicability of expert advice on environmental and social risk management Governance & employee conduct related to internal controls Sustainability issues through the work of the Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee Internal Controls Implementation of the assessment of effectiveness of the Board of Directors, in Governance Implementation of seminars on environment and social due diligence, relevant to response to the adoption of the Corporate Governance Code business activities, for officers and employees (approx. 200 participants in 3 seminars In communicating with investors, extensive explanation of the issues such as for business units; approx. 300 participants in 15 seminars in overseas locations) progress on the Medium-term Management Plan announced in May 2014, changes in the business environment (mainly regarding prices of natural Compliance & Risk Collection of commitment to comply with the Business Conduct Guidelines for resources and their impact), and the managing strategy of the new president Management Employees and Officers and the Standards for Discipline of the Employment Regulations from all the applicable employees and officers Grand prize runner-up in Nikkei Annual Report Awards 2015 (Annual Report 2015) Provision of e-learning opportunities about compliance for those who have not Reinforcement of Improvement of traceability of food and food products, utilizing a food safety taken the same before Sustainability management database Implementation of the Compliance Review Week, in which we held seminars Governance Execution of Food Sanitation Management Committee meetings and Food and opportunities to share information and exchange opinions Safety seminars (committee meeting: 12 times; seminar: 11 times) Implementation of the Compliance Awareness Survey (for domestic employees Implementation of the e-learning course “CSR at Mitsui & Co.” (for 8,806 officers and and officers). Formulation and implementation of compliance activities based employees in Japan and overseas, taken by 92.8% of the targeted people) on the results of the Survey Implementation of CSR seminars for officers and employees in overseas offices Formulation of the plans for compliance activities for FY 2017/03 ended based (3 regional BUs, 4 offices directly overseen) on the review of FY 2016/03 ended activities undertaken by the Compliance Implementation of an internal survey on the penetration level of the UN Global Committee (once a year) Compact principles Promotion of compliance activities in affiliate companies in accordance with Based on the Specially Designated Business Management System, promoting those of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. the business with potential-risk analysis related to the environment, society, Visits to key affiliate companies to provide advice on development and and governance, and implementation of measures to increase the internal operation of compliance activities (8 companies) penetration level of the Specially Designated Business Management System Conveyance of alerting messages about compliance (via intranet, meetings, etc.). and the level of understanding at the business frontlines Sharing information about actual disciplinary cases through reporting lines Sustainability Report 2016 62 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Human Resource Development Corporate Governance & Human Resource Development Activities for FY Ended March 2016 Business Area Metal Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals Energy Lifestyle Innovation & Corporate Development Corporate & Others Theme Business Activities Theme Business Activities Compliance & Risk Reinforcement and development of the risk management framework by Promoting Diversity • Discussion meeting with non-Japanese employees at Head Office to support Management carrying out drills arranged by the Emergency Response Headquarters Management them to take more active roles (1 meeting with 10 participants) pursuant to the Rules on Safety Measures • Recognition as a Nadeshiko Brand company for two consecutive years, by the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Human Resources to Continued strenuous efforts for hiring of global human resources of new Exchange Translate into Assets graduates, mid-career hires, global staff, PhD-level personnel, etc., and rolling Promotion of employment of disabled people out advertisements for recruitment, with the aim of securing a diverse range of • Continued employment of disabled people, including new hires, which Human Resource human resources resulted in keeping the employment rate of persons with disabilities (2.53%) Development Review of the Overseas Dispatch Program for young employees, aiming for above the statutory employment rate. strengthening of global human resources development • Development of the working environment for disabled employees by Streamlining and value enhancement of human resources development installing automatic doors at a special-purpose subsidiary established for the programs toward the creation of time for business offensives that realize new employment of people with disabilities business • Seminar on employment of people with disabilities (Tokyo Head Office and Inculcation of the mindset for developing human resources based on domestic affiliates), (1 seminar with participation of 31 companies) understanding of individuality through interviews and dialogue with • Mitsui & Co. group joint recruitment interview (Tokyo Head Office and individuals, paying great respect to their diversity domestic affiliates), (1 seminar with participation of 4 companies) Optimization of our human resources portfolio toward full mobilization of all employees through implementation of fine-tuned human resources Occupational Safety Unification of reporting routes concerning emergency response to the management and Health Initiatives occurrence of safety-related incidents Review of and improvements in the personnel system, which reflect the needs Promotion of measures to cope with the situation in which our Headquarters of the business frontlines are temporarily located in two different offices Personnel deployment and resuming employment of administrative staff • Operation of BCP (business continuity planning) by using the permanent BCP aimed at revitalization of the function of offices and branches in Japan room and improvements to issues through drills arranged by the Emergency Promotion of various revitalization measures such as training programs Response Headquarters targeting senior human resources. • Implementation of security measures and workplace patrols, and provision of various office services aimed at realization of a safe, comfortable working Promoting Diversity Implementation of initiatives for enabling our diverse human resources to take environment Management more active roles Commencement of individual healthcare counseling toward the • Implementation of “work style innovations” based on the results of an accomplishment of Health Management; promotion of employee medical employee opinion survey on working styles (Tokyo Head Office and domestic checkups (achievement rate: 100%) with reinforced collaboration with Mitsui offices and branches) Health Insurance Society Health Management • Implementation of Female Business Staff Training (at Tokyo Head Office) to support female employees to take more active roles (36 participants in 2 seminars) Sustainability Report 2016 63 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Human Resource Development Corporate Governance & Corporate Governance & Internal Controls Human Resource Development Policy Corporate Governance Approach concurrently as executive officers, supporting a dynamic approach to business execution across the consolidated group. At the time of the General Meeting of Shareholders in June 2016, there were 14 directors, five of whom were external directors. We are making efforts to enhance our corporate governance framework and develop and improve our internal controls We have five audit & supervisory board members, two full-time and three external, and we have established an on a global group basis, to make Mitsui & Co. a company that is trusted by society. audit & supervisory board member Div. as a framework to provide added support to the audit & supervisory board We recognize that ensuring thorough compliance with respect to internal controls is a particularly important issue. members in the execution of their duties. Audit & supervisory board members attend the meetings of the Board of Directors and other important in-house meetings, overseeing procedures and resolutions, and visit offices in and outside Japan and important subsidiaries and associated companies. System Corporate Governance and Internal Control: Systems and Implementation Business execution and internal control system In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, we adopted the so-called J-SOX standards defined in Japan’s Financial Corporate governance framework Instruments and Exchange Act as the basis for the evaluation of our internal control systems. We are determined to Mitsui & Co. has chosen to base its corporate governance framework on a corporate auditor system, headed by the maintain highly effective internal control systems that are compliant with the new global standards and in keeping with audit & supervisory board. To achieve effective corporate governance for shareholders and other stakeholders, the the values of Mitsui & Co., and to ensure that all employees, including those working for subsidiaries and affiliated Company has established the following governing bodies: companies, are fully aware of and comply consistently with the basic principle that without compliance there will be no work and no company. 1. ‌The Board of Directors is Mitsui & Co.’s ultimate decision-making body for business execution and oversight. To ensure At the core of our internal control system, the Internal Control Committee, chaired by the president, establishes that those functions are fulfilled, Mitsui appoints no more than the number of directors necessary to enable effective basic internal control policy and carries out company-wide internal control evaluations and improvements. The deliberations, and conducts annual assessment of the Board in order to validate its effectiveness, whose summary of Compliance Committee, Disclosure Committee, and J-SOX Committee all operate under the Internal Control the result is disclosed. Mitsui has also established the Governance Committee, Nomination Committee, and Committee. Remuneration Committee as advisory bodies to the Board of Directors, with external directors and external audit & Furthermore, to respond to the increasingly diverse kinds of risks associated with our business, we have established supervisory board members serving as members of these committees. the Portfolio Management Committee, which monitors the Company’s entire portfolio, makes proposals on the 2. ‌The audit & supervisory board members audits the execution of the duties of the Board of Directors as an independent Company’s overall portfolio strategy, and conducts individual discussions on important projects. In addition, we have body and reports to shareholders. In pursuit of this objective, the audit & supervisory board members carry out formed the Crisis Response Headquarters, an ad-hoc body reporting directly to the president, which exercises swift, multifaceted, effective auditing activities, such as attending important internal meetings and auditing various types of precise decision making when there is a need for a swift response, and the CSR Promotion Committee, which met a reports, and develop necessary measures in a timely manner. total of two times during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, and promotes company-wide CSR management, builds our internal CSR-related systems, and works to heighten the awareness of CSR among employees, the Power and To ensure transparency and accountability, key requirements of corporate governance, Mitsui is endeavoring to Energy Strategy Committee, which carries out mediumand long-term macro analysis of the environment, electricity, strengthen management oversight and supervision, taking into account the perspectives of external directors and and energy segments and discusses strategic approach in those segments, and the Business Innovation Committee, external audit & supervisory board members. At the same time, the Company is developing its internal control which promotes initiatives for next-generation innovation business. Moreover, we have formed the Information Strategy framework with respect to information disclosure, and, based on the general rules of fair disclosure, executives and Committee, which formulates policies related to company-wide information and IT strategies and prepares major employees are responsible for ensuring accountability. Furthermore, to separate the functions of business execution policies related to promoting the enhancement of the management platform and information strategy and monitors and oversight, Mitsui has broadly transferred the authority for business execution to the Company’s executive officers, the implementation of those policies, and the Diversity Promotion Committee, which analyzes and addresses current with the Board of Directors responsible for overseeing the execution of business by the executive officers. The chief issues to realize a full mobilization of our diverse workforce. operating officers of the Company’s 15 Headquarters business units and 3 overseas regional business units also serve Sustainability Report 2016 64 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Human Resource Development Corporate Governance & Human Resource Development Current status of the internal auditing structure The Internal Auditing Div., which reports directly to the president and has a staff of about 60, conducts regular audits, including audits of subsidiaries inside and outside Japan. Internal auditors make independent and objective evaluations of such areas as management and operational effectiveness, compliance, and the reliability of financial reporting. The audit results are reported to the president, and follow-up reports from the audited department are requested on items where improvement is deemed necessary. Furthermore, we have established an internal auditing section in each business unit. Each department and branch carries out self-auditing on their own initiative, and combined with Internal Auditing Div. audits, this contributes to further improving the effectiveness of our internal controls. Initiatives to enhance corporate governance over the last fiscal year As we have terminated our registration with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the current fiscal year is the fifth year that we have adopted the J-SOX standards as the basis for the evaluation of our internal control systems. As with last year, we took great care to maintain the same high level of transparency, information disclosure and internal control discipline as under the US standards. According to our compliance to the Corporate Governance Code from June, 2015, we are continuing to provide direct briefings to shareholders and others concerning our corporate governance systems. Corporate Governance and Internal Control Principles Mitsui & Co., Ltd. has enacted the following “Corporate Governance and Internal Control Principles” in April 2006 (Revised: November 2015) Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Corporate Governance and Internal Control Principles Risk Management The Chief Operating Officers of business units and regional business units manage risks arising from the operation of Mitsui’s businesses within their authorization delegated from the management. When a business unit or a regional business unit takes risks greater than the scope of authority granted to the Chief Operating Officers, it is necessary to obtain approval of the Corporate Management Committee or a Representative Director in charge, or a Senior Management Officer in charge in accordance with the standards of the internal approval system. In business fields considered typically to have higher levels of risks, including environment-related business and business with a high public profile, a particularly careful investigation is carried out through the Specially Designated Business Management System. Construction and maintenance of the risk management systems and response to significant risks on a companywide level are handled by such organizations as the Portfolio Management Committee, the Internal Control Committee, the CSR Promotion Committee and the Crisis Management Headquarters. The corporate staff divisions are responsible in their respective fields for surveillance of the risk position of the Company as a whole, risk control within the prescribed range of their authority, and assistance of the relevant Representative Directors and Managing Officers. Sustainability Report 2016 65 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Human Resource Development Corporate Governance & Reinforcement of Sustainability Governance Human Resource Development System Developing the CSR Promotion Framework System CSR Promotion Committee In 2004, Mitsui formed the CSR Promotion Committee as an organization under the Corporate Management Committee The CSR Promotion Committee submits proposals to the Corporate Management Committee regarding CSR-related to develop Mitsui’s internal framework with respect to CSR, and to work to raise CSR awareness among employees. management policies and business activities, inculcates the importance of CSR management throughout the Company, makes Mitsui also promotes CSR-related activities based on cross-organizational collaboration to meet the needs and recommendations with respect to Specially Designated Businesses , and conducts other related activities. expectations of society in relation to companies’ social values and initiatives. The committee’s chairman is the executive officer in charge of corporate staff divisions (overseeing the Corporate Planning As a measure to facilitate planning and promotion of CSR activities, such as practicing CSR management and raising & Strategy Division), and its deputy chairman is the executive officer in charge of corporate staff divisions (overseeing the CSR awareness in the organization, together with the staff in the workplaces of each unit, we appoint CSR Promotion Human Resources & General Affairs Division and the Legal Division). The general managers of each corporate staff division the Officers in each of the corporate staff divisions, business units, overseas regional business units, and domestic offices, Corporate Planning & Strategy Division (secretariat), the Investor Relations Division, the Corporate Communications Division, the and are building our internal CSR network. Human Resources & General Affairs Division, the Legal Division, the Investment Administrative Division, and the Environmental · In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, CSR Promotion Officers meetings continued to be held quarterly, where we Social Contribution Division serve as committee members. The committee has the following duties: shared various information on CSR issues such as policies relating to CSR initiatives formulated by the CSR Promotion 1. ‌Develop fundamental policies on the management of the Company’s CSR and fundamental plans for activities promoting CSR Committee, supplier survey results, and initiatives relating to supply chain management, and also deliberated on issues 2. ‌Configure and establish an internal corporate structure for the management of the Company’s CSR such as our CSR Material Issues, conducting case studies based on our actual business operations. In addition, external 3. ‌Determine the key issues to focus on each year for activities to promote the CSR measures of the Company and ensure instructors were invited to lead a workshop on business and human rights under the theme of “human rights due progress on these diligence” at a meeting of CSR Promotion Officers. 4. ‌Respond to issues related to CSR, both within and outside the Company Moreover, Mitsui CSR Promotion Officers in business units and corporate divisions took the initiative in organizing 5. ‌Decide whether to support individual proposals qualified as Specially Designated Businesses, and determine necessary various CSR awareness-raising programs, such as in-house CSR seminars and lectures by people from partner companies precautions for projects that will be supported and external experts, to inspire employees to consider CSR issues in their day-to-day business. 6. ‌Approve important matters pertaining to the Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund 7. ‌Decide and report whether to support an exceptional acquisition of forests or the disposal of company-owned forests, which is out of the scope of “Rules on the Management of company owned forests” Furthermore, the Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee has been established under the CSR Promotion Committee. Committee members are selected from among outside individuals who are familiar with technology and social trends in a broad range of fields — including environmental policy, human rights and other matters — attorneys, and other knowledgeable individuals. CSR Promotion Committee Meetings in the Fiscal Year Ended March 2016 Meeting 1 (May 29, 2015) Reports were made on ESG investment surveys, Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund programs regarding officers and employees participation programs, and other points. Meeting 2 (December 4, 2015) Reports were made on the progress made in CSR promotion activities in the fiscal year ended March 2016, preparations for the ISO revision for the next fiscal year, continuous kaizen initiatives on environmental and social risk management, and other matters. Meeting 3 (March 3, 2016) Report were made on the results of CSR promotion activities in the fiscal year ended March 2016 and the action policy for the fiscal year ending March 2017. There were also deliberations on the results of The Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund programs for the fiscal year ended March 2016, and policies for the fiscal year ending March 2017. Sustainability Report 2016 66 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Human Resource Development Corporate Governance & Human Resource Development System CSR-Related Risk Management Business Domains Subject to Specially Designated Business Management System Business Domain Key Points for Screening Business opportunities and the risks associated with doing business have increased and are becoming more diverse due Applicable to All Four Business Domains to economic globalization, progress in information technology, and the increasing awareness of CSR. Based on this • Significance ‌ and social value of the business itself understanding, Mitsui recognizes the necessity of comprehensively managing risk from both quantitative and • Significance ‌ of Mitsui engaging in respective business qualitative perspectives, by responding appropriately to changes in social conditions and business models. With this 1 Environment-related business • Contribution ‌ of such business to the environment and society awareness, we have designated the business domains listed in the table below, which have high qualitative risks, All businesses that have serious influences on the • ‌Measures to mitigate environmental impact (incl. Climate environment change, Biodiversity loss, Water risk), and safety assurance including risks related to the natural environment, society, and governance, as specially designated business, and we • ‌For development business, appropriate consideration and Examples: coal fired power plant business, offshore oil field have been endeavoring to develop such businesses with due caution under our Specially Designated Business business, etc. understanding of human rights belonged to local residents and other related parties Management System. Specifically, when beginning new projects, we conduct internal assessments and, wherever • ‌Compliance with environmental laws, regulations and necessary, approach the CSR Promotion Committee as well as the Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee for guidelines, etc. advice as to whether or not to proceed with the proposed projects and for recommendation on how improvements 2 Medical/healthcare/bioethics-related business • Ethical ‌ screening based on guidelines of three Japanese can be made. Ultimately, the final decisions on whether or not to proceed with any given project are made by Businesses related to the medical and healthcare fields, ministries (Ethical Guidelines for Human Genome and Genetic businesses related to the development of technologies Sequencing Research: MEXT, MHLW, METI) representative directors after respective proposal documents have been circulated to the relevant departments. The involved in genetic analysis, genetic recombination, and • ‌Approval by the ethics committee of the research institute, members of the Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee are selected from among outside individuals who are related areas, and businesses related to products that use acquisition of informed consent, checking of processes, etc. such technologies. familiar with technology and social trends in a broad range of fields — including global warming, environmental Examples: Business with a high public profile in the medical restoration, and environmental policy related to water, energy, human rights and other matters — attorneys, and other and healthcare fields (a dialysis, pharmaceutical drug manufacturing business), development of new drugs using knowledgeable individuals. genetic analysis technology, etc. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, 15 projects were individually assessed under the Specially Designated 3 Businesses receiving subsidies • Evaluation ‌ in light of Mitsui’s management philosophy (MVV) Business Management System. By business domain, 1 of these projects was environment-related business, 2 were the • ‌Social impact and ensuring accountability and process Example: Businesses that are eligible for direct or indirect medical/healthcare/bioethics-related business, 11 were the businesses receiving subsidies, and 1 was the businesses subsidies from the Japanese government or other transparency governments • ‌Determination of interests of stakeholders, and resultant with a high public profile and/or a potentiality of extraordinary reputation risk. considerations and responses In this fiscal year, we continue to conduct a more comprehensive and well balanced management of risks on • ‌Responsibility and capability over the medium-to-long term acting as the operator of a business with a high public profile specially designated business at the earlier stage of business development process with support from those units. Furthermore, we have established the Rules on ODA Business Management for promoting ODA business, which has 4 Businesses with a high public profile and/or a • Evaluation ‌ in light of Mitsui’s management philosophy (MVV) potentiality of extraordinary reputation risk • ‌Social impact and ensuring accountability and process a high public profile and, therefore, requires operation processes that are highly transparent. Businesses which have high-risk cases that may be in conflict transparency Under this system, as necessary, Mitsui’s ODA Projects Evaluation Committee considers these projects and engages with public order and morality, Mitsui’s management • ‌Determination of interests of stakeholders, and resultant philosophy, or other CSR-related matters. considerations and responses in appropriate risk management practices. Examples: business with sensitive personal information, • ‌Responsibility and capability over the medium-to-long term social infrastructure businesses, etc. acting as the operator of a business with a high public profile Sustainability Report 2016 67 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Human Resource Development Corporate Governance & Compliance & Risk Management Human Resource Development Policy Compliance Approach Our sound reputation is the foundation of our business. As such, we recognize that it is only through compliance that we can maintain that reputation and gain even more trust from our customers. To that end, we are working to heighten awareness among all management and staff of the importance of upholding high ethical standards and are accordingly striving to build a global compliance framework that advances best business practices. Policy System Building a Better Compliance Framework Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers The Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. specify how every Mitsui employee should act in his or her daily activities, from the perspective of compliance with laws, internal regulations, and corporate ethics. The Business Conduct Guidelines help us fulfill our corporate social responsibility (CSR) and win the trust of our stakeholders. They have been revised from time to time since their enactment in February 2001, to reflect changes in the law and best practices. Our aim is to ensure that all Mitsui employees develop a broad awareness of the Business Conduct Guidelines through training and e-learning opportunities, and to see that all employees have pledged to comply with them. We have also introduced bespoke business conduct guidelines for each of our Group companies, which are based on the Business Conduct Guidelines but tailored to the specific business structures of those companies. In addition, we have put in place the Business Conduct Guidelines in each of our overseas offices, reflecting the local laws, regulations, and customs of the countries in each region. Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers 1. ‌Compliance with the Law and Respect for Human Rights 9. ‌Political Donations and Other Contributions 2. ‌Office Environment and Sexual Harassment 10. ‌Social Contributions 3. ‌Compliance with Antitrust Law 11. ‌Protection of the Environment 4. ‌Conflicts of Interest between Employees and the 12. ‌Action against Corporate Racketeering and Industrial Company Espionage 5. ‌Gifts and Favors 13. ‌Reporting and Sanctions 6. ‌Treatment of Company Information The Business Conduct Guidelines booklet also covers 7. ‌Compliance with Procedures for Export and Import and management philosophy, report submission and Other Applicable Laws consultation with others, the compliance program, the 8. ‌Company Fund and Financial Reporting UN Global Compact, basic CSR policy, environmental policy, and social contribution policy. Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers Sustainability Report 2016 68 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Human Resource Development Corporate Governance & Human Resource Development The Compliance Program Effective Education and Training The Compliance Department of the Mitsui Legal Division leads compliance efforts on a global and Group-wide basis Mitsui & Co. provides employees with a wide range of compliance training programs to promote a high degree of under the direction and supervision of the Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) and with the support of the Compliance awareness of business ethics throughout Mitsui and to ensure that all employees have the necessary skills and Supervising Officers appointed in each of Mitsui’s domestic and overseas business units, in Mitsui branches and offices, information available to them to ensure that work practices remain in compliance. and in other such entities. The objectives of these efforts are to: (i) heighten awareness of compliance issues, (ii) In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, we provided such training for employees at all levels, including new strengthen and improve compliance programs and systems within Mitsui, and (iii) respond to specific compliance issues employees, line managers, operations staff, and administrative staff, as well as for Mitsui employees moving overseas or that arise. In addition, a Compliance Committee has been established as a forum for discussions relating to the being seconded to Group companies. Mitsui also provides an extensive program of compliance training for executives promotion of compliance with laws and ethical standards across the Group as a whole. With the participation of and employees of Group companies. In November 2015, we conducted the “Compliance Review Week”, in which we external attorneys, the Compliance Committee discusses various issues that have arisen in the wider Group, and held a seminar about compliance issues that everyone may come across, in addition to sharing information and discussion outcomes are made available on the company intranet. exchanging opinions. Specific measures carried out with compliance in mind include conducting thoroughgoing supervision at the In addition, during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, we provided lessons involving the Compliance Handbook working level, preventing corruption through management of business entertainment for public officials and for Mitsui employees which explains the contents of the Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers of appointment of agents, strengthening systems to comply with applicable competition laws, strengthening business Mitsui & Co., Ltd. , and also conducted online testing to ensure that employees in Japan who had not taken the testing process controls, and promoting the rotation and movement of personnel. Such initiatives are implemented on an last year understood the Handbook content. Through such activities, we are working to ensure that all management ongoing basis, and with the aim of preventing misconduct. and employees have adequate knowledge related to compliance that they need to conduct of day-to-day business activities. Facilitating Communication and Improving the Internal Whistleblowing System We also provide overseas operations and Group companies specifically-tailored compliance training that takes into We believe that the compliance function essentially calls for us to prevent compliance-related incidents from arising by account particularities of the regions in which they are located. maintaining an open working environment that is facilitated by transparent and open communication within the Mitsui community, and which reflects our management philosophy and values. Accordingly, we require that employees who Compliance Awareness Survey have concerns about possible misconduct promptly raise those concerns with their supervisors or other managers, and In order to understand and monitor the level of compliance awareness among executives and employees, we have duly seek their guidance, in an appropriate and timely manner. conducted Compliance Awareness Surveys as appropriate not only in Mitsui & Co., Ltd., but also in our oversea offices Mitsui offers eight channels for raising compliance concerns, including internal reporting lines and reporting routes and major subsidiaries. We use the survey results to address issues and implement a variety of measures to promote involving external attorneys or third-party hotline service providers that promise anonymity. Mitsui has published further compliance awareness and to reduce compliance problems. Whistleblowing System Regulations clearly stipulating that no employee will suffer any form of retaliation or prejudice for raising any compliance concern. Furthermore, we have made it possible for Group companies in Japan to refer Other Initiatives compliance reporting to Mitsui’s designated external attorneys and third-party hotline service providers as their own In addition to the previously mentioned initiatives, we also visit individual key subsidiaries and associated companies to external reporting channels, and we are enhancing our system to allow employees of Group companies to raise ensure adherence to best compliance practices at the Group level. In so doing, we gain a better understanding of concerns without fear of retaliation through providing guidance to Group companies on how to set up and manage compliance issues facing each company, thereby enabling us to offer advice geared toward helping those companies internal whistleblowing channels. design and implement compliance programs that can be run autonomously and independently. Overseas, our regional Compliance Supervising Officers are chiefly responsible for overseeing the implementation Throughout the fiscal year ending March 31, 2017, we will continue initiatives that call for even better of reporting channels that make it possible for employees in overseas offices and affiliated Group companies in each communication needed to support more effective and more fully-instilled compliance program design and region to report and seek guidance on compliance concerns in line with local laws and customs. implementation in order to further make compliance an integral part of daily Group-wide operations. Sustainability Report 2016 69 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Human Resource Development Corporate Governance & Human Resource Development System Protecting Personal Information and Information Risk Management Protecting Personal Information We appointed a Chief Privacy Officer (CPO) and established a CPO office to work for heightening awareness among all management and staff of the importance of personal information protection in accordance with our Personal Information Protection Guideline and Regulations on the Protection of Personal Information. As we have a broad spectrum of involvement in diverse commodities and services, we handle a large amount of personal information, particularly in B-to-C (business to consumer) business fields. Accordingly, we take extreme care to ensure that all data is protected. From the perspective of accident prevention, in addition to our education and training system, we appoint Personal Information Management Officers in each division. The Officers regularly review the status of personal information management in the daily course of business and enhance it as needed. Information Risk Management Based on the understanding that the proper management of information, which is an important business resource, is indispensable to us, we established the Information Risk Management Subcommittee under the Information Strategy Committee, which the Chief Information Officer (CIO) chairs. In accordance with our Information Security Policy, we have strengthened our Rules on Information Management and our Rules on IT Security, and we maintain and enhance our Information Risk Management System. Cyber Security With the advancement of role of ICT in business, both our own and that of our affiliates, we established the Cybersecurity Department for dealing with cyber risks. It implements countermeasures and reviews preparedness in anticipation of possible cyber-attacks. Information Security Policy Sustainability Report 2016 70 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Human Resource Development Corporate Governance & Human Resources to Translate into Assets Human Resource Development Policy Human Resources Approach Policy Key Elements of Mitsui & Co.’s Human Resource System We regard our employees as one of our most important stakeholders. Our human resources are Mitsui’s most important Mitsui & Co. has long maintained its belief that human resources are our greatest asset (focusing on human resources) asset. We have developed a variety of human resources development programs with the aim of training highly creative and embraced the values of Human Resources , Open-mindedness , and Challenge and Innovation. Mitsui & Co.’s people not only with business skills and know-how but also with essential qualities such as integrity, ambition, humility, human resource system emphasizes such philosophy and values as it strives to be a company where employees are gratitude, and diligence to contribute to a better society. We are also promoting diversity further, including expanding motivated to work with vitality. Mitsui positions its human resource system as a means for fulfilling its corporate mission opportunities for female employees. and realizing its management philosophy and focuses on the following three key policies. Our goal is to create an environment in which all employees are motivated to work with vitality and achieve growth as the company grows. Three key policies of human resource system Policy Basic Policy 1. ‌Dissemination of Mitsui & Co.’s Through introducing an appraisal standard that does not focus simply on Management Philosophy short-term quantifiable performance, but places importance on how an Comprising Its Mission, Vision employee’s work contributes to achieving our management philosophy Mitsui & Co., with its long history and traditions, has held the belief that human resources are its greatest asset and has and Values (MVV) over the medium-to-long term in the personnel system, we will ensure always maintained its objective of training and developing human resources who can contribute to society. This is why thorough dissemination and sharing of our MVV broadly among employees. it is often said that Mitsui is people . To implement its management philosophy and to realize one of its mission statements, We’re building a better future for people and planet , Mitsui considers it most important to continue to 2. ‌Development of Human We will develop human resources who can take the leadership in Resource implementing our management philosophy. raise the quality of individual personnel through human resource training and development activities. 3. ‌Appropriate Appointment We appoint and allocate human resources effectively from a company-wide and Allocation of Personnel perspective, based on appropriate human resources management. Policy Diverse Range of Human Resources To expand our activity domains to global growth markets and develop deep-rooted businesses around the world, it is essential to appoint the personnel who are thoroughly familiar with each country and region. In addition, to respond quickly and appropriately to the continuously changing business environment and to keep generating Yoi-Shigoto, we must draw on the combined capabilities of a diverse range of human resources, regardless of place of hire, gender or nationality. We are also working on creating a corporate culture and relevant systems where highly qualified personnel throughout the world can be active on a various fields. Sustainability Report 2016 71 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Human Resource Development Corporate Governance & Human Resource Development Human Resource Development Policy Mitsui & Co.’s View on Human Resource Development Activity Main Human Resources Training Programs and the Number of Participants/Dispatched Employees At Mitsui & Co. there is a saying, The individual builds the business, and the business cultivates the individual . As the Number of Category Training Programs Outline participants words signify, the company’s priority mission is to develop talented human resources by encouraging each individual to FY16/3 create business. Indeed, it would be no exaggeration to say that this is the company’s ultimate raison d’etre. For this Compulsory Management Tr, Line Manager Tr, The aim is to foster global group management 921 reason, the cornerstone of our human resource development is on-the-job training (OJT). We also implement training Leadership Tr, Managerial Staff resources. Participants acquire the management comprehensive off-the-job-training by various forms of training to support and supplement human resource Preparation Tr, Administrative Staff Tr, approach, business skills, and mindset required for Female Business Staff Tr, New Hire each milestone, such as new grades and bands. development through OJT. Induction Tr, Mid-career Hire Tr Bussan Academy Marketing, Management Strategy, Professional training with the aim of improving 1,157 Finance, Logical Thinking, Mindset, self-development and specialist knowledge. This is Communication, Philosophy, History optional training that can be taken as needed from options in a broad range of fields. System Human Resource Development Programs Subject to selection Career Design Tr Training programs for senior employees, which are 261 criteria designed to support them devise the direction of their We have built a human resources development program for every job grade and band, from fundamental career autonomously and to adapt to the change of environment and their roles. training for new employees through to leadership level employees. The aim is to foster human resources capable Optional/ Project Manager Development Academy, A variety of training programs, including a cross4,693 of global group management. Training includes milestone training, optional training, and training by invitation. by invitation Cross-industrial Exchange Program, MOC industrial exchange program (which aims to promote We also provide training programs for senior employees (over 48 years old), which are designed to support them training (Mitsui Open College), etc. Approximately understanding of different corporate cultures, expand devise the direction of their career autonomously and to adapt to the change of environment and their roles. In 60 training programs horizons, and build human networks). Mitsui Global Foreign Language & Business Culture Tr, This is a practical program operated on an invitation/ 188 addition to enhancing these training programs, we have also developed our professional training programs with Leadership Business School Dispatch, Overseas optional basis. Program participants are sent overseas the goal of raising the level of specialist skills in each field. An introduction for each training program can be Program Developmental Dispatch, GMA, EE and are surrounded by talented people from around found on the company’s intranet, along with an explanation and overview of our human resources training the world, with the aim of developing the mindset and skills needed to become next-generation leaders in philosophy. We also encourage our employees’ self-motivated participation. global group management. We have introduced the Mitsui Global Leadership Program (MGLP), which is designed to enable employees to conduct business on a global basis. Programs include overseas dispatch programs such as the Foreign Language & Business Culture Training, Business School Dispatch, and Overseas Developmental Dispatch, through one of which all business staff shall be dispatched overseas within seven years of joining the company. We also offer programs that foster next-generation leaders with the capacity for global management, such as the MitsuiHarvard Business School Global Management Academy (GMA) , and Executive Education (EE), which is a shortterm program for dispatching mid-level employees to business schools in Europe and the U.S. Human resource development program (FY17/3) Sustainability Report 2016 72 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Human Resource Development Corporate Governance & Human Resource Development System Development of Human Resources Capable of Taking Responsibility for Global Group Management System Appraisal We also focus on the development of human resources capable of taking responsibility for global group management, Mitsui & Co. positions its appraisal process as a means of encouraging employees to understand its corporate Mission, which is a key pillar of Mitsui & Co.’s consolidated management. Vision, and Values (MVV), and for developing more employees who embody these values and can create Yoi-Shigoto. Since 2002, we have offered a well-developed program of both short-term and medium to long-term training at The objectives of conducting the appraisal process are not only to enhance employee understanding of Mitsui’s the Mitsui & Co. Headquarters for the employees of our overseas trading subsidiaries. Short-term programs include JTP management philosophy and motivate employees to meet management objectives, or to provide input for fixing (Japan Trainee Program), GMP (Global Managers Program), and GLP (Global Leaders Program), which are offered as compensation or assigning new positions, but also to promote human resource development through the appraisal milestone training in three stages: the first few years after joining the company; prior to appointment as a manager; and process. Employees meet periodically with their managers for appraisal meetings and receive comprehensive feedback after appointment as a manager. Medium to long-term programs are held for a period of one to three years, and include on their performance and specific contributions. These meetings create an effective framework for human resource LBP (Japan Language and Business Program), which provides Japanese language lessons and practical business training, development. and BIP (Business Integration Program), which provides strictly practical business training. In order to support human resources development at each group company, and the building of human networks, Japanese group employees are given milestone training, such as Division General Manager Training, Department Manager Training, and New Hire Induction Training, in addition to the optional training offered through the Bussan Academy as described above. Since 2011, in partnership with the Harvard Business School, we have held the Mitsui-HBS Global Management Academy (GMA) described above, with the goal of integrating employees of the Headquarters, overseas offices, and group companies, and a diverse program has been implemented. Participants have included global group employees, as well as the employees of overseas partner companies. Sustainability Report 2016 73 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Human Resource Development Corporate Governance & Promoting Diversity Management Human Resource Development Policy Mitsui & Co.’s Diversity Management Vision These diversity management initiatives are coordinated by the Diversity Management Department, which was established in October 2005. The Diversity Promotion Committee, which was formed in April 2006 to advise the Corporate Management Committee, regularly deliberates and makes decisions on diversity management policies and People who work for Mitsui & Co. come from a wide variety of backgrounds in terms of gender, nationality, values and measures. other attributes. We carry out diversity management initiatives to enhance Mitsui’s competitiveness through its continued evolution as a company within which people can create new value by learning from each other and working hard together, with mutual understanding and respect for diversity. We strive to build a foundation on which we can realize this vision, primarily through the sharing of our Activity Work Style Innovation management philosophy, by fostering a corporate culture within which diverse individuals can reach their full potential, by reforming employee mind-set, and by creating and continually reviewing work-related systems to support diversity, We see diversity management as a way to enhance corporate competitiveness through the full strategic mobilization of while training and deploying diverse human resources and working to enhance our corporate competitiveness by our diverse workforce. As part of the continuing evolution of this concept, we review our traditional work styles from the realizing the full strategic mobilization of our diverse workforce. perspectives of productivity and efficiency, and where necessary we introduce innovations based on new policies implemented across our entire corporate organization. By implementing Work Style Innovations, we aim to create workplace environments in which individual employees can reach their full potential and are strongly motivated about their own work. The ultimate goal is to strengthen our overall competitiveness as a company. Activity Employee Opinion Surveys We regularly conduct employee opinion surveys as a source of information that can be used to improve our management and organizational strengths. In addition to the usual questions, a survey carried out in October 2015 also focused on work styles. Questions and responses covered a variety of topics, including the individual employees’ view on work styles in general, work styles trends in workplaces, as well as factors that could hinder highly efficient and productive ways of working (All responses were submitted anonymously, and the response rate was 78.3%). Results from these surveys are fed back to each workplace. After discussions among employees, optimal improvement measures are implemented as required in each workplace. We will conduct this survey annually going forward as part of a continuing PDCA cycle leading to improvement initiatives. Sustainability Report 2016 74 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Human Resource Development Corporate Governance & Human Resource Development Policy Career Development Initiatives for Female Diversity Cafe Accompanying changes in the social milieu, such as a greater diversity in people’s sense of values, the number of dual income households where husbands and wives both hold jobs, and the demographic aging of the population, there has been an We regard career advancement for female as a particularly urgent priority under our diversity management policy, the increase in the number of employees seeking new kinds of career paths and wanting to maintain a balance between their aim of which is to enhance corporate competitiveness by realizing the full strategic mobilization of its diverse workforce. work and their private lives. We provide venues such as the Diversity Cafe for employees to come together and have the We strive to develop an environment in which female employees can reach their full potential, implementing initiatives opportunity to learn from each other’s experiences and to discuss and share information on matters of common interest. The for human resources development and their career advancement. theme for discussion in 2015, mainly for our female employees, was The experience of Administrative Overseas Trainees . P.78 Performance data related to diversity Activity Childcare and Family Care Support Activity Initiatives To help employees balance their working life with childcare and family care needs, Mitsui has introduced systems of shorttime and staggered working hours in addition to its leave system. From 2007, we started to provide partial pay for childcare Training for female business staff (career vision training) leave and moderate the eligibility requirements to allow employees to take childcare leave even if their spouse is a full-time This training is provided for female business staff during the Career Development Program (CDP) and immediately after housewife, thereby creating an environment that has encouraged male employees to take childcare leave. Furthermore, to its completion. The most important aim of the training is to help participants to prepare for the diversification of options support a smooth return to work, we have contracted with an outside nursery school located near the office and offer in anticipation of life events and other factors by developing specific ideas about their future career paths through childcare services to the employees. Before returning to work, a three-party meeting will be arranged between the dialogue with senior executives and discussions with colleagues working in the same environment, so that they can employee, his or her supervisor, and staff from the Human Resources & General Affairs Div. This way, the employee receives build long-term careers with Mitsui. advice about career planning and learns about the support systems available to facilitate the balancing of working and taking care of children. As a result of this series of policies and initiatives, we have been recognized by Japan’s Minister of Female mentor system Health, Labour and Welfare as a company that is actively providing childcare support with respect to caring for children. The female mentor system has been introduced to provide a venue for helping female employees learn about the significance of working for Mitsui, and discover new ideas about career formation, through communication with more experienced female coworkers. The system provides a way to seek advice about matters ranging from minor problems Kurumin logo The “Kurumin” logo may be placed on the products of businesses that have been officially recognized by Japan’s relating to day-to-day activities to career planning. A wide range of female employees are selected as mentors from Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare as actively providing childcare support. The logo shows an infant safe and those who have worked overseas, have experienced various life events, and are active in frontlines in the sales divisions sound, wrapped in a protective blanket, which represents the concern and care of the workplace and society. or as secondees. Employees can choose their mentor depending on the type of advice that they need (Mitsui has also established mentor systems for non-Japanese employees and young employees). Sustainability Report 2016 75 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Human Resource Development Corporate Governance & Human Resource Development System Work-life Balance Support Systems System Employees Taking Childcare or Family Care Support Name of System P.79 ‌Performance data related to childcare or family care Pregnancy Leave Late arrival at work or early departure from work Pregnancy Exemption from overtime work Re-assignment other job duties that are less strenuous System Re-employment System for Ex-employees Who Had to Resign Due to the Transfer of Their Spouse Maternity Leave Childbirth A re-employment system was introduced in 2007 that enables employees who had to resign from Mitsui due to the Childbirth Attendance Leave transfer of their spouse to become re-employed. Childcare Leave Nursing Care for Child Leave 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Staggered working hours for childcare Year of Retirement/Registration Total (FY08/3) (FY09/3) (FY10/3) (FY11/3) (FY12/3) (FY13/3) (FY14/3) (FY15/3) (FY16/3) Childcare Short-time working for childcare Exemption from overtime work Business staff 1 3 2 3 2 4 3 3 7 28 Number of Restrictions on overtime work registered exAdministrative staff 6 3 4 1 1 5 7 16 11 54 Exemption from late night overtime work employees Total 7 6 6 4 3 9 10 19 18 82 Family Care Leave Nursing Care for Family Leave Staggered working hours for family care Family Care Short-time working for family care System Hiring of Disabled Persons Exemption from overtime work Restrictions on overtime work Exemption from late night overtime work In 1981, in accordance with the then Law for the Employment Promotion of the Disabled, we established Mitsui Bussan Re-employment system for ex-employees who had to resign due to the transfer of Business Partners Co., Ltd. (formerly Bussan Service Co., Ltd.), a trailblazing special-purpose subsidiary for the Career Support their spouse employment of people with disabilities. A large number of disabled persons are currently employed and posted in accordance with the normalization policy, co-working with non-handicapped persons in a variety of personnel and Long-term leave for self-development Others Volunteer Activity Leave administrative capacities including printing, mailing, various kinds of data processing, business travel arrangement and Jury Duty Leave settlement, personnel, payroll and benefits administration and office layout management. For over 20 years we have exceeded the statutory employment rate for people with disabilities. As of March 2016, 2.53% of Mitsui’s employees were disabled. P.79 Performance data related to hiring of disabled persons Sustainability Report 2016 76 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Human Resource Development Corporate Governance & Occupational Safety and Health Initiatives Human Resource Development Policy Core Principles We also place great importance on health management for both employees stationed overseas and their families. Consultation services are available at any time if employees on overseas assignment or members of their family experience physical or mental health issues. Employee health is the most important asset for Mitsui & Co. We implement the following activities in accordance with Inoculations and medical check-ups are provided for employees and their families before they leave for overseas our basic policies to ensure that our employees can continue to work with confidence in any social and business assignments. They also participate in training programs about health management while overseas, including the environment. prevention of infectious diseases and the maintenance of physical and mental health. These programs are designed to raise each individual’s awareness of health management, and to provide information about access to medical services Basic Policy on Health Management and support systems while overseas. 1. ‌We promote health and productivity management. We place great importance on the maintenance and We also support health management for employees working overseas, and their families, in partnership with enhancement of employee health, and position health management as a management priority. By putting this emergency health care service companies. commitment into practice, we aim to maintain and enhance employee health and improve corporate productivity. 2. ‌We create workplace environments in which employees can work safely, healthily, and energetically. System Mental Health 3. ‌We build an organization with high health literacy, in which individual employees are aware of the need to protect their own health themselves, and take the initiative to maintain and enhance their own mental and physical health. Employees are able to obtain advice easily and at any time via a dedicated consultation service. Through 4. ‌We ensure that personal health information is handled in compliance with the laws and regulations and consultations with health nurses and industrial physicians, employees can receive support that meets their appropriately used and managed. individual needs. Employees also have access to counseling by specialists at the company clinic. In addition, we have established outside advice lines through which not only employees, but also their families can seek advice anonymously via telephone and email, or arrange consultations. System Employee Health Management We also provide mental health training for managerial staff and other training programs for employees, including managerial staff, in order to prevent either the supervisors or their subordinates from suffering We have established a clinic in our Tokyo Head Office and a medical treatment room in the Osaka Office. The clinic in mental health problems. the Tokyo Head Office covers a diverse range of specialist areas, including internal medicine, surgery, ophthalmology, * Since 2012, we have held mental health seminars for managerial staff in each unit. As of March 2016, a total of 37 seminars had been held. E.N.T. and radiology, and is equipped to provide medical consultations for employees. It also provides Ningen Dock (a comprehensive medical examination), and medical check-ups for employees who are about to travel overseas or have returned from overseas assignments, as well as inoculations. In addition, managerial dieticians help employees to avoid lifestyle diseases and metabolic syndrome by providing nutritional guidance. We have also enhanced support for female System Medical Examinations employees through the establishment of women’s and motherhood health advisory service allowing access to individual consultation with female doctors. Regular medical examinations are implemented in-house at multiple times to make it easier for employees to take such We provide useful health-related information as well as guidance on access to various types of health advice via the medical examinations. We are working to ensure the prevention or early discovery of lifestyle diseases and other intranet. Employees can also view their own health check histories. conditions, and to provide enhanced advisory services through a fine-tuned approach that includes Ningen Dock at Also, for the sake of the health preservation of employees, we hold a monthly Hygiene Committee composed of outside medical institutions for employees aged 35 and older under a program operated collaboratively with Mitsui members recommended by management and labor, and discuss ways to improve working environment, ways to Bussan Health Insurance Society. Also in collaboration with Mitsui Bussan Health Insurance Society, we provide special develop an appropriate framework, and other related matters based on the advice provided by qualified industrial health maintenance advice to employees aged 40 and older. In the fiscal year ended March 2016, almost 100% of physicians and hygiene experts. employees underwent medical examinations. Sustainability Report 2016 77 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Human Resource Development Corporate Governance & Data of Personnel Affairs Human Resource Development System Security Management Figures concerning employees (As of March 31) Non-consolidated Average age of Average number of Mitsui & Co. promotes various kinds of businesses through its 139 points of global operations (as of April 1, 2016), and a Total employees Male Female employees years of service large number of employees go on a business trip to many parts of the world almost every day. It is one of the most 2014 6,160 4,503 1,657 42.4 19.0 important tasks for the company to ensure the security of employees and families home and abroad. 2015( 6,085 4,447 1,638 42.4 19.0 In cooperation with domestic and foreign offices, and security companies concerned, Mitsui obtains and analyzes 2016( 6,006 4,377 1,629 42.4 18.9 the latest situation about politics, the peace and order of each place changing every day, and shares such information with the related staff, in order for the employees to raise awareness of the security. Mitsui has also prepared the system corresponding to the situations such as accidents, injuries, and diseases, in Number of employees by operating segments (As of March 31, 2016) (Unit: persons) cooperation with emergency health care service companies. Non-consolidated Consolidated For the employees, as well as families, who will be dispatched to the overseas, the company has the programs for Iron & Steel Products 327 1,519 security measures. Mineral & Metal Resources 245 429 Assuming a large-scale disaster, Mitsui regularly performs trainings for Business Continue Plan placing human life as Machinery & Infrastructure 788 16,172 a first priority, and the company makes efforts to raises the crisis response capabilities by solving problems extracted Chemicals 569 2,274 through the training. Energy 420 764 Lifestyle 808 9,778 Innovation & Corporate Development 406 3,571 Americas 230 3,829 System Joint Efforts with Labor Unions Europe, the Middle East and Africa 158 874 Asia Pacific 236 1,280 Others 1,819 3,121 To create an environment in which each and every employee is able to work energetically in pursuit of Yoi-Shigoto Total 6,006 43,611 and in which the employees and company can continue to grow together, we actively discuss a variety of common issues with the Mitsui & Co. Labor Union. Mitsui also holds labor-management discussion meetings to confer on, business activities and plan, various personnel-related systems and human resources development, and provides a venue for exchanging views on a variety of matters with managements in each Branches and each Business Unit (in total twelve times in 2015), with the aim of maintaining a healthy and cooperative relationship between management and labor. Sustainability Report 2016 78 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Human Resource Development Corporate Governance & Human Resource Development Number of Employees by Region (As of March 31, 2016) Performance data related to diversity (Unit: persons) Proportion of female permanent staff and managers (Non-consolidated) (As of July 1) (Unit: persons) Headquarter-hired staff Non-Headquarter-hired staff Permanent staff Managerial staff Business staff Administrative staff (HS)( (NS) Percentage Percentage Percentage Total Female Total Female*3 Total Female Total Japan 4,791 — of Female of Female of Female Americas 334 622 2014( 6,122 1,661 27.1% 3,299 76 2.3% 4,921 460 9.3% 1,201 Europe, the Middle East and Africa 223 777 2015( 6,021 1,648 27.4% 3,353 126 3.8% 4,841 468 9.7% 1,180 Asia Pacific 507 1,757 2016( 5,952 1,653 27.8% 3,472 168 4.8% 4,791 492 10.3% 1,161 Others 151 — *3 Includes 1 female General Manager (M1). Total 6,006 3,156 Proportion of female and non-resident executive officers (Non-consolidated) (As of July 1) (Unit: persons) Director Corporate Auditor NS dispatched to the Head Office (As of March 31, 2016) Percentage NonPercentage of Percentage (Unit: persons) Total Female Total Female of Female resident Non-resident of Female Japan Business Integration Program trainees (BIP) 13 2014( 13 1 7.7% 0 0% 5 1 20.0% Japan Language & Business Program trainees (LBP) 7 2015( 14 2 14.3% 1 7.1% 5 1 20.0% Intra-company transferees 9 2016( 14 2 14.3% 1 7.1% 5 1 20.0% Total 29 Actual status of promoting career advancement for female (Non-consolidated) Number of hires by gender (Non-consolidated) Female managerial staff Female employees dispatched overseas (As of April 1) (Unit: persons) (Unit: persons) (Unit: persons) New-graduates Mid-career Total Male Female Total Male Female Total 250 75 2014 (FY15/3)( 103 55 158 24 5 29 187 200 201 60 60 61 2015 (FY16/3)( 94 57 151 35 6 41 192 54 168 2016 (FY17/3)*1 113 78 191*2 191 150 45 47 45 43 44 *1 Figures as of April 1, 2016 126 *2 Includes employees who will join us on October 1, 2016 (Male: 3, Female: 1) 100 30 31 76 24 67 50 15 32 38 Average personnel turnover (Non-consolidated) (Over the last three years) 20 23 27 19 0 0 08/4 09/4 10/4 11/4 12/4 13/4 14/4 14/7 15/7 16/7 20/7 08/4 09/4 10/4 11/4 12/4 13/4 14/4 15/4 16/4 Average personnel turnover 4.79% Sustainability Report 2016 79 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Human Resource Development Corporate Governance & Human Resource Development Average age and average length of service of full time employees (Non-consolidated) (As of March 31) Average age Average length of service (yy-mm) Male Female Total Male Female Total 2014 42.7 40.5 42.2 19-4 17-11 18-11 2015 42.6 40.6 42.1 19-2 17-10 18-9 2016 42.5 40.6 42.0 18-11 17-10 18-7 Employees taking childcare or family care support (Non-consolidated) (Unit: persons) 2013 (FY14/3) 2014 (FY15/3)( 2015 (FY16/3)( Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Child Childcare Leave 3 46 49 12 40 52 13 49 62 care Nursing Care for Child Leave 35 106 141 47 111 158 42 107 149 Short-time working for childcare 9 117 126 13 135 148 11 137 148 Staggered working hours for childcare 4 0 4 4 1 5 7 1 8 Childbirth Attendance Leave 74 — 74 91 — 91 93 — 93 Family Family Care Leave 0 1 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 Care Nursing Care for Family Leave 36 59 95 31 52 83 42 59 101 Short-time working for family care 1 2 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 Staggered working hours for family care 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Employment ratio of people with disabilities (As of June 1) Employment ratio of people with disabilities Legally stipulated ratio 2014 2.54% 2.00% 2015 2.45% 2.00% 2016 2.51% 2.00% Concerning the data marked with (, an independent practitioner’s assurance report prepared in accordance with the international standard ISAE 3000 was given by Deloitte Tohmatsu Evaluation and Certification Organization Co., Ltd. Please refer to independent practitioner’s assurance report at the link below for details. The independent practitioner’s assurance report on the data marked with ? shall be referred to P.131 of our Sustainability Report 2015. P.81 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report Sustainability Report 2016 80 Independent Practitioner’s Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evalation by Society Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development Evaluation by Society External Recognition Awards Received in the Past Five Years ESG (environmental, social, and governance) investment involves the selection of investment targets through the Fiscal Year Ended March 2016 evaluation of corporations based on conventional financial analyses and investment standards, as well as on how ‌ anked second in the 18th Nikkei Annual Report Awards (2015) by Nikkei, Inc. R well they fulfill their social responsibilities. Mitsui has been selected for inclusion in major world ESG investment indices—the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and the FTSE4Good Index Series. In addition, we were Fiscal Year Ended March 2015 selected in the “Competitive IT Strategy Company Stock Selection”, and as a “Nadeshiko Brand” company for ‌ anked first in the “Toyo Keizai CSR Ranking” Wholesale Category by Toyo Keizai Inc. R being “exceptional in encouraging women’s success in the workplace”. R ‌ anked first in the “18th Environmental Management Survey” Trading Company category by Nikkei, Inc. R ‌ anked first in the “2014 Award for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure” (Commerce industry category) by The Securities Dow Jones Sustainability World Index Analysts Association of Japan. The Dow Jones Sustainability World Index is a global stock index developed jointly by Dow Jones & R ‌ eceived the “2014 IR Special Award” by the Japan Investor Relations Association. Company in the U.S. and RobecoSAM AG in Switzerland. Major corporations around the world are R ‌ eceived the 20th Nikkei BP Advertising Award’s Excellent Business Expert Award (2014) by Nikkei Business Publications, evaluated in terms of their economic, environmental, and social performance. Mitsui was one of 317 companies (which included 20 Japanese companies) that were selected for 2015. Inc. (Mitsui’s Forests) RobecoSAM Sustainability Award Fiscal Year Ended March 2014 RobecoSAM carries out surveys and analyses for the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. From each industry, it recommends companies that have undertaken outstanding environmental, social, and R ‌ anked first in the “Toyo Keizai CSR Ranking” Wholesale Category by Toyo Keizai Inc. economic initiatives. A total of 464 companies (including 47 Japanese companies) were selected R ‌ anked first in the “17th Environmental Management Survey” Trading Company category by Nikkei, Inc. worldwide for the RobecoSAM Sustainability Awards 2016. In the Trading Companies & Distributors R ‌ eceived the Award for Special Merit in the 48th Industrial Advertising Award (2013) in the Newspaper Category by category, Mitsui was selected as one of the companies to be ranked Silver Class, which is awarded to Nikkan Kogyo Shimbun Ltd. (Mitsui’s Forests) companies that are within a 1%–5% range of the score of the Industry Leaders. R ‌ eceived the 19th Nikkei BP Advertising Award’s National Geographic Japan Award (2013) by Nikkei Business FTSE4Good Index Series Publications, Inc. (Mitsui’s Forests) The FTSE4Good Index Series is a stock index developed by FTSE Russell, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of the London Stock Exchange. FTSE Russell evaluates major corporations around the Fiscal Year Ended March 2013 world from the aspects of environmental, social, and governance criteria, including the labor R ‌ anked first in the “Toyo Keizai CSR Ranking” Wholesale Category by Toyo Keizai Inc. standards applied throughout their supply chains, as well as on the basis of corporate sustainability. It selects companies that satisfy its standards as constituents of the index. R ‌ anked first in the “16th Environmental Management Survey” Trading Company category by Nikkei, Inc. Competitive IT Strategy Company Stock Selection Fiscal Year Ended March 2012 The “Competitive IT Strategy Company Stock Selection” is designated by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange for companies that undertake strategic IT R ‌ anked first in the “Toyo Keizai CSR Ranking” Wholesale Category by Toyo Keizai Inc. utilization initiatives, from among all the enterprises listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Mitsui was R ‌ anked first in the “15th Environmental Management Survey” Trading Company category by Nikkei, Inc. selected for the fiscal year ended March 2016 and the fiscal year ending March 2017. R ‌ eceived the Award of Excellence in the Sustainability Reporting Award Category of 15th Green Reporting Award and Sustainability Reporting Award by Toyo Keizai Inc. Nadeshiko Brand The Nadeshiko Brand is a designation jointly awarded by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry ‌Received the Award of Excellence in the 2012 Key Firm of Integrity Award by Integrex Inc. and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) to companies listed on the First Section of the TSE that have shown excellence in promoting career advancement for women. Mitsui was awarded this status in the fiscal years ended March 2015 and March 2016. Sustainability Report 2016 81 Corporate Information Message from Our CEO CSR at Mitsui & Co. Five Material Issues in the CSR Field Evaluation by Society Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report Contents Activity Reports by Material Issue Protection of the Global Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance & Human Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials Resource Development MITSUI & CO., LTD.
