Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Contents Introduction 2 Fair Treatment 31 Efficient Use Introduction of the report 3 Committed personel 33 of ­Resources 53 Overview of themes 4 Equal treatment 35 Energy-efficient business 55 Tokmanni in brief 5 Employee training Environmentally friendly logistics 58 CEO’s greetings 8 and development 38 Minimizing waste and recycling 60 2015 Highlights 11 Occupational health and safety 40 Data 63 Business Integrity 12 Responsible Sourcing Report overview 63 and Products 41 Information used in calculations 64 Strategy and operational environment 14 Responsible sourcing 43 Data 67 Values and ethical guidelines 20 Responsibility for products 47 GRI Index 74 Stakeholder engagement 23 Ethical marketing 51 Material aspects and corporate Privacy protection 52 responsibility activities 25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Welcome to Tokmanni’s first corporate responsibility report This report describes Tokmanni’s responsibility work in 2015, as well as our targets for the future. The report comprises four sustainability themes, which reflect the different focus areas of Tokmanni’s sustainability work in our value chain. We want to act in an honest and reResponsibility is a part of everything sponsible manner, responsibility is at we do in the company. We believe that the core of our business, from strateby acting in a responsible manner we gy to operations. We strive to be fair are furthering our business and are in our treatment of employees, cusable to cater to our stakeholders bettomers, and all of those we cooperate ter than ever. with. Our goal is to ensure that all the We want to communicate about our products on our shelves are safe to responsibility work transparently. The consumers and employees. We are aim of this report is to offer versatile committed to responsible sourcing. information to all of our readers. Enjoy! In addition, it is of utmost importance that we use our resources efficiently Outi Mikkonen to diminish our adverse impact on the Head of Corporate Responsibility environment. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 3 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Overview of themes Business Responsible Fair Sourcing Efficient Use Integrity Treatment and Products of Resources Responsibility towards customers, Tokmanni builds its enterprise Throughout its business operaTokmanni has a range of employees and other stakeholders value by utilising the diversity of tions, Tokmanni is committed to measures for supporting efforts is at the core of Tokmanni’s busiits personnel, enhancing their responsible sourcing, and this to mitigate climate change. ness operations. The Company expertise and engaging in reis evident at all stages of the Tokmanni is a participant in observes the relevant legislasponsible operations. An open Company’s sourcing process. In the Energy efficiency agreetive requirements and collective and fair corporate culture that rekeeping with the principle of due ment scheme for the Finnish agree­ments and the principles of spects all personnel is essential diligence in sourcing, Tokmanni retail sector. The Company is good governance in everything it for conducting successful and aims to buy its products only constantly investigating new does. The Company is also govsustainable business activities. from responsible suppliers and it opportunities for using alternaerned by its Code of Conduct, Through fair and effective perrequires that products offered to tive forms of energy and enerwhich sets out ethical guidelines, sonnel management Tokmanni is consumers are manufactured in gy-saving devices and equipand related principles, policies able to reduce its business risks, production conditions that are ment, and it strives to achieve and instructions for the Compaexploit business opportunities, ethically acceptable. Tokmanni a more environmentally friendly ny’s operations. Tokmanni’s aim is increase its enterprise value and accepts responsibility for ensurlogistics operation. Tokmanni to be the best and biggest Finnish generate added value for its ing that the products it imports, continuously monitors the volretailer providing everyday low stakeholders. Tokmanni continmarkets and sells are safe to ume of waste generated by its prices. It offers customers an exuously monitors the standard of consumers and employees. In warehouse and stores and is tensive range of quality products supervision, the implementation addition, Tokmanni's marketing is actively improving its waste at affordable prices. Customers of good management practices, based on good communication recycling. can be confident that the products the quality of the working atmospractices and it takes the protecthey purchase are safe and have phere and the observance of tion of privacy seriously in all the been manufactured responsibly. equal treatment. systems and registers it manages. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 4 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Tokmanni in brief Tokmanni is a Finnish retailer providTokmanni KPI Numbers 2014 2015 ing everyday low prices with a nation– close to wide store network. At the end of 2015 Net sales MEUR 734.3 755.3 the people Tokmanni had 156 stores across the country. The Company’s head office Net profit MEUR 43.0 39.1 Tokmanni serves is in Mäntsälä. Besides its opera% from the net sales 5.9 5.2 its ­customers in over tions in Finland, Tokmanni also has 150 stores around a sourcing joint venture in Shanghai Employment Finland and online through its web shop. with the Norwegian company Europris All employment 3,119 3,293 An updated list of AS. Tokmanni owns 50 per cent of the stores is available joint venture. Permanent employees 2,317 2,424 on the ­Company’s The Company offers its customers Full time employees 1,186 1,203 ­website. a wide and attractive assortment, affordable prices and a pleasant Sourcing www.tokmanni.fi shopping experience. Tokmanni’s Suppliers committed to product selection consists of leading n/a 81% BSCI Code of Conduct international brands, the Company’s own private label products, licensed Environment brands and non-branded products. Total energy consumption, TJ. The selection consists of approxiThe figures include both measured 669 625 mately 25,000 active titles, which are and estimated consumption. divided into six product groups: Home Waste recycling, % 93 94 cleaning and personal care; Groceries; Clothing; Tools and electrical equipment; Home, decoration and garden; Leisure and home electronics. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 5 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Tokmanni does not have its own Tokmanni's sourcing production facilities but acquires its products directly from Finnish and Tokmanni aims to increase the share of direct import in its procurement i.e. to buy more of its products directly from the producers. international manufacturers, importers and agents. The Company buys about MANUFACTURERS WHOLESALERS RETAILER 70 per cent of its products from Finnish suppliers, 18 per cent from Domestic Asia and 12 per cent from Europe. Tokmanni’s sourcing organisation is Direct Europe + responsible for product purchases. sourcing Throughout its business operaLow cost countries tions, Tokmanni is committed to responsible sourcing, and it seeks to buy products only from responsiDomestic ble suppliers. In 2015 products were supplied to Tokmanni directly from Third party Europe 37 countries, 11 of which are classisourcing fied as risk countries by the Business Low cost countries Compliance Initiative (BCSI). These Tokmanni's private labels CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 6 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Tokmanni net sales, MEUR 800 700 600 In 2015, Tokmanni finished the consolidation of all its store chains under one Tokmanni brand. 500 400 755 734 300 200 100 0 2014 2015 are Bangladesh, Bulgaria, China, India, Indonesia, Myanmar, Pakistan, Romania, Thailand, Turkey and Vietnam. Tokmanni is a private company and in 2015 the owners were funds managed by Nordic Capital (83% holding), Rockers Tukku Oy (11% holding) and the company’s Board of Directors and management (6% holding). The Company employed 3,293 people at the end of the year. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 7 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources CEO's greetings Stable year in a challenging market Tokmanni is a Finnish retailer providing everyday low prices. Our aim is to continue growing faster than the market by maintaining a strong price image for customers that is better than that of our competitors, and providing customers with the best value for money, an attractive and wide assortment and a strong in-store customer experience. The year 2015 was a stable year for We also moved six existing stores to Tokmanni. Our sales grew by nearly new, more convenient premises within three per cent and our profitability the same area. One store was closed remained good despite substantial indown. Our aim is to continue opening vestments. Our sales have grown by an new stores and developing our store average of three per cent over the past concept in the years to come. four years, at a time when the Finnish In 2015 we completed the process retail market has actually shrunk. This of unifying our store chains under success is a sign that the “smart shopa single Tokmanni brand in accordping” trend prevailing internationally for ance with our One Unifed Tokmanni so long has also arrived in Finland and strategy. At the same time we dishas changed Finnish consumer habits. continued the use of the store brands In 2015 we developed our store Tarjoustalo, Robinhood, Vapaa Valinta, concept further and opened eight new Säästöpörssi and Maxi-Makasiini. stores in completely new locations. Since the start of N ­ ovember all our CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 8 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources stores have been operating under the opportunities. Our operations are also gy, and we shall be continuing to do same Tokmanni brand. governed by our ethical guidelines, this by, for example, increasing direct Responsibility We are looking to create a strong which is made up of Tokmanni’s Code imports without compromising prodTokmanni brand image and to develof Conduct and the related principles, uct safety, quality or responsibility. In is part of the op our marketing accordingly. From a policies and instructions. We assess 2013 we embarked on major changes responsibility perspective, the aim of responsibility risks as part of the proin our sourcing, and this has also indaily work of Tokmanni’s marketing is to increase the cess of managing business risks. cluded more effective management of opportunities for consumers to make The UN’s Sustainable Development responsibility matters. In line with the every member well-founded purchasing decisions. In Goals (SDG) and the Paris Agreement principle of due diligence in sourcing, doing this, Tokmanni will observe good on climate change, both adopted in Tokmanni seeks to buy its products of Tokmanni’s marketing practices while also taking 2015, represent a major boost to proonly from responsible suppliers. We our various stakeholders into account. moting responsibility and they pave also require that the products we offer personnel the way for our corporate responsibility to consumers have been produced in Responsibility is a strategic work. We are fully aware of the responethically acceptable production confocus area for Tokmanni sibility of businesses in supporting the ditions. efforts of governments to achieve the We are a member of the Business Responsibility towards our customaims of both agreements. Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) ers, employees, owners and other At the end of 2015 we signed up and we require our suppliers to ensure stakeholders is a core principle in our to the UN Global Compact initiative, that responsibility matters regarding business operations. Responsibility is agreeing to act to further its ten printheir production are at the level of the part of the daily work of every member ciples within our company in the doBSCI requirements. of Tokmanni’s personnel. We observe mains of human rights, labour rights, Product safety is one of the main the relevant legislative requirements the environment and anti-corruption. aspects of responsible operations. By and the principles of good governance We are already reporting on our taking product safety responsibilities in everything we do. Our operations ­Global Compact aims in this report, into account in all the products we accord with the provisions of the UN’s and in the future we will also report on sell, we aim to ensure that the prodInternational Bill of Human Rights, the the progress in achieving these aims. ucts in our stores are safe to use. International Labour Organization's The Company ensures that corporate Declaration on Fundamental Principles Responsible sourcing responsibility is properly reflected in and Rights at Work, and the OECD and products its operations by verifying this through Guidelines for Multinational Enterprisself-supervision and by carrying out es. This helps us to minimise our busiImproving our sourcing operations is product testing itself or commissionness risks and increase our business a key part of the Company’s strateing this from third parties. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 9 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources In responsible sourcing we have alpeople. In 2015 Tokmanni employed Focus on responsibility ready achieved a great deal, but there hundreds of young people during will continue is still a lot of work to be done. Proof the busy periods. of the latter is set out in the freshly During the year we also strengthIn 2015 we launched a new Code of We attained, published Finnwatch report entitled ‘On the Borderline of Responsibility’. ened our diversity work by joining corporate responsibility network FIBS Conduct and provided training in this for the entire personnel. This is the one year ­early, In 2015 we drew up new responsible sourcing principles and operating Diversity Charter. This enables us to develop further our responsibility, fair ethical platform on which we have built our corporate responsibility. The our targeted guidelines, and we are providing training in these at the start of 2016. management and customer service practices and thus also our competiimplementation of this programme will continue in 2016. In line with the proenergy saving Fair treatment tiveness. gramme, we will be focusing on employee wellbeing, environmental imset out in the Our aim is to build an operating culture Efficient resource use pact reduction, responsible sourcing and development of product safety Energy ­efficiency that is fair, based on trust and supOne of the biggest achievements in and corporate responsibility commuagreement ports the wellbeing of all employees. The Company aims to have a moti2015 in our responsibility work was the attainment, one year early, of our nications. Our aim is to strengthen our posi­scheme vated and committed personnel who value the customer and who also value targeted 9 per cent energy saving set out in the Energy efficiency agreement tive human rights effects and minimise negative impacts. During 2016 we will for the Finnish their own work and their employer and contribute responsibly to the compascheme for the Finnish retail sector. We also switched over to using renewbe developing our human rights due diligence. retail sector ny’s performance. The aim is a diverse able energy certificates to cover in alwork community in which equal treatmost all our stores and in our logistics ment is ensured for everyone from the centre, and this allowed us to reduce Heikki Väänänen recruitment phase onwards. our CO2 emissions considerably. CEO Our position as a growing company We will continue our efforts to imwith new stores opening across the prove energy and resource efficiency country means we have a significant by reducing energy consumption, CO2 role as an employer in Finland. We are emissions and landfill waste, although constantly in need of skilled and cathis will become more challenging pable employees, and we are known in the future and will require greater particularly as an employer of young capital expenditure. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 10 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources 2015 highlights Launch of new principles Launch and training for ethical Joining the FIBS and guidelines for operational guidelines Diversity Charter responsible sourcing Developing the supply chain Reaching the energy saving Joining the UN’s comprehensively, all the way target of the Energy efficiency Global Compact from supplier to shelf agreement scheme for the Finnish retail sector one year in advance CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 11 Business ­Integrity Our approach Responsibility towards customers, employees and other stakeholders is a core principle in our business operations. We observe the relevant legislative requirements and the principles of good governance in everything we do. The Company’s operations are also governed by its Code of Conduct, which sets out ethical guidelines and the related principles, policies and instructions. Tokmanni’s aim is to be the best and biggest national retailer providing everyday low prices in Finland. We offer customers an extensive range of quality products at affordable prices. Customers can be confident that the products they purchase are safe and have been manufactured responsibly. Matters of great importance to us • Profitable growth as a strategic objective • Values and ethical guidelines as the foundation of business • Responsibility work as a cornerstone of operations • Stakeholder views Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Key targets Mitigate business risks, increase use of opportunities related to corporate responsibility and provide value added to our stakeholders The Company’s Code of Conduct will guide everyone at Tokmanni in their daily work Tokmanni will not have any cases of corruption CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 13 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Profitable growth as a strategic objective Tokmanni’s strategic objective is to be a profitably growing, modern Finnish retailer providing everyday low prices with a strong price image, an attractive and wide assortment, and a good customer experience. Corporate responsibility is one of the Tokmanni has improved its category example, conducting self-­supervision Tokmanni is a significant employer Company’s strategic focus areas. It management in recent years, making and carrying out product testing itself in Finland, and the expansion of the supports Tokmanni’s day-to-day busiit more efficient. Combined with its and commissioning this from third parstore network will also clearly have a ness in all areas of operation. Its aim is attractive and wide assortment this ties. It is also crucial that the assortpositive impact on employment. Tokto minimise business risks, make use will support the company’s profitable ment offered by Tokmanni is sourced manni’s target is to have a motivated of opportunities related to this and progrowth in the future. More effective responsibly and the production condiand committed personnel who value duce added value for stakeholders. sourcing is an integral part of the Comtions are good. Making major changes the customer, their work and their emTokmanni seeks growth by further pany’s strategy, and the development in its sourcing methods, the company ployer and contribute responsibly to leveraging its unified brand image and of this will continue, for example by has substantially increased its investthe Company’s performance. the company’s enhanced store concept. increasing direct importing without ment in responsibility. In accordance with its strategy, Tokmanni markets its products in accompromising product safety, quality In accordance with its strategy, TokTokmanni’s aim is to improve its profcordance with good practices, truthfully, and responsibility. manni is seeking growth also through itability and working capital efficiency in an easily understandable manner and Product safety is vital for the the expansion of its store network. The by increasing the efficiency of the in compliance with its Code of Conduct. company’s success, and Tokmanni aim is to increase its store area by over processes and tools used in sourcing, In accordance with the company’s data wants to ensure that the products it 10,000 square metres per year. This the supply chain and category manprotection principles, personal data sells are safe to use. The Company will lead to increases in the Company’s agement. At the same time, the Comprovided by customers, employees, takes ­product safety obligations into energy consumption and waste generpany aims to ensure that responsibility business partners and other parties are ­account in all the products it sells. The ation, and means that work to improve perspectives and ethical guidelines used only as provided by data protection Company takes responsibility issues energy efficiency and material efficienare taken into account in all stages of legislation. into account in its operations by, for cy will continue in the future. the processes. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 14 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Strategy in a nutshell The Company aims to grow profitably and to act responsibly in all its business operations. Profitable growth will be sought: Strategic responsibility • by continuing to expand the store network perspectives in a nutshell by over 10,000 square metres annually, Responsible sourcing • by further leveraging its unified brand image, enhanced store concept and Energy efficiency and category management, and efficient use of materials • increasing working capital management Providing employment and through improved processes and tools in managing needs in the workplace sourcing, supply chain management and category management. Responsible and safe products and packaging, appropriate markings on products Responsible marketing and privacy protection CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 15 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Generating and distributing direct added financial value Tokmanni is committed to profitable growth and developing competitiveness. The Company develops its business in a responsible manner, which supports its ability to care for its employees, assets and customers’ needs responsibly. Tokmanni reports transparently on its business operations, financial development, and direct and indirect economic influencers. The graph below depicts the added financial value of the company to its stakeholders. Customers Personnel Wages and benefits -92 MEUR 759 Public sector MEUR Direct Taxes economic Added value -3 MEUR Earnings value produced retained generated and 261 Creditors 15 Goods suppliers distributed and service providers MEUR Financial items MEUR -18 MEUR -498 Business development MEUR Expenses related to the ­development of operations -132 MEUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 16 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Megatrends that affect tions and will continue to do so in Tokmanni’s business the future. Tokmanni has identified several megatrends that affect the CompaMegatrends and the opportunities and challenges presented by them Megatrends and the ny’s business and its responsibility perspectives. The continued economare assessed every year as part of the Company’s strategic planning. ­opportunities and challenges ic challenges, demographic changes such as the ageing population and the The Sustainable Development Goals approved by the UN in 2015, and their presented by them are ­assessed decline in family size, digitalisation, the limitation of resources, global effects, create a basis for solving these challenges and also serve as every year as part of the warming, the increased importance of responsibility and customers’ product guidelines for Tokmanni’s responsibility work. Tokmanni assesses the re­Company's ­strategic planning awareness are trends that currently sponsibility risks as part of the general affect Tokmanni’s day-to-day operarisk management process. Megatrends affecting Tokmanni’s business Financial OPPORTUNITY FOR TOKMANNI CHALLENGE FOR TOKMANNI TOKMANNI’S RESPONSE challenges • Conservative spending attitudes and the aim of • Consumers have become less loyal to stores • Maintaining a good price image continue getting the best value for money have for some and brands, which has created pressure on • Extensive and appealing time created opportunities for retailers providing operators in the retail sector, and price comproduct selection Challenging finaneveryday low prices, which has now established petition in the market has tightened. cial conditions and • Offering a pleasant shopping a firm foothold in the market. Finland’s prolonged experience economic downturn • Structural changes in the customer base have • Responsible products have led to a change taken place as “smart shopping” has expanded • Efficient and ethical marketing in Finnish consumer this customer base. habits. • The smart shopping trend has made Finnish consumers more price aware, and active comparison of prices has become more common. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 17 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Demographic OPPORTUNITY FOR TOKMANNI CHALLENGE FOR TOKMANNI TOKMANNI’S RESPONSE changes • Urbanisation and busy consumers who want • Urbanisation continues and the number of • Tokmanni’s store concept, Urbanisation, ageing to minimise the time spent in shops, and at the inhabitants in small locations decrease. ease of moving in stores and population, elderly same time want to purchase things from the • The decline in family size and the ageing of accessibility people becoming a minimum number of stores, has led to “one-stop the population affect product selections and • Continuous development of significant consumer shopping” and the increase in the importance of product pack sizes. the selection taking customers’ group and decline easily achievable and compact store formats. needs into account in family size affect • One-stop shopping reduces car use as unnec• The right products at the right consumer habits and essary driving is avoided, and thus environprice shopping experience mental impacts are also reduced. • Optimisation of store locations requirements. • Multi-channelling • The emergence of a price aware elderly population as a substantial consumer company. Digitalisation OPPORTUNITY FOR TOKMANNI CHALLENGE FOR TOKMANNI TOKMANNI’S RESPONSE Technology becom• Digital channels enable companies to distri• The online store and digital channels have be­ • Multi-channelling strategy ing more mobile, bute product and price information efficiently, come more popular in consumers’ purchasing • Development and optimisation digitalisation and regardless of time and place, supporting sales behaviour, and at the same time they have of online store growth of online in both the online store and physical stores. broadened the competitive field of the retail sector. • Continuous development of retailing. Purchasing • Digital services enable people with reduced • Digital services and the online store lead to data protection and IT systems behaviour that is mobility to be reached. broader and easier price comparison, which independent of time leads to tighter price competition and creates and place. pressure on profitability. • The growth of the online store has a limited impact on Tokmanni’s competitiveness, as customers’ average purchase is usually relatively small. Moreover, the product segments that are increasingly moving over to online sales are a relatively small part of the product selection offered by Tokmanni. • Digital services increase data protection risks and the risk of breaches of privacy protection. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 18 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Limitation of OPPORTUNITY FOR TOKMANNI CHALLENGE FOR TOKMANNI TOKMANNI’S RESPONSE resources and global warming • Developing an environmentally friendly • Increased energy consumption caused by • Reduction of energy product selection. increased number of stores, also in logistics, consumption in all operations Focus on environ• Opportunities provided by the circular growing waste volumes and related costs. • More efficient use of mental impacts of economy. • Limited availability of raw materials for resources, reduction of waste, whole production products affects the availability and price reuse and recycling chain and product of Tokmanni’s products. • Selection of suppliers life cycle is increas• The operations of factories in coastal regions ing. and on the emerging markets may be interrupted due to floods, storms or other natural phenomena. Increase in imporOPPORTUNITY FOR TOKMANNI CHALLENGE FOR TOKMANNI TOKMANNI’S RESPONSE tance of responsibility and cus• Tokmanni’s responsible and environmentally • Shortcomings in the responsibility of • Further development of tomers’ product friendly operations strengthen the company’s the supply chain and partners. responsible sourcing awareness competitiveness. • Deterioration of employer image and difficulty • Developing the responsibility • Careful management of product safety, quality of obtaining a competent workforce due to of own operations and training The origin of products control and a strong price-quality image enloss of reputation. the personnel in responsibility and responsibility in hance the company’s competitive advantage. • Shortcomings in product safety and quality matters the whole compa• Responsibility communications support control. • Self-supervision and continuny’s value chain are openness and transparency throughout the ous development of product increasingly important value chain. safety selection criteria for consumers. The trans• Continuous development of parency requirements responsibility communications of selections, prices and product origins are growing alongside product safety. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 19 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Values and Code of Conduct as the foundation of responsibility work The Tokmanni Company’s core values define the value framework within which the Company operates and on which it bases its decision-making. The Company’s operations are also governed by its Code of Conduct, which sets out ethical guidelines and the related principles, policies and instructions. Tokmanni's values CORPORATE SOCIAL CUSTOMER FOCUS RESPECT RENEWAL PROFITABILITY RESPONSIBILITY Customer focus is ensured Respect is evident in Renewal means boldness, Profitability is sought Corporate social by having a professional the openness of the operating encouraging creativity through clear objectives, responsibility at Tokmanni staff and by emphasising culture, in a willingness to help, processes, reciprocity of efficient and economical is based on fairness, reliability, safety, taking support and encourage, feedback and fast reaction operating models respect for equality responsibility and in good team spirit and to needs for change. and processes, and and concern for mutual respect. in long-term cooperation open and correctly environmental values. with various stakeholders. timed communications. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Ethical guidelines manni’s partners are also expected to obliged to observe the guidelines, ask and update the principles and instrucrespect human rights in accordance questions and report violations of the tions that are their responsibility. The Tokmanni’s business is based on with the company’s requirements for guidelines. Everyone is also obliged to Compliance unit handles notifications complying with acts and decrees, the suppliers. inform their supervisors or the Comconcerning financial wrongdoings reCorporate Governance arrangements Tokmanni’s ethical guidance is built pliance unit of good practices. The ceived via the whistleblowing channel determined by the Board of Directors, on three levels. The Code of ConCompliance unit can be informed via or otherwise, and actions that violate and the Code of Conduct, which is duct guides everyone at Tokmanni in the ‘whistleblowing channel’, which is Tokmanni’s Code of Conduct. The approved by Tokmanni’s Executive their daily work and decision-making. presented as part of the training on Compliance unit convenes monthly but Group and Board of Directors, and Under the key elements of the Code the Code of Conduct. The channel handles pressing matters immediately. for which the CEO is responsible. All of Conduct are more detailed princiis continuously open for Tokmanni’s The whistleblowing channel was our operations accord with the proples, which deal with topics such as stakeholders, too, and notifications opened in September 2015, and by the visions of the UN’s International Bill prevention of corruption and human can also be made anonymously. Noend of the year there had not been any of Human Rights, the International rights. In addition, Tokmanni has intifications received in the channel are notifications. Users’ satisfaction with it Labour Organization's Declaration on structions for conducting everyday processed confidentially as required has not been studied yet. Fundamental Principles and Rights at matters. These guidelines must be in data protection legislation. Tokmanni did not have any cases of Work, and the OECD Guidelines for complied with in all operations. The corruption in 2015. Multinational Enterprises. guidelines are available in Finnish and Compliance unit The complaint handling process is Regarding human rights, TokmanEnglish in Tokmanni’s intranet. The described on the next page. ni’s operations are also guided by the Code of Conduct is also available on The Compliance unit is responsible UN’s Guiding Principles on Business the external website, and as a printed for Tokmanni’s compliance function. and Human Rights. In accordance version in Finnish for Tokmanni’s The Compliance unit is headed by the with the principle of due diligence, employees. Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), who Tokmanni will assess and monitor the Everyone at Tokmanni and the reports directly to the Chief Execuhuman rights effects of its operations, members of the Board of Directors tive Officer and also regularly to the and will undertake corrective action have received training on Tokmanni’s Board of Directors. In addition to the if necessary. Tokmanni will provide Code of Conduct and have undertakChief Compliance Officer, the Compliinformation about this wherever posen to comply with it. New employees ance unit includes three Compliance sible, on the basis of its involvement, and those returning from longer peOfficers (CO), each of whom has a possibility and authority. Tokmanni exriods of leave participate in the trainspecific area of responsibility. The ercises particular care when operating ing as part of their own orientation Compliance Officers answer queries in or sourcing from conflict areas. Tokprogramme. Everyone at Tokmanni is concerning their area of responsibility CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 21 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources The complaint handling process Request for investigation, CCO decides CCO informs Board of Decisions Directors involving Inform employment CCO relationship and HR INITIAL INVESTIGATION INVESTIGATION The CCO will appoint a CO to carry out the REPORT Compliance unit investigation, CCO makes assessment which will be done by of the case the CO or a team ­Other ­possible ­measures Inform CCO CCO informs CFO Investigation closed, no further Investigation action closed, Inform no further CCO action CCO= Chief Compliance Officer CO=Compliance Officer CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 22 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Listening to stakeholders Tokmanni wishes to promote responsibility work together with other actors. Tokmanni’s stakeholders are all the parties with which the company interacts. The Company’s most important stakeholders are customers, personnel, owners and suppliers. The Company keeps in touch with Finnish Cosmetic, Toiletry and Dewhere local business operations are supports Tokmanni’s aim of being the most important stakeholders daily tergent Association and the Finnish promoted. Tokmanni cooperates with an organisation that is pluralistic and through various channels, and with Council of Shopping Centers. In the local and national authorities from supports diversity. At the end of 2015, others when necessary. The table on Federation of Finnish Commerce, Tokan early stage, during the developTokmanni started supporting the UN the next page presents more detailed manni is represented on the Board of ment and planning stages of various Global Compact. information about contacts with Directors and the training committee. projects. Tokmanni’s approach to implestakeholders. At PTY, Tokmanni’s representatives In January 2012, Tokmanni joined menting corporate social responsibilparticipate in the Board of Directors, the Energy efficiency agreement ity also includes supporting various Active involvement in retail trade group, product safety scheme for the Finnish retail sector, charitable organisations. In 2015, Veikassociations and initiatives group and self-supervision group. undertaking to reduce its energy conko and Lahja Hursti’s ­L aupeudentyö ry The Company is also closely insumption by 9 per cent between 2011 was one of the organisations supportTokmanni participates actively in the volved in many local communities at and 2016. Tokmanni is also a member ed by Tokmanni. operations of various national orits store locations and in Mäntsälä of corporate responsibility network ganisations including the Federation where its head office is located. In FIBS, and signed its Diversity Charof Finnish Commerce, the Finnish Mäntsälä, Tokmanni has a representter in April 2015. Participating in the Grocery Trade Association (PTY), the ative at Mäntsälän Yrityskehitys Oy, operations of the Diversity Network CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 23 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Stakeholder cooperation Stakeholder Contact channel Main concerns Tokmanni's answer Customers Stores, Tarjoussanomat advertorial, websites, Product selection, availability and price of Diversity of affordable products, ensuring quality customer service, social media, media, customproducts, product safety and quality, responand safety independently and using external help; er surveys, materiality survey. sibility of sourcing membership of BSCI and requirements for suppliers, internal audits, communications Personnel Personal appraisals, intranet, e-mail, social media, Labour rights, training programmes Compliance with laws and regulations; Code of Tokmanni news, meetings, events, training, notice Conduct; labour policies, principles and instrucboards, personnel surveys, materiality survey tions; training and communications Owners Negotiations, meetings of the Board of Directors, Financial performance, responsible operations Vision and strategy and acting in accordance with websites, reports, materiality survey these, Code of Conduct, communications Suppliers Negotiations, meetings, audits, websites, Matters related to purchases, fair treatment, Agreements, BSCI requirements, communications materiality survey requirements for suppliers Authorities Meetings, websites, materiality survey Compliance with regulations Compliance with laws and regulations, Code of Conduct, communications Decision makers Meetings, websites, materiality survey Obtaining information, opportunities to influWebsites, discussions, communications ence matters Industrial Working groups’s, websites, materiality survey Active participation in operations, distribution Tokmanni employees in different working of information company’s, communications associations Educational Cooperation projects, meetings, websites Cooperation, obtaining information Joint projects, reporting, lectures, communications establishments Non-governmenWebsites, meetings, e-mail, materiality survey Responsibility in the entire value chain, transCode of Conduct; BSCI membership and requireparency, distribution of information ments for suppliers; audits; meetings; replies to tal organisations questionnaires; communications Media Websites, meetings, e-mail Active offering of information, answering Websites, social media, other communications queries quickly and honestly CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 24 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Responsibility work as a cornerstone of operations Corporate responsibility is an integral part of Tokmanni’s day-to-day business. The Company aims to minimise business risks, make use of the opportunities associated with this, and produce added value for stakeholders. The materiality analysis has allowed Tokmanni to identify the responsibility work themes most relevant to its operations. Starting points for the company’s values and its Code of states’ operations until 2030. The aim • Goal 8: Promote inclusive and susresponsibility work Conduct, including the complemenis to achieve global sustainability, and tainable economic growth, employtary principles, policies and instructhe task of companies is to support ment, and decent work for all Compliance with legislative requiretions. Tokmanni’s Code of Conduct states in reaching the goals. Tokmanni • Goal 10: Reduce inequality within ments and the principles of good and related principles are approved has also taken the goals into account and among countries governance are the starting point for by the Board of Directors. The policies in its own operations. Companies can • Goal 12: Ensure sustainable conall of Tokmanni’s corporate responsiand instructions are approved by the have an impact on all the goals at sumption and production patterns bility work. The company’s operations Executive Group and the heads of least indirectly. Tokmanni takes into • Goal 13: Combat climate change accord with the provisions of the UN’s department, respectively. consideration the following goals, and its impacts International Bill of Human Rights, the which are the most relevant goals for • Goal 14: Conserve and sustainably International Labour Organization’s UN’s 17 Sustainable Tokmanni: use the oceans, seas and marine Declaration on Fundamental Principles Development Goals • Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and quality resources and Rights at Work, and the OECD education for all and promote life• Goal 15: Sustainably manage forGuidelines for Multi­national Enterprises. In September 2015 the UN published long learning ests, combat desertification, halt The basis of corporate responsibilnew Sustainable Development Goals • Goal 5: Achieve gender equality and and reverse land degradation, halt ity work at Tokmanni is composed of (SDG), which will guide its member empower all women and girls biodiversity loss CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 25 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Tokmanni contributes towards The materiality analysis was carried the fulfilment of goals 4, 5, 8 and 10 out in spring 2015 using telephone with its Code of Conduct and its aims and measures concerning personnel. interviews and an online survey, to which there were 565 responses. The The basis of corporate Goal 13 is supported especially by the aims concerning environmental respondents to the questionnaire represented suppliers, personnel, responsibility work at Tokmanni matters. Goals 10, 12, 14 and 15 are contributed to through the requireconsumers, authorities and decision makers, industrial organisations, inis composed of the Company’s ments for suppliers. vestors and non-governmental organisations. The majority of respondents values and its Code of Conduct, Material issues belonged to the personnel, consumers or suppliers groups. Tokmanni’s top including the complementary In Tokmanni’s responsibility work, material aspects are themes that management answered the questionnaire from the point of view of effects principles, policies and are important for stakeholders’ decision making and for the business. on business. The results were discussed and instructions These include business integrity, fair confirmed in the company’s Executive treatment, responsible sourcing and Group. The criteria used were financial products, and efficient use of reimpacts including risks and opporsources. The themes have arisen from tunities, environmental impacts and ­Tokmanni’s materiality analysis and effects on people. The final results their selection is based on the instrucconcerning these material matters are tions in the GRI G4 guidelines on derepresented on the next page. fining material aspects. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 26 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Material sustainability themes Business Integrity Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use Treatment and Products of Resources Economic performance Occupational Responsible sourcing Efficient use Employment health and safety of materials Responsible products Anti-corruption Employee training and packaging Energy efficiency and development Product safety Efficient logistics Equality in work Appropriate markings Efficient and remuneration on products waste recycling Non-discrimination Responsible marketing Privacy protection CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 27 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Goals are set for material aspects and measures to reach these goals have been ­defined Management approach The basis of corporate responsibililies with the Company’s CFO and Depand products, and efficient use of to the responsibility work ty work at Tokmanni is the Company’s uty CEO, who is a member of the Exresources. Operational work is carried at Tokmanni values and Code of Conduct, includecutive Group. The Head of Corporate out in the company’s various departing the complementary principles, Responsibility reports to the CFO and ments, for which goals have been set Corporate responsibility is an integral policies and instructions. Tokmanni’s Deputy CEO. The Head of Corporate in the material aspects for responpart of Tokmanni’s day-to-day busiCode of Conduct and related prinResponsibility leads the working group sibility and measures to reach these ness. The Company’s aim is to miniciples have been approved by the that consists of representatives of degoals have been defined. The results mise business risks, make use of the Board of Directors. The policies and partments and the personnel, whose concerning these goals will then be opportunities associated with these, instructions have been approved by duty is to be responsible for reaching reported once a year and the operaand produce added value for stakethe Executive Group and the heads of the Company’s corporate responsibiltional indicators are monitored quarholders. department, respectively. ity targets in the departments. It is the terly in the meetings of the steering Compliance with legislative requireThe CEO is ultimately responsible responsibility of everyone at Tokmanni group. Targets are reported separately ments and the principles of good govfor Tokmanni’s corporate responsibility to comply with the Company’s ethical for each material area in this report. ernance is a minimum requirement for matters. He reports these to the Board guidance and to minimise negative imThe description of governance conall of Tokmanni’s responsibility work. of Directors regularly. The Board of pacts on the environment and society tains additional information on TokmanThe operations accord with the proviDirectors deals with corporate rein their own work. ni’s corporate governance. Corporate sions of the UN’s International Bill of sponsibility matters if necessary, and In Tokmanni’s responsibility work, responsibility risk management is part Human Rights, the International Labour the presentations and information material matters are themes that are of the Company’s risk management Organization's Declaration on Fundaproduced by Tokmanni’s responsibilimportant for stakeholders’ decision process. Management is constantly mental Principles and Rights at Work, ity experts serve as support for the making and business performance. assessed at Tokmanni, and targets, and the OECD Guidelines for Multinadecision making. Responsibility for the These themes are business integrity, resourcing and business practices are tional Enterprises. operational management of the work fair treatment, responsible sourcing modified if necessary. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 28 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Managing material aspects Material aspect Main steering principles and policies Targets 2016 Economic performance Accounting principles International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Financial targets G4-EC1 Principles of corporate governance Employment Personnel policy Targets of Fair treatment G4-LA1, G4-LA2 Anti-corruption Code of Conduct, Anti-bribery principles, Governance Targets of Business integrity G4-SO4, G4-SO5 Privacy protection Code of Conduct, Data protection principles Targets of Business integrity G4-PR8 Occupational health and safety Code of Conduct, Personnel policy, Targets of Fair treatment G4-LA5 Operating plan for occupational health care cooperation Employee training and development Training plan Targets of Fair treatment G4-LA11 Equality in work and remuneration Code of Conduct, Personnel plan, Personnel policy, Equality plan Targets of Fair treatment G4-LA4, G4-LA13 Non-discrimination Code of Conduct, Equality plan Targets of Fair treatment G4-LA12, G4-HR3 Efficient use of materials Code of Conduct, Environmental policy Targets of Efficient use of resources G4-EN1 Energy efficiency and emissions Code of Conduct, Environmental policy Targets of Efficient use of resources G4-EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN15–G4-EN18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 29 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Material aspect Main steering principles and policies Targets 2016 Efficient waste recycling Code of Conduct, Environmental policy Targets of Efficient use of resources G4-EN23 Efficient logistics Code of Conduct, Environmental policy Targets of Efficient use of resources G4-EN30 Responsible sourcing Code of Conduct, BSCI’s Code of Conduct, Principles of responsible Targets of Responsible sourcing G4-LA14–G4-LA15, G4-HR11, G4-SO9 sourcing, Guidelines for responsible sourcing Product safety Instructions of quality and packaging Targets of Responsible products G4-PR1–G4-PR2 Appropriate labeling on products Instructions of quality and packaging Targets of Responsible products G4-PR3, G4-PR9 Responsible marketing Code of Conduct Targets of Responsible products G4-PR7 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 30 Fair Treatment Our approach Tokmanni generates enterprise value by utilising the diversity of its personnel, enhancing their expertise and engaging in responsible operations. An open and fair corporate culture that respects all personnel is essential for conducting successful and sustainable business activities. With fair and effective personnel management Tokmanni is able to reduce its business risks, exploit business opportunities, increase its enterprise value and generate added value for its stakeholders. The Company continuously monitors the standard of supervision, the implementation of good management practices and the quality of working atmosphere and equal treatment. Matters of great importance to us • Committed personnel • Equal treatment • Employee training and development • Occupational health and safety Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Key targets Tokmanni builds an operating culture that is fair, supports the wellbeing of all employees, and is based on trust Tokmanni has a motivated and committed personnel that values the customer, is goal oriented and also value their own work and their employer Tokmanni is a diverse company in which equal treatment is ensured for everyone from the recruitment phase onwards Tokmanni’s supervisors are trained in a long-term coaching programme that incorporates tools and practices for fair management and leadership CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 32 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Committed personnel Tokmanni employs 3,293 people across Finland. The personnel is motivated and committed and forms the basis of Tokmanni’s business. Long employments per cent, of all personnel. Due to the employees. In 2015 Tokmanni comrequirements of the busiest periods pleted its extensive brand changes, 3,293 At the end of 2015 Tokmanni had in the retail sector, the majority of the transferring 42 stores that had previa total of 3,293 employees, which was part-time employees are cashiers. ously operated under other company 204 more than a year earlier. The inDuring 2015 Tokmanni had 2,425 names under the Tokmanni brand. crease in personnel was mainly due to permanent employees. The number During the exceptional period of brand the establishment of new stores. The average number of Tokmanni personnel in 2015 was 3,197. The figure of permanent employees starting at Tokmanni was 278, and the number changes, the use of agency workers increased. The costs of using agency workers accounted for 4 per cent of employees 156 of permanent employees departing reported includes those who were on the Company during the year was 137. all wages and salaries paid in 2015. periods of absence from the workThe turnover of permanent employee The numbers of agency workers used place (e.g. on maternity, paternity, paarrivals during the reporting period was are not reported. Each year, Tokmanni stores rental, childcare, study and job alter11 per cent, and the corresponding also employs about 1,000 fixed-term nation leave). On average, the number departure turnover was 6 per cent. The seasonal helpers for the needs of the of people on periods of absence at turnover figures do not include employstore network during the summer and any one time was 180. ees leaving because of retirement. Christmas periods. At the end of 2015, 74 per cent of Tokmanni’s total workforce were in Minor use of agency workers Collective agreements permanent employment and 26 per cent in fixed-term employment. FullTokmanni’s use of agency workers is Tokmanni observes all the provisions time employees accounted for 37 per minor. Extra work is always offered of the codetermination legislation (the cent, and part-time employees for 63 first to the Company’s own part-time Act on Co-operation within UndertakCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 33 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources ings) and those set out in collective agreements (the Finnish retail sector New permanent employments and terminated permanent employments, persons collective agreement), including the legal provisions and notification times concerning reorganisations. 160 All personnel groups except for the management and senior salaried em120 ployees are covered by the Finnish 111 Female retail sector collective agreement. Male 80 Tokmanni’s management and senior 84 salaried employees accounted for 1.5 40 39 Total permanent per cent of the Company’s personnel 48 at the end of 2015. These two person45 19 15 26 2,424 4 11 11 2 0 nel groups normally also follow the -30years 30–50 years 50 years-30years 30–50 years 50 yearsThe figures do not include terms of the retail sector collective retired people. agreement. New permanent employments Terminated permanent employments Permanent and fixed-term employments, % Full-time and part-time employees by gender, % 100 permanent employments 100 full-time employments fixed-term employments 32 part-time employments 80 80 55 69 Total permanent 2,424 Total full-time 1,203 60 75 60 Total fixed-term 869 Total part-time 2,090 40 40 68 20 20 45 31 25 All employments at the end of year included. 0 All employments at the end of year included. 0 Female Male Female Male CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 34 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Equal treatment at work Tokmanni aims to ensure equal treatment in all tasks and remuneration, and to guarantee non-discrimination in all of the Company’s workplaces. Equitable benefits occupational health service provided The payment is made in proportion to to staff is also more extensive than the the personal salaries of the scheme Tokmanni’s personnel enjoy extensive statutory minimum, as it includes a members. The review and payment personnel benefits, and the same benefits apply to both permanent and general practitioner service. are made every six months. The incentive cash reward is paid Three out of fixed-term employees, regardless of the nature of the employment relationIncentives for work on the basis of outstanding team or personal performance. four Tokmanni ship and the hours contracted. The Executive Group determines the perTokmanni operates an incentive pay scheme for all personnel, with the The reward is judged against the company’s quantitative and qualitative employees sonnel benefits each year. In addition to the statutory beneexception of the warehouse, where a productivity bonus system is applied. indicators. The amount paid in incentive cash rewards for 2015 was EUR are satisfied fits, other benefits include a diversity of purchasing benefits, funding for The incentive pay scheme consists of two parts, an incentive bonus and an 0.5 million. Supervisors inform their own teams with their job Christmas parties and recreational acincentive cash reward. about the remuneration principles, and tivities, and fitness and culture vouchThe incentive bonus is given if there the incentive pay scheme is described ers partially paid by the employer. is an improvement in Tokmanni’s in full on the Company’s intranet. Tokmanni also gives its staff gifts at EBITDA, the amount being in proporThe warehouse uses its own proChristmas and on significant birthdays tion to the improvement. The bonus is ductivity bonus system. The amount (50th and 60th), rewards for long serdetermined on the basis of the net reof the productivity bonus paid is device (10, 20 and 30 years of service) sult and the organisational or personal termined by the productivity of the and a thank-you for those retiring. The indicators that have been established. warehouse and by personal perforCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 35 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources mance. The productivity bonus is paid • Employees: store and warehouse Improving monthly, and the total paid for 2015 employees job satisfaction Tokmanni’s was EUR 280,000. The average age of the Company’s Besides the benefits applying to all personnel at the end of 2015 was Job satisfaction among Tokmanni’s personnel, Tokmanni’s management and senior salaried personnel have 37 years. The Board of Directors had 6 members in 2015, all of whom were personnel is surveyed annually. The survey focuses on factors such as aim is a diverse also had the opportunity to purchase company shares during share issues. men. No changes occurred in these numbers during the reporting period. equality, working atmosphere, super­ vision and development of fair manwork community A few members of the aforementioned group of personnel also have emThe number of members of the Exec­u tive Group in 2015 was nine, agement. Areas for improvement are selected each year in the different in which equal ployer-paid voluntary insurance arone of whom was a woman. One parts of the Company, and these are treatment is rangements, most of which have been transferred to Tokmanni in association member change was made in the Executive Group, in 2015. Tokmanni monitored on a regular basis. The personnel survey conducted ensured for with the corporate acquisitions made. is not reporting minority groups or other diversity factors (e.g. origin, in 2015 revealed that more than 60 per cent of the respondents felt that everyone from Diversity and equal opportunity ethnic background, religion). The majority, about 85 per cent, things had moved in a positive direction, and three in four were satisfied the recruitment of Tokmanni’s personnel are directly with their own job overall. phase onwards Tokmanni aims to establish operating covered by the pay schedule of the practices and conditions in which Finnish retail sector collective agreeDiscrimination prohibited all employees see that they are in an ment, which has equality-based pay equal and comparable position in schedules. The basic pay and other Tokmanni’s aim is a diverse work relation to colleagues. remuneration of the management and community in which equal treatment is Tokmanni’s personnel groups are senior salaried personnel are deterensured for everyone from the recruitas follows: mined by the post and the nature of ment phase onwards. The Company • Management: members of the the work, and also on the basis of has established procedures for hanrate Compliance unit. When employExecutive Group experience, skills and performance. dling cases of inappropriate treatment ees are unsure of how to interpret • Senior salaried personnel: Differences in the pay and other reand for preventing such occurrences. Tokmanni’s Code of Conduct or about experts separately designated in muneration received by women and The guidelines state that intervention personnel matters, they can contact the organisation chart by men cannot be compared because must be made immediately in cases of the Compliance unit. In 2015 the Com• Office personnel: head office staff of the extent of the tasks, the different inappropriate treatment. pliance unit received no notifications and store managers demands and the diversity of tasks. Tokmanni has also set up a sepaof discrimination. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 36 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Age and gender distribution, Board of Directors and Executive Group persons 5 5 4 4 3 3 Female 3 Male 2 1 0 0 0 -30years 30–50 years 50 years-30years 30–50 years 50 yearsBoard of Directors Executive Group Age and gender distribution, employees persons 1,500 Senior salaried 1,200 181 14 personnel Office personnel 900 19 Employees 600 1,093 6 66 858 300 15 14 7 51 431 288 12 172 57 0 Total 3,293 persons. The calculations include all Women Men Women Men Women Men employments at the end of year. –30 years 30–50 years 50 years– CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 37 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Employee training and development Tokmanni has a motivated and committed personnel that values the customer, is target oriented and also value their own work and their employer. Constant development ny’s strategic goals. The professional training in employment legislation and At Tokmanni, training leading to a voof expertise expertise of Tokmanni’s personnel is collective agreement matters. cational qualification is a popular way to developed through conventional and In 2015, the trainings in sales fodevelop expertise in the retail and logisTokmanni focuses strongly on develonline training and in-service training, cused especially on customer service, tics fields. Development of vocational oping the expertise of its personnel. in all tasks. store concept and sales growth. All skills is constantly supported at TokTraining is offered to all members of In recent years, attention has been personnel in supervisory positions manni with the aid of various apprenthe Company’s personnel. Tokmanni’s given to developing coaching skills are provided training and coaching to ticeship training programmes. Every in-house experts are also involved in among supervisors. All supervisors enhance supervisory skills, focusing year, dozens of Tokmanni’s employees training development and improving have been trained in a long-term trainon coaching-based management, study for vocational qualifications in personnel skills in collaboration with ing program that incorporates tools principles of supervision, employment sales, logistics or management. external training partners. The Compaand practices for fair management of contract matters and managing workSafety training and Tokmanni’s ny has invested in improving the experemployees. The management model ing capacity. New supervisors were online Code of Conduct course are tise of its employees, for example by emphasises the supervisor’s role in also given small group training to supcompulsory for all of the Company’s expanding the use of online learning. producing results, building cooperaport their skills in the supervisory role. personnel. Safety training is organised The aim of improving skills is to tion and managing change. The exThe Company’s Executive Group was regularly throughout the year, and ensure that personnel’s expertise is pertise of supervisors in employment also given training in the principles of the online Code of Conduct course is up-to-date in relation to the Compamatters is ensured by offering regular coaching-based management. taken at the start of employment. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 38 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Personal appraisals and The personal appraisals are held performance assessments once a year. In fixed term contracts of less than 12 months, there is not CA All employees receive a personal always time to perform a personal SE appraisal. The personal appraisal appraisal, in which case the feedfocuses on the employee’s work perback discussion at the job orientation formance over the preceding period phase can be useful. The personnel and sets goals for the coming period. survey conducted in 2015 revealed It also includes a personal skills that 84 per cent of the respondents development plan and an assessment were satisfied with their personal of supervision and team working. appraisal. CUSTOMER SERVICE EXPERTS New models for ensuring New models for ensuring good service stores. Following the training, customer good service were created were created in Tokmanni’s customer service development project in 2014–2015. service development was incorporated as part of the store management model by the Customer Service A group of 30 employees were selected as Customer Service Experts from and the orientation programme for new staff. In 2015 customer service Experts in Tokmanni’s customer Tokmanni’s store personnel in an open application process and this group development was also supported through supervisor coaching and comservice development project then contributed to renewing the rules for customer service. The Customer munications. By utilising the expertise of the personnel and with a strong Service Experts received coaching in commit­ment from the Customer Service trainer skills, after which they undertook Experts, significant progress was made customer-service training in all Tokmanni in moving the project goals forward. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 39 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Management of occupational health and safety Tokmanni meets its responsibilities for employee wellbeing and for supporting working capacity. The aim of comprehensively managing working capacity is to ensure the working capacity and skills of the personnel for the full life cycle of their employment. Development of health and safety in pany in Finland to receive a ‘Leader the working environment is carried out in working capacity management’ in collaboration with the personnel, the occupational health service and certificate from the pension insurance company Varma. Our aim: a healthy, the occupational safety organisation. The aim is to build an operating culIndustrial safety at Tokmanni is organised in compliance with the legsafe and inclusive ture that is fair, based on trust and supports the wellbeing of all employislation. All of Tokmanni’s personnel groups (employees, office personnel, working environment ees. The Company invests extensively senior salaried personnel and manin working capacity management, agement) are represented on its workload management and risk monindustrial safety committee. itoring. Tokmanni was the first comCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 40 Responsible Sourcing and Products Our approach Tokmanni is committed to responsible sourcing throughout its business operations, and this is evident at all stages of the Company’s sourcing. In line with the principle of due diligence in sourcing, Tokmanni aims to buy its products only from responsible suppliers and it requires that products offered to consumers are manufactured in production conditions that are ethically acceptable. Tokmanni is responsible for ensuring that the products it imports, markets and sells are safe to consumers and to the Company’s employees. In addition, Tokmanni's marketing is based on good communication practices and it takes the protection of privacy seriously in all the systems and registers it manages. Matters of great importance to us • Responsible sourcing • Responsibility for products • Ethical marketing • Privacy protection Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Key targets Tokmanni aims to purchase products only from responsible suppliers, and in its sourcing agreements it will require the supply chain to be committed to responsible operations All products sold by Tokmanni will be safe to use All products in Tokmanni’s selection, and the labelling of these products, will meet the legal requirements Tokmanni supports consumers’ opportunities to make informed purchases The Company’s aim is that its systems and registers have no actual or suspected cases of infringement of privacy protection CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 42 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Responsible sourcing Responsible sourcing ensures that employees’ basic rights are respected. These rights are based on, for example, the UN’s International Bill of Human Rights and Convention on the Rights of the Child, the International Labour Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Responsible these suppliers must also demand the • Protection of the environment the BSCI Code of Conduct. Good resupply chain same from their own suppliers and • Ethical business behaviour sults were obtained in achieving both manufacturers. The aim of responsible e.g. no bribery aims. The proportion of risk country Tokmanni has drawn up a set of princisourcing is to ensure that the following purchases from suppliers complying ples for responsible sourcing as an aid principles are in place in Tokmanni’s In 2015 the aim of Tokmanni’s rewith the BSCI grew by 44 percentage to developing its responsibility work, sourcing chain: sponsible sourcing was to increase points during the year, with altogether and these principles are accompa• The rights of freedom of association purchases from suppliers that were 85 per cent of the year’s purchases nied by the Company’s guidelines for and collective bargaining or have joined the BSCI initiative in being from such suppliers. In all, 81 responsible sourcing, which set the • No discrimination risk countries. The aim was to direct per cent of the continuing suppliers framework for the sourcing process. • Fair remuneration at least two thirds of all purchases to from risk countries returned the written As a member of the Business Social • Decent working hours suppliers that were committed to the undertaking that they are in compliCompliance Initiative (BSCI), Tokmanni • Occupational health and safety BSCI and were operating in accordance with the BSCI Code of Conduct. is committed to complying with the • No child labour ance with the BSCI requirements. A Work to obtain undertakings from the BSCI Code of Conduct. The Compa• Special protection for young further aim was to obtain a written unother suppliers will continue in 2016. ny also requires that its suppliers are workers dertaking from all continuing suppliers The number of supplier audits carried committed to operating in accordance • No precarious employment operating in risk countries stating that out by Tokmanni increased by 69 per with the BSCI Code of Conduct, and • No bonded labour they will operate in compliance with cent from previous year. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 43 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Ethical principles and standard selection imported by TokAudits in risk countries audits are cornerstones of manni are BSCI members or are to responsible sourcing become so within a reasonable time Tokmanni has various private label Responsible sourcing is a key element frame. The supplier must provide the purchaser with accurate information or licensed brand products manufactured in regions classified as Ethical ­principles of the sourcing process and an inteabout the manufacturer, and must risk countries by the BSCI. It also and audits are gral part of the daily work of purchasers. The assessment of responsibility always notify the purchaser of any changes in production. The monitoroperates as an importer for various brands that are manufactured in recornerstones begins at the supplier tendering stage, as responsibility issues are taken into ing and development of production responsibility issues is made with the gions classified as risk countries by the BSCI. In these countries, there of responsible account in the comparison of tenders received. aid of BSCI audits and Tokmanni’s own audits. Tokmanni also accepts is a significant risk that Tokmanni’s responsible sourcing principles will sourcing Tokmanni requires that suppliers SA8000 certification as proof of rebe violated in regard to human rights are committed to operating in accordsponsible production. and working conditions. ance with the BSCI Code of Conduct. The Company’s own audits are carTokmanni is actively developing The monitoring of responsible sourcried out particularly on the production its operations to ensure that reing focuses especially on countries in facilities of potential new suppliers in sponsible sourcing principles are which the risk of infringements of emorder to assess the level of responsiobserved, and it has set a goal of ployee and human rights is greatest, bility, and on any problem locations sourcing products only from responbased on the World Bank’s classificathat may have emerged in BSCI sible suppliers. The primary tool used tion of risk countries. The primary foaudits, for the purpose of rectifying by Tokmanni in assessing suppliers cus is on suppliers within Tokmanni’s defects. Suppliers must themselves is the BSCI Code of Conduct, and more immediate sphere of influence, require any subcontractors of theirs to the Company gauges suppliers’ opi.e. private label and lisenced brands comply with Tokmanni’s ethical princierations against audits undertaken suppliers. In its sourcing agreements, ples, and in its purchase agreements in accordance with the BSCI’s operTokmanni also requires that brand Tokmanni retains the right to examine ating principles. Tokmanni receives suppliers give an undertaking that rea supplier’s entire subcontracting third party audit reports that are dissponsibility issues in their production chain if necessary. cussed between a person in charge accord with the BSCI requirements. Tokmanni cooperates with various of responsible sourcing and a buyer Suppliers are required to confirm stakeholders in promoting responsible or purchasing manager. If the audit that manufacturers in a risk country sourcing. Tokmanni seeks to develop results are “improvement needed” that are producing Tokmanni private its own operations by learning and or “not compliant”, Tokmanni aplabel products or products in the adopting the sector’s best practices. proaches the respective supplier/ CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 44 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources producer and asks them to make Tokmanni’s operating models and corrections required in the audit reresponsibilities in drafting sourcing BSCI-audit results 2015, % port. Some of the suppliers in the agreements were revised in 2015 and BSCI data base are under Tokmanni’s the monitoring of operations reorganresponsibility (Tokmanni is a RSP, ised and resourced anew. The sourc3 7 i.e. responsible company), and in ing office has been asked to always that case, Tokmanni requires also a verify the factory operating models Good / A-B concrete correction plan including and quality level it uses before signing Total Improvements needed / C-D schedules for the corrections. an agreement and beginning produc210 Non-Compliant / E In 2015, products were supplied to tion or during production in the case Tokmanni directly from the following of certain types of product. audits countries classified as risk countries In 2015 Tokmanni undertook factory by the BSCI: audits in Bangladesh, China, Myan• Bangladesh mar, Thailand and Vietnam. In total, 90 • Bulgaria Tokmanni undertook 141 audits itself • China in 2015 on existing or potential new • India suppliers. The greatest adverse out• Indonesia comes regarding working conditions • Myanmar concerned hours of work, employee • Pakistan register data and occupational health • Romania and safety deficiencies. A lack of • Thailand hearing protection in noisy areas was • Turkey a major problem in many factories. • Vietnam BSCI audits in 2015 Tokmanni’s own audits in 2015 In 2015, 210 suppliers were audited, in addition to which Tokmanni used 12 In addition to BSCI audits, Tokmanni suppliers with SA8000 certification. conducts its own audits covering product safety, human rights, working conditions and social impact. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 45 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources CA FINNWATCH REPORT ‘ON THE BORDERLINE SE OF RESPONSIBILITY’ In December 2015 Finnwatch published of responsibility matters. In line with the a report entitled ‘On the Borderline of principle of due diligence in sourcing, Responsibility’, which deals with the Tokmanni aims to buy its products conditions of migrant workers at two only from responsible suppliers, and it factories in Thailand. Tokmanni made requires that products offered to conpurchases of ATA mango slices and sumers are manufactured in production childcare supplies from two European conditions that are ethically acceptable. importers who in turn acquired these The changes being made will take time products from the factories in question. to implement fully. These were one-off purchases and The solution to the challenges Tokmanni does not intend to continue associated with migrant workers in sourcing from these factories. The purrisk countries requires measures to be chases had already been discontinued taken by companies but also by migrant for business reasons before publication workers themselves, by the companies of the report. that employ them and by the Thai govResponsibility is a strategic focus ernment. Regarding Thailand, Tokmanni area for Tokmanni, and the company’s is continuing discussions aim is to act responsibly and respect with parties supplying goods to the human rights. Tokmanni has made major Company from Thailand, the aim being changes to its sourcing operations, and to work in collaboration with other in 2013 it embarked on an extensive parties concerned to promote respect transformation of its sourcing practices, for the human rights of migrant workers including more effective management in the production chain. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 46 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Responsibility for products Product safety is one of the main themes of responsible operations. By taking product safety responsibilities into account in all the products it sells, Tokmanni aims to ensure that the products sold in its stores are safe to use. The Company ensures that corporate responsibility is properly reflected in its operations by conducting self-supervision and by carrying out product testing itself or commissioning this from third parties. A basic aim of the product safety legislation that Tokmanni complies with is observance of the principle of precautionary approach. Tokmanni is responsible ance, documentation and labelling of sponsibilities, which include various a large number of products. These for the safety and quality its private label products. Alongside requirements that are comparable to products include all consumer goods of products it sells quality control of the manufacturthe manufacturer’s obligations. Tokimported from the EU, except for Toking site, private label products and manni demands a high standard of manni’s private label products and From the viewpoint of product safethe different production batches are product safety from all the products it products purchased in Finland. Tokty, Tokmanni not only sells products monitored by means of a consignimports, and it ensures the fulfilment manni must comply with the relevant but is also a product distributor, imment inspection prior to delivery, and of its obligations by, for example, due diligence principle and be able to porter and manufacturer. Tokmanni through self-supervision inspections contractual means and product and identify the different product group acts in the capacity of manufacturer in Finland. documentation inspections. requirements in regard to product lafor products placed on the market Besides its private label products, Tokmanni also requires that all imbelling, for example. Correspondingunder its private labels, even though Tokmanni imports various goods and ported products include accurate and ly, Tokmanni imposes requirements the products may be manufactured brand products from manufacturers appropriate product labelling for the on its suppliers concerning the need by other parties. The company is outside the EU. For these products products to be placed on the market. for a high standard of product safety, responsible for the regulatory compliTokmanni bears the importer’s reTokmanni acts as distributor for and through contractual means and CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 47 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources random self-supervision inspections self-supervision inspections. These During 2015 Tokmanni reviewed or the company ensures that it fulfils its tests and measures are aimed at renewed the labelling of 917 private obligations. The aim in 2015 was to improve the ensuring consumer safety and identifying non-conformities at the earliest label products. In all, 658 products were inspected in self-supervision. Products for product safety of private label products, brands licensed by Tokmanni possible stage. In the case of private label products The number of titles at Tokmanni subject to a prohibition on sale or a recall sale are ­subject and products imported by the Company. The indicator used in this asand products imported by Tokmanni, the product is first subject to a prodin 2015 was 74. In 15 of these cases, the sales prohibition or recall was due of risk-based sessment is the number of instances of non-compliance for these product uct quality and documentation inspection before it is established as a new to defective package labelling. One of these fifteen was a Tokmanni private ­­self-supervision categories. The number of non-comproduct and added to the selection. label product. pliances fell from 56 (in 2014) to 18 This seeks to ensure the product’s No financial penalties were imin 2015. The most significant cases legal compliance, the correctness of posed on Tokmanni in 2015 for vioin 2015 were due to the quality of its package labelling and its approprilations of legislation and regulations the product in use deviating from the ateness for the Finnish market. concerning products and services. product specification. In 2015 Tokmanni imposed a prohibition on the sale of one of its private Legislative amendments Inspected, controlled label products. Some units of this improve product safety and safe products product were found to contain a transformer with a structure different from In package labelling, the biggest In regard to product liability, Tokthe FI-certified structure. The product change in 2015 consisted of the remanni acts as retailer, importer and was not recalled from consumers vised regulations on food package manufacturer for its private label because no direct danger was posed labelling, and the implementation of products. Products are subject of to the life, health or property of the these will continue into 2016. There risk-based self-supervision in the consumer. was also a major legislative change stores and at the Logistics Centre. Tokmanni also made one product affecting the labelling of consumer The risk classification of self-supervirecall in 2015 on account of a high chemicals. For products manufacsion is based on products or product concentration of restricted chemicals tured after June 1, 2015, labelling type risk assessment. in the product. The party that placed under the chemicals legislation will Imported products and private the product on the market was not a have to conform with the labelling label products are put through Finnish company, and so Tokmanni, requirements of the new EU chemicals technical product inspections, conas the retailer, performed the product regulation (the CLP Regulation). Work signment inspections and separate return procedure nationally. to apply the new regulation to the CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 48 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources labelling of Tokmanni’s private label (Marek) and in the EU’s RAPEX rapid products was begun in 2013. In 2015 alert system for product defect notifithe focus was especially on monitorcations, and where non-conformities ing and guidance for the labelling of are revealed in these, checking the imported chemicals and chemicals Company’s product selection accordthat Tokmanni places on the market in ingly. Tokmanni also takes product its retailer capacity. group characteristics into account Tokmanni is constantly monitoring in its self-supervision risk-based the changing legislation to ensure monitoring. product safety. In addition, its quality During 2015, Tokmanni has not assurance routines include keeping been fined for breaking any laws or up-to-date with information in the regulations related to products and national Market Surveillance Register services. Purchases by risk level (received purchases in 2015), % High risk 46 Medium risk 27 Low risk The risk rating of Tokmanni’s self control is done by risk evaluation of every product or product type. Risk evaluation of a certain product or a product type is based on the amount of special demands, special legal requirements, safety standards, packaging label 27 requirements and product safety exceptions found to this product from registers of domestic or international market surveillance. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 49 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources CA PRODUCTS WITH CE MARKING ARE IN COMPLIANCE SE WITH EU LEGISLATION CE marking is the manufacturer’s and remains permanently in place. If declaration that the product meets the the marking cannot be attached to the requirements of EU legislation. The purproduct itself, it may be given on the pose of the marking is to facilitate the packaging or in the documentation. free movement of goods within the EU’s CE marking is required for products internal market. EU legislation specifies such as the following: which products need the CE marking. • Toys These include toys, electrical equipment • Machinery (e.g. lawnmowers) and machinery. • Electrical equipment (e.g. coffee Liability for product safety and makers and battery chargers) conformity rests with the product manu• Personal protective equipment (e.g. facturer and importer. The manufacturer hearing protectors and sunglasses) or its authorised representative attach • Building products (e.g. windows) the CE marking to the product after • Gas appliances (e.g. gas refrigerators) ascertaining that the product meets the •P ressure equipment (e.g. breathing essential requirements for it. apparatus cylinders and portable fire Some products are required to extinguishers) undergo a type-examination before they •R adio and telecommunications can be given a CE marking. Such prodterminal devices (e.g. mobile phones ucts include household gas appliances and modems) and certain items of personal protective •H ealthcare equipment and supplies equipment (e.g. bicycle helmets). The (e.g. plasters) manufacturer must attach the CE marking such that it is clearly visible CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 50 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Ethical marketing The aim of Tokmanni's marketing is to increase the opportunities for consumers to make well-founded purchasing decisions. To ensure responsible marketing, we observe good communications practices and take our various target groups into consideration. Truthful and environmentally regulations on marketing communicaDuring 2015, Tokmanni received efficient marketing tions and also monitors these closely. 25 complaints from Regional State Where changes are made, the personAdministrative Agencies, 23 of which The aim of ­Tokmanni's Tokmanni aims to provide customers nel are given information and guidconcerned price labelling and 2 with truthful and easily understood inance through training, for example. scales taring. No submissions at all formation and to present its sales and unit prices in a clear, unambiguous Tokmanni has also sought to ensure that the Company’s marketing meswere made to the Council of Ethics in Advertising in 2015 concerning Tok­marketing is manner that is easy for consumers to understand and notice. sages are presented using ethically acceptable marketing tools. manni’s advertising. to increase Compliance with laws and regulations is the minimum requirement in The Company seeks to reduce the use of print materials and to increase the opportunities Tokmanni’s marketing and advertising. In responsibility matters connected marketing in digital channels. In its different marketing materials, for instance for consumers with marketing, the key issues for in printed advertisements, Tokmanni to make well­Tokmanni are ethical marketing and founded purchaaims to investigate the possibilities of the cost-effective and energy-efficient environmentally labelled materials and use of marketing materials. Tokmanni complies with the legisto use these where possible. The extent to which the aims are achieved is sing decisions lation, ethical guidelines and official monitored on a regular basis. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 51 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Privacy protection The Company’s aim is that its systems and registers have no actual or suspected cases of infringement of privacy protection. Comprehensive Tokmanni meets the requirements privacy protection of the International Payment Card Tokmanni complies with all laws and Industry Data Security Standard and is a PCI DSS audited company. PCI Tokmanni complies regulations related to privacy protection. In order to ensure, its systems DSS applies to all people who process payment card data. As a result with all laws and and registers have no actual or suspected cases of infringement of priof the audit, Tokmanni has received a Report on Compliance and an At­regulations related vacy protection, compliance with data testation of Compliance. to privacy ­protection protection principles is monitored at Tokmanni did not receive any Tokmanni, and technical systems are complaints about breaches of privacy kept up to date. The personnel are protection or of lost customer data also informed about and trained in in 2015. information security matters. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 52 Efficient Use of Resources Our approach Tokmanni will put a range of measures into effect to support efforts to mitigate climate change and to promote more resource-efficient business. Tokmanni has joined the Energy efficiency agreement scheme for the Finnish retail sector. The Company is constantly examining new opportunities to make use of alternative energy forms and energy-saving equipment, and it aims to have a logistics system that is more environmentally sound. The Company also continuously monitors the amount of waste generated at its warehouse and in its stores and is actively improving its waste recycling. Matters of great importance to us • Energy-efficient business • Logistics system that is more environmentally sound • Resource efficiency Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Key targets Tokmanni will strive for optimum energy and materials efficiency Tokmanni will increase its use of renewable energy Tokmanni will reduce its landfill waste CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 54 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Resource efficiency is one of Tokmanni’s key targets Tokmanni will reduce the climate impact of its operations by reducing energy use and by increasing use of renewable energy. Targets achieved for energy measures taken to curb energy conusing gas and oil. Indirect greenhouse consumption and emissions sumption focus particularly on real gas emissions are from the consump26% estate that the Company has control tion of purchased electricity and purIn January 2011, the Company joined over. The Company controls about 47 chased heating. the Energy efficiency agreement per cent of its store properties and scheme for the Finnish retail sector, about 71 per cent of all energy conFewer emissions undertaking to reduce its energy consumption in the store network. In the with renewable energy sumption by the end of 2016 by 9 per cent from the level of 2011. At the end other stores, Tokmanni is a tenant and has no direct influence over energy Energy consumption within Tokmanni reduction in of 2015, Tokmanni’s energy consumption had been reduced by 9.4 per solutions. Lessors are nevertheless required to meet Tokmanni’s envicomprises purchased energy (electricity and district heating) and the CO2-emissions cent, marking the achievement of the ronmental specifications. The energy fuels (gas and oil) used in its own target well before time. The company solutions at the logistics centre are heating plant. aims to further reduce energy conunder Tokmanni’s control. In 2015 the amount of purchased sumption by the end of 2020, by two The Company’s direct greenhouse electricity was 56,042 MWh, all of per cent from the 2015 level. gas emissions form their own sub-arwhich was electricity purchased from Electricity consumption and heatea of the emissions from heating prothe Nord Pool power market. Besides ing are Tokmanni’s main climate duction, and in this case they include reducing energy consumption, CO2 impact factors. Thus the Company’s emissions from energy production emissions are reduced through the CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 55 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources use of renewable energy certificates. consumption is within the Company’s Total energy consumption, TJ In 2015, 19,647 MWh of renewable decision-making power. energy was used at Tokmanni, which Electricity consumption within 800 was 26 per cent of the company’s Tokmanni’s entire property portfolio 669 total energy consumption. Power (78 % of all properties) was 59,525 625 600 102 consumption at the Mäntsälä logisMWh, and district heating energy 102 tics centre amounted to 5,333 MWh, consumption 10,613 MWh (19% of all Heating all of which was covered by renewproperties). In addition, a number of Electricity able energy certificates as was the Tokmanni locations have their own 400 power consumed by the stores that heating plant, using oil or gas, which 567 523 were using electricity purchased by in 2015 consumed 9,630 litres of oil 200 Tokmanni in the final quarter of 2015. and 162,330 m3 of gas. The total conThe aim is to raise the proportion of sumption of heating in the reporting The figures include both measured renewable energy certificates to cover year was 12,333 MWh (22% of all 0 and estimated consumption. 100 per cent by 2020, in so far as this properties). 2014 2015 Consumption of purchased energy, TJ 350 300 250 Heating 200 69 Electricity 70 338 150 295 100 27 186 129 27 The figures include both 50 99 measured and estimated 43 0 consumption. 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Non-renewable Renewable Nuclear power CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 56 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Electricity consumption technologies. In the longer term these more environmentally effective solusupport staff to visit the stores rereduced by monitoring and new technologies may even result in tions. The Company’s thin-client workduces travelling, which further reducremote management major reductions in electricity constations, centralised IT control and es the company’s carbon footprint. sumption. The renewal of refrigeration application virtualisation all benefit Modern point-of-sale systems and The biggest consumers of electricity equipment and updating of remote from having a centralised, energy-effithe versatile use of hand terminals, a in the Company’s properties are lightmanagement systems will continue cient IT centre. In its IT hardware manvirtualised workstation solution and ing, ventilation and cooling. Measures to reduce electricity consumption, agement, Tokmanni uses the 3 Step IT portable computers in the office mean taken to reduce energy consumption although the rate of reduction will fall life cycle management model to seek that Tokmanni’s system reduces powand the associated emissions focus once the main improvements have to extend the life cycle of computers er consumption by more than 30 per particularly on remote management been made. and thus reduce energy consumption, cent compared with a conventional of automation systems in properties, emissions and waste. PC environment. control of optimum use, and monitorMore energy efficient The energy consumption of the ing arrangements. solutions for hardware thin-client solution is only a fraction The Company also constantly monenvironment of that of a conventional PC and it itors developments in various areas, generates hardly any waste heat. The such as the cost and energy efficienTokmanni’s entire IT hardware envicentralised management of the IT cy of LED technology and other new ronment is constantly updated with environment and minimal need for IT Carbon footprint, ton CO2-eq 30,000 26,207 Scope 1: Direct greenhouse 25,000 23,105 gas (GHG) emissions Scope 2: Indirect greenhouse 20,000 gas (GHG) emissions 15,000 Scope 3: Other indirect green8,349 8,818 house gas (GHG) emissions 10,000 5,000 445 346 Scope 2 includes location based 0 greenhouse gas emissions 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Scope 3 includes domestic and international transportation of goods and air travel. Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 57 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Logistics system that is more environmentally sound Although Tokmanni is growing and its store network expanding, the Company aims to keep its greenhouse gas emissions from transport unchanged in relation to the value of purchases. To achieve this aim the transport unit and load capacity utilisation rates are monitored and improved on a continuous basis. More efficient transport some of the journey. Consignments panies renew their vessels all the time, through concentration from outside Europe travel only by and the latest ships are larger and containers. more efficient, helping to reduce the To respond to the growing amount of import consignments and the asThe increase in Tokmanni’s import consignments poses challenges for emissions per transport unit. Stricter regulations concerning Concentration sociated environmental effects, Tokmanni took the decision in 2015 to achieving the transport emissions goals. Concentration provides a betsulphur oxide emissions from shipping were introduced at the start of 2015. reduces concentrate its foreign transport arrangements with just a small number ter opportunity to combine consignments and optimise transport routes Since the start of 2015, the sulphur content of fuel has fallen by 0.1 per environmental of operators. In selecting transport companies, environmental efficiency to reduce the environment impact of transport. By switching from road to cent by weight in the sulphur oxide emission control areas of the Baltic impact of and fleet age and type were key criteria. Import consignments from Europe rail and short sea shipping, Tokmanni is playing a part in the reduction Sea, the North Sea and the designated coastal areas off the North transportation are now transported by lorry or by of harmful emissions, especially the American continent. Ships can meet containers that can travel by rail for greenhouse gas CO2. Shipping comthe new requirements by using low CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 58 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources sulphur fuels, fitting sulphur scrubbers ated by distribution deliveries made or switching to the use of alternative mainly at night may disturb residents fuels, such as liquefied natural gas for short periods. Tokmanni takes CA (LNG). The aim of the new regulations this into consideration wherever posSE is to improve air quality, especially in sible in the planning of distribution coastal regions, and the state of the schedules. marine environment. Through its own agreements, the In 2016 the frequency of distribuCompany manages 35 per cent of tion to stores will be optimised by the transport consignments of its creating an annual plan based on purchases. Its reporting covers 99 delivery peaks which regulates the per cent of the import consignments amount of delivery days at differtransported under its own agreeent times on a store-specific basis. ments. The reporting covers 100 per Since some of the stores are close to cent from the logistics centre to the residential buildings, the noise crestores transportation. NEW SOLUTIONS FOR ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TRANSPORT In 2008 Tokmanni centralised operations quality management system certificate in a single logistics centre, which improved and an ISO 14001 environmental manthe environmental efficiency of the Compaagement system certificate. The operatny and especially its transport operations. ing principles also include having a fairly Tokmanni also selected a partner new vehicle fleet and incorporating new to provide almost all of the transport transport technology when new vehicles services it needs in Finland. This brings are acquired. Drivers are also trained in considerable benefits in terms of envieconomical driving. ronmental matters, because Tokmanni’s In its transport operation, Tokmanni transport partner also has the goal of also takes advantage of its partner’s reducing CO2 emissions. Furthermore, terminal network, which enables it to the transport partner has an ISO 9001 send loads which are as full as possible. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 59 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Resource efficiency at the core of operations The company seeks to reduce the amount of waste and to reuse and recycle waste. This will minimise waste transferred to landfills and later to incineration plants. Excellent results somewhat by more careful sorting in cling and other waste management of of packaging materials imported. The in waste recovery the stores, at the logistics centre and electronic devices and packaging it materials are paper fibre, plastic, glass, in the offices, and by monitoring the places on the market. Tokmanni fulfils metal and wood. The non-renewables Tokmanni recycles waste very effiuse of waste components and proits producer responsibility through among these are plastic, glass and ciently. In 2015 the waste recovery rate viding guidance for employees. The various producer communities and by metal, but these can be recycled effiwas 94 per cent for the Company as amount of food waste in the stores can actively developing with them ways ciently. All the materials mentioned are a whole, and at the Mäntsälä logistics be reduced especially by issuing into ensure sustainable development. included in the revised Waste Act and centre it reached 100 per cent. The structions and monitoring results, and Most of Tokmanni’s waste consists of will be in the national recycling scheme aim had been to raise the Company’s through retail sector campaigns and by packaging materials. in 2016. The plan is to begin reporting waste recovery rate to 88 per cent by donating unsold food to charity. As Tokmanni does not itself manpackaging materials in the 2016 corpothe end of 2015, and so the aim was ufacture any of its products it is not rate responsibility report. generously exceeded. The landfills Recycling packaging possible to report on the materials Tokmanni collaborates with Rinki Ltd are to be closed from 2016, and so materials used in products. The company nevand others in striving to increase the Tokmanni will employ various logistiertheless endeavours to reduce the recovery rate for packaging. Tokmanni cal arrangements to deliver waste to Tokmanni actively monitors the volamount of packaging materials and to engages in electrical and electronic incinerator plants. The aim is that after ume of waste generated in its warerecycle packaging. equipment recycling via SELT Associ2020 there will be no more waste to be house and stores and is continuously In the recycling of packaging, Tokation and Stena Oy. For portable battransported to the incinerators. improving its waste recycling. The manni notifies Finnish Packaging Recyteries and storage batteries Tokmanni Waste recovery can still be improved company is responsible for the recycling Rinki Ltd of the overall quantities has an agreement with Recser Ltd and CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 60 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Akkukierrätys Pb Oy. Recser has a To reduce these and to improve nationwide collection network for portcost-efficiency and reach customers Total weight of waste by type, % able batteries and storage batteries, more effectively, Tokmanni is aiming and Akkukierrätys Pb is a producer to cut the amount of direct delivery 2.3 organisation that specialises in recyadvertisements and to increase marOther waste (99.4) cling lead-based batteries. Tokmanni keting in digital channels. The ComHazardous waste (0.6) has also signed a cooperation agreepany will also be looking at different ment with Finnish Tyre Recycling Ltd environmentally labelled marketing for collecting and recovering tyres. materials and plans to use more of Total these where possible. The paper used Digital advertising channels in Tokmanni’s direct delivery adver13,572 tn 2014 figures in brackets. reduce paper waste tisements is PEFC certified. Most The data has been obtained from of the paper used in the marketing the service providers, and it covers stores and logistics centre. Tokmanni’s marketing is known for its materials in the Company’s stores is 97.7 focus on attractive special offers. The FSC-labelled paper. Company’s main marketing tool is its weekly printed Tarjoussanomat, which is direct delivery advertising material. Total weight of waste by disposal method, % This is distributed to approximately 2.42 million households. In addition, the Company publishes direct delivery 50 44 43 advertisements for distribution in the local areas of Tokmanni stores that 40 Total 2014: 13,708 tn sell fresh foods, and it also markets its 30 Total 2015: 13,572 tn brands and products in newspapers, 30 25 23 22 on the television and radio, online and 20 in social media. Tokmanni’s direct delivery advertis10 7 6 Recovery consists of the energy from incineration and reuse consists ing consumes a considerable amount 0 of reused pallets at the logistic centre. of paper. For example, Tarjoussanomat The data has been obtained from 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 the service providers. requires about 45,000–75,000 kilos of paper each week, depending on the Recovery Recycling Landfill waste Reuse number of pages in the week’s edition. This naturally has an impact on energy consumption and raw material usage. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 61 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources CA EFFECTIVE PREVENTION OF FOOD WASTE SE The amount of food waste in the food products ic action plan has been drawn up for these stores in chain as a whole, including households, is approxconjunction with process advisers and others, and imately 400 million kilos annually, which equates to their food waste is monitored weekly by the regional 10–15 per cent of all the food fit for consumption. organisation. For the retail sector, expired food is always a With the measures taken in 2015, Tokmanni has loss. As a responsible operator, Tokmanni aims already succeeded in reducing expired food waste to achieve a 15 per cent reduction in expired food in the stores by 6.7 per cent from the 2014 level, and waste by 2020. Food waste has been one of the key active monitoring and prevention of food waste are indicators in the sales organisation since the start again in the sales organisation’s action plan for 2016. of 2015, and the Company has actively sought to Although expired food waste has been reduced, reduce it. The tools for achieving this are the new stores will inevitably always have a certain amount management system and more diligent food waste of unsold food that is still fit for use. Tokmanni monitoring in every store. The most important way began, in October 2015, to give away for charitable of reducing the loss from expired food waste is purposes food products whose best before date to ensure the basic operation of the stores is as it has expired. This is always done locally through should be. agreement between the store and a local charity The right selection of food products, appropriate organisation. The agreement states the purpose order and delivery quantities and dates, store-spefor which the food will be used and the handling cific monitoring of demand, and reduced prices for arrangements, so as to make sure the products are products near their expiry date are all effective ways for charitable purposes and safe for the eventual of preventing food waste at the stores. Measures consumers of the food. This work has begun in have been taken at all stores to prevent and reduce several stores already, but since the scheme is still food waste. In addition, 30 stores with the greatest new, we are not yet reporting the extent of it. The challenges in terms of expired food waste have idea is that in the future Tokmanni will be able to been included in a special monitoring process as give away all unsold food products from stores to part of a wastage prevention project. A store-speciflocal operators for their use. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 62 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Description of Report Tokmanni’s first corporate responsibility report concenable. Tokmanni plans to publish corporate responsibility trates on matters that are completely within the control of information annually, either in a separate corporate responTokmanni, though the report also examines transport and sibility report or as part of the annual report. The informasourcing. In the area of sourcing and product responsibilition in this report has not been assured externally. ty, the Shanghai office is included in the reporting, while for The reporting complies with the core option of the GRI transport the emissions figures are for transport services G4 guidelines, which means that at least one indicator is suppliers. reported for every material aspect. The indicators have The Shanghai sourcing office is a joint venture in which been selected so as to form as comprehensive a picture Tokmanni and the Norwegian company Europris AS each of Tokmanni’s corporate responsibility matters as possible. have a fifty per cent holding. With the exception of reAt the same time it was necessary to assess the readiness sponsible sourcing and product safety, the joint venture’s to report each indicator. impact on corporate responsibility matters is marginal, because its personnel amount to less than one per cent of Tokmanni’s total workforce and its environmental impact is Further information from: generated only by the office and staff travel. corporateresponsibility@tokmanni.fi The information in the report is for 2015, although some www.tokmanni.fi indicators also present historical data where this is availCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 63 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Information used in calculations The Company’s calculation of the enfor 46.4 per cent. Average specific The Company’s calculation of the Calculation basis vironmental profile of the electricity it emissions of carbon dioxide from environmental profile of the district and accuracy of data consumes is based on the following: power production are 286.14 g/kWh, heating it consumes is based on the and the amount of nuclear fuel used following: The recorded consumption data ob• The electricity consumed is from is 1.27 mg/kWh. tained in consumption monitoring is the power market. The environmen• In 2014 Tokmanni obtained certifi• The market-based CO2 emissions the primary information used for astal profile of the residual mix calcucates for renewable energy (19,647 coefficient for district heating calcucertaining the consumption of power lation that is used for the 2014 and MWh). This covered the power conlated for the Tokmanni sites is 173 g/ and heating by Tokmanni’s logistics 2015 consumption of purchased sumption emissions of the logistics kWh. The location-based emissions centre and its stores. However, such and other electricity is the latest centre and the stores that use eleccoefficient used is the average CO2 data is not available for all stores, and published information from the Entricity purchased by Tokmanni in the coefficient of 186 g/kWh calculated so the consumption by active stores ergy Authority, which is for 20141. In final quarter of 2015. using the benefit sharing method for outside the monitoring system is esthe 2014 residual mix, fossil energy • The primary energy coefficients Finnish district heating CHP areas3. timated on the basis of the consumpsources and peat account for 44.2 used in the calculations are: renewa• The primary energy coefficient is 0.94. tion by stores that are covered by per cent, renewable energy sources ble fuels 1, non-renewable fuels 1.75 • The 2015 emissions coefficients for the consumption monitoring. In other for 9.4 per cent and nuclear power and nuclear power 3.032. Statistics Finland’s fuel classification5. words, specific consumption (kWh/m2 1) Energiavirasto. 2015. Jäännösjakauma vuoden 2014 osalta. https://www.energiavirasto.fi/documents/10179/0/Jaannosjakauma_2014+_2362015.pdf/cb63b5f0-985c-4c30-96b4-084f20f0e537 2) Keto, Matias. 2010. Energiamuotojen kerroin. Raportti ympäristöministeriölle. http://www.ym.fi/download/noname/%7BA6ABCFF7-55FA-412C-A0C7-FEE5CC0A2F24%7D/30744 3) Motiva. 2015. CO2-päästökertoimet. http://www.motiva.fi/taustatietoa/energiankaytto_suomessa/ co2-laskentaohje_energiankulutuksen_hiilidioksidipaastojen_laskentaan/co2-paastokertoimet 4) Keto, Matias. 2010. Energiamuotojen kerroin. Raportti ympäristöministeriölle. http://www.ym.fi/download/noname/%7BA6ABCFF7-55FA-412C-A0C7-FEE5CC0A2F24%7D/30744 5) Tilastokeskus. 2015. Polttoaineluokitus. http://www.stat.fi/tup/khkinv/khkaasut_polttoaineluokitus.html CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 64 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources gross floor area) has been calculated col advises that emissions from purExamining the information been calculated for the emissions for the stores covered by consumpchased electricity and heating should used in the calculations coefficients, which indicates the avertion monitoring. The specific conbe reported in accordance with both age CO2 coefficient for the Tokmanni sumption figure obtained is assumed market-based and location-based In cases where origin data for the sites. to equate to the average consumpcoefficients. The location-based emiscalculation year was not available in The total greenhouse gas emissions tion level of the stores and has been sions coefficient used for electricity is the previous year’s calculation, the for the Company’s own heating proused to calculate the total consumpthe information given in the residual data has been recalculated for this duction are estimated on the basis of tion for the stores not covered by the mix calculation, and the coefficient report using the origin data notified the fuel emissions coefficients pubmonitoring. The specific consumption used for heating is the average CO2 for the year in question. The reportlished by Statistics Finland7. figures used as the basis of the calcoefficient calculated using the beneed emissions data for the previous The base year for the reporting is culation are presented in Table 1. The fit sharing method for Finnish district year may therefore differ from the 2014 when the gathering of comparaactive stores are reviewed at the end heating CHP areas. information notified in the previous ble data began. of the year and are assumed to have The electricity suppliers’ recomemissions report due to such a reEmissions data for transport movebeen in normal use during the entire mendation regarding calendar year calculation. ments in Finland has been obtained reporting year. notifications concerns only the producCalculation of the market-based from the service provider. The emisIf the property’s heating method tion methods of the power sold, the environmental effects of district heatsions calculations have used averages is not known, it is assumed to be carbon dioxide emissions generated in ing takes into account the following for actual transport movements and district heating. This is because most production, and the amount of nuclear factors. For sites where district heatemissions values. The calculations sites whose heating consumption is fuel used. Examination of the environing consumption is recorded, the use an average consignment size not measured are located in shopmental impact therefore focuses only heating production emissions coeffi(based on the number and weight of ping centres, the majority of which on CO2 emissions in energy produccient (combined or separate producconsignments), distance travelled by are included in local district heating tion and on the amount of nuclear fuel tion) used is that reported by Motiva consignments (invoiced kilometres, networks. used. The calculations are based on for the locality concerned 6. Using this as opposed to actual kilometres), and The 2015 update of the GHG Protothe latest notified information per store. information the weighted average has average consumption and average 6) Motiva. 2015. CO2-päästökertoimet. http://www.motiva.fi/taustatietoa/energiankaytto_suomessa/co2-laskentaohje_energiankulutuksen_hiilidioksidipaastojen_laskentaan/co2-paastokertoimet 7) Tilastokeskus. 2015. Polttoaineluokitus. http://www.stat.fi/tup/khkinv/khkaasut_polttoaineluokitus.html CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 65 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources emissions values per vehicle type as Among the active stores, 67 per compiled by the transport operators. cent (in terms of total surface area) The year used for comparison is 2014. were covered by electricity consumpTokmanni has collected information tion monitoring at the end of 2015 about the emissions of transport move(79% in 2014), and 29 per cent (36% ments outside Finland from various in 2014) by heating consumption monoperators. The emissions calculation itoring (district heating, gas and oil). If basis and the energy consumption of the logistics centre is also taken into the transport operation are not known. account in the consumption monitorThe year used for comparison is 2014. ing, 81 per cent (82% in 2014) of the An emissions report for air transtotal surface area is covered by elecport has been obtained from the sertricity consumption monitoring and vice provider. Energy consumption is 43 per cent (45% in 2014) by heating not known. The year used for comparconsumption monitoring. Consumpison is 2014. tion by the properties not included in The waste data is mainly from the the monitoring has been estimated on statistics compiled by Paperinkeräys the basis of the specific consumption Oy, but the data on electrical and of those properties in the monitoring. electronic waste was obtained from figures gathered by Stena Oy. Examining energy consumption information At the end of 2015 Tokmanni had about 156 active stores (149 in 2014) and one logistics centre. Active stores are those which are in normal use. Active stores do not include new stores that are not yet in operation, or stores that have been discontinued by the month in question. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 66 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources Data G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization A. Total energy consumption, MWh C. Consumption of own energy production, TJ 2014 2015 2014 2015 Change % Electricity, total 72,409 75,083 Primary energy 6.7 5.5 -18 District heat, total 29,506 30,236 Non-renewable (oil) 1.5 0.3 -79 Gas 1,637 1,623 Non-renewable (gas) 5.2 5.2 0 Oil 461 96 Heating, total 31,605 31,956 Energy consumption of the organization includes purchased energy (electricity and district heating) and own heat production fuels (gas and oil). In 2015, 81% ( 82% in 2014) (from stores and logistics centre area) electricity consumption has been measured, and the rest is estimated based on the specific consumption. In 2015, 43 % (45% in 2014) (from stores and logistics centre area) of heat consumption is measured, the rest is estimated based on the specific consumption. B. Consumption of purchased energy 2014 2015 Change % Unit Electricity Heat Total Electricity Heat Total Electricity Heat Total Purchased energy GWh 72 30 102 75 30 105 4 1.2 3 Primary energy TJ 567 97 662 523 97 620 -8 0.1 -6 Non-renewable TJ 186 69 255 129 70 198 -31 1.2 -22 Renewable TJ 43 27 70 99 27 127 132 1.1 82 Nuclear power TJ 338 338 295 295 -13 -13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 67 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources G4-EN5 Energy intensity G4-EN5 Energy intensity by energy type 2014 2015 Intensity Consumption Stores Consumption MWh Total area m² KWh/m 2 Consumption MWh Total area m² KWh/m 2 change % change % Electricity 58,538 432,967 135 59,525 444,287 134 -1 2 District heating 11,191 214,354 52 10,613 214,283 50 -5 -5 Gas 1,637 18,927 87 1,623 18,927 86 -1 -1 Oil 461 5,807 79 96 1,551 62 -22 -79 The data covers own energy consumption. Increased property area, longer opening hours, unloading during night and brand changes have increased energy consumption. G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) Consumption of own energy production and CO2-emissions Unit 2014 2015 Change % Primary energy TJ 6.7 5.5 -17.9 Non-renewable (oil) TJ 1.5 0.3 -79.4 Non-renewable (gas) TJ 5.2 5.2 -0.1 Greenhouse gas emissions ton CO2-eq 445 346 -22.3 Direct greenhouse gas emissions include own heat production’s emissions (in Tokmanni heat is produced by gas and oil). CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 68 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) Consumption of purchased energy and CO2-emissions 2014 2015 Change % Unit Electricity Heat Total Electricity Heat Total Electricity Heat Total Purchased energy (G4-EN3: Purchases) GWh 72 30 102 75 30 105 4 1 3 Primary energy TJ 557 96 662 523 97 620 -6 1 -6 Non-renewable TJ 186 69 255 129 70 198 -31 1 -22 Renewable TJ 43 27 70 99 27 127 132 1 82 Nuclear power TJ 338 338 295 295 -13 -13 Environmental impacts Greenhouse gas emissions 24,209 18,474 -0.2 ton CO2-eq 19,101 5,107 13,309 5,165 -0.3 0 (market based) Greenhouse gas emissions ton CO2-eq 20,719 5,488 26,207 17,553 5,553 23,105 -0.2 0 -0.1 (location based) Radioactive waste ton 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0 0 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions include purchased electricity and heating. Increased property area, longer opening hours, unloading during night and brand changes have increased energy consumption. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 69 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 3) CO2-emissions of transportations and air travel, ton CO2-eq 2014 2015 Change % Transportation 8,177 8,702 6 Air travel 172 116 -33 Greenhouse gas emissions 8,349 8,818 5 G4-EN17 includes inbound and outbound logistics (to and from the logistic center) and air travel. The data is from service providers. In inbound logistics, 2015 data covers 99% of service providers (93% in 2014) proportioned to freight value. The increase in greenhouse gas emissions is because of increased volumes in imports and more acccurate data. G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Greenhouse gas emission intensity in proportion to net sales and number on employees Unit 2014 2015 Change % Greenhouse gas emisssions ton CO2-eq 24,654 18,820 -24 (Scope 1 and 2) Net sales M€ 734 755 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity ton CO2-eq/M€ 34 25 -26 Employees Empl 3,119 3,293 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity ton CO2-eq/empl 8 6 -25 Greenhouse gas intensity has been calculated by proportioning scope 1 and 2 emissions (market based) to Tokmanni’s netsales and number of employees. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 70 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type A. Waste by waste type, t Waste type 2014 2014 (%) 2015 2015 (%) Change % Hazardous waste 84 0.6 318 2.3 277 Other waste 13,624 99.4 13,254 97.7 -2.7 Total 13,708 100 13,572 100 -1 The data has been obtained from the service providers, and it covers stores and logistics centre. B. Waste by disposal method, t Method 2014 2014 (%) 2015 2015 (%) Change % Recovery 3,146 23 2,958 22 -6 Recycling 3,467 25 4,014 30 16 Landfill waste 1,023 7 833 6 -19 Reuse 6,072 44 5,766 43 -5 Total 13,708 100 13,572 100 -1 Recovery consists of the energy from incineration and reuse consists of reused pallets at the logistic centre. The data has been obtained form the service providers. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 71 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region A. New permanent employments in 2015 Under 30 years 30–50 years Over 50 years Total employees % employees % employees % employees % Women 111 40 84 30 15 5 210 76 Men 45 16 19 7 4 1 68 24 Total 156 56 103 37 19 7 278 100 Percentage has been calculated from new permanent employments. B. Terminated permanent employments in 2015 –30 years 30–50 years 50 years– Total employees % employees % employees % employees % Women 39 40 48 49 11 11 98 72 Men 26 67 11 8 2 5 39 28 Total 65 47 59 43 13 9 137 100 Turnover rate has been calculated at the end of year from permanent employments. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 72 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources G4-LA12 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region Age and gender distribution by employee category at the end of year Under 30 years 30–50 years Over 50 years Total empl % empl % empl % empl % Management, female 0 0 0 0 1 11 1 11 Management, male 0 0 5 56 3 33 8 89 Senior salaried personnel, female 0 0 14 34 6 15 20 49 Senior salaried personnel, male 0 0 14 34 7 17 21 51 Office personnel, female 19 6 181 53 66 19 266 77 Office personnel, male 15 4 51 15 12 3 78 23 Employees, female 858 30 1,093 38 431 15 2,382 82 Employees, male 288 10 172 6 57 2 517 18 Total 1,180 36 1,530 46 583 18 3,293 100 The calculations include all employments at the end of year. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 73 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources GRI Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES UN Global Indicator Location, comments and omissions ­Compact STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 CEO statement 8 Commitment to GC ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the reporting organization 5 G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services 6 G4-5 Location of the organization's headquarters 5 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major 5 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 7 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) 5 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 5 G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract and gender; permanent employees by 34 Principle 6 employment type and gender; total workforce by employees, supervised workers and by gender; total workforce by region and gender; portion of work by self-employees or contractors; significant variations in employment numbers (seasonal variations) G4-11 Percentage of total employees coverd by collective bargaining agreements 34 Principle 3 G4-12 Organization's supply chain 6 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, sturcture, ownership or supply chain 7 G4-14 Addressing of precautionary approach or principle by the organization 47 G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, 23 or other initiatives to which the organization subcribes or endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations and national or international advocacy organizations 23 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 74 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources UN Global Indicator Location, comments and omissions ­Compact INDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included int he organization's consolidated financial statements or 63 equivalent documents and if any of these are not covered in the report G4-18 Process for defining the report content and Aspect boundaries 26 G4-19 Material aspects identified in the process for defining report content 27 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization each material aspect 63 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization for each material aspect 63 G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous reports and the reasons for such restatements 63 G4-23 Significant changes from the previous reporting period in the scope and Aspect Boundaries 63 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 23, 24 G4-25 The basis for indentification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 23 G4-26 The organization's approach to stakeholder engagement 23 G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement 24 and organization's reponse to them REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 63 G4-29 Date of the most recent previous report 63, This is Tokmanni's first corporate responsibility report G4-30 Reporting cycle 63 G4-31 Contact point 63 G4-32 GRI Content Index 74 G4-33 Assurance 63, The report has not been assured externally GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure 28 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 75 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources UN Global Indicator Location, comments and omissions ­Compact ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Organization's values, principles, standards and norms 20 Principles 1, 4, 5, 10 G4-57 Internal and external mechanism for seeking advice 21, Code of Conduct Principles 1, 4, 5, 10 G4-58 Internal and external mechanism for reporting concerns 21, Code of Conduct Principles 1, 4, 5, 10 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CATEGORY: ECONOMIC MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Generic Disclosure of Management Approach (DMA) 28 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 16 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIAL ASPECT: MATERIALS G4-DMA DMA 28 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 60, There are no exact figures from 2015 Principles 7, 8 MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-DMA DMA 28 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 56, 67 Principles 7, 8, 9 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 68 Principle 8 MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-DMA DMA 28 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) 57, 68 Principles 7, 8, 9 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) 57, 69 Principles 7, 8, 9 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 3) 57, 70 Principles 7, 8, 9 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 70 Principle 8 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 76 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources UN Global Indicator Location, comments and omissions ­Compact MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA DMA 28 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 61, 71 Principle 8 MATERIAL ASPECT: TRANSPORT G4-DMA DMA 28 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials 58, 70 Principles 8 for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA DMA 28 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region 34, 73 Principle 6 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 35 part-time employees, by significant locations of operations MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS G4-DMA DMA 28 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified 33 Principle 3 in collective agreements MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA DMA 28 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety 40 committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA DMA 28 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, 39 Principle 6 by gender and by employee category CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 77 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources UN Global Indicator Location, comments and omissions ­Compact MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA DMA 28 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 37, 73 Principle 6 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity MATERIAL ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN G4-DMA DMA 28 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant 36 Principle 6 locations of operation MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES G4-DMA DMA 28 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practice criteria 45, BSCI and Tokmanni's audits G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken 45 SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS MATRIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-DMA DMA 28 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 36 Principle 6 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 45, BSCI and Tokmanni's audits Principle 2 SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA DMA 28 G4-SO4 Communications and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 21 Principle 10 G4-SO5 Confirmend incindents of corruption and actions taken 21 Principle 10 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 45, BSCI and Tokmanni's audits CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 78 Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use GRI Introduction Treatment and Products Data Index Integrity of Resources UN Global Indicator Location, comments and omissions ­Compact SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA DMA 28 G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts 48 are assessed for improvement G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning 48 the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-DMA DMA 28 G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization's procedures for product 48 and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-DMA DMA 28 G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning 51 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-DMA DMA 28 G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy 52 and losses of customer data MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA DMA 28 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning 49 the provision and use of products and services CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 79
