Dear Mr. Secretary-General Schibsted Media Group's history is based on a long In Schibsted we collect personal data about our tradition of independent news, information and users as part of our normal operations. These data transparent marketplaces. Trustworthiness and constitute a valuable asset for us as an innovative quality are essentials for a media group – our users global media company and help us achieve our must be able to trust our news and our products. corporate objectives in all our business areas. We We believe this contribute to empowering people in are highly committed to protecting the personal data their daily life and thereby building more transparent we collect in a manner that meets user expectations societies. and legal requirements Through the way we interact with each other, with Schibsted is a large player in the market for reuse of our customers, suppliers and users, we are building goods through our online classifieds sites. The Schibsted's reputation as a media group with high United Nation’s sustainable development goal no 12 integrity. In 2015 we updated our Code of Conduct states: “Ensure sustainable consumption and which applies to all employees, managers and production patterns.” Achieving economic growth Board members. and sustainable development requires that we urgently reduce our ecological footprint by changing Every day, we see how the ongoing digital the way we produce and consume goods and revolution is rapidly changing the world around us. It resources. The combined potential environmental is changing people’s use of media and digital effect of five of our marketplaces, could save 12.5 services faster than most could predict. In order for million tons of CO2 emissions annually. Every us to stay relevant to our users, we have to be at individual using these services has the power to the forefront and deliver excellent services. In 2015, help reduce the environmental impact in their daily we therefore continued our work on building a life. For Schibsted, this goes hand in hand with our world-class product and technology organization mission “Empowering people in their daily life”. that has started to deliver excellent digital products, systems and solutions in collaboration with local Schibsted is a member of the Media CSR Forum teams. We continue to invest in training, which aims to set the stage for corporate investigative reporting and innovation because we responsibility in the media sector. We disclose our believe the media has an important societal role to environmental risks and opportunities and increase transparency, facilitate debate and spread quantitative year-over-year environmental impacts knowledge. We built a new, state-of-the-art media in our annual CDP submission. platform for our media houses. The platform is a strategically important tool for understanding our Schibsted has been a member of the UN Global readers and their behavior in order to provide even Compact since 2009. This is our sixth better digital journalism and to personalize user communication on progress and we affirm our experience. continued commitment to the ten principles of the Global Compact. We continue to express our intent Two fundamental human rights that directly affect to advance those principles within our sphere of our users and readers – freedom of expression and influence, and we are continuously working on the right to privacy – lie at the very core of our making the ten principles part of our strategy, business operations. One of Schibsted's foremost culture and day-to-day operations. corporate responsibilities is to ensure editorial freedom and the right to freedom of speech. Oslo, 26 May 2016 Schibsted's publishing businesses all comply with a common editorial framework and prepare annual Sincerely, editorial accounts. The aim of the annual editorial report is to increase transparency in our editorial activities, describing editorial goals, challenges and results during the past year. Rolv Erik Ryssdal CEO, Schibsted Media Group
