To our stakeholders’ portion: I am pleased to confirm that B-Star Holding Group AG reaffirms its support for the ten principles of the UN Global Compact relating to human rights, labor rights, the environment and the fight against corruption. In this communication on the annual progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategies, our culture and our daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our main communication networks. Best Regards, Walter Bizzarri Chief Executive Officer B-Star Group Holding AG B-Star Group Holding’s strategy has remained the same: control of the resources we trade is key to our success and the ultimate goal wherever we operate is vertical integration or the merging together of different businesses that are at different stages of production. B-Star Group is proudly the parent company of: 1. Eufrasia Cameroon LTD – Cameroon B-Star Group Holding and its daughter company mentioned above both meet the principles of the COP – UN Global Compact. TEN PRINCIPLES Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. B-Star Group’s Position: Our commitment is to help contribute to the realization of our employee’s human pride through the fulfillment of their spiritual, psychological, developmental and physical needs. It is our belief that all human rights are of equal nature therefore no one right should be hierarchically superior to another. We understand that all individuals are equal as human beings and by virtue of the inherent pride, we concur that no one should suffer from discrimination on the basis of race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, religion or of other nature as established by human rights standards. Practical Actions: Eufrasia Cameroon LTD works very closely with governments and their agencies to ensure our activities are aligned with the country's norms. We also conduct human resource policies as well as health and social care services that ensure non-discrimination and fair employment practices within our workforce. Measuring Outcome: We continue to make advancement in our commitment to uphold human rights principles as well as reinforcing social cohesion and integration. This year, a few members of our team (geologists) on the field are of the same background from the villages we work with. This has enabled us to make communication more fluid as we can now converse with them in their mother tongue language. Labor Rights/Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. B-Star Group’s Position: In every village where we have running operations, we never start our work without an entente with the Chief of the village who then introduces us to the village. During this entente is usually the moment when we explain our presence on their territory and together we discuss the logistics of our work program. Practical Actions: Before we start a work program, with the help of the Chief of the village we build a team with which we are going to work as well as establish compensation means to suit the needs of both teams. This way, together we build a common philosophy of leveraging each other strengths to allow our team and network to drive on continuous growth, allowing them to develop their mining capabilities, access to technology and above all, improve their standard of living. Measuring Outcome: This past year no judgment of violation of human rights, orders, fines or any other event has been reported as we continue to make progress at the local level and amongst different villages. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. B-Star Group’s Position: We focus on creating innovative products and solutions, built around our activities and core competencies in order to deliver the performance our partner’s expect but most importantly, our mining capabilities remains committed to our strategy of controlling our resources to remain environmentally friendly as well as investing in equipment and upgrade of production tools to continue being environmentally responsible and energy efficient. Practical Actions: Last year, Eufrasia Cameroon LTD was involved in the rehabilitation of a deteriorating bridge in the Est region of the country. Road infrastructures are of primary necessity for the movement of the region’s abundant agricultural products. This year, as we are implementing our operations in the South region of Cameroon, we have diligently created more access to farms and plantations for the local population and their families for an easier reap of their products. Measuring Outcome: We do not hesitate to embark on key initiatives to refresh our environmental approach. Furthermore, as we identify opportunities to strengthen our environmental footprint in the area, we exchange ideas with the chief and remain intimately involved in the development of the rural area. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. B-Star Group’s Position: Our commitment to strong anti-corruption policies and practices is firm and we condemn such practices. Practical Actions: Every one of our employees is awarded with the benefit of the doubt, but this alone does not refrain the upper management to routinely have a checkup. Members of the administration report to the field to make sure every policy is being respected to keep both teams in sync, as well as visit the local authorities to remain on top of legal matters. Measuring Outcome: No corruption incidents have been reported, no fine or penalty for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Going forward, we will continue to maintain a zero tolerance for corruption and work against it in all its forms as well as multiply efforts to promote ethical behavior to align it with our company’s growth strategy.
