Sustainable 2015-16 Development Report WORKING TOGETHER GROWING TOGETHER ONE VISION. ONE VEDANTA WORKING TOGETHER GROWING TOGETHER Individually, one can take rapid strides, but together we can take giant leaps. Individually, one can achieve unidimensional growth, but together we can pursue well-rounded and sustainable development. At Vedanta, we believe that the outcome of working collectively is always greater than the sum of its parts. That is why, we rigorously practise the philosophy of 'working together, growing together'. The three imperatives that govern our business approach are conversation, collaboration and creation of shared value. Over the years, we have been meticulously building symbiotic relationships with our stakeholders. This year was no diﬀerent. We formed public-private partnerships to mount high-impact community interventions, collaborated with community to achieve greater goals, worked hand-in-hand with our suppliers to enhance their sustainability quotient and continued to ensure fair value for our employees and shareholders. We synergised strengths and interwove all facets of the triple bottom line to create a strong fabric of inclusive growth. ONE VISION. ONE VEDANTA IN THIS REPORT OVERVIEW Vedanta at a Glance 01 Triple Bottom Line Highlights 03 From the Chairman's Desk 05 CEO's Statement 07 The Global Context 09 Our Strategy and Approach 11 Roadmap and Progress 15 SAFEGUARDING SYNERGIES 17 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Governance 18 Safety and Occupational Health 23 Environment 28 360O Project Management 38 ALIGNING INTERESTS 41 BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS Stakeholder Engagement 42 Human Rights 45 Neighbourhood Dialogue 47 NURTURING INTERDEPENDENCIES 49 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE Economic Responsibility 50 Employees 56 Communities 60 REINFORCING TRUST 69 STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS Communicating Constructively 70 Advocacy 74 Awards and Accolades 74 DISCLOSURE & ASSURANCE Assurance Statement 76 External Indices 78 Annual Report FY 2015-16 About this Report 79 GRI G4 Index 80 Glossary 86 ABOUT THIS REPORT Welcome to our eighth Sustainable Development Report, which is prepared based on Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 ‘in accordance’Core guidelines and is mapped to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It reports our approach and disclosure towards triple bottom line principles people, planet and proﬁt over the ﬁnancial year 2015-16. More information about our reporting can be sought on page 79. Visit our interactive online Sustainable Development Report 2015-16 Online SD Report at sd.vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2015-16 FY 2015-16 Vedanta at a Glance 01 | Triple Bottom Line Highlights 03 | From the Chairman's Desk 05 | CEO's Statement 07 OVERVIEW The Global Context 09 | Our Strategy & Approach 11 | Roadmap & Progress 15 VEDANTA AT A GLANCE Vedanta Resources is a London Stock Exchange listed, globally Our exploration portfolio follows a history of consistent diversi ed natural resources Company with interests in Zinc, geological discovery. With a business model of growth, Lead, Silver, Copper, Iron Ore, Aluminium, Power, and Oil & Gas. constant value creation and improved operations, our vision is focussed towards building the wealth of all our Our operational footprint spans four continents encompassing stakeholders and sustainably engaging the communities India, Zambia, Namibia, South Africa, Liberia, Ireland, Sri Lanka we operate in. and Australia. A FOOTPRINT SPANNING FOUR CONTINENTS India and Sri Lanka Ireland 8 Australia 1 4 3 1 2 5 3 3 1 2 2 3 1 2 Africa 1 2 3 1 2 4 5 6 4 7 Our key operations include Zinc-Lead-Silver Oil & Gas Copper Power 1 Debari smelter 1 Rajasthan block 1 Silvassa reﬁnery 1 MEL power plant 2 Chanderiya smelters 2 Ravva (PKGM-1) block 2 Tuticorin smelter 2 SEL 3 Rampura-Agucha mine 3 Cambay (CB/052) block 3 Mt Lyell mine, Australia** 4 Rajpura Dariba mine & smelters 4 South Africa block 4 Konkola and Nchanga copper Captive thermal power plant and Sindesar Khurd mine 5 Sri Lanka block mines & Nchanga smelter, Zambia 5 Zawar mine 6 Skorpion mine, Namibia Iron Ore Aluminium 1 Iron ore operations Goa 1 Lanjigarh alumina reﬁnery 7 Black Mountain mine, South Africa 2 Iron ore operations Karnataka 2 Jharsuguda smelters & power plants 8 Lisheen mine, Ireland* 3 Iron ore projects Liberia 3 Korba smelters & power plants * Lisheen had safe, detailed and fully-costed closure after 17 years of operation in November 2015 | ** Under care and maintenance 01 OVERVIEW ONE VISION. ONE VEDANTA Our Core Values Our Core Purpose Trust | Entrepreneurship Vedanta is a globally diversi ed natural resources Company with low-cost operations. We empower Innovation | Excellence our people to drive excellence and innovation to create value for our stakeholders. We demonstrate Integrity | Respect | Care world-class standards of governance, safety, sustainability and social responsibility. We demonstrate our commitment to our purpose by delivering high-quality assets with low operational costs and keeping sustainable development at the core of all that we do. DIVERSE BUSINESSES BOUND BY A COMMON PURPOSE % 59.9 100 % pper Cairn l ia n Co I ndi a str ines a Au M TA LTD. (62.9 DA N %) VE 100 dia 64 . % ME L c In (100 Powe Zin L) 9%* MW r (H Z ) VEDANTA RESOURCES Listed entity Unlisted entity Note: Our subsidiary Sesa Sterlite Ltd. was renamed Vedanta Ltd. in April 2015. The * Option to increase stake to 94.4% | ** Option to increase stake to 100% name change from Sesa Sterlite to Vedanta Ltd. positions us as a united and aligned *** Zinc International identity, strengthening the linkage between our global businesses and communities. Vedanta operates across the value chain, undertaking exploration, asset development, extraction, processing and value addition with a primary focus on upstream operations. For a detailed account on how we add value across our chain, refer page 54. 02 OVERVIEW TRIPLE BOTTOM LINE HIGHLIGHTS We evaluate our performance in a broader perspective by creating greater value across social, environmental and nancial aspects. ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL Surpassed targets Focus on for water and energy saving Zero Harm (Minimising environment footprint. Safeguarding workforce and communities) zero critical incidents two years in a row Reaching out to (category 4 & 5) 2.25 mn beneficiaries across 1,000+ villages scored 98 C Vedanta Ltd. and HZL ranked among India's against the industry average of 84 C in CDP Climate Change Report UK Top 10 sustainable firms by CII 23% water recycled Alignment with as compared to 20% in FY 2014-15 Sustainable Development 47% fly ash recycled Goals in progress as compared to 31% in FY 2014-15 Benchmarking exercise Preliminary Tailing Risk Assessment (Internal) completed on our approach of completed across the Group ‘Social Licence to operate’ Implementation of Lisheen mine closure Biodiversity Action Plans WORLD-class rehabilitation process in consultation with local authorities National Energy Conservation awards in various categories 9.4% female employees bagged by BALCO smelter Jharsuguda and HZLZawar mines as compared to 8.6% in FY 2014-15 Signatory to 48 out of 52 sites United Nations' Women's are ISO 14001 certi ed, remaining four sites to be certi ed by FY 2016-17 Empowerment Principles Hosted the maiden Sustainable Development Day in London 03 OVERVIEW ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY RANKING US$ 10.7 bn “Vedanta is at the forefront Revenue with a nal dividend of Environmental, Social and of 30 US cents per share Governance (ESG) practices HZL announced the highest ever dividend by in India.” an Indian private sector company Seema Arora, Executive Director of CII-ITC US$1.8 bn (including dividend distribution tax) US$ 3.2 bn contributed towards taxes and royalties Direct and indirect employment for 67,000 people with preference from neighbouring community US$ 37 mn investment on community development Support to 'Make in India' campaign Hindustan Zinc Limited Vedanta Ltd. and HZL have been ranked among the world's second largest Top 10 Sustainable Companies of FY 2015. Both integrated Zinc and Lead producer companies have been conferred with 'Platinum Label', Indian market share 79% the highest rating accorded by Sustainable Plus. Cairn India one of india’s largest private sector Oil & Gas Company Indian market share 27% Konkola Copper Mines, one of the leading private employer Sustainable Plus is India's rst and only corporate in Zambia sustainability label launched by CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development (CESD) Vedanta Aluminium which credits businesses based on the principles of india’s Largest transparency, responsibility, and accountability. Aluminium producer Indian market share 47% 04 OVERVIEW FROM THE CHAIRMAN’S DESK BY WORKING TOGETHER, GROWING TOGETHER, WE CAN ACHIEVE CO-DEVELOPMENT OF COMPANIES AND COUNTRIES; OF ECONOMY AND ECOLOGY; OF COMMUNITIES AND PRIVATE ENTERPRISES; AND OF ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS. The natural resources sector can truly accelerate a nation's development agenda. The sector can boost manufacturing and build infrastructure in remote geographies, generate large-scale employment and signi cant revenue for nations globally. Vedanta stands committed to contribute to the growth story by advancing across the triple bottom line. PEOPLE PLANET I am a strong advocate of Vedanta's philosophy of proactively engaging The priority is not just to focus on zero harm but also to ensure zero with the communities and operating through 'free and informed discharge and zero waste. The approach to achieve this is by harnessing consent'. It is the community's right to know all facets and probable the potential of technology and innovation. outcomes of a project before granting it their consent. This also gives us Technological interventions and concentrated eﬀorts have helped us the opportunity to share with the community the beneﬁts that our surpass our water and energy targets. business will usher in for them, walk them through a roadmap and set realistic expectations. It is important to protect the human rights of We are signatories to the Paris Pledge for Action and are updating our communities and our employees. carbon strategy and exploring innovative ways to reduce carbon emissions. As corporate citizens, we are committed to address the Our people are our biggest assets. I came across a lot of potential during climate change challenge with the same vigour as we pursue economic my interactions with the Vedanta team across the world. It is our and social development. responsibility to nurture this talent and provide growth opportunities to enable and empower them to become our future leaders. PROSPERITY Although we have improved our safety record over the years, I am Sustainable development is a responsibility, to be resourced and focused deeply saddened that twelve of our employees and contractors lost their on, in all economic conditions. This year, while the markets were weaker lives. My heart goes out to the loved ones of these individuals and I give than we have seen in many years, our commitment remained unabated. my personal assurance that fatalities will be eliminated and serious injury rates will be reduced drastically to be in line with our vision of zero harm. We continued to make an important contribution to our communities, Understanding the causes of harm and prevention, will be my ongoing through job creation, payment of taxes, creating access to resources priorities. 05 OVERVIEW We work closely with communities This year, Vedanta scored 96 in the Indian edition of the in the regions where we operate CDP Climate Change Report and bagged a position in the Indian and aim to align our priorities with Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). Our score in the UK edition those of our host governments. has been a remarkable 98 as against an industry average of 84. Vedanta plays a signi cant role in being at the forefront of sustainable mining and exploration and we should continue A ZERO HARM ENVIRONMENT to strive for sustainable growth and adding value to our IS OF FUNDAMENTAL VALUE TO stakeholders. US AT VEDANTA AND I URGE ALL As a purpose-driven organisation we value and empower our people, care for the planet and aim to achieve prosperity MY TEAMS TO CONTINUOUSLY for all our host countries, including India whose potential in natural resources can make the country self-suﬃcient. IMPROVE ON THIS. We, at Vedanta, are fortunate to have some of the best assets in the world. With relentless focus on exploration, the quality and quantity of our reserves have grown multifold. Being the lowest cost producer has always been our operating mantra while we leverage these assets to their full potential. and enabling strong linkages to other industries. We empowered local Our commitment towards 'Social Licence to Operate' goes beyond the communities and aligned our focus areas with the priority needs of nations. regulatory compliance and helps us to make targeted contributions to local communities; continue to minimise our impact on air, water and The focus was on developing local economies and communities through land; and maintain an active dialogue with our stakeholders. partnerships with more than 250 NGOs, local Governments, academic institutions and private hospitals. I am personally engaged in promoting We are on the right path of this sustainability journey. The teams have projects which beneﬁt children and empower women. worked diligently and I commend their eﬀorts which have placed Vedanta among the top ten sustainable companies in India. One such project is to construct 4,000 modern Anganwadis which serve as welfare centres for women and children. This modern concept is called With the guidance of the Board Sustainability Committee, I am looking Nand Ghar. We have signed an MoU with the Ministry of Women and Child forward to further improve our occupational health and safety Development in India for this project which is in line with the Prime performance. Our goal is to achieve long-term alignment of interests Minister of India's vision of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao (Save Girl Child, Educate between all stakeholders for the creation of long standing sustainable Girl Child), Digital India, Swachh Bharat (Clean India) and Skilling India. value. With the support of the government, we will oﬀer skill development to We are committed to build a strong relationship with you and all women and basic healthcare through mobile medical vans. In Africa, our our stakeholders, because we at Vedanta ﬁrmly believe that the only community development programmes include providing infrastructure way forward, is together. such as schools and hospitals. ANIL AGARWAL | CHAIRMAN 06 OVERVIEW CEO’S STATEMENT Over 757,700 hours of safety training were delivered to employees and contractors. OUR COMMITMENT GOES BEYOND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE AND IS FOCUSSED ON DEVELOPMENT AND GROWTH OF A WIDE NETWORK OF STAKEHOLDERS, INCLUDING EMPLOYEES, BUSINESS PARTNERS AND HOST COMMUNITIES. WE FOLLOW A PHILOSOPHY OF 'WORKING TOGETHER, GROWING TOGETHER', WHICH REINFORCES OUR SOCIAL LICENCE TO OPERATE. Natural resources can fuel a nation's economy and enhance the lives of its people. Mining companies are the long-term custodians of these resources and are positioned at the beginning of manufacturing supply chain, bene ting the society and the nation. SAFEGUARDING SYNERGIES | RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Stewardship, not ownership, deﬁnes our approach. As a natural resources Climate Change is a rapidly growing concern globally, and we must Company, we take responsibility for three critical resources – ﬁnancial, innovate to improve energy eﬃciency and ﬁnd more carbon-neutral environmental and human resources. This translates into the culture of solutions. Our innovation eﬀorts are focussed on enhancing our energy 'Zero Harm' that we strive for across the organisation. I believe there is eﬃciency, and we hope to work with the Indian government and other always room to improve an organisation's health, safety and environment institutions on clean coal technology. We are also charting out a long-term performance and this continues to be a top priority for the organisation. Carbon strategy for our businesses. Given the acute power shortage in Last year, we introduced six safety standards across the Group and we Zambia, at KCM we have taken a special drive to reduce average power made impressive progress in implementing them. We have piloted a consumption, achieving a 7% reduction over the last 6 months in Safety Leadership Transformation programme to empower line leaders to FY 2015-16. take better decisions by foreseeing the risks and implementing risk I am happy to inform that Vedanta Ltd. and HZL have emerged as one of mitigation measures. Our businesses have implemented various the Indian leaders in the Indian Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) behavioural and technical programmes to further strengthen the safety released by CDP India. culture in the organisation. In the reporting year, we set a new world record by planting over 200,000 Despite these eﬀorts, we've unfortunately had 12 fatalities among our trees in an hour across a 200-acre site in Punjab, India. employees and contractors. That's 12 too many, and it's a commitment by A world-class closure of our Lisheen mine in Ireland is a testimony of our me, our Board, and the management team to eliminate serious accidents. continued commitment to leave a positive legacy in the community and We are doing even more to eliminate these fatalities especially with mine sites where we operate. Our Gamsberg project site is located in an respect to contractor fatalities. ecologically-sensitive area and we have taken due care to protect and Mother Earth has blessed us with abundant natural resources and it's our preserve this unique biodiversity. responsibility to put these resources to prudent and sustainable use. Operational excellence is a critical dimension of responsible stewardship Water and energy are two such critical resources that need greater focus and I see innovation as a key enabler to achieve this objective. We have today from resource conservation and climate impact perspective. I am launched a web platform 'Eureka' to nurture and incubate the in-house pleased to report that we surpassed our water and energy conservation innovation and technology development with special emphasis on waste targets and have further improved our water recycling rate to 23% this products such as ﬂy ash, red mud and slag materials utilisation for road year, from 20% the year before. building, construction materials, and other applications for a growing India. 07 OVERVIEW ORetained zero 'critical' incidents Held our maiden Sustainable Development Day in London status for the second year in a row. where we engaged with a select group of stakeholders that (category 4 & 5) included socially relevant investors, lenders and analysts. We work closely with communities in the regions where we operate and strive to align our priorities with those of our host governments. We also touch lives of our employees by A HOST OF SYSTEMATIC contributing a fair share of value, learning platforms and ENGAGEMENT PROGRAMMES HAVE growth opportunities. Signi cant progress has been achieved in further developing the Vedanta Sustainability Assurance BEEN INTRODUCED TO IDENTIFY, Programme (VSAP) protocols. ANALYSE AND INTEGRATE VARIOUS We adopt global leading practices and leverage the power of PRIORITIES OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS innovation to minimise the environmental impacts of our operations. Speci c policies, processes, standards and targets INTO OUR GROWTH STRATEGY. have been formulated to manage various environmental aspects. Vedanta continues to make a unique and powerful contribution to the economic and social development of the nations that host us. To this end, we introduced our holistic Sustainable Development Model and charted out Group-wide sustainability targets. ALIGNING INTERESTS | BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS unprecedented and unparalleled both in its scope and scale to modernise It is crucial that we maintain an on-going and transparent dialogue with and revamp 4,000 Anganwadis (childcare centres) across India. In Zambia all our stakeholders in order to build strong relationships that will allow too, our community initiatives focussed on areas such as malaria our business to succeed and maintain our 'Licence to Operate'. Local prevention, sustainable agriculture, school, clinics and community communities have the right to participate in the decision making and we healthcare are creating positive impacts. These projects really do have the are committed to the principle of Free, Prior Informed Consent. We have potential to change lives across the country. taken further steps to maintain an open dialogue with those who have At a time of slowing economic growth around the world and challenging an interest in Vedanta. We continue to remain proactive on publishing conditions in our sector, we continue to implement our social programmes. our Tax Transparency report. The foundation of all of this remains an unerring commitment to uphold REINFORCING TRUST | STRATEGIC COMMUNICATION human rights and raise standards of living. We are guided by our Code of We must continue to earn the trust of local communities and national Business Conduct & Ethics and Human Rights Policy, which are closely governments. For that reason, clear and timely communications that our aligned with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. stakeholders understand and relate to are of paramount importance. In May We work hand-in-hand with governments, communities, local & global 2015, we launched a new logo and released our Core Purpose and Core NGOs as well as industry bodies such as CII, FICCI and WBCSD. The Values, capturing our continued commitment to people, planet and wider objective is to deepen our positive impact and align our goals and prosperity. This was followed by the launch of our 'Power of One' campaign actions with high priority areas of the nation. in June 2015 to promote our uniﬁed brand identity. NURTURING INTERDEPENDENCIES | ADDING AND SHARING VALUE I hope, you ﬁnd this report useful and informative. As always, we welcome Vedanta seeks to make a substantial contribution to economic growth your feedback and look forward to your continued support. both at a local and national level. We invested US$ 37 mn in community development initiatives aimed at driving economic empowerment and TOM ALBANESE | CEO social equality, beneﬁting approximately 2.25 mn people. Many of our social impact projects have been completed in tandem with state authorities and local groups. In India, our Nand Ghar project is 08 OVERVIEW GLOBAL CONTEXT The world, as we see it today, would not have been possible without leveraging the rich resources, nature has bequeathed to us. The resources we bring to the market serve as building blocks of modern progress. Iron ore forms the bedrock of infrastructure; copper is used to connect people through telecommunications and in lifesaving medical devices; and aluminium is used across a myriad of products. In addition, we generate electricity that lights up the lives of millions and our crude oil is an essential component of thousands of secondary products. We keenly observe global megatrends with a view to contribute towards addressing global economic, social and environmental challenges and opportunities. Enumerated below are some of such global issues which need immediate attention and Vedanta's contribution towards each of these issues. CLIMATE CHANGE DOWNTURN IN COMMODITY MARKETS At Vedanta, we have been doing our bit through a In the reporting year, we furthered our thrust on two-pronged approach; nding more carbon neutral innovation to drive operational excellence by instituting solutions as well as emphasising energy eﬃciency an 'Innovation Task Force' chaired by our CEO. through innovative technology. Climate change is one global challenge that looms large at the possibility Given the recent commodity market volatility, with price fall recording a of sustainable development. Fortunately, there is a growing consensus on multi-year low for most of the commodities, these are testing times for the global warming and its repercussions on life and business as usual. In mining industry globally. Our diversiﬁed business model and low cost December 2015, 195 countries signed a historic agreement at COP21 in portfolio of assets, give us the resilience to manage this volatility. Paris towards limiting global warming to below 2o Celsius. This agenda is a We are focussed on optimising costs and generating industry leading mammoth task and necessitates participation from all quarters. It is crucial margins due to the suit of world-class and low-cost assets in Zinc, Oil & Gas, for each country to provide the right incentives for the development and and Iron Ore. Besides, we are focussing on reducing capex, while preserving diﬀusion of climate-friendly processes and practices. growth options and generating eﬃciencies across the business to survive We report our GHG emissions as per the requirements of the World the weak price environment. Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), World Resource The objective of our Innovation Task Force is to increase the number of Institute (WRI) and Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). We have met our patent ﬁlings to have commercial control over innovation, bring down cost energy saving target for this year and are on a continuing journey to of production by bringing disruptive technology like use of nanotechnology improve upon all aspects of Sustainable Development. and advancing in-house technological innovations in areas of exploration, We are committed to intensify our responsibility towards reducing carbon processing, waste disposal and new product development. stress by leveraging the power of ingenuity and technology. We are in the process of formulating a strategy on Climate Change that is aligned with the Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC), for the countries in which we operate. Our long-term strategy focusses on diversiﬁcation of our energy portfolio and water sources, at all operations where it is physically and economically feasible. 09 OVERVIEW We recognise that eradicating poverty in all its forms and dimensions, India's GDP can expand by a whopping 27%, if the including extreme poverty, is the greatest global challenge and an number of female workers increases to the same indispensable requirement for sustainable development. level as that of men. Excerpt from the United Nations' 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Christine Lagarde | Managing Director International Monetary Fund AS A GLOBALLY DIVERSIFIED NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY, IT IS NATURAL FOR US TO BE PART OF THE POSITIVE CHANGE WE WISH TO SEE IN THE WORLD. POVERTY & INEQUALITY GENDER DIVERSITY A vast majority of our operations are located in economies Vedanta practices and promotes equal opportunities. which require a llip such as India and Africa. We align Gender diversity within workforce, and CSR initiatives ourselves with their needs and contribute to economic and with over 38,000 women bene ciaries highlight our social development. commitment towards women empowerment. Vulnerability to exploitation, susceptibility to violence, social and economic Women hold up half the sky. If empowered, they have the potential to not stratiﬁcation persisting over generations the consequences of poverty are just change the face of the society, but also contribute to economic growth far worse than what meets the eye and they can impede a country from of the country. progressing in all aspects. We believe mining sector can and should We represent one of the highest numbers of women in senior contribute signiﬁcantly to reduce poverty, through creation of direct & management in the industry. indirect jobs, empowerment of neighbouring communities and contribution to economy. Our Board has 12.5% representation of women and has set a target to reach over 33% by 2020. This diversity focus is visible across hierarchies and We provide employment to 67,000 people through our operations and also functions. In a male dominated sector like mining, ﬁve women in Vedanta create opportunities for downstream industries to generate jobs for Resources' Aluminium manufacturing plant in Lanjigarh are in-charge of millions. A case in point is our proposed plug-and-produce aluminium park the two most important departments central control room laboratory and in India, which will attract a large number of aluminium-based industries in distribution control system. This is not just a one-oﬀ case, but part of a well the state of Odisha, generating signiﬁcant revenue as well as creating direct thought out group-wide strategy to appoint women in key revenue & indirect employment in the region. Similarly in Africa too, we empower generating roles at the leadership level. youth with high-paying jobs; KCM invests in building capabilities of the youth in Zambia and then absorbs them. We are also signatory to the 'CEO Statement of Support' for the United Nations' Women's Empowerment Principles. We are also equally determined towards raising the social status of our neighbouring communities through focussed interventions in strategic growth enablers like education, healthcare and skill building, over and above paying our dues to the state and central governments. US$ 640mn Contribution towards wages/salaries, pension and other 9.4% women representation in our total employee strength US$ 3.2 bn FY 2014-15: 8.6% Contribution in the form of taxes US$ 37mn Contribution towards various CSR projects 10 OVERVIEW OUR STRATEGY & APPROACH Our Sustainable Development Model resides at the heart of our business strategy. Developed keeping in mind multiple sustainability imperatives materiality and core values of Vedanta, UNGC's 10 principles, United Nation's SDGs and standards set by International Finance Corporation (IFC), ICMM and OECD the model acts as a driving force behind every intention, decision and action at Vedanta. In 2011, we instituted the Sustainable Development Model recognising Our Sustainable Development Model is underpinned by a Sustainable three pillars Responsible Stewardship, Building Strong Relationships Development Framework that helps each business put the model into and Adding & Sharing Value as our stepping stones to advance in our practice. The Framework comprises a number of policies, standards and sustainability journey. In the recent past, we added a fourth pillar, guidance notes directing consistent and systematic management of Strategic Communications, reﬂecting our reinforced commitment sustainability performance across businesses. towards greater transparency, deeper engagement and responsible advocacy. Over the years, this collaborative growth model has Together, these four pillars are playing a critical role in ensuring longenabled us to channelise our commitment towards term growth for our businesses, sharing long-term value for all our the community, country and conservation, into stakeholders and validating our licence to operate. strategic outcomes. l Health | Environm at iona ent cup |3 Oc 60 O & supports re ance Pr ty lati oj fe vern on t e go sh ec |S le i a cRes a RESPONSIBLE pM g Gov po ing na er n STEWARDSHIP ns ild em an ib Ensuring eﬀective business processes bu ent for robust compliance and risk management, protecting health and safety of our employees and managing our environmental impacts Sta Rel ke ati h on n te ities | Shareho ur s mmun ra rE us to contribute to lder ho op | Co ustry | Supply C STRATEGIC ge e ga de s COMMUNICATIONS ble hain & Len t | Human Rights | N od s yee t | Ind ol to a en men o |C d a l p men ust ers eig ADDING & SHARING BUILDING STRONG wi VALUE RELATIONSHIPS ps E m er n om hb Ensuring direct and indirect Engaging eﬀectively with our n ta in a l i icenc d positive impact to employees, diverse stakeholders to foresee a o us m hi v er s communities, investors, and manage relevant risks, elp Go e suppliers and opportunities and s eh the government challenges Va er lu ty cie so gu alo e Di For further details on Sustainable Development Framework, refer page no. 19 of Governance Section. 11 OVERVIEW MATERIALITY We conducted a comprehensive group-wide materiality process comprising identi cation of material sustainability topics, prioritisation of these topics and veri cation of our analysis. This meant commissioning an external consultation process with six groups: This exercise lent us a universe of aspects unique to diﬀerent stakeholders, Shareholders and Lenders, Industry (suppliers, customers and peers), Civil which were sieved through two measures: 'Relevance to Vedanta's Society (NGOs and other organisations), Governments, Employees and Stakeholders' and 'Relevance to Vedanta Management'. What emerged as Communities. To get the management perspective, internal leadership and key material aspects are an eclectic mix of sustainability issues that impact operational management workshops combined with interviews and or are relevant to us and our stakeholders. ranking exercises were conducted. This formed the basis for us to guide the This year, we revalidated these material aspects by mapping them with our consensus on, and prioritisation of, material issues to be managed, various engagement outcomes and found consistency with previous year's measured and disclosed through our sustainability reporting process. materiality in majority aspects. MATERIALITY MATRIX • Human Rights and Rights of Indigenous • Employee Health & Safety (1,2,3,4,5,6) People (1,2,3,4) • Environmental Management (water, • Child and Forced Labour (1,2,3,4,5,6) waste, air, emissions, incidents) (1,2,3,4,5) High • Labour Rights and Relations (1,2,3,4,5) • Ethics & Integrity Code of Conduct (1,2,3,4) • Land and Resettlement (1,2,3) • New Project Management and Site Closure (1,2,3) • Economic Value (1,2,3,4) Relevance to Vedanta’s Stakeholders • Employment (1,2,3,4,5) • Equal Opportunity (1,2,3,4) • Biodiversity (1,2,3,4) • Community Health and Safety (1,2,3,4) • Community Engagement & Impact (1,2,3,4) Medium • Training & Leadership Development (1,2,3,4) • Public Policy and Advocacy (1,2,3) • Broader Economic Beneﬁt (taxes and other • Succession Planning (1,2,3,4) payments) (1,2,3,4) • Gender Diversity (1,2,3) • Retention (1,2,3,4) • Energy and Climate Change (1,2,3,4) • Supply Chain Management (1,2,3,4) Low Low Medium High Relevance to Vedanta Management Internal Businesses External to the Business 1 Mining, Smelting & Reﬁning 2 Oil & Gas 3 Commercial Power 4 Ports 5 Company Transportation 6 Outside Boundary / Supply Chain MATERIAL ASPECTS Outcomes from these engagements are plotted on the matrix above, with the top-right corner indicating highest priority issues. We have considered the highest priority issues for both our stakeholders and us, as the scope for this year's reporting. We have also mapped each aspect with the internal and external stakeholder sets that get impacted by the relevant aspect. 12 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT JOURNEY In the journey of ensuring sustainable development for us and our stakeholders, we have surely come a long way. Be it investing our time and resources in introspecting our actions or formulating blueprints for collective growth, be it adopting tried and tested systems or thinking out of the box, be it aligning our standards with industry benchmarks or charting our own records we have taken signiﬁcant strides in ensuring long-term growth for all stakeholders. FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 Bringing in a Board-led Integrating the Sustainable Rolling out Vedanta Sustainable Sustainability Committee Development Model Development Framework continues Chaired by an independent director with business strategy along with internal gap analysis in support and consultation with business management teams Introducing the Sustainable Partnering with Independent Consultant Development Model to build Vedanta Sustainable Development Businesses started embedding Vedanta Responsible Stewardship, Building Strong Framework policies, standards and guidance Sustainable Development Framework Relationship, Adding & Sharing Value notes integrating existing management systems with VSF External Review (URS Scott Wilson) Rolling out Vedanta Sustainable To review Vedanta's approach to sustainable Development Framework (VSF) Group-wide training on Vedanta development to implement the model policies & standards Sustainable Development Framework as per IFC, ICMM and OECD guidelines with train-the-trainer approach Gap Analysis (Internal) Introducing Vedanta Sustainability to map the existing practices with the VSF Assurance Programme (VSAP) an annual internal review mechanism to measure VSF implementation 13 OVERVIEW Over the years, we have evolved to a performance-driven phase. Sustainability goals have become an indelible part of our business targets. A deeper sense of ownership is felt across businesses, departments and individuals of Vedanta. This has translated into concrete outcomes, maximised value and reinforced trust. FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Businesses started embedding Vedanta Introducing 'Strategic Communications' Environment & Social Review of Sustainable Development Framework as a new pillar of our Sustainable VSAP continued training and implementation of Development Model external review policies and standards Rolling out of Vedanta Sustainable VSAP into its Fourth Year of External Review Concluded Development Framework continues Implementation (URS Scott Wilson) introduction of safety performance standards, revised as per the material priorities with more all recommendations got successfully closed formal safety risk assessment, industrial hygiene emphasis and focus on safety by inclusion of baseline assessment and safety leadership safety performance standards, supported by Sustainability linked with Remuneration coaching external auditors sustainable development KPIs linked to executive remuneration VSAP into its Third Year of Implementation Advancing Accountability revised as per the material priorities, supported by incorporating safety performance standards Vedanta Sustainability Assurance by external auditors into executive remuneration Programme (VSAP) into its Second Year of Implementation Environment & Social Review of Social Impact Assessment Studies supported by external auditors VSAP started HZL & Cairn India external review aligning all community projects with updated studies Revisiting our Community Need Assessment Studies aligning all community projects with updated studies 14 OVERVIEW ROADMAP & PROGRESS Targets lend us speed, direction and focus to touch base with our sustainable development priorities more eﬃciently. Our roadmap sets challenging annual targets on issues material to us and our stakeholders. The roadmap is reviewed every year with a view to understand our triple bottom line performance and lacunae, and appropriately alter both our actions and targets to advance on our sustainable development journey. Objectives & Targets Status Performance Objectives & Targets FY 2015-16 FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY Achieve zero fatal accidents 12 fatalities (8 in India and 4 in Africa) Achieve zero fatal accidents Re-establish LTIFR base performance as per the All businesses updated their safety KPI Focus on eliminating fatalities and recently released ICMM reporting guidelines deﬁnitions as per ICMM reporting guidelines reducing High Potential Incidents and enable future reduction in LTIFR targets Implement Safety Performance Standards: All businesses are implementing the safety Implement Safety Performance Standards: >75% of critical elements in the standards performance standards wherein audits were >75% of critical elements in the standards to be implemented across the business initiated this year. The average score was 51% to be implemented across the business with signiﬁcant improvements shown later in the year Implement Safety Interactions at two Safety Interaction was included as a part of Rolling out of Leadership Safety businesses in addition to HZL Leadership Safety Programme i.e. Managing Programme i.e. Managing Better Risk Better Risk Decision (MBRD) which was piloted Decision in other businesses at Jharsuguda and Sterlite Copper businesses Understanding Occupational Health Risks Baseline assessment exercise has been started Performing baseline assessments for two Performing a baseline assessment across at Vedanta Ltd. Aluminium operation other businesses the aluminium businesses ENVIRONMENT Water Savings 2.39 mn m3 All businesses implemented their water Water Saving: 2.1 mn m3 resource management plan and ﬂagged oﬀ initiatives which have led to a water saving of 7.16 mn m3 Energy Savings 0.88 mn GJ Internal benchmarking and technological Energy Saving: 1.5 mn GJ process intervention led to energy savings of 0.94 mn GJ Report on Scope 3 Emission by 2016 Scope 3 data for Business Travel, Employee Scope 3 emissions account for a minuscule Commute, Inbound Logistics and Outbound share in our carbon emissions mix, hence Logistics is being tracked on a periodic basis. it is not material for a 2016 target We are working on improving data reliability and robustness Continue to monitor new projects and site All projects, Vedanta Ltd.Lanjigarh and Continue to monitor new projects and site closure as per the sustainability framework HZL-expansion of SK mine, Rampura closure as per the sustainability framework Agucha & Zawar mine, are being managed as per Vedanta Sustainability Framework guidelines By 2016, all sites to have Biodiversity We have made a considerable progress in this Implementation of BMPs Management Plans (BMPs) in place regard. All our operations now have a formal BMP in place except Cairn India, KCM and Sesa Iron Ore, where work is in progress Exploring opportunities and areas to increase Fly ash recycling rate has improved to 47% To continue exploring opportunities and the ﬂy ash utilisation rate from 31% last year. The Businesses have areas to increase the y ash utilisation rate recycled the ﬂy ash inventory in applications like road making, cement and brick making 15 OVERVIEW Objectives & Targets Status Performance Objectives & Targets FY 2015-16 FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 ENVIRONMENT GHG Emissions To realign the Group's Energy & Carbon Policy in line with COP 21 outcomes NEW TARGETS Biodiversity Capacity building (selected professionals) on Biodiversity Management including ecosystem services Management of Tailings and Preliminary Risk Assessment (internal) completed Independent expert to review the high Water Storage Facilities across the Group priority facilities COMMUNITY RELATION & STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT All sites to complete need assessment and pilot Need base assessment completed for all sites. The Social Impact Assessment studies to be studies on social audit for Indian businesses Social Impact Assessment completed for major continued for remaining sites Indian sites Cairn India and HZL Roll out of SAP-based programme management tool SAP Stakeholder & Grievance Handling System Implementation and utilisation rate of the SAP for community grievance management and rolled out System to be increased stakeholder engagement Capacity building and refresher course e-Learning e-Learning module on Code of Conduct launched Ensuring 100% coverage of Code of Conduct module on Code of Conduct to be implemented for all Indian operations training for all employees HUMAN RESOURCES To include 1,000 eligible employees for the As part of Technical ACT UP initiative, assessment of Institutionalising Technical ACT UP process Technical Assessment 937 eligible employees completed across Vedanta Group Companies Plan Phase II for covering next 50 high potential stars Structured programme of 'Internal Growth Identi cation of high potential employees across for the intensive programme grooming next Workshops Initiative' to identify new leaders in professional population and grooming of next generation talent for leadership role various functions across Group Companies was generation talent initiated. So far in this programme, 100 new leaders have been identiﬁed and given signiﬁcantly higher Focus on performance and measurement for top roles and responsibilities 150 leaders Continue to focus on the same diversity More than 15% of female professionals joined Continue to focus on the same diversity NEW TARGETS objective of 15% women hiring Vedanta objective of 15% women hiring 25% women representation at the Vedanta In this regard, although we have not met our target 33% women representation at the Vedanta Board Level by 2016 (all appointments to be for women directors, we continue to build on Board Level by 2020 made on merit) diversity in leadership roles and have made a number of senior female appointments during the year Not achieved In Progress / Partially achieved Achieved 16 Governance 18 | Safety & Occupational Health 23 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Environment 28 | 360O Project Management 38 SAFEGUARDING SYNERGIES Nothing exists alone in nature. Nothing can exist alone in nature. By basic de nition, nature comprises systems and subsystems. As a responsible corporate citizen, it is our prime responsibility to ensure we nurture these symbiotic relationships and design our interventions in a manner that this dynamic system can correct itself. We therefore pursue a goal of Zero Harm, nurture human capital and have responsibility, integrity and transparency, inbuilt into our operations. EXTERNAL REVIEW OF VEDANTA SUSTAINABILITY ASSURANCE PROGRAMME ZERO HARM CULTURE 98 C SCORED IN CDP-UK (SECTOR AVERAGE: 84 C) 17 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP 131 PRINCIPLE 10 GOVERNANCE whistle blower cases reported & resolved We run our business with a high degree of transparency and advocate strict adherence to ethical standards in all stakeholder interactions. With operations in multiple countries, a business that is built around diverse natural resources and a team drawn from several nationalities, we realise that we run a business of great complexity. That is why, our Board of Directors emphasises on the importance of a robust governance framework that is both locally responsive and internationally compliant. We have well-deﬁned reporting structures with clearly allocated responsibilities and responsive feedback mechanisms to ensure that we operate transparently, eﬃciently and with integrity. Our Board complies with the UK listing requirement according to which, at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent Non-executive Directors. At the date of this Report, the Board includes eight members comprising three Executive Directors and ﬁve independent Nonexecutive Directors. As a result, there are adequate safeguards for the protection of minority shareholder interests. The Board comprises Directorsfrom diverse international backgrounds combined with a wide range of professional and sector-speciﬁc experience. This ensures that we have a balanced Board with the right skills and experience to contribute fully to eﬀective decision-making. The Board is responsible to shareholders for ensuring that the Company is appropriately managed and achieves its objectives. COMPOSITION OF GOVERNANCE BODIES EMPLOYEE FROM EMPLOYEE FROM AGE GROUP MINORITY GROUP NON-MINORITY GROUP LESS THAN BETWEEN ABOVE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE 30 YEARS 30-50 YEARS 50 YEARS BOARD 0 1 7 0 0 7 1 The details of the Board's responsibility, composition, training and evaluation is detailed in our Annual Report. We abide by internationally accepted standards and good practices such There is zero tolerance towards breach of code of business conduct & ethics. as ICMM, IFC and OECD guidelines. Our ‘Code of Business Conduct and Employees are expected to adhere to the highest standards of integrity and Ethics’ provides a set of principles to guide our employees, while our even minute violations are responded with external investigation and prompt Sustainable Development Framework outlines best practice standards and action. The Audit Committee assists the Board in maintaining and monitoring policies that encourage consistent improvement across functional areas. the integrity of the Group’s ﬁnancial statements, assessing the eﬀectiveness of Our governance philosophy is steered by a ‘looking beyond compliance’ the Group’s risk management system and internal controls, and the approach. This helps us plan, design, operate and close operations in a independence and objectivity of the external auditor. In order to carry out its manner that enhances sustainable development. We regularly engage duties eﬀectively, the Audit Committee receives high quality and detailed international consultants to audit our sustainability practices and provide information from management, and internal & external auditors, which is feedback on areas where we are doing good, and areas where we need to reviewed and discussed by the Audit Committee as required. All business improve. units are periodically reviewed for risks related to corruption and bribery. Under our Whistle Blower Policy, employees and external stakeholders are provided a mechanism (toll free number, email id and a reporting portal) to CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS MATERIAL ASPECT anonymously report inappropriate behaviour. Between January and December 2015, 131 whistle blower cases were reported and resolved, of which 58 were upheld and found correct, resulting in appropriate 'Ethics and Integrity' is a material issue for both, our managedisciplinary actions against our employees, contract workforce and ment team and stakeholders. We are committed to a zero vendors including separation, warning, counselling and transfer. tolerance approach towards fraud, bribery and corruption. To ensure that all employees are well-versed with our Code, mandatory training is provided for new recruits, and refresher workshops for antiOur Code of Business Conduct and Ethics meets and exceeds the laws of corruption policies and procedures are conducted for relevant employees. the land and is rigorously followed by all employees across the organisational hierarchy. Our listing and reporting requirements in the UK This year, we provided more than 42,200 hours of training raises the bar on various governance aspects such as: on Code of Conduct including Human Rights aspects. Human Rights | Insider Trading | Political Contributions Con icts of Interest | Con dentiality | Fraud, Bribery & Corruption As we lead by good governance in our areas of operation, we also prescribe the same standards of ethics to our associates across the value The Code was updated to comply with the UK Bribery Act, which prohibits chain. Suppliers & contractors being signiﬁcant contributors to our payment and receipt of bribes directly or indirectly through associated persons. performance footprint, we have institutionalised a dedicated We plan to review and update the Code again in the forthcoming accountability mechanism for them. period to reﬂect the recently introduced UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, where Supplier Code of Conduct, Supplier and Contractor Management appropriate. Other relevant policies like our Insider Trading Prohibition Policy Policies, and Supplier Screening Checklist encourage business partners and Antitrust Guidance Notes relating to Disclosure of Sensitive Information and suppliers to adopt principles and practices comparable to our own. etc., are publicly available on our website and are incorporated into contracts where relevant. 18 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP FRAMEWORK & IMPLEMENTATION The Framework We rolled out our Sustainable Development Framework in FY 2012-13. The Framework governs conduct of all our businesses. Every decision we Since then, it has continuously evolved to remain in step with emerging take, is sieved through the indicators of the Framework to ensure that we global standards, varying local contexts and evolving stakeholder remain safe, ethical and transparent at all times. To ensure compliance expectations. with the Framework, we have put in place an internal risk management tool namely Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Programme (VSAP). As a Over the years, it has served as an eﬀective tool to unify Vedanta's result of a follow-up audit process, review and implementation of action sustainability approach across diverse geographies and businesses. plans, all businesses have charted sustainability objectives in line with our While the framework works as a standard, it also allows us the ﬂexibility to Framework requirements and monitor performance at regular intervals. ﬁne-tune responses in dealing with local challenges and sensitivities. LENDERS EQUATOR PRINCIPLES IFC Performance Standards, EHS Guidelines, ICMM & OECD Guidelines and Internal Issues SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK RESPONSIBLE BUILDING ADDING & STEWARDSHIP STRONG RELATIONSHIPS SHARING VALUE STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS Policies Technical Standards / Management Standards / Guidance Notes VERIFICATION PROCESS (VSAP) Run by VEDANTA LIMITED KONKOLA COPPER MINES Management Assurance System Function HZL Sesa Sterlite Vedanta Al BALCO MEL WCL ZI CMT Cairn Iron Ore Copper & Power India GAP ANALYSIS Upgrading all Subsidiary Company Management Systems including ISO 14001, ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001 Subsidiary Local Assurance Process Implementation of Sustainable Development Framework in all Operations Our Sustainable Development Framework is aligned with major global guidelines including International Finance Corporation and International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM) guidelines. It is an integral part of our business strategy and helps ensure we conduct business in line with our Company values of trust, entrepreneurship, innovation, excellence, integrity, respect and care whatever the jurisdiction. 19 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP 805,324 man-hours of HSE training provided The Implementation Our accountability towards sustainable development runs deep within development as a material driver of good practice, sustainable business the organisation. Our Board of Directors provides strategic perspective and stakeholder satisfaction. and steers the business in line with the commitments made to various Sustainability training has been institutionalised across the Group. HSE stakeholders. Our Sustainability Committee and Executive Committee and CSR modules are part of the training calendar for each employee. regularly review the sustainability objectives, strategy and performance Over and above this, training on sustainability framework is oﬀered to of the Company. These committees are ably supported by our Corporate employees as and when required. Various e-learning modules and Sustainability Team. Complementing these principal committees, are our refresher training courses are also oﬀered round-the-year. Last year, we additional committees as well as dedicated functions at the business and provided 805,324 man-hours of HSE training out of which 175,034 manlocation level. hours were slotted for employees and 630,290 man-hours were The implementation of the Framework will not just advance our business dedicated for contract workforce. outcomes, but also enable sustainable development of our neighbouring Our Board comprises eight Directors, and more than 50% communities. We therefore fully recognise the principles of sustainable of them are independent. VEDANTA BOARD REMUNERATION SUSTAINABILITY AUDIT EXECUTIVE NOMINATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Chaired by Chaired by Chaired by Chaired by CEO, Chaired by Chairman, Non-executive Director, Non-executive Director, Non-executive Director, Tom Albanese. Anil Agarwal. Euan Macdonald. Euan Macdonald. Aman Mehta. The Committee meets The Committee identi es The Committee monitors The Committee oversees The Committee maintains monthly and is responsible the optimum balance of the eﬀectiveness of the Group sustainability and monitors Group for implementing strategic skills, background and communication with performance and reports systems and internal plans formulated by the experience on the Board. analysts and shareholders to the Board on a controls, including Board, allocating resources concerning the Board’s periodic basis. integrity of ﬁnancial in line with delegated Remuneration Policy. statements, anti-bribery authorities and monitoring and corruption procedures the operational and and employee whistle ﬁnancial performance blower policies of the Group. See the Annual Report See the Annual Report for See the Annual Report for See the Annual Report for See the Annual Report for for detailed information detailed information detailed information detailed information detailed information SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT TEAM COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING & OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY RELATIONS COMMUNICATION HEALTH Monthly Sustainable Development Team and Segment Business Committee's reviews (Monthly Operational Reviews / Business Management Group Meetings) No. of People with Sustainability Responsibilities across the Group Ensuring sustainable development is a key business responsibility at Vedanta and speciﬁc resources have been dedicated across businesses towards this purpose. Expected outcomes are clearly deﬁned at the 12% Community Relations beginning of a ﬁnancial year. Monitoring and management mechanisms 17% Occupational Health ensure continuous improvement. Continuous internal auditing oﬀers a 699 28% Environment quantitative view of achievements against objectives and keeps our sustainability development programmes on track. 43% Safety The Framework is taking us closer to our goal of keeping sustainability inherent in all our business decisions. 20 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP This report provides details of the role and responsibilities of the Sustainability Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year. EUAN MACDONALD | CHAIRMAN, SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE The resources that are mined not only contribute to the growth of nations, and partners meet in India and Africa implementing the local stakeholder but are essential for developing host communities. Sustainable engagement plans at businesses. development is a core element of Vedanta's strategy and supports its I continue to be inspired by the dedicated eﬀorts of the Vedanta team; growth as a diversiﬁed natural resources Company. Vedanta's Sustainable listening to their ideas is invaluable. Vedanta's success has been built not Development Model and Framework embedded in the operations, are just by executives in boardrooms but by talented people across the Group helping the Company ensure a sustainable future of our business who are eager to use innovation and technology to showcase their mettle. operations, meeting our growth targets, and creating long-term value for all stakeholders. Climate change is a rapidly growing concern globally, and recent record temperature trends will likely accelerate this concern. We feel this will I am saddened to report that we lost 12 of our colleagues this year. There is require multiple solutions, including the innovative technology to improve no excuse for this and management is very committed to eliminating energy eﬃciency and ﬁnd more carbon neutral solutions. It is vitally fatalities. We have shown good improvement towards controlling both important that every country provides the right incentives for the leading and lagging indicators, and I assure the Board that we are development and diﬀusion of climate-friendly processes and practices. committed to do much more to achieve zero fatalities. Vedanta has Vedanta has met its energy savings target this year and is on a continuing implemented and put forward behaviouralbased and technical journey to improve all aspects of sustainable development. I look forward programmes such as implementation of safety standards, job risk to reviewing the Company's enhanced approach toward climate change. assessment and training workshops, personal commitment to not ignore any unsafe act or condition, among other initiatives, which I believe will I would also like to welcome Katya Zotova, who joined the Vedanta show good results. Sustainability Committee this year. She brings a wealth of oil & gas sector experience and her perspective will be invaluable as we go forward on this This year, the Company maintained its focus on reducing its environmental journey. impact on air, water and land use. The signiﬁcant improvements and adoption of best practices in resource management, biodiversity and site Membership and attendance closure practices along with awards like CII Sustainable Plus platinum The Sustainability Committee comprises the following Directors and met label, National Energy Conservation Award and Global IOD Awards for on four occasions during the year. Excellence in Corporate Governance and Sustainability are testament to the focus and improvement Vedanta has towards environment sustainability. Number of Percentage meetings attended attendance Vedanta believes in the free, prior and informed consent right of the community and the Sustainability Committee believes that transparent Euan Macdonald, Chairman 4/4 100% communication with civil society is essential to enlighten all stakeholders Tom Albanese 3/4 75% on Vedanta's business operations and community expectations. I am Kishore Kumar 4/4 100% delighted to see that the Company, upon the Committee's suggestion, is Katya Zotova 1/1 100% engaging with wider groups both at corporate and business levels, and Roma Balwani (Member Secretary) 4/4 100% organised its maiden Sustainable Development Day in London, and NGO THE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE REPORT Summarised below are key areas of intervention of the Sustainability Committee: FRAMEWORK SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT AND COMMUNITY RELATION OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH PERFORMANCE REPORTING AND ENGAGEMENT • Review progress made • Review Group • Oversee the Group's • Review performance • Update on Sustainable on Sustainable safety incidents and initiatives to reduce evaluation of the Development Goals and Development Model performance speciﬁc water and Sustainability Committee UK Modern Slavery Act and Framework energy consumption and terms of reference • Oversee implementation • Oversee implementation • Review implementation of action plans with • Review carbon • Review and approve the of strategic CSR projects of the action plan respect to fatal accidents benchmarking and Group's Sustainable • Review progress on the emerging from renewable purchase Development Report • Ratiﬁcation of Group's Group's Human Rights Vedanta Sustainability obligation safety performance initiatives Assurance Programme standards • Review ﬂy ash • Review important • Review & approve management plans • Review of Safety & stakeholder engagements sustainable development and statistics Occupational Health objectives, targets, interventions • Review biodiversity initiatives, charters and initiatives and action partnerships plans To view the complete Sustainability Committee Report, refer our Annual Report FY 2015-16 21 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP RISK MANAGEMENT VEDANTA SUSTAINABILITY ASSURANCE PROGRAMME Our Risk Management Framework has been designed to identify, Following the launch of the Vedanta Sustainable Development Framework, enumerate, monitor and address diverse and complex risks that challenge we recognised a need to regularly review and measure the way in which the sustainability of business. our diverse businesses implement the Framework. To ensure consistent We use a Turnbull Risk Methodology to identify potentially signiﬁcant and objective assessments in this regard, we launched the Vedanta business risks and detail them at the site or location-level. These risks are Sustainability Assurance Programme (VSAP). Developed then collated and reviewed ﬁrst at the company level, and then at the in-house with the help of external consultants in FY 2012-13, VSAP has corporate level. Business priorities are determined at the corporate level, been instrumental in making sustainable development intrinsic to every taking into account all three dimensions of sustainability i.e. economic, activity across the Company. social and environmental. VSAP is now an annual assurance process led by Management Assurance Our Risk Management Framework Team with the help of external consultants, with clear tracking of results by the Sustainability Committee and the Executive Committee, which in turn The risks that we monitor include those with the potential to cause report to Board. The respective businesses deﬁne and implement action signiﬁcant environmental, social and economic impact, dilute reputation/ plans to address any gaps that are identiﬁed, and the progress with respect brand equity, trigger litigation, contravene statutory principles and impact the interests of our stakeholders. Each quarter, our Risk Management to those action plans is periodically reviewed, evaluated and documented. Committee formally reviews risks, examines the suitability of the mitigation We periodically review and update the VSAP scoring methodology to give measures and advises the Board-level Audit Committee on the same. more weight to some priority aspects. For example, as part of this year's Key sustainability risks, in no order of priority, associated with our VSAP process, we have modiﬁed the scoring methodology to give special businesses are detailed below. These risks also form part of our principal consideration to the six Safety Performance Standards, reﬂecting our focus risks and uncertainties identiﬁed by the board through Risk Management on Group's safety performance. We use a scoring system and allocate a Committee. The impact may vary by location and business. score to each operation for every aspect like environment, health, safety, community and human rights. Success stories are also identiﬁed and Fluctuating Commodity Prices highlighted, as part of creating opportunities for cross-learning and shared The current year witnessed price volatility in several commodities that we across businesses via HSE and CSR forums, meetings, and other channels. produce. While our diversiﬁed portfolio helped us maintain a relatively stronger position, we continue to rationalise capital and operating costs across the company to regain some of the economic ground eroded by falling prices. We recognise that the sustainability measures are in the long-term interests of the company and thus they remain undiluted across this cost reduction drive. Political, legal and regulatory risk and advocacy Change in policy or laws of the land can impact our businesses. While these are diﬃcult to predict, we keep our ear to the ground and continually monitor regulatory and political developments. We engage with local communities, industry bodies and the government to communicate and demonstrate our commitment to responsible business conduct. License to Operate Establishing and maintaining strong and lasting relationships with stakeholders is essential to our acceptance and growth as a sustainable business. We do this by integrating sustainability objectives into long-term business planning. Our teams work with local communities to establish relationships based on trust and mutual beneﬁt. In keeping with prevailing Over the years, VSAP has evolved with marked eﬀectiveness in below areas: legal and government requirements, we seek local consent and in principle Accountability Enhancement acceptance for our operations that require us to access natural resources. • VSAP scores are discussed at Sustainability & Executive Committees' meetings Talent Shortage • VSAP and safety performance is linked to the remunerations of all Any signiﬁcant loss of key personnel due to attrition or other causes, or employees including business leaders reduction in the pool of expertise within the company could have a material eﬀect on our businesses. We continue to invest in initiatives to Standardised Process across Businesses and Geographies widen our talent pool and seek ways to continually enrich our cumulative Robust Process of CAPA Validation skill base in line with technology developments. 22 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP SAFETY & 100% 757,718 OCCUPATIONAL periodic medical examinations man-hours of safety training FY 2014-15: 756,000 HEALTH MATERIAL ASPECT When it comes to Safety, we ask ourselves some really tough questions. Why should zero harm just be our number one priority, why can't it be our second nature? Why should the virtue of wellness just be taught to our employees, why can't it be extended to their families? Due to the inherent characteristics of its operations, the natural resource To boost accountability, the progress on implementation of safety industry is continuously grappling with Safety & Occupation Health risks; and performance standards and prevention of fatalities is directly linked to so are we. This challenge compounds in a geographically diverse business like employee remuneration. Our senior management including Sustainability ours, where attitude towards health and safety vary. But we are determined and Executive Committees regularly review our safety performance and to foster a culture of Zero Harm by seeding a string of concerted interventions share recommendations. which include adherence to international best practices, deployment of All our units have safety committees comprising members from the robust infrastructure and institutionalisation of safety ownership at every level management as well as unionised workforce. The Committee meets on a of the organisation from boardroom to shop ﬂoor. regular basis to advise on occupational health and safety improvement. In Our business engages massive amount of human capital and our eﬀorts on case of operations where unions have not been formed, we have setup a Occupation Health & Safety are manifold. Our health and safety approach is monthly meeting mechanism that involves principal contractor and guided by Group Safety Standard which applies to all Vedanta business units sub-contractors to discuss speciﬁc HSE issues. and managed operations. We guard our workforce at all times, shield them from every small danger, screen all our contractors for safety requisites and 100% of our total workforce is represented in formal joint remain ready to mitigate untoward incidents. Over the years, a steady incline management-worker health and safety committee. has been observed in the eﬀectiveness of our safety systems. All businesses are implementing the safety performance standards and audits were initiated this year. SAFETY ENABLERS The average score was 51% with signiﬁcant improvements shown later in the In order to transform our Zero Harm goal into reality, a set of benchmarks, year. The Group Safety Performance Standards are enabling normalisation of standards and frameworks have been institutionalised across our units. best practices across all our operations. Despite our best intentions and actions, These safety enablers lend momentum to our safety drive. we still had the misfortune of facing fatalities in FY 2015-16. This has only further steeled our safety resolve. We are now more rigorous in assessing job International Good Practices hazards and are translating risk mitigation plans to practice with a fanatic zeal. The journey to excellence begins with benchmarking. We set our safety standards at par with local and international benchmarks including OHSAS Our aim is to thrive together. High employee productivity 18001. Currently, 48 of our 52 sites are OHSAS 18001 certiﬁed and we aim to should be a by-product of safer work environment and bring this tally to 100% by next year. In order to make our good practices superior occupational health practices. better, we have adopted a systematic 'Plan-Do-Check-Act' approach that helps us evaluate our systems and evolve continuously. Several review mechanisms like monthly meetings, safety alerts and leadership audits are in place to monitor and manage the compliance status at every stage of the project life cycle. Group Safety Performance Standards Going beyond benchmarking industry standards, we have also charted our own standards on high risk areas identiﬁed as material risks in our operations. Firstly, to address safety challenges unique to our operations. Secondly, to manage the safety outcomes of our diverse businesses through one common yardstick. Our Safety Performance Standards span six critical areas: ZERO HARM CULTURE Work at Height | Isolation | Electrical Safety | Ground Control Safeguarding the well-being of our workforce is our highest priority. The goal is to entrench a Zero Harm culture across businesses by ushering in a paradigm Con ned Space Entry | Vehicles & Driving shift in the way safety is perceived and practised at Vedanta.This drive to Complementing these six speciﬁc standards, are our two Technical Standards embed 'safety' as a value system is helmed by our senior management. Our that govern Occupational Health Management and Safety Management in a Chairman as well as our CEO ﬁercely advocate Zero Harm culture by personally broader context. engaging with employees on a regular basis. Safety & Occupational Health are prime elements of the Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Programme. In the reporting year, we went beyond our call of duty and helped one of our neighbouring business company near HZL operation in averting a potential To ensure that our safety values trickle down, we enthuse, educate and disaster. On April 2016, when ammonia gas leaked out of an ice factory at encourage every member of our workforce to embrace safety wholeheartedly. Sunderwas Udaipur, a densely populated area which also has a gas station Safety & Occupational Health is a mandatory module in our HR training nearby, the regulatory factory inspector requested the HZL team to support programme and periodic workshops are conducted to enhance safety the local administration. Immediately, our safety head pressed into action a awareness and knowledge among employees and contractors. disaster management plan and successfully arrested the fast-spreading Over and above our businesses, our subsidiaries too run robust on-site training leakage. This incident management has not only made us proud but programmes for both employees and contract workforce. conﬁdent that we have systems in place to avoid any catastrophic incident. 23 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Hazard Identi cation & Risk Assessment Metrics We posted 3,476 man-days lost this year, a 35% reduction from last year. We have a structured review mechanism to ensure identiﬁcation, analysis, All of our sites conducted pre and post medical examinations for their staﬀ, mitigation and monitoring of safety risks on a continual basis. Our key both permanent employees and contract workforce, and we didn't areas of risk and their mitigation levers can be summarised as follows: observe any signiﬁcant / major occupational diseases at our operating sites. Type 1 Controls Type 2 Controls Type 3 Controls Task Based (leadership focus) System Based (process focus) Business/System (critical event focus) LTIFR per mn man-hours worked 0.86 Job Safety Analysis 0.83 Safe Work Procedures Standards Formal Risk Task Hazard Assessment Golden Rules Assessment 0.55 0.54 0.46 0.46 Task Implementation Bow Tie Planning Audits Analysis 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 In the reporting year we revised our calculation de nition in line with the recently Safety Improvement Critical released ICMM guidelines and reset the baseline. As per this new calculation method, Interactions Plans Controls this year's LTIFR rate stands at 0.50. Capability Building Fatalities in nos. Systems and processes are only as good as the people who implement them. Hence, apart from focussing on best-in-class systems and 26 standards, we also invest heavily on building capabilities of our people 22 20 towards safety & occupational health. In FY 2015-16, over 757,000 hours 19 of safety training were delivered to employees and contractors on subjects including working at height, permit to work, job safety analysis, 8 12 ﬁrst aid, incident reporting, safe behaviour and falls. We also focussed on building a strong understanding of Vedanta Safety Performance 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Standards and Incident Investigation among our people. Regrettably in FY 2015-16 we experienced 12 fatalities eight in India and 757,718 training man-hours | 100% periodical medical examination four in Africa. Such incidents are unacceptable and each fatal incident has undergone an in-depth investigation. The main causes have been identiﬁed Emergency Responsiveness and preventive actions are being incorporated. Further the respective Company's Chief Executive Oﬃcer or Chief Operating Oﬃcer have All our operations have robust emergency response plans in place, presented a detailed appraisal of root causes to the Vedanta Sustainability which are tested and maintained in collaboration with potentiallyCommittee and updated them on the action plans in response. aﬀected parties, as required by our Emergency & Crisis Management Technical Standard. INCIDENT TYPE PREVENTIVE ACTION In order to ensure eﬀective implementation of these plans, resources have been dedicated to respond to crisis and emergency situations. Six fatal accidents were related to Periodic audits to ensure adherence Preparedness drills and training exercises are also carried out on a the below given critical areas to core elements of the Standards periodic basis involving our employees as well as external emergency Ground Control The implementation of these response organisations and other relevant external stakeholders to Vehicles & Driving standards is directly linked to an strengthen the skills. A communication system has also been deployed individual's remuneration to Electrical reinforce accountability across at each operation to take care of prompt disbursement of information to various stakeholders, such as alerting local community and Working at Height the Group neighbouring businesses in the event of an emergency that poses potential risks for them, sharing information to the media and interacting Four fatal accidents were related to These hazards surfaced in unique with other relevant stakeholders like government representatives. Failure of Physical Barrier areas and were not covered by the Standards. Hence a critical risk In the reporting year, we went beyond our call of duty and helped one of Unpredicted Equipment Failure assessment process was rolled-out our neighbouring business company near HZL operation in averting a Landslide to identify and address emerging potential disaster. On April 2016, when ammonia gas leaked out of an ice and critical risks Criminal Attack factory at Sunderwas Udaipur, our safety team pressed into action a disaster management plan and successfully arrested the fast-spreading Two fatal accidents were related to The two incidents highlighted the leakage. This action has not only made us proud but conﬁdent of our Blasting need to introduce a standard for systems in place to avoid any catastrophic incident. blasting procedures and practices. Introduction of a forum to reinforce OUR SAFETY PERFORMANCE underground safety is also on the anvil. Both of these actions are being We marked an overall declining trend in injury rates with the Group's Lost reviewed by our COO, Safety Forum Time Injuries reducing 10% from 115 in FY 2014-15 to 103 in FY 2015-16. 24 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP We are committed to ensure a culture of safety 'by design' and not 'by FUTURE PLAN accident'. To fulﬁl Zero Harm commitment, we developed a structured incident identiﬁcation and prevention approach comprising a slew of well We cannot undo the irreparable loss of our people, but we can ensure thought-out interventions at every stage. These interventions can broadly that such incidents do not occur in the future. Mentioned below are be summarised as: Analysis, Adherence and Action. key initiatives being undertaken to bolster our Zero Harm ambition: Analysis To have an in-depth overview on the caveats that led to fatal • Focussing on training to strengthen hazard-spotting skills, accidents, we deployed an investigation technique called Event & formal risk assessment processes, and risk based decisionConditions (E&C) charting across Vedanta operations to know the root making at the site-level cause of the incidents and address them in order to avoid reoccurrence of • Developing internal capability to monitor and evaluate such incidents. One of the needs of this analysis was capability building on workplace occupational health exposures in addition to investigation methodology and for which we trained around 40 statutory reporting employees. Other work hazard related training were done by the businesses. • Conducting additional Safety training exercises as part of the on-going work to improve safety performance and embed Adherence Pivotal importance was placed on strengthening the good practice safety culture, in line with the requirements implementation of our six safety standards with a 'must adhere to 100% of of our Technical Standard: Competency, Training and the standards, 100% of the time' practising philosophy. Awareness Action We introduced Experience Based Quantiﬁcation (EBQ) and Bowtie • Implementing critical elements of our Safety Performance Analysis (BTA), enabling all our businesses to get a clear insight into Standards across business units potential high risk activities, associated hazards and eﬀectiveness of its critical controls. Accordingly, each business can institutionalise key control measures and monitor hazard mitigation. We also piloted a Making Better Risk Decision (MBRD) programme which We aim to coach 6,000 operational leaders across all will empower line leaders to make better decisions by foreseeing the risks sites from the senior managers to front-line supervisors relevant to their routine and non-routine work proﬁle, and understanding including key contractors. the consequences associated with it. 25 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP TOWARDS ZERO HARM, ONE STEP AT A TIME From embedding the importance of safety in our employees to enhancing their ownership towards Zero Harm culture, from safeguarding them with state-of-the-art safety gear to arming them with tools of knowledge we remain on a vigil to strengthen the safety quotient of Vedanta. Throughout the year, across business units and through a diversity of interventions, we pursued safety with rigour. Some of such initiatives are illustrated below: GENERATING AWARENESS THE FIRST STEP TO SAFETY Tracking Vehicles Anytime, Anywhere Learning from Experience Fleet safety is one of the prime concerns in the mining industry. It is vital to monitor vehicle speed & administer consequence management system for All our site leaders at Hindustan Zinc conducted Safety Stand Downs to the violators. We have thus installed GPS trackers in the heavy motor discuss and share lessons from incidents at various sites. The objective was vehicles at Jharsuguda unit. The tracker provides key information like exact to enhance adherence to safe working practices and safe behaviour location of the vehicle, speed at which it is travelling, total distance covered among our workforce. In another such initiative, Sesa Iron Ore business and speed variation. conducted a safety awareness workshop which was attended by over 80 participants comprising Company employees, workmen representatives, contractors and service providers. The session enlightened the participants ENCOURAGING DEEPER OWNERSHIP on various ways of working on safety checklists and ticking them oﬀ to Single Point Accountability (SPA) is one of the driving forces of safety practise safety. It stressed on the importance of 'return on training management at Sterlite Copper. A set of protocols, SPA is aimed at investment' and accountability in the workforce across varied functions. decentralising safety responsibility and encouraging individual accountability. Several awareness campaigns as well as reward mechanisms Knowledge is Power encourage employees to embrace SPA. Safety videos featuring our employees were screened to aﬀect behavioural change at Hindustan Zinc. These videos focus on safety interaction process plus lifesaving rules and are also used at sites to train DEVELOPING SAFETY APTITUDE new recruits. All our businesses have similar safety induction modules, ACROSS CADRES, ACROSS BUSINESSES designed speciﬁc to the nature of their operation. E-learning & Self-assessment Celebrating Safety 17 e-learning modules on safety, covering vast ranging topics such A series of activities and talks on safety were organised as part of Safety as forklift basics, chemical handling safety, electrical safety, were Day celebrations. These included ﬁreﬁghting, ﬁrst aid, formal risk introduced in Hindi and English for the workforce of Hindustan Zinc assessment, chemical, spill response and hazard hunt. Local contractors, Limited. Over and above being excellent self-learning tools, these employees and their family members participated enthusiastically in the modules are also perfect self-assessment platforms. A total of 26,582 celebrations. Road safety week was celebrated across all units to enhance people accessed these e-learning modules in the reporting period. awareness on road safety and defensive driving. Major activities included safety oath, safety interactions, rescue drills and safety contest. Think Before You Act Cairn India has piloted a new programme 'RiSK' which encourages GEARING UP FOR ZERO HARM workers to stop and think before every task. The HSE thought leaders Life Support during Emergencies of Cairn and Vedanta have devised a very simple process to ensure Hindustan Zinc Ltd. installed 'refuge chambers' in its Rampura Agucha that every job is done in the right manner, with the right tools. By underground mine to guard the safety of workers during emergency answering the below three questions, one takes into account all situations. Refuge chamber is a life support module capable of providing potential risks associated with the job. air for 36 hours. With this additional capacity, now there are four refuge chambers which can accommodate six people, and two chambers Ruko (STOP) which can accommodate 20 people at the mine. What is the right way to do the job and what are the right tools? Socho (THINK) What could go wrong and what will I/we do to prevent it? Karo (DO) While doing the job has anything changed and do we need to stop and rethink? In the reporting year, we witnessed successful roll-out of the programme in Cairn India's Petroleum Engineering function. Following the roll-out, the function has not had a single LTI compared to nine in the previous year. 26 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP At BALCO, we have always learnt to practise safety not only when we are working but also while we are travelling; not only for ourselves but for our family too. Anil Shah | M/s Abhinav Constructions ENSURING HOLISTIC WELL-BEING We are equally committed to enhance the overall health quotient of our OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH employees. This enables us to increase productivity, reduce absenteeism BASELINE ASSESSMENT and enhance retention. Due to the nature of our operations, there can be associated health risks and we are committed to understand, manage We strive to keep our workplace free from occupational health and mitigate these. risks and hygiene hazards. Our occupational health standard commits us to minimise the adverse impact of our operations We have an occupational health centre manned with on the health of our workforce. In this regard, all units monitor experts, at all major mines and smelters for regular health and manage key health risks. In a special initiative, we are examination of direct and contract employees. revisiting our occupational health hygiene baseline assessments for our Aluminium and Copper operations. Each jurisdiction maintains its own Occupational Health Management The sites have already completed the stock of data information System appropriate to the local context, while our Group approach is for the same and are gearing up for re-establishing baselines of employee exposure to harmful substances with an objective of guided by a Global Health Management standard and is structured performing beyond statutory requirements. We are also around three areas as elaborated below Prevention, Monitoring and partnering with external experts to train our graduates in this Support & Recovery. arena. Going ahead, we aim to roll out this exercise across other operations of the Group. 1 PREVENTION • First aid and occupational health training to employees and contractors • Health and wellness programmes including respiratory health, hearing conservation, eye checks and ergonomic surveys • Mandatory use of Personal Protective Equipment • Pollution control equipment, eﬄuent treatment and the correct storage of hazardous chemicals • Screening for diseases particular to the location, for example HIV (Zambia), Ebola (Liberia) and Malaria (India and Zambia) • Training in healthy lifestyles, disease prevention and treatment 2 MONITORING • Investment in technologically advanced processes that reduce possible exposure levels; workplace monitoring SPREADING GOOD HEALTH • Baseline studies to identify key risks BEYOND THE OPERATIONS • Pre-employment medical checks and ongoing monitoring As a responsible corporate, we are committed to contribute towards healthier lifestyles not just of our employees, but also of our • Tests for noise, dust, heat exposure and silicosis employees' families, our service providers as well as the communities • Continuous internal audit at large. All our units conduct medical camps and campaigns on a regular basis to reach out to the ailing patients of all age groups. 3 SUPPORT & RECOVERY Hindustan Zinc conducted more than 200 such camps bene ting 22,000+ people from surrounding • Medical insurance for 100% of full-time employees whereas contract employees are covered either by employee state insurance or through communities. Group insurance/workmen compensation • Stress management programmes for employees at risk and support Sterlite Copper rolled-out an innovative health engagement and recovery programmes including yoga and training etc. programme called 'Suraksha Bandhan bridging community through • On-site and outreach health and disease treatment programmes safety' wherein our teams visited the families of our contractors and for families of employees interacted with them on matters of health and well-being. This not just enhanced their health awareness but also strengthened their conﬁdence in us. 27 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP ENVIRONMENT US$ 39 mn Environmental investment PRINCIPLE 7,8 & 9 Natural resources, especially the subsoil ones, play a vital role in a nation's progress and prosperity. But mining of these resources is a complex and intensive process that may cause environmental and social challenges. Hence, maintaining a ﬁne balance between economic growth and sustainability is vital. At Vedanta Resources, we adopt global leading practices to reduce and minimise the environmental impacts of our operations. Reduction of water and energy consumption, minimising land disturbance and waste production, containing pollution, and conducting successful mine closure are some of the measures we have undertaken to minimise our impacts. APPROACH We work with our partners and the neighbouring communities at project sites to bring far-reaching socio-economic and environmental beneﬁts to the region. We adopt a systematic and process-oriented approach, underpinned by a spirit of entrepreneurship. This approach has not only resulted in mitigating impacts but has also created value for our stakeholders and helped us secure the social licence to operate. Our Sustainable Development Framework includes a toolkit of policies, standards and guidance notes to rigorously manage environmental impacts. For the environmental priorities arising from the materiality process, we have developed speciﬁc objectives and targets, and review performance against these issues on a periodic basis. We are working towards implementing our Biodiversity Action Plans and are also ﬁnding new and innovative ways to reduce and recycle waste from our operations including ﬂy ash, red mud, phosphorous gypsum, copper slag, etc. Environmental and Social Impact • Environmental Management Systems • Internal assurance assess Assessments (ESIAs) carried out for (EMS) Assessments set up for every compliance with EMS all new projects existing project • Monitoring, reporting and investigation • Environmental incidents monitored of all category incidents and categorised on a scale of 1 to 5 • Alignment to ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 (5 being most critical) standards to monitor eﬀectiveness of the EMS REVIEW & AUDITS BY BOTH BUSINESS AND VSAP TEAMS • Evaluation of category 4 and 5 incidents by Group Sustainability and Executive Committees • Management teams given training in meeting the Framework requirements PERFORMANCE LOOKING AHEAD During the reporting period, there were no serious environmental (category 4&5) incidents, as deﬁned by Vedanta Incident Categorisation • Achieve ISO 14001 certi cation for the remaining sites Matrix. 48 of our 52 operations are ISO 14001 certiﬁed and the remaining • Align our energy and carbon strategy with INDC's objectives shall be certiﬁed in the near future. in lieu of COP 21 commitments All subsidiary businesses have been assessed against the identiﬁed • Capacity building on biodiversity management including material aspects related to environment i.e. water, energy, biodiversity, ecosystem services waste management etc. through internal VSAP audits, and action plans • Continue to explore opportunities and areas to increase are in place to close all identiﬁed gaps. the y ash utilisation Fly ash recycling increased to 47% in FY 2015-16 from 31% • Engagement with independent expert to review the in FY 2014-15 high priority/risk tailing facilities 28 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Preliminary Tailing Risk Assessment (Internal) completed across the Group WATER MATERIAL ASPECT Water is a critical component in mining and securing an adequate water supply has emerged as a key challenge for the sector globally. We are committed to minimise our water footprint and reduce the • Our Cairn India and HZL units in Rajasthan, India are meeting 66% freshwater consumption by reusing as much water as possible in our and 36% of their total water requirement through recycled water processes. • Cairn India adopted Reedbed technology for domestic wastewater treatment and utilised the treated water in greenbelt development Approach • KCM is undertaking a water recycling project to improve the quality of Our approach is outlined in our water policy and delivered through our water, downstream of Muntimpa. It has already invested $0.5 mn water management standard. We facilitate the integration of water in the interim to provide a backup water abstraction point on Chati management into decision-making processes for all our new and existing stream which supplies water to Kalulushi residents projects. This ensures that all necessary measures are in place to avoid, minimise, or, in some cases, compensate for the impacts of our projects. All Harvest our subsidiary businesses have conducted a water-screening assessment to identify sensitive water resources, aquatic habitats and any known or • Operations of HZL and Sesa Iron Ore subsidiaries have taken up speciﬁc suspected water resource constraints in proximity to each operation. measures to improve rainwater harvesting. This year 1.75 mn m3 rainwater was harvested Our operations exist in areas of varying degrees of water stress. Accordingly, • TSPL constructed rainwater recharge ponds of 115,000 m3 our water management plans have been chalked out carefully keeping in mind the water status of each location. For water-stressed areas such as Rajasthan in India, we implement water conservation projects and follow a zero discharge philosophy. For operations which are not in water-stressed areas (such as KCM, CMT and Lisheen), we ensure programmes are in place to protect this precious resource. But across all our operations, we follow the water conservation hierarchy of reduce, reuse and recycle. We also focus on rainwater usage and groundwater recharging through rainwater harvesting. Signiﬁcant strides were made in all four areas during the reporting period. REDUCE REUSE RECYCLE HARVEST Performance Most of our operational processes have been designed to be 'zero Reduce discharge'. Wastewater is treated and recycled for cooling and other applications at our units. Additionally, eﬄuent and sewage treatment • Replaced/repaired defects like leakages, overﬂows (process losses) etc. in plants are installed at many locations to recycle water. the reticulation system at KCM, HZL-Jharsuguda, and BALCO, while Zinc International undertook an internal water audit. Total estimated water Due to the high water table in Zambia, Ireland and Australia, we have to savings through these interventions is around 240,000 m3 'dewater' (remove) a large quantity of water from the underground mines. • KCM played a major role in water savings through water recovery at the This water is discharged into nearby water bodies, complying with conventional thickeners at KIBU and recirculation of water from TLP applicable regulatory limits, and treated in eﬄuent treatment plants. back concentrator at Nchanga Further, Cairn India utilises the abundant supply of sub-surface saline water to meet its operational and domestic water needs, to avoid any risk to the Reuse/ Recycle freshwater resources of the region. • Commissioned an ETP at the BALCO smelter which resulted in savings In the reporting year, all our businesses contributed in conserving this of 35,000 m3 precious resource and helped us surpass our water conservation target. We saved 7.2 mn m3 against the targeted savings of 2.3 mn m3 • BALCO also installed a 4,800 m3/day RO system. The treated water is used for cooling purposes and gardening. The initiative led to 100% The Group's water conservation eﬀorts, across its subsidiaries on a global utilisation of liquid eﬄuent and 23% reduction in the speci c basis, led to the recycling of nearly 53.6 mn m3 compared to 39.5 mn m3 last water consumption year, which fulﬁlled 23% of our overall water requirement. We withdrew • Treated CPP blow down water is used for industrial and domestic use; 359 mn m3 of water compared to 362 mn m3 in the last reporting year, with minimising the requirements of the fresh raw water at HZL, Jharsuguda, 56% from groundwater, 43% from surface water and 1% from rainwater and Cairn India. This results in approximate savings of 80,000 m3 and utility. 29 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Speci c Water Consumption In the reporting year, all our businesses contributed in Businesswise Break Up (m3 / unit of production output) conserving this precious resource and helped us surpass our water conservation target. We saved 7.2 mn m3 against the SPECIFIC WATER CONSUMPTION targeted savings of 2.3 mn m3. UNIT NAME FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Consumption & Conservation Snapshot in mn m3 HZL Mines 0.53 0.46 HZL Smelters 7.35 6.35 23% aswater recycling in FY 2015-16 compared to 20% in the previous year Skorpion Zinc 22.96 25.96 Lisheen Mine 0.02 0.04 BMM 0.87 1.02 KCM 263.36 179.76 23% FY 2015-16 20% FY 2014-15 Sterlite Copper 7.26 7.09 BALCO 1.87 2.32 Lanjigarh 2.66 2.49 Jharsuguda 0.48 0.46 53,626,679 236,833,021 39,572,276 197,963,749 SSL Iron PID 0 2.50 Water Consumption Water Recycled / Reused MEL 3.65 3.93 While our actual water consumption increased, the speciﬁc consumption TSPL 0 2.35 (i.e. consumption per unit of production) reduced at all major businesses, as a result of process and technological interventions. Some businesses, Cairn India 1.03 1.13 however, noted increase in speciﬁc water consumption primarily due to reduced production. Responding to the Environmental Challenges Lisheen mine received summons from the Environmental • Consistent compliance of underground water quality below the Protection Agency (EPA) in October 2015 for a breach of our legal limit following a US$ 17 mn refurbishment of water Integrated Pollution Control Licence (IPCL). The breach relates to infrastructure non-compliant water emissions during a period of time that the • A comprehensive water recycling project under implementation mine was recovering from the underground ood, which occurred to improve the quality of water downstream of Muntimpa (TD5) in February 2015. A report on the incident, which was submitted to the Authorities, concluded that although emission limit values for a • Investment of US$ 230 mn in the new concentrators at Nchanga number of chemical parameters were exceeded, there was no or and Konkola resulting in a smaller environmental footprint and minimal impact on environment. zero discharge system • Plantation of over 72,000 trees between 2007 and 2015 within Two proceedings have been initiated in the UK by two English law KCM operations and restocking over 180,000 ngerlings in the rms who allege that people of Zambia have suﬀered loss and community since 2009 damage and amongst other things, personal injury as a result of KCM's operation in Zambia. The claimants have sought a mandatory injunction to remediate the damage caused by the discharge of harmful eﬄuent in the river body. The allegations made against Vedanta Resources Plc and KCM goes back to 11 years. While these allegations are being investigated and the matter is sub judice, we have demonstrated our commitment to environmental stewardship and over a period of ten years, we invested more than US$ 3 bn in the region towards environmental initiatives including state-of-the-art clean technologies, upgrades and expansions. Below is a glimpse of some of the key environmental programmes undertaken over the years: • US$ 440 mn invested to commission an eco-friendly Nchanga smelter resulting in a massive improvement in capturing sulphur, from 35-50% to 99.98% • US$ 30 mn spent to refurbish infrastructure at tailings leach plant, resulting in a consistent improvement in zero discharge at pollution control dam 30 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP case study MAKING EVERY DROP COUNT Various water-friendly interventions at KCM & TSPL Konkola Copper Mines and the Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL) are both water-intensive facilities , and thus provide an opportunity for huge savings. In the reporting year, various water friendly interventions were introduced at both facilities. KCM TSPL KCM identi ed three major interventions: TSPL formed a cross functional team to drive water conservation activities. The team identi ed root causes and came up with 1 Optimised water recovery by installing pumps to recycle process water back into the process focussed solutions such as attending the leakages, improving inspections, and conducting audits, all aimed at reducing raw 2 Replaced worn-out pipes and other ttings in the reticulation system water consumption. 3 Raised awareness among employees on water conservation Interventions by the water conservation team led to decline in raw water consumption by over 38% at TSPL. Speci c raw Due to the above measures, the water consumption at KCM water consumption went down to 2.7 litre/kWh in FY 2015went down by over 45%. With these measures and other 16 compared to 4.4 litre/kWh in the previous year. 3 projects, KCM in total has saved 2.65 mn m of water this year. The target is to further bring down the consumption of water to 1.8 litre/kWh by taking up WHS and HSS interconnection, commissioning of recycling pump house and exercising tight control over COC control chart. ENERGY & CARBON MATERIAL ASPECT Climate change is a rapidly growing concern and poses a fundamental threat to the entire world. Tackling this concern calls for exploration and adoption of innovative technologies that maintain ecological balance without compromising on economic growth. For a natural resources Company like Vedanta, energy constitutes a major Approach part of input costs, which if managed eﬃciently can sustain proﬁt We understand that changes in regulations, operating / physical margins. We are aware of the business case that energy management parameters, carbon taxes and consumer behaviour arising due to climatic presents, and hence we enhance energy eﬃciency at our operations by change risks may have the potential to generate a substantive change in leveraging a combination of new technologies. our business operations, revenue or expenditure. As an example, the To add further robustness to our energy programmes, our subsidiary change in UK GHG reporting regulation, commitment towards Paris businesses are upgrading their business management systems to receive summit and India's as well as Zambia's increasingly proactive and the ISO 50001 energy management accreditation. aggressive stance towards managing their GHG inventory may drive stringent regulations leading to higher fuel costs. 31 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP This may ultimately reduce operating margins and proﬁts for our businesses. All Speci c Energy Consumption these changes pose a potential compliance risk for our operations, which may Businesswise Break Up (GJ per tonne of Product) result in direct ﬁnancial implications like ﬁnancial sanctions or indirect ﬁnancial implications such as loss of reputation, which can aﬀect stakeholder conﬁdence. UNIT NAME FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 After the recently concluded Paris agreement on Climate Change (COP 21), we are working to formulate a strategy on Climate Change that is aligned with the HZL Mines 0.49 0.42 Intended National Determined Contribution (INDC) for the countries in which we are operating. Our Sustainable Development Framework includes an Energy HZL Smelters 17.04 17.10 and Carbon Policy, and an Energy and Carbon Management Standard whereas Skorpion Zinc 20.03 26.31 our long-term strategy for addressing energy and climate change issues focusses on improving energy and process eﬃciency and diversiﬁcation of our BMM 0.42 0.44 energy portfolio at all operations, where it is physically and economically Lisheen Mines 0.38 0.38 feasible to do so. KCM 51.96 35.29 Performance Sterlite Copper 8.42 7.72 As Vedanta is part of an energy intensive industry, our direct and indirect BALCO 58.54 54.94 energy consumption is in the order of 405 mn GJ, higher than last year mainly on account of higher production and commissioning of units (smelter and Lanjigarh 8.65 7.95 power plants). But our energy consumption per unit of production has Jharsuguda 53.59 52.53 maintained a balanced trend, except for a couple of businesses like Skorpion Zinc, HZL smelter and MEL owing to low production as compared to the SSL Iron PID 0.97 0.92 previous year. MALCO 9.47 12.43 BALCO smelter, Vedanta Ltd. Jharsuguda Independent CAIRN 1.47 1.87 Power Plant and HZL Zawar mines bagged National Energy Conservation awards in various categories. TSPL 0 5.92 Absolute Energy Consumption Greenhouse Gas Emissions (By Business) tons of CO2 equivalents mn GJ Scope 1 FY 2015-16 Scope 2 FY 2015-16 1,857,613 18,227 4,465,507 9,637 58,176 218,265 405 17,073 157,975 394 11 189,676 607,948 70,679 1,506,798 14,865 362 18,957,341 39,581,088 1,577,241 348 14 504,604 12,388,002 115,943 2015-16 2014-15 Direct Energy Consumption Zinc India Zinc International Copper India & Austrailia Copper Africa Aluminium India Inirect Energy Consumption Power Sector Oil and Gas Sector Iron Ore Business Others 32 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP 0.94 mn GJ energy savings through a host of innovative solutions (Includes operational & capex projects) We calculate and report Greenhouse Gas inventory i.e. Scope 1 (process Clean Energy emissions and other direct emissions) and Scope 2 (purchased electricity) Over and above optimising our eﬃciencies, we also continuously evaluate as deﬁned under the World Business Council for Sustainable Development our renewable energy portfolio. While we currently source less than 2% (WBCSD) and World Resource Institute (WRI) GHG protocols. Our GHG from renewable sources, we are taking the lead from subsidiaries like intensity has increased primarily due to slowdown in production. The Copper Mines of Tasmania and KCM Zambia, where 70% of energy is increase in our absolute GHG emissions is due to addition and ramping up derived from hydropower. of our power plants at TSPL, Aluminium and Power operations. We remain on a vigil to ﬁnd opportunities to generate electricity from Energy Eﬃciency Measures waste heat. Businesses like Sesa Iron Ore, Sterlite Copper and HZL have In FY 2015-16, we conducted an internal benchmarking exercise with a installed Waste Heat Recovery boilers with a total capacity of 139 MW. view to understand the energy consumption practices of our subsidiaries Our HZL subsidiaries have wind farms with installed capacity of 273.5 MW as well as to create a sense of competition within Vedanta to accelerate across ﬁve states in India. All wind power generation has been registered conservation. Some of the key projects are detailed below: under the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) and 511.4 mn units • HZL incorporated changes in Variable Frequency Drives in its have been sold to the electricity grid in each state, an increase of 52.3% mines and smelters, and further invested in various operational compared to 2012. HZL has also installed a 200 kW rooftop solar system at improvement projects leading to energy savings of 26,375 GJ Udaipur and Chanderiya smelters. • BALCO implemented various process improvement projects like Cairn India has brought into fold a myriad of solar solutions. It increase in current eﬃciency and reduction in average pot voltage commissioned solar power generation at all E-houses, producing 455,000 in pot line, installation of VFD in atomising blower to regulate kWh solar energy; introduced solar concentrator technology for current and regulation of mill load which resulted a total saving of 6,422 GJ wastewater evaporation, generating 251,208 kWh; and installed solar lights reducing diesel consumption by 30,000 litre/month to state a few. • Black Mountain mine and Skorpion Zinc have implemented various eﬃciency measures like retro tting of equipment, Under the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), we installation of daylight switches and LED lights which have have registered CDM projects with potential CER of 1.3 mn units, out of accrued energy savings of 94,745 GJ which we have accrued 0.42 mn units in FY 2015-16. • Cairn India has installed solar water heaters, solar lights, and LEDs, leading to 233,941 GJ of energy savings case study • KCM brought in a host of changes in its operational devices like CONSERVING ENERGY. air compressors, saving 84,434 GJ energy ENHANCING COMPETITIVENESS. • Vedanta Jharsuguda executed reduction in auxiliary energy With a view to harness large-scale energy savings, a root consumption by optimising ID fan power, compressed air use, pump house energy reduction, and cast house furnace. Further cause analysis was undertaken at Vedanta Ltd., Jharsuguda. process improvement projects like reduction in current eﬃciency Based on the results, a slew of conservation projects were by reduction in process variance and implementation of advanced identi ed and implemented. technology for smelting have yielded total energy savings of 34,046 GJ ENERGY SAVING • Reduction in stub to carbon voltage, pot voltage, compressed air consumption, dead pot voltage, crossover voltage and speci c energy consumption of wire rod mill • Improvement of current eﬃciency of pots • Implementation of slotted anode in pots • Optimisation of compressor • Online addition of pots in circuit by fuse blown technology • HTM heater set point optimisation in GAP FUEL SAVING • Reduction of HFO consumption in Anode Baking Furnace • Optimised usage of compressor in metal transport vehicle • Reduction of diesel consumption in production vehicles by improving engine eﬃciency • Optimisation of LPG burner use for ingot casting The Group Companies are speci cally focussing on OUTCOMES exploring innovative and technology-oriented solutions Energy Savings 290,842 MWh/annum which will lead to conservation of 1.5 mn GJ energy, Fuel Savings 3,127 MT/annum next year. 33 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Implementation of Biodiversity Action Plans in progress BIODIVERSITY MATERIAL ASPECT The impacts of diversity loss on ecological processes might be suﬃciently large to rival the impacts of many other global drivers of environmental change. Thus it is no surprise that the United Nations designated 2011-2020 as the United Nations Decade on Biodiversity. At Vedanta, we are conscious that the nature of our operations has Our policy, technical standard and approach to biodiversity management implications on biodiversity. Protecting biodiversity is a material concern incorporates relevant aspects of IUCN's advocated approach, and our for us, and we continue to advance on our biodiversity management Black Mountain mine site is currently working in partnership with it to practices across the project life cycle of our operations. implement a Biodiversity Management Plan that also includes Gamsberg operation. Other businesses too have sought consultation from domain As part of our Sustainable Development Framework, we are committed experts in management of various biodiversity aspects. We look forward to to protect biodiversity. In order to promote a best practice management cement our relationship with IUCN and support its policies and good approach, we have reviewed all operations through an initial biodiversity practices via our membership with ICMM. risk mapping tool Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool (IBAT) to identify which of our sites are operating within close proximity of Vedanta Ltd. is a signatory to the India Business and protected IUCN areas, important bird areas and key biodiversity hot Biodiversity Initiative, a national platform for business and spots. Further these results are veriﬁed by the site assessment by third its stakeholders around mainstreaming sustainable parties at all operations. management of biological diversity into business strategy. All our sites have either initiated or already have Biodiversity Management Plans (BMP) in place. The results of the biodiversity risk Revitalising Ecologies screening programme have helped us prioritise our actions. At Vedanta, we are taking various initiatives to rejuvenate the ﬂora and fauna of the locations where we operate. Approach Biodiversity Restoration Programme at KCM Progress has been made across all businesses to engage experts and establish biodiversity management plans to meet our deadlines. Our dedicated Biodiversity Policy and Management Standard is in line with international standards and guidelines like IFC and ICMM. The BMP is developed to avoid, minimise or compensate the loss of the biodiversity attributes which arise due to a new project or a major expansion. We endeavour to achieve a minimum of No Net Loss (NNL) of biodiversity for projects located in the modiﬁed or natural habitat area and strive to achieve Net Positive Gain (NPG) of biodiversity for the project location in the critical habitat. At KCM, to mitigate the impacts of our operations, we embarked on a None of our operations are located in world heritage properties. Our Black biodiversity restoration programme. The initiatives taken under this Mountain mine operations spread across approx. 38,000 ha in South programme in FY 2015-16 include: Africa and Skorpion Zinc mine covering approx. 8,000 ha in Namibia are • Establishing a nursery of 1,000 seedlings located in key biodiversity areas as identiﬁed by Conservation International (CI). Both these operations are governed by robust • Initiating a community-based tree plantation programme in Kanenga and planting 280 trees so far Biodiversity Management Plans which have been developed by regional biodiversity experts. These sites have identiﬁed 3 endangered and 8 • Embarking on progressive rehabilitation of tailings dams and overburdened/waste rock dumps, where a total of 10,795 vulnerable IUCN red list species and national conservation list species. indigenous trees have been planted The Biodiversity Management Plan of our Black Mountain KCM has also commenced development of BMP for all its sites. The draft mine has been reviewed by IUCN. of BMP for Nchanga has been prepared and is undergoing review. Our eﬀorts will yield the following beneﬁts: • Enhancement of local livelihoods through sustainable forest management and climate change mitigation • Capacity building of communities and institutions to adopt sustainable livelihoods and conservation of forest resources • Increased forest cover • Reduced siltation and sedimentation of streams and rivers • Control over pollution and reduced erosion • Enhanced GHG sequestration potential of the forest and of degraded sites • Improved biodiversity conservation, land and watershed management 34 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Guinness Book Plantation Record at Mansa AIR QUALITY MATERIAL ASPECT Trees are the lungs of nature and play a key role in maintaining the biological balance. At Vedanta, tree plantation drives are elementary to Our Environmental Management Standard commits all our our biodiversity management measures. operations to identify and manage emissions to air from point, fugitive and mobile sources, as well as from process activities associated with combustion and materials storage. We monitor Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM), SOx and NOx as part of our ambient air quality monitoring process. We also keep in check lead emissions in our zinc operations, ﬂuoride emissions in our copper and aluminum operations, and Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs) in our aluminium operations. Performance Stack Emissions MT Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL) set a world record by 157,484 planting 208,751 saplings in 1 hour on October 30, 2015 in 144,164 Mansa, Punjab. Over 5,800 supporters from schools, surrounding villages and locals volunteered to make this 55,975 feat possible on a 200-acre land area. 42,194 7,239 Considering the small forest cover in Punjab, these additional trees will 6,008 FY 2015-16 help improve biodiversity in the region and speciﬁcally in Mansa. FY 2014-15 TSPL is deeply committed to enhance biodiversity conservation within its Particulate Matter SOx NOx areas of operations. The Company has set the benchmark by developing Other emission include ﬂuoride emissions (95 MT) aluminium operations, 222 acres of green cover as of March 2016 around the periphery of the lead emissions (36 MT), PAH emissions (14 MT) zinc operations, and VOC plant and installing Zero Discharge Unit, Sewage Treatment Plant and emissions (226 MT) Cairn India operations. High Concentration Slurry Disposal (HCSD) system. As part of our constant endeavour to enhance our air quality Harvesting Plants at Gamsberg management outcomes, we undertook the following key initiatives In continuation of our biodiversity measures, we relocated ~90,000 plants during the reporting period: to the Gamsberg Research and Rehabilitation Centre to help them • Implemented good practice management and pollution survive a scant monsoon and a severe summer. We also donated plants techniques including Electrostatic Precipitators (ESP) to minimise to SANBI (Karoo Botanical Gardens-Worcester). and manage our air emissions Butter y Park at Pantnagar • Regulated stack emissions of particulate matter at most of Being responsible for pollination of more than 3% of the world's plants, our operations butterﬂies play a very important role in the ecosystem. During our • Installed bag lters, scrubbers and dry fog systems with water biodiversity study of 117 species of butterﬂies at Pantnagar Metal Plant sprinklers to minimise dust while transporting extracted materials (PMP), we found that most of the species were present in very low like bauxite, coal, lime and alumina. Covered trucks with numbers. We decided to improve the habitat so that they would attract tarpaulin to ensure no spillage or dust generation more of these ecologically important insect group. A butterﬂy park in an area of 225 sq. m. was set up in the core zone near the admin block at PMP. 660 diﬀerent seasonal and permanent ﬂower varieties were planted to attract butterﬂies and an oasis (water pond) was made for the birds inside the plant premises. Coal powers our power plants and to curb mercury emissions which may arise from naturally occurring trace impurity in the coal, we have deployed quenched tower, hot ESP, wet ESP and mercury removal towers to treat the gas prior to its release in the environment. Any by-product or waste, which may contain mercury, is recorded and disposed-oﬀ at authorised hazardous waste management sites, in accordance with local legal requirements. 35 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Fly ash recycling increased to 47% in FY 2015-16 from 31% in FY 2014-15 WASTE MATERIAL ASPECT Our hazardous waste includes used/spent oil, waste refractories, spent pot lining and residual sludge from smelters. The non-hazardous (high volume, low eﬀect) waste we generate includes y ash (from captive and merchant power plants), red mud (aluminium re nery waste), jarosite / jaro x (from zinc smelting), slag, lime grit (process residues from smelters and aluminium re neries) and phospho gypsum (phosphoric acid plant). Approach Resource Use and Waste Management Technical Standard, and supporting Much of our generated waste rock and overburden is used in secondary guidance notes are part of the framework we have adopted. Our ﬁrst priority construction work. For example in raising tailing dam heights, and backis to reduce the waste, quantitatively as well as qualitatively (reducing the ﬁlling mined out areas and exhausted mine pits. toxicity), which is followed by recovery and recycle (either ourselves or sold HZL's state-of-the-art Central Research & Development to authorised recyclers). Disposal in landﬁll or by incineration is the last Laboratory continues to explore how to recover more metals option. In such cases, we use authorised, licenced and secured landﬁlls. from mining & smelting operations, thereby minimising waste. Performance We generated around 12 mn MT and recycled/re-used 50% of nonThe total ﬂy ash utilisation increased to 47% in FY 2015-16 from 31% in hazardous waste. Hazardous waste was stored in a secured landﬁll and the previous year. At our Cairn operations, around 25,591 MT of drill mud some of it was sold to authorised recyclers. Further, around 102 mn MT of and cuttings were produced using non-aqueous drilling ﬂuid, out of overburden and waste rocks and 27 mn MT of tailing were produced. which 100% was disposed at onshore and oﬀshore facilities. Amount of Waste Generated mn MT 11.9 10.15 Non-hazardous Waste 0.86 0.76 Owing to the increase in production, the amount of hazardous and Hazardous Waste non-hazardous waste too increased marginally. FY 2015-16 FY 2014 -15 CLOSING THE LOOP Process / Business Captive & Merchant Iron Ore, Aluminium Copper Power Plants Zinc & Copper Waste Product Fly Ash Slag Red Mud Gypsum 536K 693K 12K 1,210K Reused tonnes sent to tonnes reused in tonnes reused in tonnes reused in make cement & road construction road construction road construction bricks nearby & cement production & brick manufacturing & brick manufacturing Purpose / Products 36 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP case study FROM WORTHLESS TO WORTHY The framework of technical standards helps our subsidiary businesses to systematically identify all the opportunities available and practicable, to turn waste from worthless to worthy. From Jarosite to From Slag to Slab From Ash to Cash Waste-free site Vedanta Limited Sterlite Copper Vedanta Limited Lanjigarh A Future Action Plan at HZL Copper Slag a by-product generated Challenge In the hydrometallurgical zinc processing, from our pyro metallurgical smelting The consumption of coal in coal-based the iron commonly associated with zinc operations poses the following challenges power plants produces y ash in large concentrate is removed through the volumes, utilisation of which is an Jarosite process. This process results in the Land occupancy environmental challenge. generation of Jarosite, a hazardous waste Potential hazards of storage which is treated with lime and cement to Action convert into Jaro x which is inert and Statutory obligations to dispose the copper slag In collaboration with Institute of Minerals suitable for disposal on lined yard. As land and Materials Technology, Bhubaneswar required for disposal is enormous, we are in In our journey to nd a solution, we (A CSIR laboratory), Vedanta developed a the process of introducing alternative carried out studies on the utilisation of mineral cementation technology which environment-friendly techniques, which copper slag in collaboration with the utilises y ash (>80% by weight) in the are sustainable for long-term operations. country's premier research institutions brick manufacturing process and lime grit We have zeroed in on implementing an and found its usage as a sustainable as a binder. innovative 'Fumer Technology' patented by alternative to sand in diverse We then encouraged & supported brick Xmetech, South Korea, in which zinc ferrite infrastructure applications which include making units situated close to the plant is fumed in a furnace, residual metal road and embankment construction, by transferring the technology to them. iscaptured as fume oxide and the waste is berth construction, cement & concrete Since last three years, we are conducting recovered as clean slag and can be used in applications, cement manufacturing, 'Fly Ash Manufacturing Enterprise cement and construction industries etc. pavers manufacturing, abrasives etc. Development' workshop in partnership This project is at the planning stage and is with District Industries Centre, In the year 2015-16, 46% of the copper expected to be actualised in the next year. Bhawanipatna, leading not only to a slag produced was repurposed in sustainable alternative usage of waste, Once implemented, it will accrue the below sustainable applications. With ever but also creating sustainable and bene ts: increasing demand for natural aggregates pro table livelihood for the community from the construction sector, diminishing • Waste reduction at premises, thereby around our units. supply and environmental damage reducing environmental liability associated with sand mining, copper slag Outcome • Increased recovery of Zinc, Lead, Silver, has emerged as an agent for industrial Copper and Sulphur ecology. We will continue to nd other Fly Ash Dashboard such avenues for utilisation of copper slag. Total Ash Generated 207,185 MT • Utilisation of available land for alternative use Total Ash Utilised 118,228 MT % of Total Ash Utilised 57.06 % • The fumer is energy positive. Gases from fumer pass through the Waste Ash Utilised in Brick Manufacturing Heat Recovery boiler which produce 34,790 MT ( 8,588 MT in FY 2014-15) ~21 Mwh of green energy, out of which % of Ash Utilised for Brick Making ~12 Mwh is utilised in the fumer and 16.79 % there is surplus power of ~9 Mwh • Fumer Slag contains ~7.6% lime and ~43% Fe2O3 and its usage in manufacture of cement reduces consumption of CaCO3 by ~17,000 metric tons and also reduces the carbon footprint by ~7,700 tons • Jarosite is converted to Jaro x with addition of lime and cement. Fumer operation eliminates the need for lime and cement 37 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Lisheen mine has gone above and beyond the call of duty. It has been excellent in training and further educating employees. Louise Cleere | Employee Lisheen mine for 16 Years O 360 PROJECT MANAGEMENT Our vision is to establish a 'Bio-economy Campus' on the Lisheen mine site with multiple operations and jobs. Lisheen has been approved to be 1 of the 6 European Model Demonstrator Regions for the development and implementation of modern cluster strategies to foster entrepreneurship in emerging industries. Therefore, we are engaging with companies who have an active interest in establishing green industries on the site. To realise this vision, a task force comprising members of the local government and industrial development agencies has been in place for over two years. OUR COMMITMENT TO LISHEEN WILL EXTEND FAR BEYOND ITS CLOSURE. WE WILL MONITOR THE SITE FOR AN EIGHT TO 10-YEAR PERIOD AND MAINTAIN ACCOUNTABILITY FOR UP TO 30 YEARS. 38 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP The Gamsberg Project is actually a very good example of co-operative governance because we have been working together with the private sector which was represented by Vedanta, as well as the national Government to make sure that this development becomes a reality. Ms. Sylvia Lucas | Fourth Premier of the Northern Cape Province, South Africa O 360 PROJECT MANAGEMENT Our Sustainable Development Framework includes a number of Technical and Management Standards which are aligned to international standards like IFC and ICMM and require consultation with interested and aﬀected parties, right from the earliest stages of business planning. These sustainability standards ensure that sustainability risk assessments and due diligence appraisals are integrated into the wider due diligence around project development, new projects and potential acquisitions (including commercial, nancial and legal) and site closure. NEW PROJECTS Every new project poses a unique set of challenges. Demographics, local customs, cultural nuances and communication patterns all vary from location to location. Therefore, when we initiate a new project we analyse it thoroughly across all stages from exploration to development, operations and closure. Along with economic viability of a project, we also conduct a socio-economic and environmental impact assessment through a systematic process. Engaging with Stakeholders Risk Screening Understanding stakeholder expectation and prevalent mindsets is Sustainability risk screening is an integral part of our planning apparatus key to successful project management. for new projects, expansions and acquisitions. Our due diligence screening covers a wide range of sustainability issues like resettlement, We consult all key stakeholders in order to identify, prioritise and indigenous people (vulnerable groups), and signiﬁcant loss of cultural crystallise real and perceived sustainability issues associated to the heritage, human rights, biodiversity, transboundary/cumulative risks and project. overall sustainability impact. Risk screening outcomes help the Company Our approach to social impact mitigation is founded on disclosure to arrive at detailed scope of work on Environmental and Social Impact of relevant information, consultation and participation of all aﬀected Assessments (ESIA) for all new projects. This ensures that projects are communities, and arriving at mutually acceptable solutions that properly derisked, and successfully obtain and sustain their licence to address the material concerns of all stakeholders. operate. As part of the ESIA process, we identify potentially-aﬀected community early in the project development stage and engage with them to identify, assess and manage the environmental and social risks. SITES CURRENTLY UNDERGOING EXPANSION Hindustan Zinc Limited Vedanta Limited, Lanjigarh HZL Rampura Agucha mine in Rajasthan, India is the world's largest zinc mine. It has an ore production capacity of 6.15 mn MT per annum. As a part of its expansion programme, HZL is undergoing underground expansion to an ore production capacity of 3.75 mn MT per annum this year. For this the unit already received the environment clearance in 2012 wherein all the necessary Environment and Social Impact studies were undertaken earlier. HZL, Sindesar Khurd in Rajasthan has an annual ore production We continue to work to improve the security of raw material supplies capacity of 2.0 mn MT. for our Lanjigarh reﬁnery business. During 2015, we obtained Prospecting It is a highly mechanised world-class underground mine with Licences for three laterite deposits from the Government of Odisha. As state-of-the-art infrastructure facilities and best-in-class per the Vedanta Sustainable Development Framework requirements, the mechanisation. As part of the on-going expansion programme, ore Company will follow the necessary environment, social impact studies production capacity at Sindesar Khurd will be increased to and host country regulations. 3.75 mn MT per annum by FY 2018-19. The Company has completed the Environmental Impact Assessment involving social impacts. Vedanta Zinc International The public hearing for the same was conducted in July 2015 and Environment Clearance was obtained in January 2016. Vedanta Zinc International has broken ground at Gamsberg, one of the world's largest undeveloped zinc deposits. This commences Vedanta's HZL, Zawar Group of mines, Rajasthan operates at an annual plans to turn the Southern African region into one of the most important ore production capacity of 1.2 mn MT. suppliers of zinc in the world and to bring far-reaching socio-economic As part of the on-going expansion programme, ore production capacity and environmental beneﬁts to the region. The approach is to meet the will be increased to 4 mn MT per annum for which the Company has sustainable development challenge of balancing the social and already received Terms of Reference from the Government and is planning economic beneﬁts of developing the Gamsberg project with the need to to conduct Environment and Social Impact studies by FY 2016-17 Q3. protect and preserve the unique arid zone biodiversity in the area. 39 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP I would like to commend the genuine commitment of Vedanta and the Lisheen Management to the workforce and the wider local community. This support was evident not only during the life of the mine but over the last two years. Intensive eﬀorts have been made to plan for post closure investment and employment at the site, by harnessing the support of local and national Government. Ms. Liz O'Donnell | Former Government Minister & Chairman Lisheen mine Task Force MATERIAL ASPECT These standards that govern our actions and decisions across the project life cycle broadly focus on following aspects given below: New Projects, Planning Acquisitions, Divestments and Conducting ESIAs Site Processes and Site Closure Joint Venture Due Diligence to International Standards Closure SITE CLOSURE Closure is not the end of the story for the mines. In fact, it is the ﬁrst chapter in the long tale of recovery of the ecosystem and social renewal for communities. It is during this phase that the stakeholder gaze is intense and they expect companies to fulﬁl the social and environmental commitments which were made at the beginning of the project. We consider mine closure as a core part of our business. We plan the closure criteria, outline closure activities, establish roles and closure right at the exploration stage and formulate a balanced, realistic responsibilities, time-frames and resource requirements. Phased and achievable plan that can be funded and supported by us, and restoration and reclamation activities are carried out in consultation generate long-term value for the environment and the community. As with the local community. We recognise the opportunity to share the part of the plan, we strive to build a sustaining economy in the lessons learnt and technical expertise between Lisheen mine and our surrounding region to ensure that we leave behind a positive legacy other operations, in order to ensure full implementation of ﬁnancially, environmentally and socially. international good practice across all of our operations. However, apart from Lisheen mine we do not envisage any other planned mine All our operations have Site Closure Plans in place, which are aligned with closures in the near future. local legal requirements. In India, establishing a closure plan is a critical step in obtaining regulatory approval from the Department of The Closure Management of our Lisheen mine is a testimony of our Environment and the Department of Mines. These closure plans set out commitment to adhere to global best practices. LISHEEN MINE – A CASE STUDY WORTH EMULATING Mining activity at the Lisheen mine concluded in November 2015. During Rehabilitation and Restoration of the Mine Site 17 years of operation, it not just made a valuable contribution to us and its As responsible stewards of Lisheen mine, our endeavour is to leave a previous owner, but also made a positive impact on the local and national positive legacy, transform the site into a secure and sustainable economy and created signiﬁcant employment in the region. Before ecosystem as well as share value that keeps on giving. commencement of mining, we made a commitment to our stakeholders that we would leave the site in a safe condition that will allow productive The main element of the Closure Plan is the capping of the Tailings use of the land and we are currently fulﬁlling those promises. Management Facility (TMF) in a safe and environment-friendly manner. All plans have been approved by the regulators, and We are focussing on best-in-class closure for Lisheen mine. A biodiversity progressive restoration of the TMF began in 2009. We made a action plan is ready and a detailed and fully-costed closure, restoration and commitment to the local community that 60% of the TMF would aftercare management plan is already under implementation. be capped by the time mine production ceased; this target has been Our actions will fulﬁl two key objectives: 1) Securing the future of achieved and costs associated with the physical closure and employees and 2) Rehabilitation and restoration of the mine site rehabilitation of the site are fully pre-funded. The rehabilitated part of the TMF has now been turned back into Securing the Future of our Employees productive agricultural land and successful animal trials have been We have implemented an outplacement programme to assist employees approved by the Irish Department of Agriculture. Environmental to secure a smooth transition to alternative employment. To allay anxiety compliance is in accordance with the Company's EPA-issued and frustration, our teams counsel employees. To aid smooth transition, Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control Licence, and an we have allocated a training grant of US$ 1,000 per employee, over and Aftercare Fund has also been established to cover the required above the generous severance package of 6.75 weeks per year of service. 6-year monitoring and 30-year aftercare period. 40 Stakeholder Engagement 42 | Human Rights 45 BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS Neighbourhood Dialogue 47 ALIGNING INTERESTS Every business is a multi-stakeholder entity and stakeholders have diverse priorities, sometimes with con icting interests. Dialogue is the tool we use to build consensus and ensure that all stakeholders are conversant with the larger picture. We constantly align our business goals so as to deliver on the myriad expectations of our stakeholder spectrum. While our goals may get rede ned, our operational philosophy of protecting human rights is unshakeable. 42,200 TRAINING HOURS ON HUMAN RIGHTS HOSTED THE ST SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPEMENT DAY IN LONDON 4,176 COMMUNITY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTS CONDUCTED 41 BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS Launched an online STAKEHOLDER stakeholder engagement and grievance redressal ENGAGEMENT recording system Conversation builds the foundation for convergence. The symbiotic relationship that we share with our stakeholders stems from our zest to constantly engage with them in a constructive dialogue. With a view to understand expectations, align interests and update them on intentions and actions, we interact with our stakeholders, internal as well as external, across the project life cycle. Not only does it build winning synergies, we also reap the beneﬁts of improved risk management and better on-ground outcomes. Our key stakeholders can be segmented in the following groups: EMPLOYEES SHAREHOLDERS, COMMUNITIES INVESTORS & LENDERS GOVERNMENTS CIVIL SOCIETY (non-governmental & other organisations) INDUSTRY (suppliers, customers & peers) Just like the diversity of our stakeholders, our modes of engagement too Strategic Communication is the fourth pillar of our are multifarious. From information disclosures to participatory sessions, Sustainable Development Model. It helps us create from feedback forms to one-to-one discussions, from satisfaction surveys synergies, combat misrepresentation, mitigate risks to performance scorecards, from top-management discourse to public and reinforce our reputation. hearings we deploy a host of engagement channels depending on the need and nature of a stakeholder. For more details, refer page 69 OUR ENGAGEMENT APPROACH ASK ANSWER ANALYSE ALIGN ACT Our dialogue begins We disclose not just We have established a robust We work hand-in-hand with our There is no stronger with questions to because we want to investigation process for stakeholders like governments, proof of commitment solicit feedback. Our be heard, but because complaints reported via the communities, industry bodies and to the cause, than stakeholders have we are answerable. Whistle-Blowing Mechanism, NGOs, and align our goals and demonstrable action. access to a number of Equal attention is laid Sustainability ID and Group actions with high priority areas of We back our words platforms to reach out on providing a Communications ID, involving the nations. The feedback of all with acts that move to Vedanta personnel constructive response. senior management and other engagements becomes part of our the needle towards and voice concerns. function personnel. materiality identiﬁcation exercise. promised outcomes. We regularly engage with sustainability analysts to benchmark our performance with peers. 42 BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS ENGAGEMENT MECHANISM RESPONDING TO STAKEHOLDER CONCERNS The Group's Stakeholder Engagement Standard guides relationship building actions of all our businesses. The standard is at par with global benchmarks, and is a true enabler as it empowers businesses to tailor it so that they can accommodate local culture. In fact, at the beginning of every year our businesses conduct their own stakeholder identiﬁcation & engagement analysis. It includes details, type and periodicity of engagement for all identiﬁed stakeholders across the business functions. This ensures that expectations and concerns speciﬁc to the operation are identiﬁed and addressed. We monitor both actual and perceived impacts and then liaise with respective stakeholders to determine the level of likelihood and severity. We have a dedicated public email address sustainability@vedanta.co.in Based on the analysis, Stakeholder Engagement Plans are developed and available for sending grievances and queries regarding Vedanta Group or pressed into action by each business unit. To enhance eﬃciency and any of the Group Companies. It is being managed by the Group eﬃcacy, they are periodically reviewed and revised. Sustainability Head and team, who respond to stakeholders at the business and operational levels as appropriately guided by our Framework. Over the years, this mechanism has become integral to our sustainable development approach and helps us: Similarly, all emails and correspondence regarding our sustainable development initiatives received by corporate functions like Corporate • Identify, categorise and engage stakeholders at all stages of the Communications and Investor Relations teams are being forwarded to the project life cycle sustainability team. • Ensure relevant engagement modes and optimal frequency for each stakeholder • Identify relevant information for local disclosure • Align our interventions with stakeholder priorities All our operations have dedicated stakeholder representatives who ensure two-way engagement. All the issues, feedback points and grievances raised are recorded, and contribute to our continual monitoring of stakeholders' interests, and ultimately become part of stakeholders' feedback in our materiality identi cation exercise. We also proactively meet with key stakeholder groups including civil society organisations, media and industry associations, to increase awareness about our business, explain our point of view and answer queries. We also publish in-house journals and newsletters, such as Zinc News and Yagna, to engage with employees, our wider industry, communities as well as host governments. 43 BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS Below is a synopsis of the engagement modes deployed by us during the reporting period: Mode of Identi ed Engagement Material Aspects Outcomes COMMUNITIES Community group meetings, • Community engagement • Completed the social impact studies for HZL and Cairn India operations village council meetings, initiatives • All projects are aligned to need-based assessment approach community need / social • Infrastructure projects impact assessments, public • Site-speci c stakeholder engagement process involving annual engagements, hearings, grievance • Land and resettlement activities and communication mechanisms, • Local employment • Around 2.25 mn bene ciaries via integrated development programmes cultural events, engaging philanthropically with • US$ 37 mn invested in community development communities via the Vedanta • Community grievance process followed at all operations Foundation • All land and resettlement practices follow the process laid down in the Framework EMPLOYEES Chairman's workshops, • Employee health • 757,000 man-hours safety training, and 1.53 mn man-hours HR and Chairman's / CEO's town hall & safety skill development training delivered to employees and contract workforce meetings, feedback sessions, • Training & leadership • Rolled out the technical external assessment (ACT-UP) process for other jobs performance management development systems, various committees apart from mining & smelting at the plant level, mentor • Gender diversity • Identi cation of top talents and future leaders through workshops programme, event • Succession planning • More than 15% female hiring management committee and welfare committee, women's clubs etc. STAKEHOLDERS, INVESTORS & LENDERS Regular updates, investor • Economic performance • US$ 10.7 bn revenue with a nal dividend of 30 US cents per share meetings, sustainable • ESG (Environmental, • Maiden Sustainable Development Day hosted in London development day Social and Governance) site visits, annual general performance • Round table workshops and meetings with Socially Responsive Investors & Lenders meeting and conferences, • All new projects carried out as per the Sustainable Development Framework dedicated contact channel • Adherence to international standards and International Finance Corporation standards ir@vedanta.co.in and sustainability@vedanta.co.in for new projects • Sustainability assurance audits conducted through Vedanta Sustainability Assurance • Sustainability risk Programme (VSAP) management • Completion of Environment & Social Review of VSAP CIVIL SOCIETY Partnerships with and • Project partnerships • Membership of international organisations including the United Nations Global membership of international Compact, TERI, CII, The World Business Council for Sustainable Development • Community development organisations, working (WBCSD) and Indian Biodiversity Business Initiative (IBBI) relationships with organisations • Human rights compliance on speciﬁc projects, child labour and forced • More than 250 partnerships with non-government organisations, schools, academic engagement with international, labour and government bodies national and local NGOs, • Focus towards implementing Sustainable Development Goals and other community conferences and workshops, need-based projects dedicated contact channel sustainability@vedanta.co.in INDUSTRY (SUPPLIERS, CUSTOMERS, PEERS, MEDIA) Customer satisfaction surveys, • Contractual integrity • SAP-based Supplier Relation Management system in place to facilitate transparency scorecards, in-person visits to payments • Hotline service and email ID to receive whistle-blower complaints customers, supplier and vendor • Partnerships meetings • Internal preparedness to implement the UK Modern Slavery Act requirements GOVERNMENTS Participation in government • Economic performance • US$ 37 mn invested in community development consultation programmes, • Community development • US$ 39 mn spent on environmental improvement and operational projects engagement with national, state and regional government bodies • Environmental initiatives • US$ 3.2 bn payments to exchequers at business and operational level 44 BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS PRINCIPLE HUMAN MATERIAL ASPECT 1,2,3,4 & 5 RIGHTS Human Rights ranks high on our priority list and we consider it a Child and Forced Labour fundamental responsibility. With majority of our operations in Be it direct or through a contractor child, forced or compulsory labour is developing countries, we are acutely sensitive about upholding human a non-negotiable oﬀence at Vedanta. We have proper systems at all our rights and it has been a material aspect across all our business decisions. operations. Further, we carry out periodic inspections of our remote mine locations and require proof of age for all contract workers. Our Suppliers' Our Human Rights Policy is aligned to the UN Guiding Code of Conduct ensures that all our suppliers also commit to the same Principles on business and human rights, and includes norms. Our signiﬁcant suppliers and contractors generally include strict prohibition of child or forced labour either directly well-reputed and well-governed organisations, with systems and or through contract labour. practices, comparable to our own. Additionally, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code) commits us to comply with all relevant national laws and regulations, underpinning our approach to protect the fundamental rights of all our direct and indirect employees, communities and immediate supply chain. DIRECT & INDIRECT WORKFORCE We foster constructive relations with all employees and labour unions. There is zero room for human rights violations at our operations. Unfortunate cases of non-compliance, if they occur, are dealt with severely as we have proper mechanisms like employee grievance processes, collective bargaining and contract labour management cell at all our operations. At Sterlite Copper, we use a fool-proof radiological age Collective Bargaining identi cation process to assess child labour violations. We uphold worker rights to freedom of association at all our operations. Collective bargaining is a key mechanism through which we engage Supplier Diligence with our workforce, and ensure fair remuneration and working Although all our signiﬁcant suppliers have adequate systems to safeguard conditions. It oﬀers the opportunity to create a better work environment the human rights of their workforce, we ensure due diligence by in terms of improving productivity, health and safety, working conditions, conducting inductions, screenings, inspections and audits on a case to remuneration, allowances, incentives and bonuses. case basis. We have a collective bargaining mechanism at our various operations We respond to concerns raised by interested parties on any of our key and the percentage of workforce covered by the mechanism include: suppliers by undertaking an independent assessment. HZL 49% | Zinc International 47% | KCM 86% | CMT 38% We encourage suppliers to adopt principles and practices comparable to Sesa Iron Ore 69% | BALCO 56% our own. The Supplier Code is implemented as part of the terms and conditions of supplier contracts across the Group and all new suppliers are We aim to have constructive relations with all employees required to sign, endorse and practice this Code. We also have in place, a and labour unions, in the locations where we operate and Supplier & Contractor Sustainability Management Policy. Both the Code as ensure that compensation for workers meets or exceeds, well as the Policy clearly communicate our expectations from our the legal requirements. suppliers: to operate in compliance with all relevant legislations and follow our policies while executing work for or on behalf of Vedanta. The collective bargaining agreements are negotiated and agreed by the The Supplier and Contractor Technical Standard further includes a Supplier management and union representatives. The agreements include Screening Checklist to evaluate contractor compliance relating to key clauses relating to remuneration, allowances, working conditions, issues e.g. legal compliance, HSE management, labour management, incentives and bonuses, health and safety, manpower productivity etc. human rights and child labour. This checklist is used by operations to Other locations which do not have collective bargaining agreements, screen suppliers and contractors as part of a prequaliﬁcation process prior have adequate systems and processes for employee development, to awarding work. appraisal, remuneration and grievance redressal. A mechanism is in place Last year, 100% of our new suppliers were assessed on to make employees aware of any signiﬁcant operational changes like health, safety, environmental, human rights & labour rights restructuring, mergers and acquisitions, expansions and the like. related aspects. Notiﬁcation periods for such events are contained in collective bargaining agreements and certiﬁed standing orders of respective The organisations that engage with us to supply raw materials or provide entities. For example, in India the notiﬁcation period is 21 days, in Zambia processing services are primarily well-established, reputable organisations and Namibia it is 30 days, whereas in South Africa it is 90 days. with robust human rights and fair practice mechanisms. 45 BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS 100% security guards underwent training LOCAL COMMUNITIES We have also deﬁned training and competency requirements for security We respect the norms, culture and heritage of local communities. Our personnel addressing community health, safety and security, and other Cultural Heritage Standard, Land & Resettlement Management Standard, human rights requirements, where appropriate. and Indigenous People and Vulnerable Tribal Groups Standard have been In 2016, all security guards in the Group received training on these developed in alignment with international good practices including aspects. It is worth noting that across the Group, we generally work with ICMM and IFC standards, and are implemented across the businesses. private and professional security companies (rather than local security forces or military). Our security personnel are not typically armed and we Indigenous Peoples and have not experienced signiﬁcant human rights abuses involving our Vulnerable Tribal Groups (IPs/ VTGs) security personnel. The Group's standards and guidance note on the subject was rolled out Last year, we conducted an internal assessment of human rights to support the implementation of our related technical standard. The practices. Businesses across geographies mapped their practices against core aim of the standard is to enable our project teams to engage, the UN Guiding Principle on Business and Human Rights. The assessment negotiate and partner with these vulnerable groups in a manner that conﬁrmed that the Human Rights Policy is being eﬀectively implemented avoids negative impacts and risks for all stakeholders, especially the by all units. However, the need for periodic internal capacity building indigenous peoples and vulnerable tribes. around implementing our human rights standards is required. The review also helped us in strengthening our existing systems and delivering focussed training for our staﬀ. The outcomes of this assessment which include best practices and suggestions, are serving as guide posts for all our businesses to enhance their compliance status. MODERN SLAVERY ACT 2015 Modern Slavery Act has been constituted by the UK parliament to tackle the issues of slavery and traﬃcking. It directs corporations to prepare a Slavery and Traﬃcking Statement mentioning the steps We have made special provisions for minorities and taken by them to ensure that slavery and human traﬃcking is not marginalised groups. To safeguard their rights, we follow taking place, either in their business or across any of their supply the principle of Good Faith Negotiation (GFN), Informed chains. Consultation and Participation (ICP) and/or Free, Prior The law will help improve investor conﬁdence as well as protect and Information and Consultation (FPIC). grow the organisation's customer base as more consumers seek out businesses with higher ethical standards. It will also manifest in Land Acquisition and Resettlement greater staﬀ retention and loyalty, based on values and respect, and We have never enforced any involuntary resettlement on any local facilitate development of more responsive, stable and innovative community. We have committed to not mine bauxite at Niyamgiri supply chains. Most importantly, it will help us protect and enhance without the consent of local communities. The current planned our reputation and brand. expansion of the reﬁnery has no potential impact on indigenous people At Vedanta Resources, we propose to incorporate the Modern and vulnerable tribal groups. The public hearing was organised by the Slavery Act 2015 in our operations through: government oﬃcials as per the regulatory framework in which consent for expansion was provided by the local community. Bauxite is • Inclusion of modern slavery act as an element in the Code of Business Conduct & Ethics abundantly available in other parts of Odisha and we continue our engagement with the State Government to secure alternative supplies • Revision of Group's Human Rights Policy and Sustainability supporting ramp-up of our Lanjigarh reﬁnery. Supplier & Management Policy Security Practices • Rolling out of a uniform sustainability screening checklist for all new suppliers and contractors Human Rights training is an integral part of our Sustainable Development Framework implementation, and is part of training on • Uniform implementation and usage of screening checklist by our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics provided to our employees commercial teams and contract workforce. Last year, 42,240 man-hours of training was • Veri cation and audit of Sustainability Supply Chain provided towards this end. The employees who received this training programme, and internal and external periodic assessment range from our on-site security guards to our transport workforce, of supply chain wherein we have previously identiﬁed some risks of child labour. 46 BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS NEIGHBOURHOOD DIALOGUE MATERIAL ASPECT We are privileged visitors to some of the world's most remote and underdeveloped regions. We have a duty to respect, learn from and create a shared understanding with those who host us. Connecting with the neighbouring communities and garnering their consensus is vital for us. We conduct an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) COMMUNITY NEEDS ASSESSMENT before every new project and continue to engage with communities Understanding community needs and expectations is a complex and throughout the project life cycle. As part of the ESIA process, we identify sensitive process. Last year, we completed our most comprehensive, potentially aﬀected community very early in the project development structured and collaborative community engagement to date, to develop stage and engage with them to identify, assess and manage medium and long-term development plans in participation with our environmental and social risks. This goes a long way in building trust, stakeholders. This was done in partnership with government and nonrespect, legitimacy and earns us the social licence to operate. government organisations (with a focus on those active in remote regions of India), for every community adjacent to our sites. Our approach is based on the global principle of Free, Prior Informed Consent (FPIC), wherein disclosure of relevant As on date, all of our subsidiaries and divisions have completed the study project information, consultation and participation of all or are in the process of completion and the rest have committed to work aﬀected communities, and arriving at mutually acceptable on it. solutions addressing matters of material concern to Each community group (including women and marginalised individuals) stakeholders, including aﬀected communities, is done. had the opportunity to speak separately and voice their opinions without fear or shame. The main concerns we heard were around livelihoods (in This approach is fully set out in our manual 'Technical Standard: terms of either employment or supplier opportunities with Vedanta). This Conducting ESIAs to International Standards', which is supported by a was a valuable feedback for our businesses, many of which are now Guidance Note and other Technical Standards addressing speciﬁc aspects developing projects around vocational training for them. requiring further, more detailed consultation e.g. land and resettlement, Based on the results of the assessment, we have arrived at pivotal needs of cultural heritage, and stakeholder engagement. These standards are the communities and are spearheading projects to address the needs. For applied in conjunction with the ESIA process, to inform our team's example, in locations where we cannot provide employment, we are understanding of their responsibilities to host communities. exploring vocational training (for example, in brick manufacturing), As highlighted in the previous section on stakeholder engagement, all entrepreneurship options (focussing on women) and other employability operations are required to identify stakeholders, develop Stakeholder routes. In the current year, we also initiated Nand Ghar Project for the Engagement Plans, and record and respond to stakeholder enquiries and hinterlands of India as well as implemented the Goat Project in the rural grievances. Across the Group, our community relations team comprises areas of Southern Namibia. Both these programmes concentrate on around 80 employees and more than 500 community ﬁeld oﬃcers, who providing signiﬁcant ﬁllip to income generation for the rural populace. work with local communities to ensure eﬀective consultation and For details, refer page no. 66-68 of Communities section. information sharing, to mitigate environment, social and health related risks, and to encourage informed participation by local communities. 47 BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS We want Vedanta to run its plant and expand. This will create employment opportunity and business opportunity in the area. This is why we supported Vedanta during public hearing for expansion. The public hearing and the decision was unanimous from impacted stakeholders. Mr. Binod Goud | President Youth Club, Lanjigarh Yuvak Sangh NEIGHBOURHOOD DIALOGUE IN ACTION case study ENGAGEMENT & BEYOND A blend of awareness and action to reduce water stress a pressing need of the community 3 With per capita water availability below 1,000 m /year, the state of Rajasthan in India faces severe water shortage. This issue gets compounded by people's ignorance towards use of safe drinking water, leading to health concerns. Cairn India aims to address this double-edged challenge with a two-pronged intervention. This year, the Company initiated a programme to deliver safe drinking water to more than a million lives in parched villages of Rajasthan through two steps: enhancing access to safe drinking water by establishing water treatment plants, and raising awareness to consume safe drinking water over untreated water. 1 Enhancing Access 2 Raising Awareness Cairn India, in association with its implementing partners is In order to ensure that the water infrastructure gets well utilised, establishing 331 water treatment plants at Kharantiya, Bodwa Cairn India organised an awareness programme on using safe and Seoniyala villages of Barmer District. These plants will make drinking water for both drinking and cooking purposes in the water, free of excessive chemicals and contamination, enabling vicinity. The programme was organised at Government Schools better health for the community; particularly bene ting in the respective villages. Various members of the community pregnant females, children and elderly. Over the coming years, including students, teachers, villagers and panchayat members the capacity of the water treatment plants will be ramped up attended the programme and learned about the bene ts of from 1,000 to 3,000 litre per hour, depending on the need of the using safe drinking water over untreated water, through community. Post this, the ownership of these plants will be interesting acts of magical tricks, songs and a play. transferred to Public Health Engineering Department, Rajasthan. COMMUNITY GRIEVANCE MECHANISM Grievances, if unaddressed can escalate into signiﬁcant issues or disputes, and labour) and grievances are recorded and categorised as negligible which at times could jeopardise viability of operations. (1), minor (2), moderate (3), serious (4) or disastrous (5). A total of 904 community grievances were recorded Further a SAP-based programme management tool for community across our businesses, of which 882 were actionable and grievance management and stakeholder engagement has been rolled were resolved in a timely manner. out this year which will aide in speedy resolutions of grievances. Robust grievance mechanisms, benchmarked to international good How We Performed practices, are operational at all our facilities and in nearby communities. Out of all the registered grievances, we didn't observe any signiﬁcant We continue to strengthen these mechanisms to ensure more eﬃcient incident related to violation of human rights. handling. We provide quick response and fast track resolution of Further no category 4 or 5 social and labour incidents were recorded in grievances when received. Any unresolved grievances are escalated to FY 2015-16, although lower-level incidents such as village road blockages senior management for their direction and decision-making. and strikes were recorded, particularly related to employment and External grievances regarding Vedanta and its subsidiaries can also be contractor issues, infrastructure projects and some operational issues logged at sustainability@vedanta.co.in. All community incidents (social including land and traﬃc management. 48 Economic Responsibility 50 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE Employees 56 | Communities 61 NURTURING INTERDEPENDENCIES Generating revenue and distributing wealth. Breaking societal walls and bridging the economic divide. Investing in employees and unlocking hidden potentials. Nurturing communities and raising their standard of living. Empowerment and economic independence instead of dole & philanthropy. We stay committed to give back to our stakeholders who play a pivotal role in powering us ahead. We are acutely aware that higher the return they get, the more invested in us they remain. 1,200% DIVIDEND BY HZL, LARGEST EVER PAID IN THE INDIAN PRIVATE SECTOR ~15% FEMALE TALENT MoU WITH THE MINISTRY OF WOMEN & CHILD HIRING DEVELOPMENT TO DEVELOP NEXT-GEN CHILD CARE CENTRES IN INDIA 49 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE I am con dent that our talented team of professionals, who ECONOMIC are committed to a sustainable future, will ensure that Vedanta continues to create signi cant value for all shareholders and RESPONSIBILITY bene t communities wherever we operate. Anil Agarwal | Chairman Vedanta Resources plc The commodities that we produce and the energy that we generate We pursue a three-pronged approach to value. We add value to constitute the building blocks of the modern world. However, the value countries' exchequer by discovering natural resources and processing we create is not limited to these outputs but extends across society in a them so that they are ﬁt for use. We enhance the value of our assets meaningful and eﬀective manner. through technically and technologically advanced processes that help us tap more resources per pound. And we expend value by driving direct We understand that as a global company we have a broader role in and indirect positive economic impact in the form of payment of taxes & society than merely bringing resources to market. This is particularly true royalties, and investments towards our employees and community. when considered in the context of operating in the developing world. With operations predominantly in India and Africa, we believe that our We believe in generating, sharing and cascading value Group can and should add and share value in order to facilitate the both nancial as well as nonnancial in the form of development of the economies and communities where we operate. employment, community development, etc. ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED & DISTRIBUTED (ECG&D) FY 2015-16 Direct Economic Contribution in US$ mn 10,737.90 Revenue 639.7 Employee Wages and Beneﬁts 9,180 Operating Costs 765.7 Payment to Providers of Capital 255.5 Payment to Government (Income Tax) 37 Community Investments -140 Economic Value Retained Total Employees Payment to CSR Investment (By Business) in Nos. Exchequer in US$ mn (By Business) in US$ mn 1,804 376 141.2 0.1 15.0 7,450 7.6 17,100 723.9 9.7 5,132 39.4 66,882 3,049 3,195.8 239.6 37 1.3 11,813 0.3 275.2 5.0 55.0 17,107 59.0 0.7 3,051 1,647.5 12.5 Zinc India Zinc International Aluminium Zinc India Zinc International Aluminium Zinc India Zinc International Aluminium Copper India & Australia Copper Africa Copper India & Australia Copper Africa Copper India & Australia Copper Africa Iron Ore Oil & Gas Power Others Iron Ore Oil & Gas Power Others Iron Ore Oil & Gas Power 50 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE In the weak commodity price environment, we remain committed to optimising our operations, leveraging our high quality asset base and proactively managing our balance sheet. I am encouraged to see the positive results of our cost reduction programme gaining momentum and believe that this relentless focus on eﬃciency will not only make our business more resilient through the cycle, but position us favourably for any future improvement in market conditions. Tom Albanese | CEO Vedanta Resources plc It is our endeavour to add value to each category of stakeholder we Dividend engage with. Here is a snapshot of our economic performance across the Since our IPO in December 2003, we have maintained a progressive stakeholder spectrum. dividend policy. Over the years, our shareholders have seen a total shareholder return of over 200% and we have paid a progressive dividend SHAREHOLDERS & LENDERS that was increased in nine out of ten years and held constant for one year. Commodity prices continued to fall in FY 2015-16. Prices of major metals Over the last ten years, Vedanta has returned US$ 1.6 bn to shareholders, like Iron, Zinc and Copper, that are central to our businesses, fell by 7% an average return of 8% per annum. In FY 2015-16, the Board proposed a to 15% on an average. The underlying reasons for this continuing trend dividend of 30 US cents per equity share. more or less remain the same: oversupply, weaker growth prospects in On March 30, 2016, Hindustan Zinc Limited declared a emerging economies (especially China) and a resurging US$. special Golden Jubilee dividend of 1,200% i.e. INR 24 The Government of India's vision of higher domestic production to (US$ 0.37) on an equity share of INR 2 (US$ 0.03) each. reduce India's dependence on imports and the 'Make in India' This is the largest ever dividend paid by any company in programme, are expected to accelerate demand in the Indian metal the private sector in Indian history. market, creating a positive environment for Vedanta in its domestic market in the near-term and globally in the medium-term. Return to Shareholders per share Revenue & EBITDA In FY 2015-16, our revenues stood at US$ 10.7 bn; a 17 % fall from FY 2012-13 FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 US$ 12.9 bn reported in FY 2014-15. EBITDA was US$ 2.3 bn, vis-a-vis US$ 58 US$ 59 US$ 63 US Cent 30 US$ 3.7 bn in the previous year. This was primarily due to lower commodity prices. in US$ mn GOVERNMENT At Vedanta, we believe that the best way to sustain our long-term 14,640 proﬁtability is by contributing to and ensuring the prosperity of the 12,879 12,945 countries we operate in. The nature of our business necessitates that we understand the aspirations of men and women who surround the areas 10,738 we operate in. We make a direct, positive economic contribution to national and state government budgets through the taxes and royalties we pay. Indirectly, 2,336.4 4,909 4,491 we contribute towards developing industry sectors by participating in Revenue 3,741 industry organisations and international bodies, protecting the EBITDA environment by working closely with host governments, and by 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 2012-13 providing direct and indirect employment opportunities to 67,000 people across geographies. Segment Contribution to Revenue in US$ mn In FY 2015-16, the Vedanta Group cumulatively Region FY 2012-13 FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 contributed US$ 3.2 bn to host governments by way of taxes and royalties. This excludes signi cant withholding Aluminium 1,838 1,785 2,082 1,694 taxes and social security contributions. Zinc 3,061 2,857 2,944 2,503 We have not received any direct ﬁnancial assistance from governments, Oil & Gas 3,223 3,093 2,398 1,322 although as part of various direct tax holidays and similar exemptions, Iron Ore 443 267 327 350 Vedanta did beneﬁt by US$ 311 mn during FY 2015–16. in US$ mn Copper 5,734 4,676 4,778 4,170 Finanacial Assistance received FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 Power 669 622 672 707 from Government 311 239 Elim/Others (327) (355) (321) (8.4) Total 14,640 12,945 12,879 10,738 51 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE Paying fair share of taxes in the countries where companies operate is increasingly being seen as a 'social licence' to operate by various stakeholders. At Vedanta, we've been ahead of the curve by putting out a Tax Transparency Report in advance of any statutory requirements. We will now take this reporting to the next level by complying with the UK Report on payments to Governments Regulation 2014. Pallavi Bakhru | Sr. Vice President and Group Head -Taxation In accordance with the UK Bribery Act, it is a Vedanta Board policy that EMPLOYEES neither the Group nor its subsidiaries will make donations or contributions Our employees are our biggest assets. It is their passion, determination to political parties within the United Kingdom or European Union. In India, and professionalism that sets us apart. It is both our privilege and political donations or contributions made within the context of legitimate prerogative to invest in developing and retaining key talent. The business operations are made only with the approval of the Board. Last year, no political donation was made by any of our businesses. remuneration and other beneﬁts extended to our employees not only meets the laws of the land but also competes with the best in the Tax Transparency industry. Being an organisation that upholds merit in hiring as well as career progression, we provide ample scope and a conducive work In recent years, Tax Transparency has gained a lot of importance in public eye. A range of initiatives have been launched worldwide addressing environment that nurture talent as well as motivate them towards stakeholder requirements for transparent disclosure of revenues and tax long-term retention. arrangements. Transparency is the core principle, as we ﬁrmly believe it is a pre-requisite to build trust which is the foundation for long-term sustainable value creation. We practice a tax strategy which conforms to our Code of Business Conduct & Ethics with zero tolerance on corruption and bribery. Our tax teams around the world are required to operate in accordance with clearly deﬁned principles, including integrity and open communication. Management of tax aﬀairs and tax risks is led by tax professionals who work in accordance with our established governance framework. We remain at the forefront of tax reporting by managing the tax aﬀairs in a succinct and straightforward manner. Therefore, in FY 2014-15, to ensure proactive transparency in tax reporting and greater accountability towards our stakeholders, we voluntarily produced our ﬁrst Tax Transparency Report even before it became a mandate. The detailed report shows the contributions we made to the public ﬁnances in the countries we operate in. To view our Tax Transparency Report 2015-16, visit For more information about our employee-centric initiatives, sustainabledevelopment.vedantaresources.com/sustainableplease refer to the Employees Section on page 56. development/performance-and-reports.html INITIATIVES SHAPING FUTURE LEADERS AT ZAMBIA As an endeavour to plug skill gaps in Zambia, Konkola Copper Mines (KCM) has spearheaded a two-pronged initiative. • A scholarship programme that awards selected trainees, scholarships to study at universities in India and Namibia before being employed by the Company • A structured in-house management training programme, where trainees inculcate good work culture, get acquainted to attributes of sound management skills & work eﬃciency, and gain exposure to global best practices In 2015, the Company recruited over 35 university graduates in mining engineering, human resources, business and metallurgy, as management trainees. Over 240 management trainees have been recruited, since the programme commenced in 2006. 52 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE SOCIETY Any long-term relationship is based on trust that stems from the We have observed four dimensions of indirect economic development in responsibility, ownership and sincerity one demonstrates in one's actions. the local area, state and country at large: We believe that the communities in and around our areas of operations Development of Local Skills | We aim to enhance the capacity of the should beneﬁt from our presence in their vicinity. This beneﬁt should be local people through skill development programmes; thereby multi-dimensional the employment we generate; the infrastructure we developing local support services and alternative income streams. support; and the wide-ranging social interventions we spearhead. The remoteness of our operating locations gives us the opportunity to Development of Local Markets | Skill development augments purchasing power, increases the cash ow movement in the market forge close ties with the local communities residing there. We work to and eventually, develops the market on the whole. enhance the infrastructure of the nearby villages through Private-Public Partnerships. These projects are identiﬁed by the community, brought to Development of Aspirations | With right skills and education, our notice by the local panchayats and village development committees people aspire to grow and lead a happy life. and owned by the community collectively. Our community investment focusses on health, Development of Livelihood Opportunities | We have undertaken livelihood projects both in farm as well as non-farm sectors to provide education, livelihoods and environment. In FY 2015-16, sustainable livelihood opportunities to the local community. we invested US$ 37 mn, bene tting more than 2.25 mn people globally through building hospitals, schools and infrastructure, developing employability skills and supporting community programmes. Rural livelihood was our priority during the year. Augmenting and upgrading community assets/common property resources such as constructing community centres, water tanks, roads, repair of schools building and others in partnership with the community and the local administration has also been one of our core activities. In the FY 2015-16, resource sharing between local authorities has resulted in the construction of 63 tube wells & bore wells, 20 km road development, 11 community centres, 283 check dams, and other structures and For more information about how we are making a positive impact in renovation works. the society, please refer to the Communities section on page 60. INDUSTRY, SUPPLY CHAIN & CUSTOMERS We operate in some of the most remote geographies on the planet. In order to ensure smooth operations, we rely on a robust supply chain comprising downstream industries and support services. Sourcing locally not only beneﬁts local economies and governments, but also contributes to reducing the carbon footprint. In addition, due to the scale of our operations, we generate opportunities for the downstream industries and support services such as transportation. We work with local suppliers wherever possible, contributing to local market development. Importantly, this relationship extends to non-ﬁnancial beneﬁts such as skills development and training in areas such as health We target to build 50,000 toilets for households and schools in Rajasthan and safety, as well as making improvements to local infrastructure. in the next 3 years. So far, Cairn and HZL have collectively freed 8,800+ families from open defecation in the state. In addition, we have ensured We have an established Supplier Code of Conduct, Supplier and 24*7 access to potable water for the residents of Barmer and Sanchore, Contractor Management Policies, Supplier Screening Checklist that Rajasthan by installing ATW (Any Time Water) machines with RO plants. encourage business partners and suppliers to adopt principles and More than 35,000 families in Rajasthan beneﬁt annually through our water practices comparable to our own. The Supplier Screening Checklist, programmes. which is used by our operations to screen and evaluate contractor compliance includes key aspects on legal compliance, HSE management, In Tamil Nadu, Sterlite Copper has partnered with the District labour management, human rights and child labour. This checklist is used Administration to work towards the 'Individual Household Toilet Project' by operations to screen suppliers and contractors as part of a to promote total sanitation in schools and panchayats. prequaliﬁcation process prior to awarding work. 53 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE Our Value chain is described below VALUE CHAIN HIGH VALUE OUTPUTS Exploration Natural resources We focus on extending the life of our mines and oilﬁelds Our diversiﬁed portfolio produces high quality metals and through focussed exploration, aimed at increasing our minerals, LMEbranded reﬁned metals, and oil & gas, R&R base over and above what we extract each year. delivering industry leading EBITDA margins of over 40%. We prefer to explore brownﬁeld opportunities across our Our business activities are underpinned by a wellcurrent asset base, and a few select, large-scale, low-cost established Sustainable Development Framework to greenﬁeld sites minimise our environmental footprint Asset development People and skills We develop our resource base to optimise both production We invest in developing our workforce, delivering over 1.24 and the life of the resource. We also develop processing mn hours of training, including over 756,000 hours of health facilities that are strategically located close to our resources & safety training. We attract and retain talented employees to optimise our costs and access to markets. through management training and development programmes, supported by speciﬁc initiatives to encourage gender diversity. Extraction Our operations are focused on mining metals and bulks, extracting oil & gas and generating power. We operate Governments mines in India, Africa, Australia and Ireland, extracting zinc, We are a substantial contributor to the economies where lead, silver, iron ore, bauxite and copper. We produce oil & we operate, both as an employer and a tax payer. We paid a gas from three operating blocks in India. total of US$ 3.2 bn in taxes and levies across the Group. Processing Society In line with our integrated value chain, we produce reﬁned We make an economic and social contribution to the metals by processing and smelting the ore that we extract. communities where we operate. We invest US$ 37 mn in We have smelters and other processing facilities in India building hospitals, schools and infrastructure and providing and Africa. We generate our own power for most of our community programmes for around 2.25 mn people. operations, selling any surplus. We also sell power generated by our independent power plants and wind farms. Customers We deliver high quality raw materials for our customers in Value addition line with international standards for quality settlement While we are primarily upstream, we selectively add value terms and delivery dates. We operate more than 25% of by converting some of our primary metal products into India's oil production and contribute to the nation's energy higher margin products such as sheets, rods, bars and security. India has a deﬁcit market and we are a large rolled products at our zinc, aluminium and copper generator of power in India. businesses, depending on the proﬁtability of adding value and the customer demand for these products. Shareholders We have a progressive dividend policy and have returned US$ 1.6 bn in dividends to shareholders since the IPO in 2004 54 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE Our SAP supplier portal is an easy-to-use, highly eﬃcient and secure method of communication between purchasing organisations and vendors. Requests for quotations, vendor bidding and auctions are IN SYNC WITH THE carried out online to ensure transparency, with easy access to the status EVOLVING CUSTOMER NEEDS of oﬀers, material dispatches and payments, ensuring transparency within the business and value addition to our suppliers. Hindustan Zinc Ltd. is today one of the most reliable and preferred suppliers of Zinc, Lead and Silver not just in India but globally. In part, this is because of the marketing eﬀorts Customers undertaken by the HZL team. We understand that meeting our customers' expectations is crucial to the growth of our business, particularly when we have such a signiﬁcant Over the years, the team kept its focus on consistency in presence in the market. We therefore ensure that our raw materials meet quality, incorporation of modern best practices and the required London Metal Exchange (LME) standards for entering the understanding the pulse of the market. commodity market. We have deﬁned systems and practices in place to understand and meet customer expectations and regularly engage with them through our marketing and customer relationship personnel. All our activities are focused on ensuring customer needs are met in an appropriate and timely manner, including assisting our customers with technical issues and product development for ﬁrst use. Customer satisfaction surveys are conducted periodically by external third parties. No cases of non-compliance with relevant regulations, anticompetitive behaviour, anti-trust, monopoly and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of our products and services were observed or reported. Similarly, no signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services were reported. • As the market preferences matured from loose Zinc & Lead bundles without strapping, we set up automated packaging facilities for slabs • There has been a conscious change from a basic sales and distribution model to greater customer orientation, with periodic customer satisfaction surveys, market surveys and focus on prompt deliveries, faster account settlements and extensive technical customer service • Keeping in mind the needs of the market, a number of innovative new products like Jumbo & CGG (Continuous Galvanising Grade) have been introduced The Commercial function has also played a pivotal role in making HZL a world-class asset. There has been a paradigm shift in the procurement policy from the lowest cost price procurement (L1) to ﬁrst, lowest Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) and then on to Full Impact Value (FIV) in accordance with international best practices. 55 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE 9.4% 1.53 mn EMPLOYEES full time female employees (FY 2014-15: 8.6%) training hours delivered to workforce (FY 2014-15: 1.24 mn) It is the passion, perseverance and sheer ingenuity of our ~67,000 Our HR practices are harmonised with on-ground realities of the countries workforce that drives the success of Vedanta. Our people ensure that our we operate in. Majority of our operations are located in developing business operations are eﬀectively executed, sustainability commitments geographies which are characterised by short supply of skilled workforce responsibly rendered and ambitious plans turned to reality. They are and therefore the challenge of channelising large swathes of unskilled crucial cogs in driving each of the triple bottom lines. labour. We address this gap by oﬀering appropriate training platforms and scholarships to the talented youth. Multiple structure programmes are in Apart from sharing value in terms of attractive place at business units to nurture a talent pool of technically proﬁcient remuneration, we empower them with the freedom to personnel. One such example is our Mining Academy in Rajasthan that learn, lead, explore, experiment, innovate, and evolve focuses on enhancing the skills in underground mining for our professionals. as a professional and as a person. Over the reporting period, across We invest signi cantly in our businesses, the total percentage developing and retaining key We continue to invest in attracting fresh talent. Our approach emphasises of locally hired senior management talent to drive innovation and on ensuring the right person in the right role and having a clearly-deﬁned succession plan with a focus on critical positions. This is important in our personnel were: India (97%), eﬃciency within the business. industry, where securing high-potential talent is a challenge because of Australia (100%), Zambia (63%), In this regard, our attrition rate high demand for skilled personnel. Our progressive HR policies and Namibia (100%), Ireland (100%) has remained stable and this strong leadership demonstrate our commitment to equal opportunities and South Africa (56%). year it was reported as 5.38%. regardless of diﬀerence in race, nationality, religion, gender or age. At all our operations, we ensure the ratio of entry level wages meets or exceeds We provide an array of beneﬁts to our permanent employees including the legal requirements and that we do not discriminate in anyway in coverage under insurance scheme; health insurance scheme; retirement terms of gender by maintaining a ratio of 1:1 for standard entry level. beneﬁts and stock options, depending upon management grade. OUR PRIORITIES ORGANISATION GROWTH • We have established gender diversity targets at the Board-level as well as Business-level. We continue to attract talent from top engineering institutes, business schools and graduate colleges. This is an important step in sourcing a • We have already achieved our business-level target of hiring 15% strong talent pipeline for the future. We also focus on eﬀectively utilising women professionals and remain committed towards ful lling and grooming talent by appropriately rotating them across businesses the target of more than 33% female representation on the Board by FY 2019-20. for experience in new roles and to prepare them to take up various key positions in the future. In particular, this year, due to volatile market conditions and owing to disruptions in our business, we have redeployed Women in Workforce in % and optimised appropriate resources to other businesses. Increase in % of women in workforce Women Diversity 15% as compared to FY 2011-12 With an operational footprint as wide as four continents, our focus on 9.4 diversity remains unﬂinching. Our workforce is an eclectic mix of people of diﬀerent regions, nationalities, gender and age. Apart from bringing on board multi-cultural individuals, we are ﬁrmly committed to usher in 8.6 gender equality. We are signatory to the 'CEO Statement of Support' that 8.3 expresses our commitment to the United Nations' Women's 8.2 8.1 Empowerment Principles 'Equality Means Business'. 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Across the Group, both men and women are recruited on the premise of 'equal remuneration, equal opportunities'. In recent years, Vedanta has witnessed the appointment of women to a number of key positions Male Female including Non-Executive Director CEO Zinc International, Group President Sustainability, CSR and Communications, Group Head of No. of employees who have taken 251 184 Treasury, Head CSR HZL and Group Head Taxation. parental leaves in FY 2014-15 Our recruitment drives focus on identifying women candidates for key No. of employees who returned to work 233 171 roles and oﬀering them career advancement. We have witnessed an after parental leave ended and who were still employed next 12 months upward inclination in percentage of women in total workforce ratio, after their return to work i.e. from 8.1% in FY 2012-13 to 9.4% in FY 2015-16. Retention % 92.83% 92.93% To enable women to work with dignity and without fear, a sexual harassment prohibition policy and sexual harassment committee is in Retention % is calculated on the basis of the no. of employees who returned and were in place in each business. continuous service for next 12 months / no. of people who went on parental leave 56 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE I am thankful to Vedanta for not de ning my role PRINCIPLE based on my gender, but based on my capabilities. 6 Sadhna Verma | Manager HSE, BALCO EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT We pursue the philosophy of 'open doors, open ears' and encourage employees to voice their views. Employee satisfaction is measured through multiple yardsticks and necessary action is taken to fulﬁll their needs and expectations. Our myriad employee engagement platforms include: • External surveys such as Aon Hewitt's 'Great places to work' • Whistle-blower procedure to anonymously report unsafe or programme and periodic in-house 'dipstick' surveys unethical practices (Refer page no. 45 for details) • Monthly, large-scale interaction programmes helmed by • Collective bargaining (Refer page no. 45 for details) Business Head, Functional Heads, Head HR, Location Heads etc. • 100% of total workforce represented in the formal joint • Quarterly town hall meetings addressed by Chairman, CEO, COO management-worker health and safety committee and CFO • Ethics Committee that oversees issues including concerns of • Weekly one-on-one meetings plus the ubiquitous suggestion discrimination and harassment and employee grievance boxes For more details, please refer page 44 case study CAIRNFIT WELLNESS PROGRAMME Creating a Healthier Workplace Better health is central to human happiness and well-being. It not only allows us to be disease free, but helps us lead a more ful lling life. But while the bene ts of a healthier lifestyle are well known, bringing sustainable change requires changing mindsets. With this view in mind, Cairn India launched the Cairn t Wellness The participant feedback has been more than satisfactory and Initiative in 2015, under which employees are oﬀered in-house the results on the health indicators have been dramatic some programmes such as Transformational Yoga, Functional Fitness, people have lost as much as 11 kg in a matter of 3 months. Couch to 5K Running and Nutritional Awareness Sessions. Spreading the importance of tness and building a culture of healthy living, have been signi cant contributors to the success The programme was launched through an employee town hall of this programme. meeting where the CEO and senior leadership spoke about the importance of health and tness. The team also ran a multimedia campaign to build awareness and enthusiasm towards holistic I have attended yoga earlier but the well-being. programme oﬀered at Cairn was very well structured and all the participants ramped With classes being conducted every week in oﬃce premises for up on the skills in a short duration 2-3 months, the uptake for the programmes has been very good Akanksha Vohra | Employee with slots lling up within a few hours. All participants also undergo a pre and post medical check Apart from raising awareness about wellness, the programme measuring their BMI and other health indicators which are then has served as an excellent engagement initiative demonstrating tracked for progress at the end of the programme. care and enhancing camaraderie. 57 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE case study STEPPING UP TO GOOD HEALTH We live in a high-paced world and need to juggle multiple professional and personal roles in the same breadth. In a professional world, this aﬀects employees' health which may lead to absenteeism, disengagement and reduced productivity. With an objective of helping employees step up to good health, As most of the employees participated in Stepathlon in various Vedanta participated in Stepathlon, a 100-day race initiative teams, the team involvement and team work improved by 40%. aimed at promoting healthier lifestyle. Stepathlon is meant for Employees calling in for leaves due to ill-health saw a dip too. the everyday athlete and is a fun, engaging way to motivate Average reduction in illness was 3 days. participants regardless of age, gender, location, designation or tness level. Over 5,800 employees across locations became stepathletes Walking has really helped in reducing the stress and I am feeling very energetic clocking a daily average walk of 8.5 km. at work place. The participants reaped several bene ts including Anand Satpute | Vedanta Limited improved reduced weight adoption quality stress loss of better of sleep level lifestyle Thanks for inculcating the habit of 23% of our employees quit smoking after the participation and walking. I walk 10-12 km a day on a daily several employees achieved an average 7 Kg weight loss. basis and have reduced 4 kg of weight in the last 2 months. Good health also got translated in to better work. Work-related Mahender Singh | Vedanta Limited engagement increased by 35% resulting in increased productivity of 33%. INITIATIVES WINGS OF FREEDOM AT STERLITE COPPER Sterlite Copper, one of India's largest copper producers, is on its way to become a benchmark workplace for HR best practices. This synopsis of the company's employee practices is a ﬁne example of the Group's talent management philosophy. 1 Freedom to Learn and Grow Global exposure visits, guides / mentors for all Opportunities the STARs, training across the Group interventions / MDP Grooming Job Rotation / STARs / 2 Freedom to innovate and maximise potential Enhanced Roles Specialised • Cross functional assignments • Focus on continuous Trainings improvement via Kaizen • Young age responsibility • International exposure • Mentoring by senior leaders through platforms like Global General / • Personal and professional aid Exposure Programme Technical Act-UP Leader's Connect 3 Freedom to be recognised & rewarded • Trainee of the quarter • CEO kitty • Team of the month • Long term service award Detailed external assessment to identify high potential • Spot recognition • Chairman's award 58 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE Vedanta’s Global Internship Program (GIP) is designed for high achievers to apply their academic knowledge, analysis and business acumen to some of the most challenging projects in a real-life environment. Suresh Bose | Head Group Human Resources, Vedanta Limited PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT In line with our philosophy of being a high performance organisation, we have a strong performance management system in place. All our employees participate in a reward-linked annual appraisal programme, where performance is gauged against key performance indicators. Three key tenets of our performance management approach are: Appraisal based on annual goals Feedback and Individual key performance measured against a pre identi cation of areas indicators linked to 1 determined ve-point scale 2 for improvement 3 sustainability outcomes Our decisions pertaining to employee development and progression is based on robust evaluation of work performance and potential. To seed, nurture and grow a vibrant workforce we: Identify and develop Work with universities Oﬀer rotation Extend more internal candidates and training institutions opportunities within our opportunities to 1 for key management positions 2 to develop a healthy talent pipeline 3 business, plus mentoring and career counselling 4 women, particularly at managerial level For more details on Performance Management, refer Remuneration Report in our Annual Report. TALENT DEVELOPMENT & MANAGEMENT Our Group-wide 'Star of Business' programme is a unique initiative that identiﬁes high potential talent early in their career and puts them on a fast We continued to add strength to the calibre of our talent across cadres growth track through enhanced roles and responsibilities. Our Global through various development enablers such as: Leadership Programme empowers the high potential employees to gain • Expert-led training on issues including behaviour global exposure by working overseas for six to twelve months. Such and technical skills career advancement platforms have empowered thousands of • Orientation programme to facilitate new recruits' transition employees to climb the corporate ladder, speedily and fruitfully. from 'campus to corporate’ We also conduct structured programmes to assist employees for smooth transitioning from work to retirement such as computer literacy • Chairman's workshops: attended by more than 2,500 people programmes, wealth management, tradesman skill building in the last ve years programmes, retirement workshops & employee assistance programmes. • Initiatives like Technical ACT UP, Club 100 and Leadership Workshop • Work Integrated Learning Programme oﬀering B-Tech Employee Training man-hours and M-Tech education while on-the-job Full Time Employees Contract Employees We oﬀered 1.53 mn training hours to our team members, Male Female Male Female with an average of 31 hours per full-time employee. 664,625 75,480 779,476 16,597 LEADING BY EXAMPLE In the reporting year, Vedanta Ltd. won the 'Best Practices in Developing Top Leaders' Award at the 'Best Leadership Development Practices of Asia Seminar and Awards 2015'. The company was also declared the ﬁrst runners-up in two other categories, 'Best Practices for Developing Future Leaders' and 'Best Practices for Developing New Leaders'. Sterlite Copper received the 'Golden Peacock HR Excellence Award' for overall excellence in HR and People Management Practices. Vedanta Ltd. Jharsuguda won the coveted 'Signi cant Achievement in HR Excellence' Award at the 6th CII National HR Excellence Awards. 59 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE US$ 37 mn 2.25 COMMUNITIES 0.35% of revenue spent on social investment (FY 2014-15: 0.33%) million lives bene ted Businesses and communities depend on each other to create an Outreach: empowered and a prosperous society. To nourish and nurture this interdependent relationship, we consistently invest time and resources in 578 core villages Codli mine, Goa community development. We go beyond the customary role of business of paying taxes, generating 1,010 Continued CSR peripheral villages despite suspended operations employment and complying with the law of the land. We seed interventions in areas that act as development multipliers child and A rst-of-its-kind Social Impact Assessment study maternal welfare, sanitation and hygiene, public infrastructure corporate partnership concluded at HZL and Cairn development and skill building, for creating long-term value for our host with the Ministry of communities. The aim is to make a holistic improvement in the quality of Women and Child Peer benchmarking study on our life of the local communities. The majority of our initiatives are carried out Development, India 'Licence to operate' in partnership in collaboration with community organisations and are developed in to develop with Indiana University partnership, utilising a needs-based approach to community investment, underpinned by the use of 'Public-Private-People-Partnership' (4Ps) model. 4,000 Alignment with UN Sustainable next-gen Anganwadis Development Goals Our community engagement process, together with baseline studies and needs assessments, helps us to develop initiatives for local communities in pressing areas of need. Extending WBCSD WASH pledge to community Bene ciary Count* in mn Our CSR Policy and Social Investment Standard guide our FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 FY 2013-14 FY 2012-13 community engagement journey. 2.25 4 4.1 3.7 We often recruit external experts to assist us in both understanding local The value shared with communities is proportional to the economic value needs and to engage with relevant communities. A majority of our generated by the business and we have responded resiliently to the workforce at each facility belongs to the local communities. Engagement current macro-economic scenario. We have looked closely at our with these employees and their involvement in social interventions, along programmes to understand what contributes to our social licence to with members of the community, also oﬀers a better understanding of operate and realigned the scope and objectives of our programmes. While local issues, enhances community ownership and results in comprehensive this has led to a reduction in our footprint, our programmes have a sharper outcomes. The level of our community engagement is customised focus and stronger alignment with business imperatives. according to the business cycle commencing with the project and Based on the results of need-based assessment and social impact progressing through the operation to eventual closure. assessment studies, we are aligning our projects with priority needs of the To ensure that change is signiﬁcant and lasting, we follow a model wherein communities and countries. Accordingly, some of the projects have been discontinued, few interventions have been expanded and new programmes are designed with a clear mandate, that once they have programmes are being launched. This consolidation is not just enough traction, they will be handed over to the communities to manage. strengthening our social 'license to operate' but also enabling us to invest in most pressing issues. A case in point is our consistent support to women We have prioritised the Sustainable Development Goals Self Help Groups (SHGs) in line with our reinforced focus on women (SDGs) based on our material issues as well as operational empowerment; we supported 2,800 SHGs this year vis-à-vis 1,200 in the competency, and are now in the process of chalking out an previous year. Similarly, our support to youth in our operational areas in action plan to address the relevant Goals. terms of building vocational skills has also gone up from 3,844 to 5,861. *Some of the beneﬁcieries could be engaged in more than one project. 60 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE I am deeply overwhelmed and applaud Vedanta's eﬀorts in the eld of education which is a great investment for the generations to come. Mr. Laxmikant Parsekar | Chief Minister of Goa, India AREAS OF FOCUS Our programmes address speciﬁc priority areas of the community we Last year, we conducted a comprehensive community needs assessment operate in. Due to the nature of our business, most of our operations are exercise covering every location in the vicinity of our operations. Based located in hinterlands of developing nations and our intervention focus on the inputs, 'Women & Child Development' and 'Vocational Skills' were has broadly been in the following areas: identiﬁed as high priority areas. Hence in the reporting year, majority of our interventions were focussed in this domain. However, we continued Education | Health Water & Sanitation to add value in other focus areas as well. Women Empowerment | Skill Enhancement We believe that contributions in 'Women & Child Development' and 'Vocational Skills' can have a multiplier Farming & Animal Husbandry eﬀect on the quality of life of the entire community. EDUCATION Education is a bridge between an individual's potential and progress. Ensuring right to quality education for every child is a mammoth task and calls for collaboration from all quarters. Vedanta has been joining forces with various government bodies and thought leaders to facilitate bona ﬁde learning avenues for children of marginalised communities. Under the Vedanta Bal Chetna Anganwadi (VBCA) programme, we run In rural households, due to scant ﬁnancial resources, young boys and girls 3,100+ Anganwadis in partnership with the Indian government across often lose out on educational opportunities. Vedanta addresses this issue several parts of India. This year, about 71,000 children availed preschool by providing scholarships to girls who opt for higher education. This year, level education in these child care centres. We also operate ﬁve centralised over 900 such scholarships were granted. kitchens serving fresh, nutritious and delicious meals to 96,800+ children Cairn India works in Rajasthan and Gujarat, covering 150+ schools in order every day to support the Government's midday meal programme. to train the teachers and oﬀer better learning tools to students. To provide access to higher education, we run 16 schools and colleges, Konkola Copper Mines (KCM) runs two schools in Africa reaching out to most of them close to our operations. Over 211,000 students studied in over 2,100 pupils from preschool to A-levels. Scholarships are oﬀered to 15 these schools this year. In the reporting year, Sesa Iron Ore partnered with top performers from these schools to study at universities abroad. In Goa's Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan programme to develop textbooks in local addition, each year, KCM also provides scholarships to 40 students from language for primary schools of Goa. This intervention will go a long way government schools. Over 260 scholarships have been facilitated for in facilitating learning for children across the state. students in Africa so far. 61 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE I am deeply overwhelmed and applaud Vedanta's eﬀorts in the eld of education which is a great investment for the generations to come. Mr. Laxmikant Parsekar | Chief Minister of Goa, India INITIATIVES LEARNING IS FOR LIFE Age is just a number, for those willing to learn and earn with dignity. At KCM Zambia, adult education classes ﬁrst began as a 50th independence anniversary gift, but the response was so massive that the programme was subsequently scaled up. So far, 1,000+ adults have been taught to read and write by the KCM staﬀ in collaboration with the Zambian Ministry of Education. Several of them have passed certiﬁcate exams organised by the Ministry and are now equipped to work as teachers or administrative staﬀ. WHEN IT'S ABOUT EDUCATION, EVERY BIT COUNTS Education is the most powerful way to bridge gender diﬀerences. Sterlite Copper's Ilam Mottukal Project in Thoothukudi District, Tamil Nadu India aims at ensuring that every girl child is provided with quality school education in an enabling environment so that she can realise her full potential. This project beneﬁts 7,800+ girl children studying in over 80 Government and Aided Primary Schools in the District and is aimed at enabling support for their holistic development including provision of additional academic support and educational kits. Sterlite Copper also recognises bright students every year since 2000 to fulﬁl their pursuit of higher education. 400+ district level toppers in the Board exams have been presented the Scholastic Excellence Cash Award and scores of meritorious & economically marginalised students are being awarded an Annual Educational Scholarship, till date. ADDING SMILES TO A NATION'S HAPPINESS INDEX When Sandhya joined the Khushi centre in Gusai Kheda about 2 years ago she was severely malnourished and extremely shy. But after enrolling at the Khushi centre not just did she gain weight, her personality too ﬂowered. Today, she is a healthy 5-year old child who happily recites poems, counts numbers, and interacts with everyone. The Khushi centres being run by HZL are designed for children just such as Sandhya. We believe, no child should be bereft of the simple joys of life such as having a wholesome meal, playing with other kids, as well as learning holistically. With this objective, 'Khushi' child-care centres reach out to the children residing in remote hinterlands. The locations have been strategically chosen wherein government child-care centres are not easily accessible. The Khushi centres facilitate nutritious food, hygiene, healthcare and preschool education in a play way method. HZL directly runs 18 such centres and has also signed an MOU with the state government to strengthen other 3,000 state-run child-care centres. 62 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE PRINCIPLE 7,8 & 9 HEALTH Poor access to sanitation is a major cause of illness in India. Our goal is to create a lasting change in the health quotient of our communities through our two ﬂagship hygiene & sanitation programmes: WASH Pledge for Action and Improving Sanitation Infrastructure. Both these initiatives are aligned to the sixth SDG 'Clean Water and Sanitation' and also echo the clarion call for Swachh Bharat (Clean India) given by India's Prime Minister, Mr. Narendra Modi. WASH Pledge for Action Improving Water & Sanitation Infrastructure In FY 2014-15, Vedanta signed WBCSD's WASH (Water & Sanitation Hygiene) We target to build 50,000 toilets for households and schools in Rajasthan, Pledge, which seeks commitment from companies to ensure access to safe in the next 3 years. water, sanitation and hygiene for all employees. Going a step ahead, we have With their intervention so far, Cairn and HZL have together freed 8,800+ aligned our actions to secure safe sanitation for our communities. Laying the families from open defecation in Rajasthan. In addition, we have ensured cornerstone of this drive, our company-controlled operations underwent a 24*7 access to potable water for the residents of Barmer and Sanchore, self-assessment. General ﬁndings pinpointed the need to raise awareness, Rajasthan, by installing ATW (Any Time Water) machines with RO plants. provide more sanitation facilities, institute better maintenance systems and deploy better technology to mitigate water wastage. More than 35,000 families in Rajasthan bene t annually Action has been initiated on a war footing in the below three areas: through our water programmes. 1 Awareness • Internal training to create awareness among permanent and contract employees In Tamil Nadu, Sterlite Copper has partnered with the Thoothukudi • Signage and public meetings to spread the message in communities District Administration to promote total sanitation in schools and panchayats. 2 Infrastructure Along with sanitation, we also run targeted nutrition programmes for • Construction of 650+ washrooms in schools and communities women and children with an aim to treat anaemia, malnutrition and • Training housekeeping staﬀ for eﬃcient maintenance of facilities locally prevalent, treatable illnesses. We have setup 44 health clinics, 3 Monitoring where villagers receive prompt healthcare support. • On-ground scoring and audit of the infrastructure and community buy-in To ensure outreach in isolated hinterlands, we deploy mobile health vans. Sterlite Copper operates 'Healthcare • Monthly review on Wheels' in 28 neighbouring villages providing free Executing this initiative is not a mean task as the local communities lack primary and secondary healthcare access to 50,000 people. basic awareness on sanitation and hygiene. This challenge is compounded by the topographic complexity of Rajasthan, an arid, water-scarce region. But our impassioned team is ready to convert the roadmap into reality and Our approach to healthcare delivery transcends oﬀering curative WASH has already been implemented across two of our large subsidiaries, support. We strive to usher in behavioural change by spearheading Hindustan Zinc Ltd. (HZL) and BALCO. This programme, will also be health awareness drives and also aid in building infrastructure such as adopted by the rest of our businesses in the next reporting year. toilets, drainage lines and garbage disposal facilities. 63 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE INITIATIVES ELIMINATING THE MENACE OF MALARIA IN INDIA In Lanjigarh, Odisha India we continue to provide essential medical services in inaccessible areas through our outreach programmes and mobile health clinics. Our health intervention in this area has been instrumental in bringing down malaria deaths to zero and embedding awareness about health issues in close to 50,000 community members. The residents of this small town, which was once a malaria endemic zone, have now become more aware of their health and ensure wellness of their family. COMBATTING HIV IN AFRICA In Africa HIV is a major health challenge. To address this challenge, KCM has spearheaded an extensive community outreach programme towards providing HIV/AIDS prevention and care intervention to community members. Last year, over 15,000 community members availed of the Voluntary Counselling And Testing (VST) services. WOMEN EMPOWERMENT Self Help Groups (SHGs) are a powerful medium to empower women in the deepest rural pockets through socio-economic independence. We supported 2,800+ SHGs, reaching 38,000 women, Direct Economic Impact which is more than twice the number, a year ago. through SHG support FY 2015-16 SHGs supported by Vedanta oﬀer training in tailoring, stitching, local Total number of SHGs 2,840 crafts, animal husbandry and organic farming, with an aim to open doors SHGs engaged in income generation activities 570 to income generation opportunities. Market linkages are also provided, wherever possible. Total members in SHGs 38,099 SHGs also provide women the opportunity to socialise with other SHG members engaged in income generation activities 4,207 women, share their concerns and learn from others' experiences. This No. of women who established micro enterprises 180 leads to their holistic well-being. SUCCESS STORY HELPING MANJU HELP HERSELF Manju Singh Chauhan lives in Mansingh Ji Ka Kheda, one of the core intervention villages under HZL's CSR ambit. Manju got associated with a Self Help Group in 2007 and has not looked back ever since. As a ﬁrst step towards ﬁnancial independence, she purchased a sewing machine with a loan taken from the SHG and kept picking up new techniques and skills whenever HZL organised sewing trainings. Soon, people began to recognise her talent and the sewing machine became an integral part of her household. Today she contributes signi cantly to the family income and is committed to direct other rural women on the path of empowerment. Manju's story is just one of the many success stories of the women of this village that we take pride in sharing. There are many already written, and many more waiting to be written. 64 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE We are transforming the fate of villages by empowering their future custodians mothers & children. Roma Balwani | President, Group Sustainability CSR and Communications case study TRANSFORMING THE ANGANWADI MODEL Nand Ghar the New-gen Childcare Centre In India, the role of Anganwadi (childcare centre) is critical in combating malnutrition, promoting pre and postnatal care, immunisation and early childhood education. Though the nation is home to over 1.37 mn Anganwadis, their impact is far from what's desired. The need of the hour is to enhance the eﬃcacy and eﬃciency of Anganwadis. Project Nand Ghar is designed in line with Prime Minister of India's vision of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, Startup India, Swachh Bharat and Skilling India. With an aim to modernise the Anganwadi infrastructure in the Education country, Vedanta signed an MoU with the Ministry of Women & • Smart learning kit for children Child Development to construct 4,000 new age Anganwadis • Interactive e-learning across India. Primary Healthcare Our model reimagines existing Anganwadis and enhances their Each cluster of 25-30 Anganwadis to have a medi-clinic role. To be developed in high-burden districts, they will be called and a mobile medical unit, which will provide free OPDs, Nand Ghars and shall be equipped with state-of-the-art free medicines, and diagnostics for maternal and childcare infrastructure including access to nutritious food, clean water, Nutrition sanitation and perennial solar power supply. Supplementary nutrition to be provided to children from 6 They will enhance capacity utilisation of the infrastructure by months to 6 years, and to pregnant and lactating mothers being an access point for primary healthcare and hosting Livelihoods women's skill development programmes, in the free hours after • Hosting women's skill development programmes the children's education. • Creation of micro enterprises to promote entrepreneurship 50 Nand Ghars are operational as of now and other 50 will become operational by June 2016. Once all 4,000 Nand Ghars get constructed, 400,000+ children and women will bene t every year. With this endeavour, we hope to signi cantly transform the lives of women and children in rural India, and impact the prosperity of villages at large. SKILL ENHANCEMENT Direct Economic Impact through Youth Empowerment Skill building equals nation building. Skilling empowers the youth to integrate with the mainstream economy, plus it gives a signiﬁcant ﬁllip to 5,800+ youth were provided vocational skills training in FY 2015-16 the economy itself by providing trained manpower to industry. vis-à-vis 3,800+ youth in FY 2014-15 In the reporting year, we continued to focus on developing 2,900+ youth linked to earning opportunities in FY 2015-16 employability among youth by imparting skills in a wide range of trades. vis-à-vis 2,200+ youth in FY 2014-15 375 youths engaged under micro enterprise development 65 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE case study EMPLOYABILITY DEMANDS MORE THAN JUST SKILLS Cairn Enterprise Centre and Cairn Centre of Excellence Challenge: Barmer, where Cairn operates, is one of the most socio-economically disadvantaged districts in India. With a view to provide opportunities to the local populace of the region, we established the Cairn Enterprise Centre (CEC) in 2009 under a joint venture with the IFC. This journey started with its share of hiccups. While training was being provided eﬃciently, linking them to employment opportunities was proving to be a challenge. This was due to a host of factors such as low reliability, scant work ethics, unpunctual behaviour, absenteeism, resistance towards relocation and reluctance to take up full-time jobs. Intervention Based on what we learned, we initiated a major transformation the centre has sourced expertise from TUV Rheinland, a in the training curriculum and methodology. These included: well-known German training rm. Students from the Cairn • Preand post-training counselling Centre of Excellence have bagged placements in reputed companies like Amazon, Samsung and Suzlon. • On-the-job practical training before actual placement to acquaint trainees with on-ground realities and employee The success story of the centre has become expectations at work an international case study, with other • 'Outreach' centres to deliver training at the doorstep of organisations keen on replicating this model the community • Incentive mechanism to motivate training partners Vasundhara Raje @VasundharaBJP • Candidate tracking for a year, post-training Interesting interactions with young trainees under various skills • Post-placement nancial support for 3 months to take care development courses at the Cairn Enterprise Centre of relocation costs and provide an extra incentive to continue the job Outcome The model has transformed the employability statistics and the centre has achieved a 75% placement rate. In FY 2015-16, 900+ youth underwent training and 750 of them In July 2015, we signed an MoU with the Rajasthan Skills & were successfully placed in organised sectors. Livelihoods Devp. Corp. (RSLDC) in the presence of the Rajasthan Buoyed by the success of this centre, we have established a US$ Chief Minister, Ms. Vasundhara Raje. Initially RSLDC extended 10 mn Cairn Centre of Excellence (CCOE) at Jodhpur, to oﬀer support to 200 students per annum; witnessing the success, training in advanced disciplines. Built as per European standards, support has been expanded to over 600 students per year. FARMING & ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Agriculture is the main source of income in rural India and Africa. Not only • Trained Indian farmers in 'Systematic Rice Intensi cation is it subject to vagaries of monsoon and problem of pests, but also largely Technique' achieving milestone outcomes. 17 farmers impacted by malpractices of middlemen. increased their crop yield by as much as 40%. To help improve yields and fetch a fair price for their produce, we reach • In 2010, KCM, Zambia agged oﬀ a 5-year cattle out to farmers in villages close to our operations. We distribute high-yield empowerment project with 40 bene ciaries. By the end seeds, oﬀer training, encourage adoption of new scientiﬁc technologies of 2015, about 600 cattle have been given out to 300 farmers as well as help market their produce. under this project and bene ciaries have begun to barter In FY 2015-16, we assisted 7,000+ farmers. Below are a few success stories: goods for milk. 66 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE case study TURNING THE COMMUNITY'S INDIGENOUS KNOWLEDGE INTO BUSINESS Challenge: Although classi ed as a middle-income country, a large portion of the Namibian population remains vulnerable. Skorpion Zinc operates in Karas region which is a home to a section of marginalised households. Action The company looked at this challenge holistically and worked A total of 16 households, 4 households each from with the Namibian Ministry of Agriculture to implement a Goat 4 community clusters, received 30 ewes (female sheep) Project for marginalised households. and a ram (male sheep) each. The two enablers behind the project's successful The uniqueness of the project lies in its multiplier-eﬀect implementation were: model, as some of the oﬀ-springs produced in the rst lambing and possibly the second lambing will be given to a • Shaping a project that builds on the communities' second set of bene ciaries who will reciprocate the process. indigenous knowledge of goat keeping and This will essentially create a perpetual fountain of bene ciaries for many years to come. A total of over N$ 700,000 has been encouraging the people of the region to take up goat invested in this project. production as a business Outcome • Designing the project on an innovative, socially & economically sound and sustainable model. • The project is well poised to deliver on its rst revolving leg with new bene ciaries getting their A needs assessment was also conducted before initiating the share of start-up goats project. Skorpion Zinc provided training, funded the • Not only the recipients, but also the families who sold purchasing of the initial goat breeding stock, goat farming the goats to the project, earned a good income. training, vaccination and dosing of the goats, transportation Around 90% of the goats sourced were from and other logistical arrangements pertaining to the successful communal farmers making them indirect establishment and monitoring of the project. bene ciaries. Over 60% of the bene ciaries of the project were women, a deliberate intervention to assist women headed households in rural Namibia. I now look after my own animals rather than Maria Cloete tends to her new ock of tending after other people's livestock for little goats in her village Snyfontein in the money and food. Berseba communal area Ludwig Mahure 67 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE TRANSFORMING RURAL INDIA We have adopted 5 villages in India with an aim to transform them into model villages, through focussed intervention on women and child development. We mapped the results of the local needs assessment study with The National Policy for Children and SDGs to arrive at the following areas of intervention. Sanitation Health Education Empowerment 100% coverage of 100% coverage of Reducing dropout rate Increasing participation in households through households for access of girls, post class 8th decision-making at Panchayat level individual household toilets to primary healthcare Behaviour change through Training programmes for creation gender sensitisation trainings of microenterprises Our CSR teams have activated a host of interventions and the outcomes will start manifesting from the next reporting year. INITIATIVES AID IN TIMES OF DISTRESS It is every corporate's responsibility to step up in times of national calamity. Sterlite Copper lent a helping hand to the victims of the Tamil Nadu ﬂoods by distributing relief material, dewatering ﬂooded areas, cleaning up channels and strengthening water bodies. As immediate relief, 42,000 food packets were distributed across relief camps and free medical camps were conducted. To facilitate rehabilitation, bedding and cooking utensils worth INR 1,000 were provided to each ood-aﬀected family. BEARING THE FRUITS OF ARBOR DAY Skorpion Zinc together with Agri Green Grow spearheaded a project to develop an orchard in rural schools, as part of the Arbor Day celebrations. Skorpian Zinc oﬀered a sponsorship of N$10,000 to each school while Agri Green Grow provided 25 Growboxx plant cocoons® with fruit tree saplings under the Green Musketeer project. The Growboxx plant cocoon® helps the tree to start growing, and then degrades and functions as a nutrient. The idea of the project was to educate the youth on reforestation and green technology as well as to provide an additional sustainable income source for the schools from the sale of the fruits. Skorpion Zinc has committed to make this an annual sponsorship model to spread the message of going green, and promote responsible usage of water in Karas region. 68 Communicating Constructively 71 STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS Advocacy 75 | Awards & Accolades 75 REINFORCING TRUST Trust is a manifestation of delivering on expectations. To ensure that our stakeholders, especially external stakeholders such as the community, the media, civil society and government, have realistic expectations and are always kept abreast of our performance, intent and operating philosophies, we have intensi ed our focus on strategic communications in the last couple of years. It helps us communicate the reality transparently and reinforce con dence. CHAIRMAN'S VIRTUAL TOWN HALL MEETING FOR EMPLOYEES CONNECTING 30 VEDANTA LOCATIONS IN FIVE COUNTRIES ACTIVE ADVOCACY INVOLVING GOVERNMENTS, INDUSTRY AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS INVESTOR RELATION SOCIETY INDIA BLOOMBERG AWARD TO VEDANTA LIMITED 69 STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS The Nand Ghar model will provide targeted delivery COMMUNICATING of supplementary nutrition services along with related healthcare services for both mother and child CONSTRUCTIVELY including skill training for women. Mrs. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi | Union Cabinet Minister Women & Child Development, India We introduced strategic communications as the fourth pillar of our Sustainable Development Model, in order to reﬂect the proactive communications with stakeholders, understand their needs, shape their expectations as well as share our intentions, commitments and actions. We operate with the belief that businesses are not UNIFIED BRAND isolated entities, and the growth of our stakeholders is instrumental for the growth of the business. In every decision, we emphasise on our principles of stakeholder ONE VISION. ONE VEDANTA dialogue and mutual respect. Uni ed branding has strengthened the linkage between our global businesses, communities and stakeholders, and We are committed to complete transparency in our communication with is a signi cant milestone that promises a united vision and all our stakeholders. The bedrock of our communication is how we engage aligned identity. It empowers us to work in an integrated with the communities in and around our assets and practise the principle manner, leverage internal synergies, and create additional of free prior informed consent. This ensures harmony and sustains our social licence to operate. To maintain open dialogue, it is equally important value for all stakeholders. to engage with our employees who generally belong to our host communities as well as with the inﬂuencer communities which include During the reporting year, our Chairman interacted with the employees media, the local governments and the socially relevant investors. across continents in a virtual town hall meeting. The Sustainability We are present across eight countries in four diﬀerent continents. All these Committee Chairman, Group CEO and sustainability team along with regions diﬀer in terms of operational and geographic challenges, business senior leaders met the socially relevant investors in our ﬁrst sustainability environment, economic development, culture and stakeholder day in London. CEOs of our businesses participated in conferences such as expectations. We believe in 'One Vedanta' together, we are one Indaba, World Economic Forum's Annual meeting at Davos and leading organisation with one vision. The goal is to ensure that the organisation business summits by CII, FICCI & TERI to meet a host of stakeholders and communicates in one-voice across geographies on critical issues across create awareness of the natural resources sector contributing signiﬁcantly the stakeholder spectrum. to the economy of the country. Strategic communication is part of the business strategy of the We communicate consistently with all our stakeholders through carefully organisation and the top leadership is actively engaged in leveraging chalked-out platforms which are best suited for each stakeholder proﬁle. newage communication tools to promote dialogue and create Illustrated below is a cross section of our engagement interventions resonance with the Vedanta brand. This year a comprehensive branding carried out for various stakeholders. exercise was taken up to provide holistic and authentic 'One Vedanta' experience to stakeholders in all the ways they interact with the organisation. The logo refresh has also been adapted by all the COMMUNITIES divisions/group companies to align with the Group's goal of being a Listening to the communities, understanding their concerns and unifying brand across its global operations. resolving issues is key to pre-empting and avoiding social conﬂicts. We have adopted a dual approach to community engagement we We prepare communication strategies and plans to achieve outcomes and undertake focussed CSR activities to create a positive social impact, and continually measure the perceptions created by our transparent ensure that the beneﬁts of these activities are well-communicated to communication with all stakeholders. This communication roadmap the community and the linkage to Vedanta is well-established. We also guides our employees on what, how and whom to communicate with, proactively engage with communities to negate any trust deﬁcit issues. and ensures a robust two-way engagement with our stakeholders. 70 STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS Let's work together to ensure that we set an example for investment in a healthier workforce and making our business better. Roma Balwani | President, Group Sustainability CSR and Communications Leveraging the Public-Private-People-Partnership model INDUSTRY In a ﬁrst-of-its-kind corporate partnership with the Ministry of Women Leveraging Industry Platforms and Child Development to develop 4,000 next-generation Anganwadis Mining Indaba is the world's largest mining investment conference and in India, we spearheaded Project Nand Ghar with an aim to modernise Africa's largest mining event. Vedanta ﬁrst attended the Mining Indaba in the Anganwadi infrastructure in the country. 2013 with the objective of raising awareness about Vedanta in Africa. 50 Nand Ghars have already been set up this year. The ﬁrst one was Since then, we have enlarged our presence and visibility at the inaugurated by Mrs. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi, the Union Minister for conference. Mining Indaba provides us an excellent platform to engage Women and Child Development, India. with multiple stakeholders such as governments, investors, ﬁnancial institutions, suppliers plus the media, which augurs well with our goal to expand our footprint in the continent. EMPLOYEES Demonstrating Thought Leadership The Queenstown Rotary Club organised West Coast Industry Conference with focus on industry's future in the region. Copper Mines of Tasmania (CMT), Australia participated as a presenter and as a sponsor of the event. All the major industries operating on the west coast including mining, tourism, aquaculture, etc. participated. The conference attracted over 150 delegates, bringing together business, industry and government representatives. Communication is vital for good human resource management. Engaging with employees makes us more productive, better aligned and more committed. It also manifests in smooth and eﬀective functioning of the organisation. We maintain an ongoing communication with our employees through multiple programmes at various levels with multiple communication tools such as ezines, internal newsletters and social media. Chairman's Town Hall Meeting Talking the Walk at the Technical Forums A virtual town hall meeting was chaired by Anil Agarwal, Founder and We participated in a variety of technical forums organised by us and third Chairman Vedanta Resources, where he spoke to employees about the party organisations including: Company's 50-year vision to continue operations in Zambia. The interactive session was held using tele-presence and video India CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development | The conferencing system connecting 30 Vedanta locations in ﬁve countries. Energy Research Institute (TERI) | Federation of Indian Mining Industries More than 300 Konkola Copper Mines employees and about 5,000 from (FIMI) | Indian Institute of Metals | Federation of Indian Chamber of all Vedanta subsidiaries and businesses participated in the meeting. Commerce and Industry (FICCI) Employees were encouraged to ask questions and the Chairman Zambia Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) | Chamber of patiently and meticulously answered them all. Commerce and Industry | Chamber of Mines REACHing out South Africa International Zinc Association | Chamber of Mines REACH, is a platform specially instituted to enable dialogue between Namibia Chamber of Commerce and Industry | Chamber of Mines employees and the senior management of Sterlite Copper on employee growth aspirations. It helps senior management understand the pulse of Ireland Irish Business and Employer's Confederation | Irish Mining and the employees and support them to scale greater heights in their career. Exploration Group Our leadership team addressed various events as speakers and panellists CIVIL SOCIETY such as The Responsible Extractive Industry Summit London, Mining Africa Summit, CII's Safe in India 2016 Panel, TERI's Chief Sustainability Civil society plays an important role in shaping the nation's Oﬃcer Conclave, and FICCI's India Sustainability Conclave. governance and development agenda. In our industry, they are partners in the process of identifying and We also contributed to the 'Business and Biodiversity in India: 20 resolving the challenges. We engage with the civil society Illustrations' report published by Confederation of Indian Industries (CII), in numerous ways through various forums. with support from GIZ in 2014, through our provision of biodiversity case studies from HZL and Sesa Iron Ore. 71 STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS Academia Media Engagement Vedanta Resources interacts with the academia on a regular basis to gain Strategic communication has created a positive impact with media primarily access to latest research and innovative methodologies, while oﬀering because we engage with them in a transparent manner. This focus has given business insights and practical experience. Vedanta has an ongoing us an opportunity to ensure that the right and complete information is collaboration with Indiana University on various projects, including a shared with the media and the ﬂow of the narrative is credible. benchmarking study with global peers which was undertaken in Of the numerous senior management media interactions, listed below partnership with its School of Public and Environment Aﬀairs (SPEA). are a select few. Vedanta has also partnered with ISB Hyderabad, a leading management school in India, to make learning more eﬀective, by sharing relevant case • Interviews of Chairman and business leaders of Aluminium, Iron studies to create a connect with the natural resources sector and the Ore and Oil & Gas continued to focus on CSR stories in the vicinity of their operations Vedanta brand. • Chairman was interviewed by International and Indian media Partners during the Prime Minister's visit to UK at the UK-India summit Exchanging Ideas with Partners • The leadership team continued to participate in trade body Cairn India organised a CSR Partners' Conclave at Barmer in March 2016 events as speakers and panellists to encourage partners to showcase milestone projects. The conclave featured an interactive cross-functional session where partners shared • Chairman/CEO's messages during Diwali and the end of the the challenges, lessons learnt and best practices. Vibrant exchange of calendar year were aimed at motivating and managing ideas, suggestions and opportunities to bring about operational expectations of employees during the downturn improvements was the hallmarks of the conclave. Engaging with WBCSD GOVERNMENT Approval and regulation of mining and resource activities sit Vedanta has signed the World Business Council for with the government and hence it is an important stakeholder. Sustainable Development (WBCSD) WASH pledge and is We continue to engage with the government right from the committed to provide safe drinking water to all early stages of discovery to mine closure and beyond. communities near its operations. Best-in-class Mine closure A function was organised to mark the occasion of Lisheen Mine Closure and the positive contribution it has made to the locality over the past 20 years in the Dome in Thurles. The government and community representatives, suppliers and local charities were invited. Lisheen has been a very positive experience for Vedanta and the event was organised to thank everyone involved in making the operation a success. The Lisheen mine has led the way in social responsibility and the stakeholder engagement. Resurgent Rajasthan Partnership Summit Top management represented Vedanta Resources at the Resurgent Rajasthan Partnership Summit, a two-day global investor meet organised by the Government of Rajasthan in association with the CII and aimed at inducing investments in the state. Participating in the focus session on Sustainable Mining, our CEO, Mr. Tom Albanese, shared, Rajasthan oﬀers a huge opportunity for copper and With the objective of making people aware about the beneﬁts of safe gold mining in India. Exploration and innovation represent the future of drinking water, CAIRN India, along with its partners, organised an the mining industry. awareness programme at Kharantiya, Bodwa and Seoniyala villages of Barmer District. The programme organised at Government Schools in INVESTORS & LENDERS the respective villages was attended by students, teachers, villagers and Both investors and lenders seek return on their investment. Volatility in the panchayat members. Other business units like BALCO, HZL and TSPL are commodity markets, increased competition and resultant decrease in also following a similar approach to drive awareness on hygiene and proﬁt margin aﬀects their returns. Thus, it is critical to communicate with sanitation in their neighbouring communities. them our plans, actions, outcomes and prospects, so that they can make We also engage with the WBCSD on climate change and actively attend informed investment decisions. While we continue to communicate with relevant meetings and support relevant aspects of its agenda. This year, them through an array of statutory and proactive media vehicles, this year we provided input to the WBCSD on behalf of Indian corporates for Paris we added a new focussed engagement mechanism to communicate Climate Change conference COP 21. with SRIs, the Sustainable Development Day. 72 STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS Rajasthan oﬀers a huge opportunity for copper and gold mining in India. Exploration and innovation represent the future of the mining industry. Tom Albanese | CEO Vedanta Resources plc case study SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT DAY Sustainable Development is at the core of all the business decisions and processes at Vedanta Resources. To showcase this commitment as a key business imperative, we hosted our rst Sustainable Development Day in London in July 2015. Our senior management provided insights to Socially Relevant Investors (SRIs) on how sustainability is embedded across our global operations and updated them on the progress made in the past one year. During the event, the entire senior team was in attendance to present to the investors and address their queries. Euan Macdonald Tom Albanese Roma Balwani Chairman of Vedanta's Sustainability Chief Executive Oﬃcer, Vedanta, spoke Vedanta's Sustainability, CSR and Committee and Non-Executive Director about the approach to Sustainable Communications President shared how we made a presentation on committee's Development and elaborated his are putting the Sustainable Development progress and focus areas over the year priorities across the triple bottom line Model into practice The Sustainable Development Day also included case studies on sustainable development initiatives at Vedanta's operations. Abhijit Pati | CEO Aluminium Business Deshnee Naidoo | CEO Zinc International Steven Din | CEO Konkola Copper Mines Explained how aluminium division is Talked about the action taken to protect Discussed the much improved relationship partnering with communities, local regional biodiversity during the with the Government of Zambia which has government and NGOs to bene t the development of the Gamsberg Project in resulted from continual engagement, and an societies in Odisha, which has the richest South Africa, and the best practice mine important educational programme to mineral resources of any state in India. closure at Lisheen in Ireland. reduce the prevalence of HIV/AIDs in communities and the workplace. This was followed by a Q & A session which saw an active participation with investors sharing feedback, clarifying doubts and oﬀering suggestions. The entire event was very well received the participants not only recognised the virtue of organising this event but also the value of the positive impact being created by Vedanta. 73 STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS AWARDS & ADVOCACY ACCOLADES Advocacy involving governments, industry and other stakeholders is Continuing the tradition, this year too we won laurels for our actions in one of our key strengths. Our team comprises many individuals with almost all spheres of sustainability. Listed below are a select few: signiﬁcant experience in this area. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT & CSR We have clearly established objectives that guide our approach to policy advocacy. These include: CII-ITC Sustainability Award to Hindustan Zinc Ltd. Outstanding Accomplishment Award for Excellence in CSR Build enduring and collaborative relationships with government and support shaping of public policies CII-ITC Sustainability Award to Cairn India CSR Domain Excellence Represent metal & mining industries' interests at policy and regulatory CII-ITC Sustainability 2015 Award to Vedanta Ltd. Jharsuguda forum meetings Environment Management Excellence Share our knowledge on metal & mining industries with Genentech Environment Award to Vedanta Ltd. Jharsuguda policy makers Gold category, Metal & Mining Sector 2015 Anticipate policy and regulatory trends relevant to the sectors Guinness World Record achieved by Talwandi Sabo Power Ltd. (India) we operate in Most trees (208,751) planted simultaneously at a single location Showcase our investments in the areas of education, health and Frost & Sullivan Award 2015 to Hindustan Zinc Ltd. livelihood for maintaining and improving communities and strengthen (Chanderiya Smelting Complex) Green Manufacturing Excellence our partnership with the Government in developmental programmes Frost & Sullivan Award 2015 to Vedanta Ltd. Jharsuguda Certiﬁcate of Merit in Challengers category Following actions illustrate our advocacy eﬀorts in the reporting period: Prepared and executed the Initiated advocacy in India Srishti Good Green Governance Award to Sesa Iron Ore advocacy campaign for Cairn to safeguard the Aluminium (Pig iron Division), Talwandi Sabo Power Limited and BALCO India with focus on encouraging business from cheap (Smelter II and CPP) domestic production imports from China Under various categories (Environment protection and conservation of natural resources, runners-up, etc.) We are at the forefront to drive conversations and Asia Best Sustainability Report 2015 Award engagements with the government in a proactive manner to Vedanta Ltd. by World CSR Congress that can lead to reforms which can enable the country to World CSR Congress Award to Hindustan Zinc Ltd. Chanderia have robust energy security and reduce its dependence on Sustainable Business of the Year imports of commodities. Frost & Sullivan's Green Manufacturing Excellence Award 2015 to Vedanta Ltd. Lanjigarh Certiﬁcate of Merit in Challengers category India CSR Award to Vedanta Ltd. Lanjigarh Best CSR Community Health Initiative Award 2015 Best CSR Award to Vedanta Ltd. Lanjigarh For the Green Concrete Project Finalist Award in Qimpro Convention under Sustainable Manufacturing to Sterlite Copper For utilisation of Copper Slag for sustainable applications OTV CSR Award to Vedanta Ltd. Lanjigarh For Best Health Practices FAME Excellence Award 2015 to Vedanta Ltd. Jharsuguda Gold category, Outstanding project on 'Women Empowerment’ 74 STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS We are honoured to receive the prestigious National Energy Conservation Award for the third consecutive time. Further, we aim to spearhead innovation projects in diﬀerent spheres of our operations to emerge as one of the national leaders in energy conservation Abhijit Pati | CEO, Aluminium Business, Vedanta ENERGY CONSERVATION LEADERSHIP National Energy Conservation Award to BALCO (Smelter) Platts Industry Leadership for Base Metals Award 1st Prize for energy reduction initiatives to Hindustan Zinc Ltd. for leadership National Energy Conservation Award to Hindustan Zinc Ltd. L&OD Roundtable Best Practices in Developing Top Leaders' Award (Zawar mine CPP) to Vedanta Ltd. 2nd Prize in thermal power stations sector For contribution of the Company's 'Leaders Connect Team' National Energy Conservation Award to Vedanta Ltd. Businessworld India's Fastest Growing Companies No.1 Vedanta Ltd. 2nd Prize for superior energy management Heavyweight category National Energy Conservation Award 2015 to Vedanta Ltd. Businessworld India's Fastest Growing Companies No.1 Cairn India Jharsuguda Middleweight category 1st Prize in thermal power plant category L&D Leadership League Award 2015 to Vedanta Ltd. Jharsuguda Excellent Energy Eﬃcient Unit Award to Sterlite Copper by CII for the year 2014-15 OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE CII's 16th National Award to BALCO & Vedanta Ltd. Jharsuguda (CPP & Smelter 1) India Manufacturing Excellence Award to BALCO For Energy Eﬃcient Unit and Excellence in Energy Management 'Gold' category under 'Mega Industries' sector Global Water Award to Hindustan Zinc Ltd. Six Sigma Convention Award (4 Golds and 1 Silver) to Sterlite Copper Global Water Intelligence For six sigma improvement projects 8th National Cluster Summit 1st Prize to Sterlite Copper CORPORATE Under 'Green Manufacturing' category Golden Peacock HR Excellence Award to Sterlite Copper ECGC-D&B Indian Exporters Excellence Award to Vedanta Ltd. For the overall excellence in HR and people management practices For being the Best Diversiﬁed Exporter Investor Relation Society India Bloomberg Award to Vedanta Ltd. Golden Peacock Award to Cairn India Ltd. Under 'Large-caps' category as 'Stars of the Sell-side’ For Risk Management Signi cant Achievement in HR Excellence Award Golden Peacock Business Excellence Award to Sterlite Copper to Vedanta Ltd. Jharsuguda For the best Business Excellence practices and policies across the country 6th CII National HR Excellence Awards National Energy Conservation Award to Hindustan Zinc Best Public Relation Award to Vedanta Ltd. Lanjigarh by Bureau of Energy Eﬃciency, Ministry of Power, Govt. of India Public Relation Council of India 2nd Prize in the Thermal Power Stations Sector Best Performing Wind Firm Award to Hindustan Zinc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE by Indian Wind Power Association CII-ITC Sustainability Award to Hindustan Zinc Ltd. SHE Excellence Awards by CII Eastern Region to BALCO Outstanding Accomplishment Award for Corporate Excellence For Signiﬁcant Improvement in SHE Systems The Institute of Directors Award to Vedanta Ltd. For 'Excellence in Corporate Governance’ INNOVATION & TECHNOLOGY SAP ACE Award to Vedanta Ltd. Jury 'Special Recognition Award' for large scale and complex implementation CII Top 25 Innovative Organisation in India Sesa Goa Iron Ore, Value Addition Business for innovation 75 DISCLOSURE & ASSURANCE Assurance Statement 76 | External Indices 78 About this Report 79 | GRI G4 Index 80 | Glossary 86 ASSURANCE STATEMENT The Management and Board of Directors Vedanta Resources Plc 16th Berkeley Street, London, United Kingdom, W1J 8DZ INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Ernst & Young LLP (EY) has been engaged by Vedanta Resources Plc (the 'Company') to provide independent assurance on its Sustainable Development Report 2015-16 (the 'Report') covering the Company's sustainability performance during the period 1st April 2015 to 31st March 2016. The development of the Report, based on G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI-G4) of the Global Reporting Initiative, its content, and presentation is the sole responsibility of the management of the Company. EY's responsibility, as agreed with the management of the Company, is to provide independent assurance on the Report's content as described in the scope of assurance. Our responsibility in performing our assurance activities is to the management of the Company only and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed with the Company. We do not therefore accept or assume any responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or organisation. Any dependence that any such third party may place on the Report is entirely at its own risk. The assurance report should not be taken as a basis for interpreting the Company's overall performance, except for the aspects mentioned in the scope below. Assurance standard Our assurance is in accordance with International Federation of Accountants' International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000), and our conclusions are for 'limited' assurance as set out in ISAE 3000. Scope of assurance and methodology The scope of our work for this engagement was limited to review of information pertaining to environmental and social performance for the period 1st April 2015 to 31st March 2016. We conducted, on a sample basis, review and veriﬁcation of data collection/ measurement methodology and general review of the logic of inclusion / omission of necessary relevant information / data and this was limited to: • Review of consistency of data / information within the report as well as between the report and source; • Review the level of adherence to GRI G4 Guidelines, the reporting framework followed by the Client in preparing the Sustainability Report, alignment with United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), International Council on Mining and Metals(ICMM) and Sustainable Development Goal frameworks for the Company; • Review and execution of audit trail of selected claims and data streams to determine the level of accuracy in collection, transcription and aggregation processes; • Review of Company's plans, policies and practices, pertaining to their social, environment and sustainable development, so as to be able to make comments on the completeness of the reporting and degree to which EY believes the Report provides a fair and honest representation of the Company's activities; • Veriﬁcation of the sample data and information reported at the following units / locations and Corporate Oﬃce at Gurgaon: 1 Hindustan Zinc Limited (Chanderiya smelters) Rajasthan 5 Vedanta Limited (Jharsuguda smelters & power plants) Orissa 2 Hindustan Zinc Limited (Rampur Agucha mine) Rajasthan 6 Zinc International, Black Mountain mine , South Africa 3 Vedanta Limited (Sterlite Copper) Tamil Nadu 7 Cairn India Limited, Corporate Oﬃce, Gurgaon 4 Bharat Aluminium Company Limited (smelters & power plants) Chhattisgarh 8 Vedanta Resources Plc, Corporate Oﬃce, Gurgaon Limitations of our engagement The assurance scope excludes: • Data and information outside the deﬁned reporting period (1st April 2015 to 31st March 2016); • The 'economic performance indicators' included in the Report; • The Company's statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, inference, aspiration, expectation, aim or future intention; • Data, statements and claims already available in the public domain through Annual Report, Corporate Social Responsibility reports, or other sources available in the public domain. 76 DISCLOSURE & ASSURANCE Ernst & Young LLP Tel: +91 33 6615 3400 22, Camac Street Fax: +91 33 6615 3750 5th Floor, Block 'B' ey.com Kolkata-700 016, India Our assurance team and independence Our assurance team, comprising of multidisciplinary professionals, has been drawn from our Climate Change and Sustainability network, and undertakes similar engagements with various Indian and international companies. As an assurance provider, EY is required to comply with the independence requirements set out in International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants. EY's independence policies and procedures ensure compliance with the Code. What we did to form our conclusions In order to form our conclusions, we undertook the following key steps: • Interviews with select key personnel and the core team responsible for the preparation of the Report to understand the Company's sustainability vision, mechanism for management of sustainability issues and engagement with key stakeholders; • Interactions with the key personnel at the Company's head oﬃce and units/locations in order to understand and review the current processes in place for capturing the relevant data disclosed in the Report; • Veriﬁcation of the reported data, on a sample basis, at the Company's corporate oﬃce and units/locations as mentioned in the 'Scope of Assurance and Methodology' above; • Review of relevant documents and systems for gathering, analysing and aggregating sustainability performance data in the reporting period; • Review of selected qualitative statements and sample case studies in various sections of the Report. Observations and opportunities for improvement During the review process, we observed that: • The Company has compiled the Report as per the 'in accordance' core criteria of GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The Report presents a fair description of the Company's materiality assessment and includes performance disclosures under the aspects identiﬁed as material; • The Company has demonstrated a structured approach towards data management for sustainability performance reporting in line with GRI G4 Guidelines. However, it may further improve on the accuracy, compilation and completeness of reporting on certain indicators viz. safety and human resource data; • The Company may further strengthen internal review of the sustainability performance data for increasing reliability as well as auditability of the same. Conclusion On the basis of our procedures for this limited assurance, nothing has come to our attention that causes us not to believe that the Company has reported on sustainability issues materially signiﬁcant to its business and its stakeholders. Ernst & Young LLP Sudipta Das Partner 16-06-2016 Kolkata, India EY refers to the global organisation, and / or one or more of the independent member ﬁrms of Ernst & Young Global Limited 77 DISCLOSURE & ASSURANCE EXTERNAL INDICES UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) We continue to uphold the ten principles of the UNGC. Our Sustainable Development Report communicates our progress in implementing the ten principles, and below we have mapped the principles against our various sustainability aspects and speciﬁc report sections. Aspect UNGC Principle Report Reference Page No. Human Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Human Rights 45, 46 Rights proclaimed human rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Human Rights 45 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association and the eﬀective Human Rights 45 Rights recognition of the right to collective bargaining Child and Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Human Rights 45 Forced Labour Principle 5: the eﬀective abolition of child labour Human Rights 45 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Employees 56 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Global Context 09 Environment 28 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Environment 29, 30 Principle 9: encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies Environment 28 Ethics and Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Governance 18 Integrity extortion and bribery UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (UN SDGs) In September 2015, the UN member states agreed on a set of 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), to end poverty, ﬁght inequality and injustice, and tackle climate change by 2030. We believe natural resources companies like us have the potential to become leading partners in achieving the SDGs. This year, we have prioritised the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) based on materiality issues and operational competency. We are now in the process of chalking out targets and action plans to address the relevant Goals. The below table states our endeavours which naturally align with the said goals. SDGs Report Reference Page No. Poverty Global Context 10 Zero Hunger Community Relations 61 Good Health and Well-being Safety and Occupational Health 23, 57-58 Community Relations 63-64 Quality Education Community Relations 61-66 Gender Equality Employees 56 Global Context 10 Community Relations 64 Clean Water and Sanitation Community Relations 63 Aﬀordable and Clean Energy Environment 33 Decent Work and Economic Growth Employee 50-59 Global Context 10 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Strategic Communications 69-75 CEO's Statement 07-08 Reduced Inequalities Global Context 10 Sustainable Cities and Communities Community Relations 60 Responsible Consumption and Production Environment 28 Climate Action Global Context 09 Environment 28 Life on Land Biodiversity 34 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions Governance 18 Partnerships for the Goals Advocacy 75 Stakeholder Engagement 42 78 DISCLOSURE & ASSURANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT This is our eighth Sustainable Development Report and coincides with the publication of our Annual Report. Combined these two documents provide an overview of our approach and our achievements in FY 2015-16, outlining our actions over the past year to achieve our mission to be a world-class diversiﬁed natural resource company. REPORTING SCOPE AND BOUNDARY Covering the ﬁnancial year 2015-16, the report is structured around our Sustainable Development Model's pillars of Responsible Stewardship, Building Strong Relationships, Adding and Sharing Value, and Strategic Communications. All group subsidiary companies except Fujirah gold have been reported in full as though they were 100% wholly owned as we recognise the level of control and sphere of inﬂuence the Group has over these operations. The aspect boundaries and content of this Sustainable Development Report have been deﬁned using reporting principles prescribed in the GRI G4 guidelines and is prepared 'in accordance' Core criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines. We followed the approach described in GRI implementation manual for designing the report content. The material aspects that have been covered in the report are clearly brought out in the materiality matrix. In the report, the DMA (Disclosure on Management Approach) describes the Company's approach to the subjects relevant to it and the indicators provide details on performance on the speciﬁc subjects. There are no speciﬁc restatements of the information provided in the previous reports and no signiﬁcant changes in terms of acquisition and physical boundaries from the previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. The report is also mapped to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) principles. It reports our approach and disclosure towards triple bottom line principles people, planet and proﬁt over the ﬁnancial year 2015-16. GRI G4 CONTENT AND DISCLOSURE DOCUMENT The GRI G4 detailed content index and Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 includes the core and additional indicators including the Mining and Metal and Oil and Gas supplements disclosure is available on our website at: http://sustainabledevelopment.vedantaresources.com/sustainable-development/performance-and-reports.html ASSURANCE AND DISCLOSURE Assurance of this report was carried out by Ernst & Young LLP under ‘limited assurance’ services in accordance with the ISAE 3000. There is an internal approval system in the Company for appointment of external assurance provider for the sustainability report. 79 DISCLOSURE & ASSURANCE GRI G4 INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Standard Page Number External Disclosures Assurance STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Page 5-8 (Overview) Yes ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Front Cover Yes G4-4 Page 1 (Overview) Yes G4-5 Page 1 (Overview) Yes G4-6 Page 1 (Overview) Yes G4-7 Page 1-2 (Overview) Yes G4-8 Page 1-2 (Overview) Yes G4-9 Page 1-2 (Overview), 79 (Disclosure & Assurance) Yes G4-10 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-11 Page 45 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-12 Page 54 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes G4-13 Page 1-2 (Overview), 79 (Disclosure & Assurance) Yes G4-14 Vedanta Annual Report FY 2015-16 Yes G4-15 Page 11 (Overview) Yes G4-16 Page 71 (Strategic Communications) Yes IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Page 1-2 (Overview), 79 (Disclosure & Assurance) Yes G4-18 Page 12 (Overview), 79 (Disclosure & Assurance) Yes G4-19 Page 12 (Overview) Yes G4-20 Page 12 (Overview) Yes G4-21 Page 12 (Overview) Yes G4-22 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16, Page 79 (Disclosure & Assurance) Yes G4-23 Page 1-2 (Overview), 79 (Disclosure & Assurance) Yes STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Page 12 (Overview), 42-44 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-25 Page 12 (Overview), 42-44 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-26 Page 12 (Overview), 42-44 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-27 Page 12 (Overview), 42-44 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Page 79 (Disclosure & Assurance) Yes G4-29 Page 79 (Disclosure & Assurance) Yes G4-30 Page 79 (Disclosure & Assurance) Yes G4-31 Page 79 (Disclosure & Assurance) Yes G4-32 Back Cover Yes G4-33 Page 7679 (Disclosure & Assurance) Yes GOVERNANCE G4-34 Page 18-21 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes 80 DISCLOSURE & ASSURANCE GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Standard Page Number External Disclosures Assurance ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Page 2 (Overview), 18 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Page Number Identi ed Reason(s) for Explanation External Indicators Omission(s) Omission(s) for Omission(s) Assurance Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the In exceptional In exceptional In exceptional Indicate if the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in other reports cases, if it is not cases, if it is not cases, if it is not Standard prepared by the organisation. In these circumstances, the possible to disclose possible to disclose possible to disclose Disclosure organization may elect to add a speci c reference to where certain required certain required certain required has been the relevant information can be found. information, information, information, explain externally identify the provide the reason the reasons why the assured. information that for omission. information has If yes, include has been omitted. been omitted. the page reference for the External Assurance Statement in the report. CATEGORY: ECONOMIC MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Page 50-55 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes G4-EC1 Page 50 (Adding & Sharing Value), Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-EC3 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-EC4 Page 51 (Adding & Sharing Value), Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE G4-DMA Page 56 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes G4-EC5 Page 56 (Adding & Sharing Value) , Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-EC6 Page 53-55 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-DMA Page 53 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes G4-EC7 Page 56 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes G4-EC8 Page 53, 60-68 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes G4-OG1 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-DMA Page 31 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN3 Page 32 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN5 Page 32 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN6 Page 33 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-OG2 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-OG3 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER G4-DMA Page 29 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN8 Page 29 (Responsible Stewardship), Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-EN9 Page 29-30 (Responsible Stewardship), Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-EN10 Page 30 (Responsible Stewardship), Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes 81 DISCLOSURE & ASSURANCE SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Page Number Identi ed Reason(s) for Explanation External Indicators Omission(s) Omission(s) for Omission(s) Assurance Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the In exceptional In exceptional In exceptional Indicate if the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in other reports cases, if it is not cases, if it is not cases, if it is not Standard prepared by the organisation. In these circumstances, the possible to disclose possible to disclose possible to disclose Disclosure organization may elect to add a speci c reference to where certain required certain required certain required has been the relevant information can be found. information, information, information, explain externally identify the provide the reason the reasons why the assured. information that for omission. information has If yes, include has been omitted. been omitted. the page reference for the External Assurance Statement in the report. MATERIAL ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY G4-DMA Page 34 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN11 Page 34 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN12 Page 34 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-MM1 Page 34 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN13 Page 34 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN14 Page 34 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-MM2 Page 34 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-OG4 Page 34 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-DMA Page 31-32 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN15 Page 32 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN16 Page 32 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN18 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-EN21 Page 35 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA Page 29, 30 & 36 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN22 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-EN23 Page 36 (Responsible Stewardship), Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-MM3 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-EN24 Page 28 & 30 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-OG5 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-OG6 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-OG7 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Page 28 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN29 Page 29 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-OG8 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: OVERALL G4-DMA Page 28 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN31 Page 28 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-EN32 Page 45 & 48 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-EN33 Page 45 & 48 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA Page 52 & 56 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes 82 DISCLOSURE & ASSURANCE SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Page Number Identi ed Reason(s) for Explanation External Indicators Omission(s) Omission(s) for Omission(s) Assurance Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the In exceptional In exceptional In exceptional Indicate if the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in other reports cases, if it is not cases, if it is not cases, if it is not Standard prepared by the organisation. In these circumstances, the possible to disclose possible to disclose possible to disclose Disclosure organization may elect to add a speci c reference to where certain required certain required certain required has been the relevant information can be found. information, information, information, explain externally identify the provide the reason the reasons why the assured. information that for omission. information has If yes, include has been omitted. been omitted. the page reference for the External Assurance Statement in the report. MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-LA1 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-LA2 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-LA3 Page 56 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS G4-DMA Page 45 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-LA4 Page 45 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-MM4 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Page 23-27 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-LA5 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-LA6 Page 24-25 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-LA7 Page 23-24 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-LA8 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA Page 59 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes G4-LA9 Page 59 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes G4-LA10 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-LA11 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA Page 52 & 56 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes G4-LA12 Page 18 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN G4-DMA Page 56 & 59 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes G4-LA13 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOUR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA Page 45 & 48 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-LA14 Page 45 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-LA16 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS MATERIAL ASPECT: INVESTMENT G4-DMA Page 38-40 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes G4-HR1 Page 38-40 (Responsible Stewardship), 45-46 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-HR2 Page 46 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes 83 DISCLOSURE & ASSURANCE SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Page Number Identi ed Reason(s) for Explanation External Indicators Omission(s) Omission(s) for Omission(s) Assurance Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the In exceptional In exceptional In exceptional Indicate if the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in other reports cases, if it is not cases, if it is not cases, if it is not Standard prepared by the organisation. In these circumstances, the possible to disclose possible to disclose possible to disclose Disclosure organization may elect to add a speci c reference to where certain required certain required certain required has been the relevant information can be found. information, information, information, explain externally identify the provide the reason the reasons why the assured. information that for omission. information has If yes, include has been omitted. been omitted. the page reference for the External Assurance Statement in the report. MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-DMA Page 4546 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-HR3 Page 18 (Responsible Stewardship) Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4-DMA Page 4546 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-HR4 Page 45 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: CHILD LABOUR G4-DMA Page 4546 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-HR5 Page 45 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR G4-DMA Page 4546 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-HR6 Page 45 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES G4-DMA Page 46 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-HR7 Page 45 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS G4-DMA Page 46 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-HR8 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-MM5 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-OG9 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: ASSESSMENT G4-DMA Page 46 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-HR9 Page 46 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-DMA Page 46 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-HR10 Page 46 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA Page 46, 48 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-HR12 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA Page 47-48 (Building Strong Relationship) and Page 53-54, 60-68 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes G4-SO1 Page 47-48 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-SO2 Page 47-48 (Building Strong Relationship) and Page 53-54, 60-68 (Adding & Sharing Value) Yes 84 DISCLOSURE & ASSURANCE SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Page Number Identi ed Reason(s) for Explanation External Indicators Omission(s) Omission(s) for Omission(s) Assurance Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the In exceptional In exceptional In exceptional Indicate if the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in other reports cases, if it is not cases, if it is not cases, if it is not Standard prepared by the organisation. In these circumstances, the possible to disclose possible to disclose possible to disclose Disclosure organization may elect to add a speci c reference to where certain required certain required certain required has been the relevant information can be found. information, information, information, explain externally identify the provide the reason the reasons why the assured. information that for omission. information has If yes, include has been omitted. been omitted. the page reference for the External Assurance Statement in the report. MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-MM6 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-MM7 Page 48 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-OG10 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-OG11 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Page 18 (Responsible Stewardship) and Annual Report Yes G4-SO3 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-SO4 Page 18 (Responsible Stewardship) and Annual Report Yes G4-SO5 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY G4-DMA Page 71 (Strategic Communications) Yes G4-SO6 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR G4-DMA Annual Report Yes G4-SO7 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Annual Report Yes G4-SO8 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-MM8 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-MM9 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes MATERIAL ASPECT: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-DMA Page 47-48 (Building Strong Relationship) Yes G4-MM10 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes G4-SO11 Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2015-16 Yes 85 DISCLOSURE & ASSURANCE GLOSSARY AAQM Ambient Air Quality Monitoring MEL MALCO Energy Limited, a company incorporated in India ACTs Adiabatic Cooling Towers MAS Management Assurance Services AR Annual Report 3 Mn M Million Cubic Metres BALCO Bharat Aluminium Company Limited, a company incorporated in India MOEF Ministry of Environment and Forests Black Mountain Zinc asset (mine) in South Africa MT Metric tonnes BMPs Biodiversity Management Plans OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (standards for occupational health and safety Cairn India An oil & gas company incorporated in India management systems) CDM Clean Development Mechanism OMC Odisha Mining Company CER Certiﬁed Emission Reduction PPE Personal Protective Equipment CII Confederation of Indian Industry SEL Sterlite Energy Ltd., a company incorporated in India CMT Copper Mines of Tasmania Pty Limited, a company SEP Stakeholder Engagement Plan incorporated in Australia Sesa Iron Ore Vedanta Limited Iron Ore division COP21 The twenty-ﬁrst session of the Conference of the Parties, that took place from 30 November to 11 SHG Self Help Group December 2015, in Paris Skorpion Zinc Zinc asset (mine) in Namibia EITI Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative SPA Single Point Accountability ESIA Environmental and Social Impact Assessment SRM Supplier Relationship Management ExCo Executive Committee TERI The Energy Research Institute FIMI Federation of Indian Mining Industries TSPL Talwandi Sabo Power Limited GHG Greenhouse Gas UNGC United Nations Global Compact GJ Gigajoules UNSDG UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Global Reporting Initiative Vedanta Ltd. A company incorporated in India IBAT Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool Jharsuguda Vedanta Ltd. Aluminium smelter division in Odisha ICMM International Council of Metal and Mining Lanjigarh Vedanta Ltd. Aluminium reﬁnery in Odisha IFC International Finance Corporation VBCA Vedanta Bal Chetna Anganwadi Centres ISO 14001 International Organisation for Standardisation (standards for environmental management systems) VSAP Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Programme ISO 50001 International Organisation for Standardisation WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development (standards for energy management system) WASH Pledge A pledge companies commit to advance the access to IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature safe water, sanitation and hygiene KCM Konkola Copper Mines PLC, a company incorporated ZI Zinc International, Zinc assets in Black Mountain, in Zambia Namibia and Ireland Lisheen Zinc asset (mine) in Ireland LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate: the number of lost time injuries per million man-hours worked by employees and contractors in our operations 86 Vedanta Resources plc 5th Floor, 16 Berkeley Street, London W1J 3DZ, Tel.: +44 (0)20 7499 5900 | Fax: +44 (0)20 7491 8440 | www.vedantaresources.com GET IN TOUCH VIEW ONLINE View our online Annual Report We value your feedback and View our online http://www.vedantaresources.com/ welcome comments on this report Comprehensive SD Report investor-relations/results-andor any aspect of our approach to sd.vedantaresources.com/ reports/annual-interimreports.aspx cognito sustainability reporting. SustainableDevelopment2015-16/ sustainability@vedanta.co.in
