Diani Flowers & Landscaping Limited Insert logo Communication on Progress Year: 2016 Statement of continued support of the UN Global Compact Diani Flowers and Landscaping Limited has been a United Nations Global Compact signatory since 2007 and continues to support the UN Global Compact program. The Company has answered a call to align strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption by taking incremental action to improve the quality of life. 17 November 2017 Name and function Mr. Urs Ringler Director Company: Diani Flowers and Landscaping Limited Sector: Landscaping, Agriculture, Horticulture, Floriculture and Irrigation Number of employees: 106 UN Global Compact signatory since: 2007 Contact person: Urs Ringler Address: P.O. Box 16777-00620, Nairobi, Kenya Email: diani.flowers@unon.org Phone: 0733 636570 Brief description of nature of business Diani Flowers and Landscaping Limited, under the leadership of Mr. Urs Ringler, was founded in 1987. In summary, the Company offers services in the following sectors: Landscaping, Agriculture, Horticulture and Floriculture. DFL offers a wide range of products from the UNON Nature Trail. These products are processed and then sold at the Nature Trail shop. Products include charcoal, firewood, compost, tree and flower seeds, tree seedlings, wood chippings, honey, green tea leaves, coffee and toothpicks. United Nations Office at Nairobi (UNON), UNPOS, UNEP Nairobi, THE BOMA hotel International School of Kenya, Swiss Embassy, Nairobi, UNICEF Nairobi are among some of the clients to whom we provide services ranging indoor plant maintenance, grounds maintenance to garden water features. DFL supports the community in various activities, among them are: Providing trees for tree-planting exercises in schools namely Peponi School, German School, Nairobi City Council. We provide special prices and gift vouchers for raffles and tombalas for raising money for the poor Scope of this COP In this COP, we will report on four areas of the 9 Global Compact Principles, i.e. Environment, Anti-corruption, Labour Rights and Human Rights. We will outline processes put in place to demonstrate our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and our activities in the future. Human Rights Commitment Diani Flowers and Landscaping Limited (DFL) is committed to ensuring that Human Rights are in the forefront of the work practices, general operations and human resources. DFL defines human rights as the fundamental rights that a human being is entitled to. The management seeks to improve the ways of working, providing opportunities and training so that living standards steadily improve. Diani Flowers & Landscaping Limited is committed to support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. DFL also ensures that its policies are not complicit in human rights abuse. A brief description of our Processes or Systems DFL has several processes in place to ensure that human rights are observed. DFL has continued with the application of the ‘UN Fair Pack Policy’ that entitles each staff member to their entitlements. DFL provides a catering allowance to enable employees to offset strain on their wages while allowing them to purchase meals on workdays. The “Guaranteed Fair Employment Package” salary policy has helped to improve the working conditions of employees and has created a healthier and happier work force. This has increased the effectiveness and efficiency in the day to day running of the company including the services provided. Provision of cash for a substantive and nutritious lunch as well as tea in the morning has greatly improved productivity. Employees were provided with training, equipment/protective gear to ensure their safety while working e.g. canvas shoes, gumboots, overalls etc. DFL ensures that its products are of high quality and are prepared using the highest degree of hygiene and care to safe guard against threatening the life, health and safety of the users. Through our medical scheme workers, as well as their immediate family members, who have been officially recognised as suffering from HIV/AIDS, access and receive Anti Retroviral (ARV) treatment thus increasing their productivity. Health matters are confidential and are overseen by the Company’s healthcare provider. Activities implemented in the last year DFL offers internship to university students undertaking degree courses in Ornamental Science and Landscaping. Interns are given the opportunity to work in all areas. Interns are encouraged to get an overall experience of the different areas of work so that their learning experience is well rounded. The effectiveness of Government policies has ensured that all staff receive training. The management has an open door policy that allows any staff members to air their grievances. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company Emphasis has been made on the needs and wants of the staff, keeping with the notion of dignity and equality of the human person. This past year DFL put in a lot of effort to ensure that the uniforms and footwear were comfortable and fitting correctly. Time was put into individual measurements as each person is unique. The staff are happier and more enthusiastic. The effectiveness of DFL policies has ensured that employees are happier. Activities planned for the next year DFL confirms that the level of enjoyment of one right is dependent on the realization of other rights and will try to ensure, through the policies in place, that human rights are respected. At the heart of all work on human rights is non-discrimination. Due to the nature of the work in gardening, landscaping and agriculture is generally leaning towards male gender, DFL is working to achieve complete gender balance, not only in the company, but at higher positions as well. The company consultant will conduct trainings on how to save money for their needs and to plan in advance. Labour Rights Commitment Diani Flowers & Landscaping Ltd is committed to observe the UN Global Compact labour principles of elimination of forced and compulsory labour, abolition of child labour and ensure that workers enjoy basic freedoms i.e. normal working hours, fair wages, leave matters, health and safety in the working place etc. One of our key elements of Corporate Social Responsibility is to address our employees’ workplace issues, as they are our number one stakeholders. Diani Flowers and Landscaping Limited (DFL) is committed to ensuring that Labour Rights are very important in work practices, general operations and human resources. DFL defines labour rights as important. DFL has taken all necessary measures to ensure that the company does not enjoy benefits from forced and child labour. DFL strives to uphold the freedom of association and effective recognition on the right to collective bargaining. DFL supports the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. DFL supports the elimination of discrimination in respect to employment A brief description of our Processes or Systems DFL has several processes in place to ensure that human rights are observed. DFL has continued with the application of the ‘UN Fair Pack Policy’ or “Guaranteed Fair Employment Package” policy that entitles each staff member to provision of cash for a substantive and nutritious lunch, provision of a guaranteed net salary inclusive of housing allowance and transport allowance. From the advertising, to the hiring stages of recruitment, all candidates are given a fair chance, regardless of ethnic background, gender or religious beliefs. Equal employment opportunities on the basis of qualifications regardless of gender, colour, marital status, religion etc. DFL issues all employees with fair and transparent employment contracts in a language understood by the workers before they start working. DFL employees are provided with an allowance for transport, to alleviate stress on their wages. DFL gives one-month notice to employees to remind staff members of the expiration of their contracts and to prepare accordingly. DFL ensures that workers enjoy basic freedoms i.e. a normal 8 hour working day; regular wages; compensated overtime and 21 working days of annual leave inclusive of travelling allowance; four months paid maternity leave, exclusive of annual leave entitlements, paternity and compassionate leave. DFL provided the required four months paid maternity leave to their staff. DFL ensures that employees are provided with protective equipment and training during the course of their duties. DFL provides direct and indirect employment to several communities in and around Nairobi by sourcing materials right from the source. The Company guide informs the staff on maintenance of the highest standard of staff discipline. Discipline handling procedures are strictly in accordance with the Legislation Subsidiary Agreement and prevailing labour laws. DFL has complied with the Kenya Conditions of Employment Act i.e. NSSF registration for all staff and casuals (as a retirement benefit), NHIF registration as a social medical insurance cover and PAYE tax payable to the Income Tax Department. DFL has enrolled employees in a medical insurance scheme for outpatient and inpatient cover. Activities implemented in the last year DFL has updated the Employees Policy to be more relevant to the needs of the client, company and staff member. The Company guide serves as the employee manual that gives details about the company, employees’ role, career prospects, benefit entitlements and rules and regulations. This guide provides staff with an overall understanding of the company in the way it operates and the way in which to engage with clients. This is done through providing information on results. The Management maintains an open door policy and the staff are encouraged to participate in decision-making. Due to the mandatory requirement of National Identity Cards, we have ensured that no minors are working at DFL and thus child labour is abolished. The Company has collected all government certificates and the DFL administration put together a booklet on Manpower. This was a project that has created a Curriculum Vitae for each staff member that they can build on as they develop their careers. DFL has put a new committee in place DFL engages in staff welfare by recognising outstanding performance and sponsoring employees to go on training courses relevant to work at DFL. Staff wanting to go for further training, we encouraged to do so and recognised when goals were achieved. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company DFL would like to have a work force that can do various jobs within the scope of work of the company. Staff were encouraged to try out new teams. This gave some staff members the opportunities to show their strengths in certain areas of work. This allowed staff to share their ideas and improve on some of the processes. The staff members who went on training were placed in areas relevant to their area of study. The Flexible Team grew as the projects undertaken by this team were varied and the Company achieved good results and teamwork was flourishing. DFL employees continue to be happy with the cash arrangements for meals being provided by the new catering arrangements. Activities planned for the next year DFL employees sports teams Environment Commitment Diani Flowers and Landscaping Limited (DFL) is committed to preservation of the environment taking recycling, reusing and reducing very seriously. DFL has taken all necessary measures to ensure that no chemicals are used for fertilising and therefore, no chemicals in the rainfall or irrigation runoff from emanating DFL work practices. The pesticides used by DFL are made from organic sources e.g. the neem tree with other plants in correct proportions. DFL recycles bottles from the conferences at the work place for flower arrangement bases and funnels. DFL contributes to environment sustainability ventures at the UN Complex. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Every new project that DFL is asked to work on is vetted for its impact on the environment. DFL makes an effort to work around what is already on the landscape e.g. incorporating trees, huge rocks into the designs. Clients are informed about the environmentally practices that DFL bases its work on and proposes organic and other recognised environmentally friendly ways to control pests and diseases. DFL does not utilize chemical remedies in disease and pest control in any of their projects. Clients are informed about the damage caused during and after the application of chemical fertilizers to plants and soil e.g. chemicals get into the ground and then the food chain and into our animals and our bodies. DFL conserves water by treating and reusing gray water for irrigation. DFL minimises, where possible, negative impacts on the environment in the process of constructing new landscapes. Activities implemented in the last year DFL has in the last year developed fertilisers that are environmentally friendly. DFL has also developed insecticide using natural ingredients. We have implemented and continue to extend the use of rainwater collected at the New Office Facility at the UN Complex. The Company uses plant potting bags has led to a reduction to pollution of the environment. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company Various trees and flowers were propagated at our in-house nursery. Herbs and fruit are also grown on the UN Complex and maintained by the Company and the fruits used to make jam for sale at the Nature Trail Shop. Charcoal, firewood and wood chippings are produced as a result of recycling waste material from pruning. No tree is felled for the purpose of making these products. DFL has designed and built composting units for the production of compost manure and mulches. These are then used in landscaping and also sold at the Nature Trail Shop. DFL has 53 beehives located on the UN Complex that produce natural honey, which is collected, packaged in its natural form. The beehives and production are placed at a safe distance from UNON staff members and contractors at the Complex. Toothpicks were made from Acacia sieberiana tree thorns originating from the Nature Trail. No trees are felled for the production at any stage. Activities planned for the next year DFL will continue to use of the very successful composting units to produce organic compost manure for use at work sites and for sale at the Nature Trail shop. The teams collect dry branches from trees for use in the production of charcoal, firewood and fire sticks for sale at the Nature Trail Shop. This procedure also ensures that there are less falling branches during the rainy season. Pruning of select trees and shrubs will restore and promote sturdy growth. Our vision is to streamline production as well increase the range products for sale at the Nature Trail Shop. These products include but are not exclusive to beeswax candles, honey in combs, crystallised honey, potpourri, bamboo mat, papyrus paper sheets, dry flowers, an increased number of seeds of indigenous shrubs, flowers and bulbs; wooden cutting boards, wooden plates, brooms, banana leaf art to be more diverse, liquid organic manure production. Anti-Corruption Commitment Diani Flowers and Landscaping Limited is committed to engaging in transparent and fair business practices that do not distort the business environment. It is DFL’s policy to promote a corruption-free business environment. The Managing Director has openly declared that the Company will not engage in corruption at any time and in any form. A brief description of our Processes or Systems We submitted the stipulated legal fees of all employees and casual labourers to the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), NHIF and PAYE. DFL promotes and encourages employees to report suspicion of corruption related cases and practices. DFL discourages employees from accepting corporate gifts including tips from clients. DFL ensures transparency in procurement procedures by engaging professionals in the different fields e.g. Human Resources. DFL requires that all potential employees to have a valid Police Certificate of Good Conduct. DFL pays all business legal fees and ensures that licences are renewed in time. DFL has implemented a process of signing contracts with all its clients. DFL discourages misuse of entrusted power for personal gain and encourages transparency in all work practices. With such a large work force, the biometric signing-in system ensures the reduction of false attendance/ghost workers. DFL works hand in hand with all government agencies to ensure that corruption in all its forms is eradicated. Activities implemented in the last year Continued use of the supplies manual, which lists prices from all our suppliers against the commodity supplied. This is aimed at reducing the cost of purchases. Products are well-packaged, clearly labelled, Indicating ingredients and nutritional value, barcode, and expiry dates to ensure awareness to the consumers. In the accounting department, work is transparent and on record through the continued use of the advanced digital payroll system, through which all transactions are stored and can be traced for auditing purposes. DFL maintains harmony among its workers by issuing them with fair, transparent and understood employment contracts before they start working. This ensures that our employees are motivated and leads to greater productivity. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company Due to the open door policy, employees are able to express their grievances and the Management makes every effort to solve them amicably. DFL does not coerce its employees to forced or unpaid overtime and thus employees are always willing to work for extra hours and hence earn extra money. Activities planned for the next year Anti corruption UN Global Compact principle is covered. Our business will continue work against corruption, extortion and bribery in all its form.
