Executive Statement COP 2015 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Electronic---House reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti---Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Marek Gaidukevic CEO, Electronic House UAB 2016-FEB-05 Vilnius Human Rights Every year Electronic---House UAB is supporting Vilnius International School with scholarships for less fortunate families to enter the school. The school is a privat school introducing world wide well known school program. The International Baccalaureate® (IB) offers high quality programmes of international education to a worldwide community of schools. There are more than 817,000 IB students at 2,943 schools in 139 countries. www.ibo.org Vilnius Rehabilitation Centre of the Deaf is our partner in introducing, training deaf people into the professional labor market where they unfortunatly rearely have an acces or posibility to be accepted. We are providing training and giving them skills being able to work in our production of cable technology and assembly. Kids with cancer Healthcare sector in Lithuania is for sure underfunded and Electronic House UAB is each year looking for a good place to support directly or trough support organizations. In 2009 the support was given to support a program named “Miele”, a program helping families with kids having cancer. We sponsored 4.100 Litas as a part of a total fundraise of 34.000 Litas by auction of world class dolls. Labor Labor relations in the Republic of Lithuania are based on the following principles: freedom of association, freedom to choose one’s field of work, governmental assistance for individuals in implementing their right to work, equality of subjects of labor law, ensuring a safe and healthy work environment, just payment for work performed, prohibition of forced and mandatory work of any form, stability of labor relations, etc. The Constitution lays down a certain number of labor rights: Right to freely form societies, political parties and associations, provided that the aims and activities thereof do not contradict the Constitution and laws (Art.35 (3)); Right to freely choose an occupation or business (Art.48 (1)); Right to adequate, safe and healthy working conditions (Art.48 (1); Right to adequate remuneration for work (Art.48 (1)); Right to social security in the event of unemployment (Art.48 (1)); Prohibition of forced labor, except military service or alternative service, as well as labor which is executed during war, natural calamity, epidemic or other urgent circumstances, or labor performed in places of confinement (Art.48 (3) – 48 (5)); Right to rest and leisure as well as to annual paid holidays (Art.49 (1)); Right to organize a trade union (Art.50 (1)); Right of trade unions to function independently (Art.50 (1)); Equality of the trade unions rights (Art.50 (1)); Right of the employees to strike in order to protect their economic and social interests under conditions and procedures established by law (Art.51). Environment The Electronic House UAB, Management is seeking to manufacture high quality products and minimize impact to environment, has decided to create, legalese in documents, implement and monitor as well as constantly improve the Environmental Management System meeting the requirements of the ISO 14001:2004 standard. In order to constantly improve the Environmental Management System Company‘s management undertakes: ---to meet legal and other environmental requirements; ---to ensure waste management in compliance with legal requirements; ---to improve natural resource management; ---to establish EMS goals and periodically estimate implementation; ---to implement RoHS directive 2002/95/EC using less dangerous materials for production, including lead---free soldering; ---to involve all levels of employees in EMS improving. Anti---Corruption The integrity of Lithuanian public, private and non---governmental sectors is viewed only as satisfactory by Lithuanian experts. According to the results of the Lithuanian national integrity system assessment study coordinated by Transparency International Lithuania and supervised by the Lithuanian Institute of Law, the Lithuanian integrity system scores 68 out of 100 possible points. Experts assess legal integrity framework as high (81 points out of 100) while their practical implementation is lagging behind (54). Within the research the experts studied the integrity of thirteen institutions and sectors of the country. The experts analyzed whether these thirteen pillars had enough resources to implement their activities and whether they operated in an independent, transparent, accountable and ethical manner. They also analyzed the role these NIS pillars play to support the anticorruption system of the country. Among the institutions and sectors analyzed were the parliament (the Seimas), the government, the judiciary, the public sector, law enforcement institutions, the Central Electoral Commission, Office of the Seimas Ombudsmen, the National Audit Office, anti---corruption agencies, political parties, media, civil society and business. Therefore Electronic---House UAB commit to follow Principle 10 of United Nations Global Compact: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our values are Trust, Quality, Respect, Safety, Tolerance.
