KT Integrated Report 2016 This report is printed on FSCTM certified paper using soy ink. ABOUT THIS REPORT GiGAtopia Create the Future This report is KT's 11th integrated report consisting of corporate sustainabiliKT is taking a significant leap into tomorrow ty management strategies as well as sustainability management activities and through the fastest and most innovative performances to deliver the strategies. GiGA Infrastructure and ICT Convergence services. Overview of This Report In order to improve the understanding of stakeholders about KT's sustainability goals, strategies, and system, KT has reflected the KT Sustainability Model to this report. Under the long-term sustainability goal, 'Realizing Global GiGAtopia, ' we have been promoted the corporate-wide sustainability management in three dimensions and six areas aiming to accomplish the economic prosperity (GiGA Prosperity), environmental preservation (GiGA Planet), and social progress (GiGA People). In addition, the KT Sustainability Model has been established in accordance with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that are midto long-term global development plans of United Nations (UN) for making a better planet. For more information, please refer to p.28-29 of this report. KT Sustainability Model Sustainability Transparent Management Management GiGA Prosperity Economic Prosperity Shared Growth Customer First Management GiGA GiGA Management People Planet Social Environmental Progress Preservation Talent Environmental Management Management Realization of Global GiGAtopia Characteristics of This Report This report has been planned regarding the value creation process. It also addresses the material sustainability issues identified through the materiality test and KT's long-term sustainability goals established by integrating the business and the material sustainability issues. Furthermore, KT shares its strategies for the present and the future through defining the six megatrends of the communications industry and presenting key business activities, performances, and plans in accordance with the strategies. KT Sustainability Index (KSI) and issues of each area which stakeholders are interested in are also delivered while value creation cases by KT's sustainability management are introduced in detail. Therefore, the effectiveness of the report as a communication channel has been substantially increased. Contents Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors 04 GiGAtopia Create the Future Message from the CEO 05 Company Overview 06 KT is taking a significant leap into tomorrow through the fastest and most innovative Special Feature KT EMBRACES KOREA 08 GiGA Infrastructure and ICT Convergence services. GiGAtopia KT ADVANCES WITH KOREA 12 Create The Future KT MAKES A BETTER WORLD 16 GiGA Prosperity 24 Sustainability Management 25 Transparent Management 33 GiGA Planet 42 Customer First Management 43 Environmental Management 53 GiGA People 62 Talent Management 63 Shared Growth Management 73 Appendix 86 Key Sustainability Indicators 87 GHG Verification Statement 89 Third Party Assurance 90 GRI Content Index 92 Major Awards and Membership 96 Cover Story Standing at the forefront of the Korean communications history, KT presents a new paradigm of the communications market through GiGAtopia. The cover expresses KT who realizes the Global GiGAtopia by spreading the fastest and most innovative ICT services in the world beyond the border of Korea. KT Integrated Report 2016 Message from Message from the CEO the Chairman of the Board of Directors KT will create an abundant future Through GiGA Infrastructure and through the sustainability ICT Convergence technology, management. KT will advance the world. Since the opening of Hanseong Telegraph Bureau, KT has led KT will step forward to lead new trends of the sustainability manIn 2015, KT proclaimed that it will lead the 4th Industrial RevoluBy providing GiGA Infrastructure and solutions to remote regions the Korean communications history for 131 years as the represenagement in Korea through devoting diverse efforts; a committee tion of Korea through GiGA Infrastructure and ICT convergence. In like Imja Island, Daeseongdong, Baengnyeong Island, and Cheoghaktative company of the country. With a strong will to become a firm with the exclusive responsibility for the sustainability management other words, KT will innovate the industry and the life of humankind dong, KT has greatly improved the quality of life of local residents. foundation of the industrial development of Korea, we are substanhas been newly founded in the Board of Directors. We will continue by integrating various industries with intelligent GiGA Infrastructure. We will aim to spread the abundance and prosperity by ICT into tially contributing to the development of the ICT market. to concentrate on establishing the sustainable future of KT. We have successfully established the most advanced Infrastructhe entire world by building additional GiGA Island in Maheshkhali ture with our world-class technology, such as GiGA LTE, GiGA Wire, Island, Bangladesh. Past success, however, does not necessarily guarantee future suc'Sustainability Management Committee' will present methods to LTE-M, and Private LTE. In addition to this, we are creating new cess which has made it never easy to attain the sustainable growth. maximize the corporate value of KT as well as will persistently convergences that increase the value of the industry by competiDear respected KT customers and shareholders, Recently, we have watched large enterprises of the world losing excavate ways to become an international company who faithfully tive capability in Big Data sector as well as IoT, cloud, and security KT will endeavor for more people to enjoy a better quality of life trust of customers for their dishonesty. KT is fully recognizing that delivers the social responsibility. control technologies. at lower cost by utilizing its GiGA Infrastructure and capability in the corporate value can be sunk in a moment of time as well as ICT solution. Moreover, we will concentrate our efforts on assisting that the managerial risk is constantly increasing. 2016 will be a year for KT to consolidate a foothold to take a new KT, the Korea's representative company, pursues to contribute to the humankind to resolve problems of disease, poverty, and isolachallenging leap for further advanced sustainability management. creating a better world with its innovative technology. Through tion. Every single employee of KT promises to cooperate to deliver Hence, KT has reinforced its sustainability management system Every director of the Board of Directors including myself will do our network infrastructure that connects the entire world, we will the abundance of GiGAtopia to the world. in order to preoccupy new business opportunities and to turn into the best to assist KT in fulfilling its duty as a responsible global present GiGAtopia which all humankind can enjoy while guiding a company overcoming economic, environmental, and social risks. enterprise. the sustainable development and growth of the humankind. Thank you. As a consequence, we were selected as the Industry Leader of the wire and wireless communications industry in the 2015 Dow Thank you. In 2015, The United Nations (UN) defined 17 Sustainable DevelopJones Sustainability Index (DJSI), the most authoritative sustainability ment Goals (SDGs) with an aim to accomplish the goals by 2030; index in the world. We have stood tall as the global leading compathe UN SDGs are significant challenges to KT as well for they corny in the sustainability management. respond with the realization of GiGAtopia. The corporate social responsibility is not an option but a must; the role of a company is most critical in establishing a better future. Hence, KT has been constantly devoting itself to identifying solutions for the earth. Chairman of the Board of Directors CEO, KT Corporation Do-Kyun Song Chang-Gyu Hwang 04 05 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Company Overview Information and Communications Technology Current Condition Established as Korea Telecom in 1981, KT has been Korea’s largest comprehensive communications operCurrent and Key History ator. It merged with its subsidiary, KTF, in 2009 and is leading the smart era by introducing smartphones in Condition of Korea. By identifying and cultivating ICT convergence services in various industrial sectors through its GiGA Group Companies kt m&s kt cs kt is kt ds wire and wireless network infrastructure and outstanding IT technology, KT is turning into the global No. 1 (As of December 2015) Sales and rental Operation of call center; Operation of call center; Provision of IT services of communications devices 114 service 114 service (ITO, SI) communications company beyond the domestic market as the main driver of the 4th Industrial Revolution. www.ktmns.com www.ktcs.co.kr www.ktis.co.kr www.ktds.com kt telecop kt service South kt sat kt service North Provision of security services Wire communications/AS Rental of satellite repeater Wire communications/AS www.telecop.co.kr www.ktservice.co.kr www.ktsat.net www.ktservice.co.kr Company Name: KT Date of Establishment: 10 December, 1981 CEO: Chang-Gyu Hwang kt linkus kt powertel kt submarine INITECH Headquarters: 90, Bulljeong-ro, Bundang-gu, Seongnam City, Gyeonggi-do Operation and maintenance Distribution of TRS/IP-PTT terminals Construction/maintenance of submarine Development of IT service of public phone www.ktpowertel.co.kr communications cable and electrical cable and solution http://www.kt.com/eng/main.jsp www.ktlinkus.co.kr www.ktsubmarine.co.kr www.initech.com kt M mobile Autopion kt NexR kt-SB data service MVNO business Operation of brand taxi service Development of Big Data platform/ Provision of data center service www.ktmmobile.co.kr analysis solution for Japanese customers www.ktnexr.com www.kt-sb.com Number of Users by Services in 2013-2015 (Unit: thousand persons) Category 2013 2014 2015 Wireless Communications* 16,454 17,328 18,038 Media/Content PSTN** 14,513 13,849 13,268 Wire Telephone VoIP 3,505 3,411 3,413 High-speed Internet 8,067 8,129 8,328 kt skylife kth kt music IPTV 4,968 5,859 6,552 Satellite broadcasting T Commerce; distribution Provision and distribution www.ktskylife.co.kr of contents and ICT business of music service Total 47,507 48,576 49,599 www.kthcorp.com www.ktmusic.co.kr *Wireless Communications: CDMA+WCDMA+LTE, **PSTN: Data combining general calls (excluding enterprise calls), internal communications, ISDN, and DID skylife TV nasmedia kt mhows Operation of broadcasting channel Advertisement marketing agency Sales/distribution (development of contents included) www.nasmedia.co.kr of mobile-based gift card www.skylifetv.co.kr www.mhows.com Financial Performance Sales from Service/Goods (Unit: KRW billion) Category 2013 2014 2015 Provision of Service 19,663.0 19,059.4 19,455.6 Sales of Goods* 4,147.6 3,252.2 2,825.5 Financial Total 23,810.6 22,311.6 22,281.1 BC card Smartro H&C Network VP *Including contracts of the real estate construction of which the profit is defined based on the progress of the consolidated K-IFRS standard Purchase and issue of credit card Agency for purchasing/verifying Subcontract business Online credit card transaction www.bccard.com credit/debit card www.hncnet.co.kr verification www.smartro.co.kr www.vp.co.kr Sales by Businesses (Unit: KRW billion) Category 2013 2014 2015 Wireless 6,976.5 7,316.1 7,370.7 Real Estate/Others Wire 5,965.5 5,540.0 5,158.7 Media contents 1,354.5 1,508.4 1,662.3 Financial rental 3,859.9 3,221.4 3,411.0 kt commerce kt estate kt sports kt innoedu Products 3,966.5 3,250.5 2,767.4 B2B purchasing agency Development/rental of real estate Operation of sports events Education business www.ktcommerce.kr www.ktestate.com www.kt-sports.co.kr for adults/companies Others 1,687.7 1,475.3 1,911.0 www.ktinnoedu.com Total 23,810.6 22,311.7 22,281.1 *In accordance with the performance announcement *kt M mobile, kt service North, and kt service South have been newly included to the consolidated standard 06 07 GiGAtopia Create the Future 01. People to Time KT People and Space Connect between Transcendence Embraces People beyond Time and Space ERA 01. ERA 02. ERA 03. ERA 04. Korea Household to ICT Household Convergence Communicate among Smart through Households Convergence PQRS The Era of The Era of The Era of The Era of Telegraph and Magneto ‘1 Telephone for the Internet ICT Convergence Telephone 1 Household’ 1885 1961 1962 1993 1994 2008 2009 2015 The fixed-line telephone opened a new era of '1 Telephone for 1 Household.' 08 09 2015 GiGA Internet Acquired 1 Million Subscribers 2009 ‘Innovation’ Starts First electronic exchanger opened a new era of ‘1 Telephone for 1 Household.’ First internet service pioneered the cyber territory of Korea. iPhone Was ICT Convergence era realized by KT First introduction of iPhone waved a flag of smartphone revolution. Introduced When KT Embraces First ICT Convergence Services geared with super-high-speed 1994 KORNET Was Smartphone revolution GiGA Infrastructure. Commercialized led by KT 1million Korea 1962 subscribers ‘Chaesin No.1’ The first internet of Korea KT has been the ‘First’ company of Korea writing new chapters Telephone at every corner of the history of ‘Innovation.’ Was Developed 1885 Enactment of standard Hanseong and beginning 1st Telegraph of production iPhone Bureau opened The first telegraph 1st office in Korea Internet 1st Phone 2002 2011 The number of subscribers Commercialization of 4G (LTE) 1910 1987 to super-high-speed Internet service for the nationwide network First wireless The number of phone subscribers reaching 10 million telegraph opened surpassing 10 million 131 Years of Korea 2007 Commercialization of 3G (WCDMA) 2014 Commercialization of GiGA Internet service for the first in Korea for the first in Korea Telecommunications ERA 01. ERA 02. ERA 03. ERA 04. The Era of The Era of The Era of The Era of Telegraph and Magneto ‘1 Telephone for the Internet ICT Convergence Telephone 1 Household’ The modern telecommunication serTelephone at its early stage was so In June 1994, KT opened up a gate KT has been touching Korea and her vice in Korea began when Hanseong expensive that certain classes of to the era of the Internet by launchpeople by providing comfort beyond Telegraph Bureau opened on 28th people could own it. As the desire ing KORNET for the first in Korea. convenience based on its GiGA September, 1885. The start was to communicate via phone diffused, KORNET is the dial-up internet Infrastructure and ICT convergence 131 Years of Korea Telecommunications when King Gojong installed an Korea Telecom (KT, current) endeavservice using the telephone modem. technology. Thus, GiGAtopia where Since the opening of Hanseong Telegraph Bureau in 1885, the first telecommunication office of Korea, extension phone at Gyeongungung ored and succeeded to develop TDXThanks to KT, therefore, the sensaeverything is connected and conthe telecommunication has been leading Korea's economic development and life innovation. ThroughPalace (Deoksugung Palace, current) 1 for the 10th in the world; TDX-1 is tional two-way communication was verged by and within one network for the work efficiency in 1896. an automatic exchanger. Finally, the achieved enabling the information has come true, with all efforts of KT. out the history, KT has become the driving force of the era of '1 Telephone for 1 Household' and Since then, the extension phone had era of '1 Telephone for 1 Household' delivery within the cyber space. internet commercialization as well as the 'smart-phone revolution.' We have walked a long path functioned as a tool to connect the was realized in Korea. of the past 131 years with Korea and her people. Now we stand tall looking forward to the upcoming administration offices in the Palace 131 years. KT will realize vibrant and bright future of Korea. conveying royal commands. 10 11 GiGAtopia Create the Future 02. Ultra-high-speed Smart KT Network Technology 100 Times Faster than Before Connecting Humans & Things Advances infrastructure Competence Platform with Korea Big Data Competence Leading the 4th Industrial Revolution FEB 2016 3rd Industrial Revolution Demonstration of 25Gbps 5G wireless 'Automation through computer' Smart Intelligent transmission for the world’s first Energy Transportation NOV 2015 2nd Industrial Revolution Demonstration of LTE-M-based Integrated Life-enhancing 'Mass production Internet of Small Things service Security Care through electric power' for the world’s first OCT 2014 1st Industrial Revolution Next-generation Launch of GiGA Internet 10 times 'Machinery revolution Media faster for the Korea’s first through steam engine' KT Super-high-speed GiGA WiFi opened a new horizon of mobile communications in Korea. 12 13 Korea Becomes Smarter KT has been always on the closest side of Korea and her people leading the innovation. Beyond successes we have accomplished, GOAL we are more than eager to watch dreams come true. when KT Advances We will realize the world where connection between human and Realization of things while everyone enjoys not only convenience but comfort. with Korea In the midst of the ICT environment that changes at every second, GiGA GiGA IoT KT is creating the fastest and newest era of innovation as Network KT creates the ICT-based world where the leader of the convergence industry and global No. 1 GiGA Infrastructure connects human and things Telecommunication Company. delivering convenience and comfort. GiGA big data The World’s First 5G OlympicS infrastructure COMPETENCE PLATFORM GiGA NETWORK GiGA BIG DATA GiGA IoT KT has provided world class network includAs the development of ICT technology IoT (Internet of Things) is a key technology ing the broadband LTE service in responding proceeds, the world is experiencing the new of GiGAtopia, the dream of KT, by connecting to the drastic increase of data traffic folindustrial revolution. Through its ‘Soft various things with wired/wireless networks lowed by the launch of smartphones. Power,’ KT is standing at the forefront of thus sharing information. KT has established It is forecasted that the new Big Bang in data the 4th industrial revolution where intelan abundant GiGA IoT Alliance through entraffic will break out when the IoT world ligent factories are run and cutting-edge couraging participation of diverse developbegins. Therefore, KT has been proposing products are made. We will devote to further ers as the IoT Global No. 1 business operator Pyeongchang Winter Olympic 2018 standards for the global 5G world in order to advance the ICT environment with our topwho presents differentiated services based KT, as the official partner for the telecommunication services of 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics, lead the age of GiGA convergence. notch ICT technology as well as the capabilion open IoT platform (IoTMakers). has been preparing innovative services that have never been before. Through our 360 degree Virtual ty in big data analysis. Reality (VR) and real-time hologram based on 5G mobile communication technology, audiences will be able to enjoy games as if they are indeed in Olympics stadium. With world's first 5G realization of Olympic Games, KT will develop into the ICT Company that leads the 5G age. 14 15 GiGAtopia Create the Future 03. Secure Energy Contents & KT Society Depletion Education Realization Responds Improvement Makes ICT convergence 01. ICT convergence 02. ICT convergence 03. ICT convergence 04. ICT convergence 05. a Better World Smart Preventive Transport Healthcare Realization Advancement Establishing a public Initiating the Usage Operating KT-MEG Analyzing 16,000 Opening the Korea’s disaster safety Base Insurance (UBI) Center, the world’s cancer genes through first hologram concert platform for service, the Korea’s first complex energy Genomecloud, the hall, K-Live the first in Korea first IoT-based insurefficiency center largest-scale genome ance utilizing informadatabank in Korea tion on car usage Providing Social OverSaving USD 56.5 billion Delivering Virtual head Capital (SOC) Accomplishing a record a year through 10% Offering healthReality (VR) contents disaster safety serof the top business energy reduction care services using that are quality and vices and residential operator for Big wearable devices for realistic safety services Data-based movable general health, chronic platform service diseases and teenagers Sustainable GiGAtopia world geared with GiGA Infrastructure and ICT Convergence. 16 17 ICT convergence 01. ICT convergence 02. ICT convergence 03. ICT convergence 04. ICT convergence 05. Integrated Intelligent Smart LifeNextBeyond Korea, Through the ICT convergence based on the IoT, we will stand tall in the world as a global ICT company who provides innovative Safety Transportion Energy enhancing generation ‘solutions’ for numerous ‘problems’ the world is confronting. KT Care Media KT Is about to Change solutions cover a variety of services: Smart Energy for the environment, Realizing safe society Building smart traffic Responding to energy Providing cutting-edge Connecting TV and smart Networked Transportation revolutionizing the mobility, Life-enhancing for a Better World Care to protect the health of humankind, and integrated Safety by integrating Big Data and image analysis technology environment by converging ICT with automobile industry depletion through energy and ICT healthcare service using ICT technology through wearable devices to improve customized contents, commerce service, guaranteeing the society’s safety. devices and education Providing Innovative ICT Solutions GiGAtopia Realization of Global towards UN SDGs GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People New Era of Prosperity New Era of Innovation New Era to Humankind Created by GiGA Infrastructure Opened up by GiGA Infrastructure Presented by GiGA Infrastructure 2020 Goal 2020 Goal 2020 Goal Investing total KRW 13 trillion into Offering annual environmental benefits Accomplishing annual social values GiGA Infrastructure and ICT Convergence worth of KRW 3 trillion worth more than KRW 4 trillion by 2020 in 2020 in 2020 GOAL 11 GOAL 7 GOAL 4 Sustainable Cities Affordable & Quality & Communities Clean Energy Education GOAL 3 GOAL 13 UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) Good Health and Climate Action UN Sustainable Development Goals are the global midto long-term development plan of the Well-being United Nations consisting of total 17 goals. It is being executed in order to solve economic, environmental, and social problems around the globe for the upcoming 15 years, from 2016 to 2030. Faithfully endorsing the UN SDGs for a better future of the Earth, KT has been concentrating Fulfillment of UN Sustainable all of efforts participating in the realization of the Goals through the GiGA Infrastructure and Development Goals ICT Convergence. 18 19 Business Social Value Creation Value Creation GiGAtopia World Created by KT “Father controls electric power in his “Mother talks to a doctor about “Grandfather smiles brightly while office after monitoring last night’s energy health information sent video calling with his granddaughter ICT Convergence consumption status on KT-MEG.” via her wearable device.” in driverless car heading home.” Smart Energy Life-enhancing Care Intelligent Transportation Thanks to the ICT technology, a pleasant and convenient energy Along with the emergence of various wearable devices, the By global automobile manufacturers and IT companies, the conKT provides the humankind and the environment environment has been established. KT, for the first in the world, healthcare paradigm is moving toward the preventive healthvergence of automobile and IT has been accelerated. Moreover, developed KT-MEG (Micro Energy Grid) that is the total energy care. KT has initiated the innovation of the healthcare service the importance of telecommunication technology has greatly with the advanced and ingenious ICT services management solution. Moreover, we provide about 2,500 sites with by establishing a comprehensive healthcare platform that covincreased in order to provide IT service while traveling. KT by connecting people and things with cutting-edge the integrated monitoring services such as efficiency improveers the Cloud-based human genome analysis, IoT-based biometric endeavors to create the smart traffic environment by creating a IoT technology and realizing the ICT convergence ment in generating renewable energy, efficient energy consumpplatform, technology to connect wearable devices, and health driverless car through the GiGA IoT network. tion, trading of demand-side resource, and management of EV record management solution. between industries. charging stations. Business Value Creation Realization of UN Sustainable Development Goals through Creating Business Value ” “Mother has comfort time watching “Son enjoys class through customized GiGAtopia her daughter having fun at a field trip education service using realistic Establishing Foundation for GiGAtopia via security monitor.” media technology.” towards through GiGA Infrastructure UN SDGs and ICT Convergence Integrated Safety Next-generation Media In GiGAtopia, everyone deserves comfort far beyond convenience. By taking a full advantage of its GiGA For a series of accidents and events occur around us, it is more As the data speed has been significantly increased, abundant Infrastructure and future convergence technology, than necessary to secure the safety of living space. Hence, KT brand-new media services have become available. KT, the No. 1 KT will devote to become the Global No. 1 ICT has provided a comprehensive Safety & Comfort service through operator of pay TV in Korea, has been leading the next-generation Company who brings forward the fulfillment of its ICT technology such as Big Data analysis. Besides, we have media market by delivering differentiated and realistic media serUN SDGs, the common goal of the entire humankind. strived for the safe society by offering various Integrated Safety vices through its outstanding assets and capability. services based on our integrated control platform technology. 20 21 Business Social Value Creation Value Creation GiGAtopia World 2014 Oct. 2015 Jul. 2016 Oct. Created by KT “Through GiGA Infrastructure, “Traditional village in Cheoghakdong “GiGAtopia delivering convenience smart life begins in Imja Island has been transformed and comfort is being disseminated GIGA Story located in archipelago.” into complex ICT village.” into the world.” Imja GiGA Island Cheonghak GiGA Creative Village Bangladesh GiGA Island For it is surrounded by the ocean, there are 3,237 islands in Korea Cheoghakdong is a traditional village that is mountainous and KT will take a challenging leap into the world through its experithat are separated from the land. KT has carried out activities isolated. KT found out that Cheoghakdong has a difficulty in ences and know-hows achieved by providing GiGA Infrastructure KT executes GiGA Story, the social contribution project for the GiGAtopia in separated and under-developed regions. In communicating with outside regions and thus needs an overall and ICT convergence technology to remote and isolated regions in to create shared values, in order to present the comfort Imja Island in Jeollanam-do Province’s archipelago, we have made renovation in life style. In July 2015, accordingly, KT applied ICT Korea. Starting from Bangladesh, KT is establishing a new developsubstantial changes to lives of Imja Isalnd’s people by improvsolutions specialized for the area and revolutionized the village ment model of developing countries while striving for the global as well as convenience to remote and isolated regions ing the environment to the level of cities through innovative ICT into a complex ICT village enabling the smooth communication GiGAtopia where the world citizens can enjoy not only the convethrough the GiGA Infrastructure and future convergence technology. and cultural exchange with cities. nience but comfort as well. technology. Social Value Creation Realization of 2014 2015 UN Sustainable Development Goals Nov. Mar. through Creating Social Value ” “At Daeseongdong Elementary School “Everyone in Baengnyeong Island, in the DMZ, students study with nextthe northernmost part of West Sea, enjoys GiGAtopia generation media and Edu Solution.” safe life with integrated security service.” Founding Global GiGAtopia through towards Social Contribution Creating Shared Value UN SDGs Daeseongdong GiGA School Baengnyeong GiGA Island GiGAtopia embraces every corner of Korea. KT advances and benefits the world far beyond Daeseongdong Elementary School is located in the world’s sole Baengnyeong Island is bordering North Korea located in the the border of Korea and thus becomes the pioneer demilitarized zone (DMZ), where an access to the area is strictly northernmost part of the West Sea. Due to its geographical who aims at realizing the UN SDGs, the common goal controlled causing an extremely poor educational environment. condition, there had been always an unrest for a long time. KT, of the entire humankind. In November 2014, KT introduced the Smart Edu Solution (an therefore, established a safe environment in this island in March ICT convergence education system) into Daesongdong and thus 2015 with its cutting-edge Triple GiGA network technology. created a school where children can grow with dream and hope Thanks to KT, people of Baengnyeong Island can live a safe life communicating with the world. even during disasters and incidents. 22 23 GiGA Prosperity Sustainability Vision & Strategy KT strongly believes that protecting the environment and devoting to the development Management of the society as a responsible corporate citizen can maximize the corporate values as New Era of Prosperity Created by GiGA Infrastructure well as realize the sustainable future. Additionally, we endorse the UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) of the Goal Investing total KRW 13 trillion into GiGA Infra and ICT Convergence United Nations; we have established plans to promote activities for the UN SDGs and complied with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC). Hence, KT will devel2020 by 2020 op into the leader who guides the global sustainability management. Sustainability Aspect Long-term Sustainability Goals Sustainability Transparent Management Management KRW 13 trillion KRW 3 trillion GiGA Sustainability Goal in Economic Area Sustainability Goal Prosperity Investing total KRW 13 trillion in GiGA in Environmental Area Infrastructure and ICT convergence Offering annual environmental benefits by 2020 worth of KRW 3 trillion in 2020 Shared Growth Customer First Management Management GiGA GiGA People Planet Sustainability Transparent Management Management KRW 4 trillion KRW 62.9 trillion Talent Environmental Management Management Sustainability Goal in Social Area Profit from Dissemination Accomplishing annual social values of GiGA Internet worth more than KRW 4 trillion in 2020 KRW 62.9 trillion by 2020 GiGA Sustainability Drivers Key Performances 2015 Prosperity Strategy Driver Objective Driver Accomplishing Realizing Global No. 1 Sustainable Future 470 GiGA GiGA Competitiveness Competitiveness Sales from Global Business People Planet in Sustainability Management in 19 Countries Industry Leader of wired/wireless including US, Japan, and China communications sector in the Dow Jones (KRW billion) Sustainability Index (DJSI) Sustainability Issues ➊ Generation of economic outcome, ➋ Establishment of vision and goal, ➌ Fostering new growth business, ➍ Quality of life improved through ICT technology, 6,683 4,087 ➎ Law compliance, ➏ Contribution to national economy, Articles Analyzed Participants in Stakeholder Survey (persons) through Media Research ➐ Overseas advancement (articles) (in the order of importance based on the 2016 materiality test) 24 25 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Sustainability Transparent Corporate Management Management Philosophy & Strategy Management Strategy KT's Approach Advancing with the Korean history of telecommunication, KT has significantly contributed to Three Strategies for Realization of GiGAtopia In 2014, KT established a management goal, Realizing GiGAtopia, for successfully achieving the corporate mission and the national economy and improved the quality of life of Koreans. Through its outstanding vision; GiGAtopia refers to the world where humans and all the things are connected through GiGA Infrastructure thus capability in the cutting-edge ICT sector, KT is standing tall leading Korea to the new future. enjoy comfort beyond convenience. Based on abundant experiences and capabilities accumulated over the past 131 years leading the telecommunication industry of Korea, we will develop into the global No. 1 telecommunication company standing at the forefront to greet the upcoming 131 years while executing the three corporate strategies: leading wire/wireless infrastructure, excavating and fostering ICT convergence services, and implementing the customer first management. Corporate Philosophy Mission and Vision Core Values 01 Leading Wire/Wireless Infrastructure KT explicitly announces its reason for existence and corThe core values of KT presents detailed code of conduct to all employees funcBy actively realizing GiGAtopia, KT operates communications businesses such as mobile comporate philosophy through the corporate mission: the best tioning as standards of behavior and decision-making to accomplish the corpomunications, Internet, wired telephone, and corporate infrastructure. Also, it has been leading national company that provides the fastest and most innorate vision, Global No. 1 KT. We aim to become the global No. 1 with the best the wire/wireless GiGA Infrastructure with the world's first GiGA LTE and Korea's first GiGA vative ICT-based telecommunications and convergence serquality and differentiated services while advancing altogether through borderinternet. In responding to the upcoming 5G era, KT is cooperating with global communications companies for the development of 5G-related technology and establishment of international vices for the convenience of customers. In order to realize less communication and cooperation between departments. Furthermore, not standards. Furthermore, we have built a business portfolio encompassing diverse convergence the mission by the management, we established the vision merely will we mobilize all our resources and capacities to provide the best ICTs including Big Data-based Internet of Things (IoT), Cloud, and corporate solution; converof Global No.1 KT consolidating a foundation to create service to our customers but we will promote a brighter future for the company gence ICT will become a driving force for a creative innovation and new growth. the future. with the right decision-making and business ethics as well. Hence, KT will take one step further toward promising tomorrow with strong conviction and passion of its people. Management 02 Excavating and Fostering ICT Convergence Services Strategy Based on wired and wireless GiGA Infrastructure and technology in ICT convergence, KT proMission Vision Goal motes future convergence business by generating synergistic effects between communications and other industries in five key sectors: Smart Energy, Integrated Safety, Next-generation Media, Life-Enhancing Care, and Networked Transportation. In particular, we are identifying and cultivating ICT convergence businesses in diverse industries using our IoT and Big Data (AI) capabilities while striving to develop next-generation services such as the 5G-based autonomous driving Core Values and Virtual Reality (VR). The best national company 03 Implementing Customer First Management KT has innovated the customer value by subdividing customer experiences into about 2,000 units that provides the fastest to provide the best customer service from the total CS perspective. In addition, the corpoand most innovative Global No. 1 Realizing GiGAtopia rate-wide Total CS system has been renovated by newly establishing the 'Customer First Management Office' while the execution capability for the customer first management has been ICT-based telecommunications *GiGAtopia secured through the Committee with Customers in Priority mainly consisting of top executives. It refers to the world where humans and For accomplishing the goal of 'No. 1 in customer awareness,' KT is also endeavoring to provide and convergence services all the things are connected through GiGA the best products and services that are completely differentiated from competitors through its Infrastructure thus enjoy comfort beyond convenience. for the convenience No. 1 technology and capability. of customers KT Stands Tall as the Most Sustainable Telecommunication Company in the World In September 2015, KT was selected as the Industry Group Leader of the global telecommunication service in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) which is the most authoritative index for the corporate sustainability. Following 2011, 2012, and 2013, we have accomplished the fourth momentous fruit again with our corporate values recognized as Number 1 KT Single KT Customers First Right-Path the Global No. 1 communications company by the whole world. Aim to become the global Advance altogether Mobilize all our resources Management The DJSI was developed by Dow Jones of the USA, the largest financial information company, and RobecoSAM of Swiss, RobecoSAM Sustainability number 1 with the best through borderless comand capacities to provide Promote a brighter future the international assessment company. The largest 2,500 companies are evaluated for their economic, environmental, and Yearbook 2016 quality and differentiated munication and cooperation the best service to our for the company with social sustainability; every year, the evaluation result is announced and provided to international investing institutions services between departments customers the right decision-making and Pension and Fund departments helping the companies to secure the liquidity. KT will further endeavor to stand at and business ethics the forefront of the sustainability management as the global leader representing the telecommunications industry. 26 27 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Sustainability Transparent Sustainability Management Management Management System KT's Approach KT is endeavoring to build the sustainable GiGAtopia with the world by establishing the corSustainability Transparent porate-wide sustainability management system that is based on the Creating Shared Value Management Management 6 Sustainability model; we have also set long-term sustainability management goals for 2020 and KT SustainAREA 01 AREA 02 Management Areas ability Index(KSI) to deliver the corporate-wide sustainability management. Establishment of sustainability Improvement of governance; strategy; Monitoring; Ethics management; KSI management Risk management ★ ★ Sustainability Management Committee, Strategy & Planning Office, Strategy and Organization for Establishment of Corporate-wide Sustainability Management Strategy Sustainability Management Center, Legal & Ethics Center, Sustainability Management The world is currently facing the most challenging era throughout the history, which has been caused Sustainability Management Advisory Committee Financial Management Office by various factors such as the global climate change, demographic change, worsening resource depletion, and technology development. Therefore, KT, as the representative telecommunication company, has concentrated its IT technology and capability to establish the long-term sustainability management strategy for improving the sustainability of the humankind and the world. The strategy Customer First Environmental is based on the Creating Shared Value model which is to generate economic value and social valManagement Management ue simultaneously. Also, it includes the three sustainability management goals for 2020 as well as AREA 03 AREA 04 the KT Sustainability Index (KSI) in six management areas. Customer management/R&D; Environmental policy/system; Brand management; Management of environmental Information security performance; Response to climate change GiGA ★ ★ Prosperity Customer Business Group, Network Group, Customer First Management Office, Marketing Group, Future Convergence Business Office, Future Convergence Business Office, Corporate Relations Group, Sustainability Management Center, kt estate Corporate-wide Sustainability Management Goal Realizing Global GiGAtopia Data & Information Security Unit, Institute of Convergence Technology GiGA GiGA People Planet Talent Shared Growth Management Management Intensification of Sustainability Management Organization AREA 05 AREA 06 KT has been delivering the corporate-wide sustainability management by founding the Sustainability Labor/human rights; Social contribution; Management Committee under the Board of Directors in April 2016. Moreover, the Sustainability ManHuman resource development; Management of suppliers; agement Center, a responsible practical body, has been established for the promotion of sustainability Compensation Social cooperation management strategy and active execution of activities. On the other hand, the 'Sustainability Man★ Responsible agement Advisory Committee' delivers advices for the sustainability management. Since 2011, KT has Organization ★ ★ established and operated a system where the top management supervises the sustainability manageHuman Resources Office, Corporate Relations Group, ment by articulating it on relevant regulation that performance and plan of sustainability management kt Group HR Development Academy, SCM Strategy Office, Creative Econnomy Office, Management Support Office Sustainabilty Management Center are to be regularly reported to the Board of Directors for the decision making. BoD Organization Sustainability Management Committee Reporting Review/Feedback Sustainability Front-line Sutainability Management Organization Center Management Advisory 3 Sustainability GiGA Properity GiGA Planet GiGA People Counseling Committee Management Goals Reporting Identifying and Executing Agenda Realizing New Era of Prosperity Realizing New Era of Innovation Realizing New Era to Humankind Subcommittees Created by GiGA Infrastructure Opened up by GiGA Infrastructure Presented by GiGA Infrastructure Environmental Group Social Contribution Shared Growth Council Group Ethical Management Management Council Investing total KRW 13 trillion in Offering annual environmental benefits Accomplishing annual social values ·Public business ·Promotion of Green IT ·Policy for shared growth ·Proactive risk management GiGA Infrastructure and ICT convergence worth of KRW 3 trillion worth more than KRW 4 trillion relevant to sustainability ·Voluntary service ·Energy reduction ·Mediation of conflict with management ·Social cooperation ·Response to environmental supplier by 2020 in 2020 in 2020 regulation ·Response to relevant regulation 28 29 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Sustainability Transparent Material Management Management Sustainability KT's Approach Issues KT selected material sustainability issues regarding the International <IR> Framework of the International Integrated Reporting Committee (IIRC) based on the GRI G4 guidelines that is the international guidelines for the sustainability reporting. For acquiring the accountability of the issue selection process and evaluation result, in addition, we have reflected the three principles of inclusiveness, materiality, and responsiveness which AA1000 requires; AA1000 STEP 03 General Material Core Sustainability is the international sustainability reporting assurance standard. Issues Issues Issues 1 Validating 5 Material Issues 11 6 2 7 3 8 4 16 9 10 14 12 Validating and selecting material issues 17 STEP 01 STEP 02 KT conducted an in-depth internal review 15 13 28 25 22 on whether the issues identified have 20 19 Identifying Prioritizing a significant influence on the company. 27 26 23 18 Sustainability Issues Sustainability Issues Moreover, the issues have been subdivided 30 29 24 33 31 34 into three categories regarding 35 36 32 21 Identifying sustainability issues through the analysis Prioritizing material issues excavated the correlation with corporate strategies 37 of internal and external environment through the materiality test and validity: 20 core sustainability issues, 40 39 KT created a list of 325 sustainability issues by the benchTotal 6,683 internal and external stakeholders participated 30 material issues, and general issues. marking of international guidelines, industry analysis, media in the online survey about KT's sustainability issues; They have been reflected to the integrated 38 research, and review on internal/external managerial matethe importance of each issue was analyzed in aspects report according to the level of reporting rials. Reflecting the internal and external importance, a total of external interest and internal impact. by issues. of 40 issues in 6 areas have been selected. Core Sustainability Issues: Material Issues: General Issues: Issues that interest and influence Issues that interest of external Other sustainability issues that are of the entire stakeholder group stakeholders or influence of employees included in KT’s management activities are extremely high is high Benchmarking of international guidelines Purpose: To recognize material interests and expectations of diverse stakeholders Conducted benchmarking on international standards and index such as GRI G4, ISO 26000, and DJSI Utilization: To review approach of sustainability management and use as reference in planning KT Integrated Report 2016 Industry analysis Identified issues material in the industry through analyzing sustainability Period: 15 February, 2016 19 February, 2016 (7 days) issues that domestic and overseas communications companies report Survey channel: Survey email, KT website Analysis of Material Sustainability Issues Media research Analyzed total 4,087 articles reported by domestic press in 2015 Sustainability Aspect GRI G4 Aspect Sustainability Issues Reporting Review on internal/external managerial materials Reflected external trends surrounding KT as well as internal material Sustainability Strategy and Analysis*, Organizational Profile*, 3 Generation of economic outcome, 4 Establishment of vision and goal, issues Management Identified Material Aspects And Boundaries*, p. 06 23 7 Fostering new growth business, 19 Quality of life improved through ICT technology, Stakeholder Engagement*, Economic Performance*, 32 Law compliance, 34 Contribution to national economy, 38 Overseas advancement p. 24 32 Indirect Economic Impacts* Materiality Test Process Transparent Governance*, 2 Business ethics, 6 Transparent corporate governance, Management Ethics and Integrity*, Anti-corruption, 9 Risk management and response, 11 Fair competition and trade, p. 33 41 Public Policy, Anti-competitive Behavior 14 Management of midto long-term strategic risk, 17 Independent Board of Directors STEP 01 Identification STEP 02 Prioritization STEP 03 Validation Customer First Products and Services, 1 Customer first management, 5 Information protection and enhanced security, Management Marketing Communications, 8 Communication with customers, 10 Innovative management and R&D, p. 42 52 Customer Privacy 21 Brand management, 29 Customer health and safety Background of Sustainability Completeness Materiality to ·Media research Verifying Identifying ·Industry analysis Materiality Verifying validity of ·Review on key issues in 2015 sustainability appropriateness of Environmental Materials, Energy, Water, Biodiversity, 16 Expansion of environment-friendly ICT service, 25 Energy, stakeholders important ·Review on internal/external issues of KT scope, boundary, and Management Emissions, Effluents and Waste 33 Environmental policy and system, 35 Electromagnetic wave, 36 GHG, p. 53 61 managerial materials period issues 37 Climate change strategy, 39 Waste Materiality to KT Talent Employment, Labor/Management Relations, 12 Human resource and capability development, 13 Appraisal and compensation, Management Occupational Health and Safety, Training and 15 Employee health and safety, 18 Employee benefits, 20 Human right protection, Education, Diversity and Equal Opportunity, p. 62 72 23 Diversity and equal opportunity, 24 Work-life balance Equal remuneration for women and men Stakeholder Engagement Shared Growth Supplier, Local Communities 22 Supplier management policy, 26 Online security, 27 Social contribution, Management 28 Narrowing the gap of information access, 30 Shared growth policy, Interviews with Stakeholders Stakeholder Survey Review of Reliability p. 73 85 31 Engagement with local communities and aid for disaster relief, 40 Employee volunteer activities *General Standard Disclosure Aspects of GRI G4 Aspect that are applied to all organizations 30 31 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Sustainability Transparent Stakeholder Management Management Engagement KT's Approach Transparent Vision & Strategy A transparent and ethical management functions as a foundation for building trust KT has defined stakeholders as individuals or a group of individuals who influence or are influenced by the corporate business directly/indirectly and thus have a stake in the comManagement of various stakeholders of the company. For this reason, KT is establishing a transparent governance as a trustworthy representative company of Korea and settling a healthy pany. Stakeholders are divided into 8 different groups regarding the business and functional corporate culture through ethical management activities. aspects. Through various communication channels for each group, interests and needs of stakeholders are actively gathered and reflected to the corporate management. Additionally, the stability in the corporate management has been secured by the integrated risk management. Hence, KT is now taking a challenging leap to become the best practice of the healthy economic growth. Relevant Key Group Interest Type and Frequency of Engagement Sustainability Area Definition and Engagement •P  ool of customers (200 customers, three regular surveys of Stakeholders •Service quality per year, four to five special surveys per year) •Customer health • Regular online surveys (10,000 respondents, twice a year) Customer First Customers and safety • Product Trial Student Team (10 members, eight months) Management Sustainability Aspect Key Performances 2015 •VOC • Household Panel • Customer Product Evaluation Panel (177 customers, one year) • Labor-Management Council (Quarterly) Sustainability Transparent •L  ocal LM Council, Unit LM Council, LM Policy Council Management Management • Work-life balance (Permanent, year-round) Employees • HR development • Career •M  anagement Conference (Held in various formats for full-time and contracted employees respectively) Talent Management 4.5 management • Grievance Handling Center, KT 119 (Offline) GiGA Competitiveness •C  ompany newspaper/in-house news/in-house online forum/ frequent messaging Prosperity of Transparent Management Board Evaluation Score (points / out of 5 points) Achieving A+ in Corporate Governance sector on ESG Evaluation by Corporate Shared Growth Customer First Governance Service (CGS) Management Management for 5 consecutive years • Shared growth •Partner's Camp (Year-round) GiGA GiGA Suppliers • Vitalization of •Information Sharing Council (Year-round) Shared Growth Management People Planet •On-site Shared Growth Discussion (Year-round) ICT ecosystem •KT Partner's Conference (Year-round) Talent Management Environmental Management 73 91 • Vitalization of • Discussion with local communities, survey, SNS, website local economy Local • Supporting local children center (Dream Center) Shared Growth • Communications Share of Independent Directors Average Board Meeting Attendance Communities • IT Education (Year-round) Management welfare on the Board of Directors (%) • College Student Volunteers (105 students, 1 year) • Social contribution (%) • General shareholders' meeting (Annually) • Management strategies for growth in sales/profits • CEO Management Information Session (Annually) Sustainability Drivers Shareholders • Earnings announcement Transparent • Regulations and ㆍInvestors (Quarterly disclosures, conference calls) Management competition environment Distribution of Stakeholder Value • Shareholder return policy • IR News (Once/twice a month) • Domestic/Overseas NDR (Year-round) •IR website KRW 1,931.1 trillion Strategy Driver Objective Driver 18 10.44 Improving Corporate Pursuing Healthy Employees Total annual wages; total retirement payment •Compliance with laws Transparency Economic Growth Ethical Management Education Ratio of Average Compensation and employee benefits •Participation •Press release (Year-round) Government Transparent for Employee between Employee and CEO in government policy •Press conference and public hearing (Year-round) ㆍMedia Management (cases / annual) (times) •Information •PR channel on website disclosure through media KRW 2,916.9 trillion Suppliers Total procurement from suppliers and service cost Sustainability Issues •Development of •KT Economic and Managerial Research Institute (Year-round) ICT technology •ICT research website 'DigiEco' (Year-round) Academia •Academic-industrial •Joint research with university/research institute Sustainability ➊ Business ethics, ➋ Transparent corporate governance, Management KRW 62.67 billion cooperation •'Future On' (Year-round) Local ➌ Risk management and response, ➍ Fair competition and trade, 335 •Open innovation 83 •Gyeonggi Creative Economy Innovation Center (Year-round) Communities Total investment in community, donation, and sponsorship ➎ Management of midto long-term strategic risk, ➏ Independent Board of Directors •Environmental Prior Examination Prior Risk Evaluation before • Environmental Management Committee (Year-round) KRW 122.43 billion conservation Environmental (in the order of importance based on the 2016 materiality test) for Fair Competition Product Launch Shareholders Environment •V  erification of GHG emissions Management •Development of (cases) (cases) ·Investors (Twice a year, Scope 1,2 and Scope 3) Cash dividends eco-friendly service 32 33 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Sustainability Transparent Sound Management Management Corporate Governance Current Status of the BoD (As of April 2016) KT's Approach Name Responsibility It should be the first to establish the sound and transparent corporate governance for the Category Major Career (Gender) (Attending Committee) stable managerial environment and successful business. Therefore, KT is doing its best to (Current) CEO, KT Chang-Gyu Hwang (Former) President & National CTO, Office of Strategic R&D CEO & President generate sustainable shareholder values through the responsible management by professionExecutive (Male) Planning Chairperson of Management Committee Directors (Former) President & CTO, Samsung Electronics al managers based on the independent Board of Directors. Heon-Moon Lim Member of Sustainability Management (Current) Head, Chief Marketing Office, KT Committee (Male) (Former) Head, Customer Business Group, KT Member of Management Committee Hyeon-Mo Ku (Current) Head, Chief Operating Office, KT Member of Corporate Governance Committee We selected the Korea Exchange (KRX) Social Responsibility Investment (SRI) Governance Index that (Male) (Former) Head, Chief Secretary. KT Member of Management Committee Governance Regulations satisfies the Global Standard. Thus, we have consolidated the management by professional managers Board Chairman and transparent corporate governance system by the independent Board of Directors. Particularly, Non-executive Do-Kyun Song (Current) Advisor, Bae, Kim & Lee LLC Member of Evaluation and Compensation (Former) Committee member, Korea Communications (Male) Committee the objective and independent governance system was established by separating the CEO and the Directors Commission Member of Corporate Governance Committee chairman of the Board in 2002. Through the enactment and announcement of KT Governance Charter Director of Evaluation and Compensation (Current) Professor, College of Electrical Engineering & Committee KT Governance Charter in 2007, the corporate-wide transparent management has been actively promoted as well. Thanks to Sang-Kyun Cha Computer Science, Seoul National University Member of Audit Committee (Male) (Current) President, Big Data Institute, Member of Sustainability Management these diverse efforts, KT has been maintaining the A+ level, the highest level, for 5 consecutive years Seoul National University Committee in the corporate governance sector on the Environment, Social, and Governance (ESG) Evaluation of Jong-Goo Kim (Current) Corporation lawyer, New Dimension Law Group Director of Audit Committee the Corporate Governance Service (CGS). Hence, we have defined and further enhanced the model of (Male) (Former) 46th Minister of Justice Member of Internal Transaction Committee ESG Evaluation Result of Corporate a transparent and healthy company. Director of Corporate Governance Committee Governance Service (CGS) (Current) Dean of School of Business, Hanyang University Member of Evaluation and Compensation Suk-Gwon Chang KT's Corporate Governance Model (Former) President of Korean Operations Research and Committee (Male) Management Science Society Member of Sustainability Management Committee Efforts to Advance Corporate Governance and Promote Transparent Management (Current) Professor, College of Economics and Finance, Director of Sustainability Management Dae-Keun Park Committee Hanyang University (Male) Member of Audit Committee Acquired the Highest Level (Current) President, Korea International Finance Association Member of Corporate Governance Committee Transparent Corporate Governance A+ in Corporate Governance sector Director of Internal Transaction Committee on ESG Evaluation of CGS Dong-Wook Chung (Current) Senior Counsel, Law Firm Kim, Choi & Lim Member of Audit Committee (Male) (Former) Prosecutor, Seoul High Prosecutors' Office Member of Sustainability Management for 5 consecutive years 01 Independence of the Board of Directors Committee Independence of Board composition Transparency in nomination process Authority of non-executive directors (Current) Professor, College of Mass Communication, Dai-Won Hyun Member of Evaluation and Compensation Sogang Communication Center and operation of non-executive directors Committee •Right to evaluate management contract (Male) (Current) President, Korea Virtual Reality Industry Member of Internal Transaction Committee •Separation of CEO and chairman (share of •Operation of Non-executive Director of CEO and recommend dismissal of CEO Association non-executive directors on the Board: 73%) Candidate Nominating Committee •Right to determine the compensation (Current) Professor, Department of Communications and •Audit, Evaluation and Compensation, and •Hiring of third-party Advisory Council to method of CEO and executive directors Dae-Ho Kim Information, Inha University Member of Corporate Governance Committee Insider Trading Committees solely composed find candidates (Male) (Current) Policy advisory member, The Korea Federation Member of Internal Transaction Committee of outside directors of ICT Organizations Improvement of 02 03 Responsible Management by Professional Managers Shareholder Value In order to increase the professionalism and efficiency, KT is operating 6 standing committees and Payback to shareholders Nomination and management contract Compensation and dismissal 2 temporary committees in the BoD. At the end of April 2016, moreover, the Sustainability ManageOperation of Committees •Retirement of shares; dividends •Candidates recommended by CEO •CEO compensation determined based on Nominating Committee management performance in the BoD ment Committee was newly established in the Board for implementing the corporate-wide sustainabilProtection of shareholders •CEO appointed at general shareholders’ •Dismissal of CEO that the Board can possibly ity management. If necessary, the BoD can found additional committees. •Cumulative/written vote meeting recommend to general shareholders’ Protection of shareholder •Management contract signed by new CEO meeting in case of insufficient performance by the CEO Current Status of Committees in the BoD (As of April 2016) rights •Annual evaluation for management performance conducted by the Board •CEO compensation linked to stock price of Directors Category Composition Objective and Authority Corporate Governance 4 non-executive directors; Improvement of corporate governance Committee 1 executive director The corporate governance model of KT is based on 'Independent board of director.' For the transparIndependence and Diversity ent decision making through the efficient monitoring and professional advices, KT's Board of Directors Audit Committee 4 non-executive directors Auditing of accounting and tasks of the BoD are composed of total 11 directors: 8 non-executive directors and 3 executive directors. Moreover, Evaluation and Compensation the CEO is recommended by the CEO Nominating Committee and nominated by the chairman of the 4 non-executive directors Management contract for the CEO and relevant assessment Committee Board by the resolution of the general shareholders meeting. The Chairman recommends executive Transaction between special parties as an approval by the BoD in Internal Transaction directors excluding the Chairman with the consent of the BoD. The Non-executive Director Candidate Committee 4 non-executive directors accordance with the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act and Commercial Act Nominating Committee recommends non-executive directors to the general shareholders meeting Sustainability Management 4 non-executive directors; KT Website (Investor Relations) regarding the Board Diversity and the complementarity of skills. According to the strict recommenda1 executive director Sustainability management performance, plan, and strategy Committee tion standards, the Committee excavates experts in various fields who can give professional advices to the shareholders meeting for the development of KT. The Chairman of the Board is selected among Management Committee 3 executive directors Matters entrusted by the BoD for general management issues non-executive directors for higher independence of the Board and appointed by the resolution of All non-executive directors; Research and review about CEO candidates and recommendation to Financial Supervisory Service's Data the BoD; the term of the Chairman is 1 year. Information regarding the Board's articles of associaCEO Nominating Committee 1 executive director general shareholders' meeting Analysis, Retrieval and Transfer tion, responsibilities, and resolutions can be found on KT website. In addition, we regularly report the Non-executive Director System (DART) All non-executive directors; Research and review about non-executive director candidates and http://dart.fss.or.kr BoD-related information which we have a duty to disclose through the Data Analysis, Retrieval, and Candidate Nominating 1 executive director recommendation to general shareholders' meeting Committee Transfer System (DART) of the Financial Supervisory Service. 34 35 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Sound Corporate Sustainability Transparent Sustainability Transparent Governance Management Management Reinforcement Management Management of Ethics In 2015, KT held 12 Board meetings to deliberate and resolve on a total of 44 agendas including Management KT's Approach Operation and Assessment “Performance of sustainability management in 2014 and Plan for 2015 (draft).” Resolution of the As a responsible company for the people, KT has endeavored to turn into a trustworthy comof the BoD BoD is made by the attendance and majority vote of the majority of registered directors if not stated pany through ethical management activities and compliance with fair trade. By establishing otherwise in the Korean Commercial Law or the Article of Association. To ensure the efficient operthe corporate-wide ethics policy and enhancing the ethics management system, we are ation of the BoD and the accountability of the directors, the Board evaluates its members on their standing at the forefront in advancing the ethical corporate culture that covers not merely BoD activities and individual performance each year; the results are voluntarily disclosed through our our employees but group companies, suppliers, and partners. annual accounts. Result of BoD Evaluation (Unit: points / Out of 5 points) Current Condition of BoD Activities We believe that a right decision making and ethical judgement are necessary to fulfill the corporate Number of Attending No. Date Agendas Non-executive Directors Establishment social responsibility and duty as well as to settle the customer first management. In March 2014, we 4.5 4.2 4.1 (Maximum Number) of Ethics Management identified the five major behavioral practices by enacting 'New Ethics Management Principles,' the cor1 7 January, 2015 Merger with kt media hub Co., Ltd. (draft) and 8(8) porate-wide code of ethics. KT has been trying its best to consolidate the ethics management within 1 another agenda the organization by implementing systematic activities: constant execution of the ethics management, Approval of the 33rd (separate and consolidated) financial 2 29 January, 2015 7(8) lectures and campaigns on business ethics, and regular operation of communication channels. statements (draft) and 1 another agenda Approval of the merger with kt media hub Co., Ltd. (draft) and 3 24 February, 2015 8(8) Ethics Management System 11 other agendas 4 11 March, 2015 Project Ulsan (draft) and 1 another agenda 8(8) 2013 2014 2015 Establishment and Enactment of New Ethics Management Principles 5 27 March, 2015 Project R (draft) and 1 another agenda 7(8) Ethics Management Ethics Management Report and announcement about the completion Ethics Management Practices 6 1 April, 2015 7(8) EducationCampaign Communication Channels of merger with kt media hub Co., Ltd. and 2 other agendas Standards Education Preventive channels Disposal of treasury stock and stock compensation 7 30 April, 2015 7(8) ·Signed the pledge to abide by the New ·Conducted ethics management ·Ethics Management FAQ for 2014 (draft) and 4 other agendas Ethics Management Principles education for employees (monthly) ·Clean 365 Center Approval of court's mediation relevant to SMRT Mall business ·Distributed 'Code of Conducts ·Provided direct lecturing on business 8 22 May, 2015 6(8) (draft) and 2 other agendas by Executives and Employees for ethics (by departmental heads) Post-reporting channels Management of Corporate-wide Risks' ·Reports of violation cases against 9 30 June, 2015 Project Cheonan (draft) and 1 another agenda 7(8) Campaign business ethics Monitoring ·Promoted Clean 365 campaign within ·Hotline to the Chairman of the Board Reporting of financial statements (separate and consolidated) ·Launched  year-round and special the company of Audit and Inspection 10 30 July, 2015 7(8) for first half of FY 2015 and 4 other agendas initiatives to monitor ethical practices ·Implemented Clean KT national holiday campaign 11 29 October, 2015 Participation in Internet bank (draft) and 1 another agenda 7(8) 12 10 December, 2015 Management plan for 2016 (draft) and 3 other agendas 8(8) No. 1 KT's New Ethics Management Principles To establish a management system where the CEO as a professional manager is accountable for the business operation, the BoD determines the terms and conditions of the management contract with “We lead the future of the company– through making the right decisions and practicing ethical judgments–so that Management of KT evolves into a global No. 1 company.” To this end, we define “Customer First, Compliance, Back to the Basics, Professional Executives the CEO. Ownership, and Social Responsibility” as the five behavioral principles for the ethics management that all KT For the fair evaluation of the CEO’s performance, the Evaluation and Compensation Committee conemployees share, live by, and vow to practice in their everyday work lives. with Responsibility and sisting of only non-executive directors determines the management goals of CEO based on the annual Performance Compensation Customers are our top priority. goals set by the BoD while executing quantitative and qualitative evaluations at the end of the each Principle 1. System Customer First 1-1. We respect and thoroughly protect the value and information of our customers. business year and reporting the results to the general shareholders’ meeting. According to the 2015 1-2. We ceaselessly create differentiated value that assists our customers. performance evaluation, the CEO remuneration was 10.44 times the median value of all KT employees. We fully comply with all regulations and standards. Every year, the BoD determines and reports the remuneration criteria and methods for the CEO in Principle 2. 2-1. We act fairly and transparently in accordance with the law and business ethics. accordance with business performances. To improve the fairness of the BoD resolution concerning Law-compliance Management 2-2. We secure and maintain management transparency and strictly protect trade secrets. the remuneration of the CEO and executive directors, the CEO and executive directors are prohibited from participating in the decision-making process as stipulated by the Article of Association. We stick to the basics and principles. Principle 3. 3-1. We value the interest of the entire company in making reasonable and objective decisions and in responsibly representing the company. Fulfilling the Basics 3-2. We separate private matters from those of work life activities and take the lead Limit and Status of Remuneration of BoD Members (As of 31 December, 2015 / Unit: KRW 100 million) in creating a sound and ethical corporate culture. Limit Approved by the General Total Average Remuneration We believe in our own solidarity as a company with a self-initiated sense Category Shareholders’ Meeting Remuneration per Person Principle 4. of ownership. Ownership 4-1. We do not fear failure: we continuously push ourselves to reach higher. Executive directors (3 persons) 22.98 7.66 4-2. We seek efficiency gains through autonomy and empowerment. Non-executive directors who We fulfill our social responsibility and obligation as a people's company. serve Audit Committee 3.50 0.87 5-1. We protect the rights and interests of shareholders and improve the quality of life 59 (4 persons) Principle 5. for our employees. Non-executive directors who Social Responsibility 5-2. We value and respect the environment, safety, and human rights. do not serve Audit Committee 3.00 0.75 5-3. We commit ourselves to social contribution initiatives and forge shared-growth (4 persons) partnerships with business partners. * The number of directors: as of 31 December, 2015; average remuneration per person is the amount of total remuneration divided by the number of registered directors. 36 37 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Reinforcement Sustainability Transparent of Ethics Management Management Management Education about Ethics Management Fair Competition Autonomous Compliance Program (CP) Internalization Direct lectures on the ethics management have been KT's representative ethics management eduSettlement As a Korea's representative communications company who owns the national network, KT is fully aware of its cation program since 2014: on a monthly basis, heads of every department provide employees with responsibility to improve the convenience of people by leading the fair competition in the market. Therefore, of Ethics Management of Fair Competition lectures about the concept and system of the ethics management as well as about the current condiwe have introduced and operated the Fair Competition Autonomous Compliance Program since 2001 to settle tion of KT's ethics management. Provided through departmental meetings, it aims to foster the ethical the transparent and fair trading culture. Also, as part of the program, the prior examination center was opened practice and attitude of employees according to the “New Ethics Management Principles.” In 2015, in 2005; an autonomous professional is always stationed at the center. Regular inspection is being implementmoreover, the Head of Ethics Management Department offered lectures to newly-appointed manageed as well through fair competition organizations in each region. Through these diverse efforts, KT is focusing ment executives including senior managers; the Head of Ethics Management Department is the chief on complying with laws and regulations including the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act, Mobile Device Distribution Improvement Act, Telecommunications Business Act, and Act on Promotion of Information and of the ethics management within the company. Hence, KT has further stabilized its management while Communications Network. enhancing the ethics management education as well by connecting it with the in-house education system so that employees can be given the education at any time. Besides, a mandatory education is Enhancing Autonomous Compliance of Fair Competition being executed for all employees with the e-learning ethical management contents. Seven Elements of Preventing legal violations through the Fair Competition Autonomous Compliance Program, we have estabAutonomous Compliance Program lished an organic response system in order to detect infringements at an early stage. Besides, we have strived Diffusion of Ethics Management into Group Companies 01 Expressing willingness and to reduce regulation risks through a range of efforts as a part of the Program: a reporting center for unfair interest of CEO In order to fortify the ethics management at the Group level and constantly pursue the identity as behaviors, prior examination for the fair competition, and online education for employees. We also conducted 'Single KT,' we have also provided the group companies with workshops and ethics management ed02 Designating and operating total 335 prior examinations for the fair competition in 2015 and thus minimized legal violations in operating compliance officers ucation for responsible personnel on a quarterly basis. Also, we are sharing best and problematic business. The employees' awareness of the compliance has been reinforced as well through the in-house and cases of the ethics management with the group companies through the regular education. By posting 03 Writing and distributing external education. compliance manual education materials and reference cases on the bulletin board (Synovation) of group companies, they can reform their ethics management infrastructure. With these various efforts, KT has strived to 04 Operating education programs Status of Judgment by Regulatory Institutions diffuse the ethics management into the group companies. In 2015, furthermore, we founded 'ManIn 2015, the Korea Communications Commission imposed three sanctions against KT with a penalty of about Reporting Channel of Violation 05 Establishing a monitoring agement Diagnosis Academy' to reinforce the job competence by inviting experts within and outside KRW 1.2 billion for legal violation cases including 'violation of Mobile Device Distribution Improvement Act.' against Business Ethics system of the company and carried out education for Group company's staff members who are responsible for The Fair Trade Commission also levied about KRW 2 billion on KT for 'excluding competitive enterprisers in 06 Imposing sanctions on the ethics management. the biz messaging market.' KT faithfully implemented corrective measures according to orders of regulatory employees violating relevant legislation institutions. Hence, we are trying our best to prevent the reoccurrence of infringement by improving policies Report of Ethical Violation and Follow-up Measure 07 for better compliance with relevant laws as well as by conducting education. Establishing a system for document management For the sound corporate culture, we have been operating a 24-hour reporting channel of ethical viStatus of Judgment by Regulatory Institutions Date Result of Judgment Administrative Agency olation cases, such as bribery and entertainment for compensation, unfair pressure, and information Exclusion of competitive enterprisers in the biz leakage; reports are accepted and processed in real time with transparency. In addition, all reports submessaging market (Abuse of market-dominating 25 February, 2015 Penalty: KRW 2 billion; Korea Fair Trade corrective order Commission mitted are kept confidential in order to protect the anonymity of informants while reference numbers enterprise position) are given to informants enabling the real-time status check. KT has been also continuously devoting to Violation of Mobile Device Distribution Penalty: KRW 0.87 billion; Korea Communications Improvement Act for 'Prior Compensation System 12 March, 2015 establishing a further ethical organization by intensifying the reporting system of unethical behaviors. corrective order Commission for Used Phone' For example, the Compliance Audit is being conducted bi-annually to check the compliance status of Violation of Personal Information Protection Act; Penalty: KRW 52 million; Korea Communications doing considerable harm to the interests 24 June, 2015 all business sites. Reported cases that concluded to punishments due to violations on business ethics corrective order Commission of consumers in 2015 are total 34 cases, including 4 cases of dismissal. Doing considerable harm to the interests of Penalty: KRW 0.35 billion; Korea Communications consumers for false advertising of bundled 31 July, 2015 Topics of Monthly Director Lecture on Ethics Management in 2015 corrective order Commission commodities with broadcasting communication March April May June July-August September October November December To perform the taxation duty paying taxes efficiently, KT has established and monitored taxation Law Compliance Management Unauthorized Guidelines for New Ethics Management Principles Observance of Taxation policies and strategies while disclosing all relevant information in a transparent manner. We maintain Negligent Search/ Code of an honest and positive relationship with the tax authorities of each country including the National Tax Management Utilization/ Conduct in Case of Customer Distortion of Unfair Provision of Relations with Relations between Relations between Relations with other Service and pay taxes faithfully in accordance with each country’s tax laws. We also fully recognize of Risk employees and stakeholders such Information performance marketing Customer customers employees company as suppliers that the company and tax authorities can have different legal interpretations during the business exeInformation cution. Therefore, KT is preventing any conflicts with the National Tax Service by drawing reasonable results through the proactive consultation. KT Establishes a Model of Ethics Management with UN Global Compact Transparent External Announcement Financial Supervisory Service's Through annual audit reports as well as the Data Analysis, Retrieval, and Transfer System (DART) of Since 2008 when joined the UN Global Compact, the international agreement for the corporate social responsibility, Data Analysis, Retrieval and the Financial Supervisory Service, KT reports and publicly discloses information about the corporate KT has actively strived to comply with the ten principles of the Compact in four areas: human rights, labor, Transfer System (DART) http://dart.fss.or.kr tax, deferred corporate tax, and effective tax rate. In particular, temporary differences of each item environment, and anticorruption. Additionally, we joined 'Fair Player Club' in March 2016, which is the publiccaused by differences between accounting assets/liabilities and taxation assets/liabilities are provided private forum for the compliance and business ethics led by the UN Global Compact. KT's status of the compliance with relevant information; KT’s effective tax rate in 2015 disclosed through the audit report was 23.8% and ethics management has been evaluated as well according to international ethics management standards, such as OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Official in International Business Transactions where the figure is lower than the maximum corporate tax rate (including local income tax rate), 24.2%. as well as Bribery Act 2010 of England. We will continue to deliver our responsibility in internalizing and diffusing Logo of Fair Player Club The difference between tax rates occurs because the difference between profit and loss in accounting Pledge Ceremony the ethics management into the communications industry. of Fair Player Club and those in taxation was adjusted and reflected. Moreover, KT never tolerates any tax evasion pracFair Player Club : http://www.fairplayerclub.kr/index_e.html tices such as tax avoidance, illegal practices on the tax law, and fake report. We promise to faithfully deliver the tax obligations. 38 39 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Sustainability Transparent Risk Management Management Management For the corporate-wide integrated risk management, we founded an organization in 2004 that has the KT's Approach Establishment of Integrated exclusive responsibility for the risk management; risk management organizations for each business KT prevents risks by proactively identifying potential risk factors through the integrated risk Risk Management System department and site have been set up as well. In 2014, particularly, the risk management system was management. Conducting the analysis of the midto long-term outlook, in addition, we are further reinforced through establishing a comprehensive measure to minimize corporate risks. Also, excavating new business opportunity and turn it into a real business thus devoting to the we have been integrated the management of the five risks: strategy, finance, operation, regulation, sustainable business. and event. In order to efficiently respond to risk that can possibly occur, KT has actively promoted risk prevention activities and set the follow-up process by risk types. Additionally, by assigning risk owners, prior and follow-up measures have been executed under relevant owner departments. When a risk critical to The sustainability of the world has been threatened by various megatrends such as the global clithe entire company occurs, KT organizes a Task Force (TF) for the prompt treatment of the risk. By Management mate change, increasing population, scarcity of energy and water, and resource depletion. KT strongly expanding the scope of the risk management to the group companies, we will concentrate on impleof Midto Long-term believes that the information and communication technology will solve the problems the earth is menting the integrated risk management. facing and realize an era of new opportunity. Besides, through carrying out the analysis of 2030 Risk Strategy outlook, we identified the six megatrends that are closely related to the telecommunication business Risk Management and Response Processes defining key risk/opportunity factors; thus, we have been concentrating on applying the opportunities to our business. Prior Risk Management Responding to Risks Midto Long-term Strategy System Minimize risks by detecting and analyzing When expected risks actually happen, take Activity potential risks on a regular basis and carrying measures under the risk owner department out appropriate control activities Six Megatrends of Telecommunication Business (Outlook for 2030) Target Each department, on a regular basis Risk owner department, in a case of risk Megatrend 01. Megatrend 02. Megatrend 03. Expected Risks Actual Risks Climate Change Resource Stress Technology •20% increase in GHG emissions by energy •Worsening resource depletion due to •Extensive spread of ICT-based technology Detection Analysis Control Recognition Response Assessment KM* [IEA] population growth [Kerr] •Cost increase due to climate change [2030 Water Resources Group] •Universal use of robots in manufacturing [UK Government] •40% increase in energy demand [The Economist] [International Energy Agency] *KM (Knowledge Management): Making knowledge database with information produced in the entire process of risk recognition, Megatrend 04. Megatrend 05. Megatrend 06. response, and assessment to utilize in risk management and response Demographics Wealth Urbanization •65+ aged population reaching 1 billion •60% of world's population in middle class •Urban growth driven by developing world Corporate-wide Risk Assessment [UN] [UN Development Program] [UN Population Division] Management KT is operating the self-diagnosis system for risks, which is to inspect risks related to business, sys•The youth bulging in emerging countries •50% of world's population with internet •60% of world's population living in cities [UN] access [UN Population Division] of Key Risks tem, and work process on a regular basis. Restraining the occurrence of risk through the system, we [European Union Institute for Security] are enhancing the competency of each business department so that it can identify relevant risk and respond at early stages by itself. Especially, key corporate-wide risks as well as risks repeatedly occurring have been listed, carefully managed, and reported to the top management on a regular Midto Long-term Risk Strategy basis. Hence, KT has been able to further secure the execution capability in problem solving. Through the cooperation of relevant departments, on the other hand, activities to prevent key risks are being Intensifying Competition Enabling Technology conducted throughout the entire company. •Intensifying competition in price and marketing •Possible drastic change in the market such as evolving between business operators while the growth of into GiGA super-broadband wired and wireless global communications market continues to be network Enhancement of Risk Education stagnant Definition of •Domination of players in other industries such as •Expanding investment in new infrastructure such as platform, terminal device, and content and expansion In order to fortify the risk response competency of employees and diffuse the risk management culRisk GiGA Internet and 5G to raise competitiveness of competition areas ture into the company, we are implementing regular risk educations and campaigns. For all employees, •Diffusing risks of market regulations for preventing •Reducing profitability due to creating open-type intensified competition and raising demands of civic ecosystem the risk response education for legal and corporate-wide risks is being provided; the handbook of groups •Vicious cycle such as reduced investment and lower •Rapidly increasing initial investments in sectors such as GiGA Internet, 5G, and UHD TV Code of Conducts by Executives and Employees for Management of Corporate-wide Risks has been service quality occurred due to reduced profitability in the communications business •Intensifying competition with various operators distributed to support employees to promptly respond to risks that may occur during work. For busiImpact on including the entire domestic and overseas value •Increasing investments in infrastructure such as Business chain in dominating the market first ness departments as well as responsible personnel for the risk management in on-site departments, GiGA Internet and 5G •Need to secure profitability under new market •Concerns about potential distortion in market ecosystem KT is operating offline education courses to share each department's risks as well as prevention/ competition based on subsidy rather than essential elements such as product, service, and technology •Standardizing the network technology and leading management measures. Consequently, the risk management culture has been successfully spread the identification of technology •Shifting the axis of competition in communications •Establishing an image as leader of the global 5G through out the company. market to focus on quality by supporting successful implementation of national •Continuing innovation in management infrastructure events such as 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics such as reducing expenses and considering customers as top priority •Promoting strategies for differentiation through Proactive Review for Service Risk making partnerships with operators in various sectors Measure •Generating actual performance of new growth and using core capability in Cloud/Big Data Since 2010, KT has been promoting the 'Prior Risk Review before Launching Service' to avoid damage engines, such as the five key future convergence •Excavating innovative ideas through Gyeonggi businesses and penetration into the global market Creative Economy Innovation Center and K-Champ to customers and company caused by insufficient services. Besides, each professional department •Expanding the noncommunications business sector such as Fintech and security based on capability in conducts in-depth reviews for risks in four aspects: operation, law, fair competition, and information communications protection. Through impeccable services, KT will continuously deliver differentiated values to customers while endeavoring to minimize risk factors such as VOC. 40 41 GiGA Planet Customer Vision & Strategy Customers are the most important stakeholder as well as the nearest partner of KT. First New Era of Innovation Opened up by GiGA Infrastructure As the Korea's representative company who has advanced together with the communiManagement cations history of the country, KT is providing ingenious services innovating the era and lives of customers. We will continue to take further steps thus develop into the Best Goal Offering annual environmental benefits worth of KRW 3 trillion Service Provider that delivers deep impression to customers by presenting new experi2020 in 2020 ences through our services. Sustainability Aspect Key Performances 2015 Sustainability Transparent Management Management GiGA Prosperity Competitiveness Satisfaction for Customer Center in Customer First Management 1st rank in wire/wireless communications 1st rank in wired phone, internet phone, sectors of Korean Standard Contact and high-speed internet sectors of Service Quality Index (KS-CQI) Shared Growth Customer First National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) Management Management GiGA GiGA People Planet 139 Talent Environmental Management Management Product Evaluation Activities Generation of Brand Values (cases) 1st rank in LTE service brand value sector of Korea Brand Star 2015 GiGA Sustainability Drivers Prosperity Customer First Strategy Driver Innovation Objective Driver Realization 185.1 15.7 GiGA GiGA Management of Product/Service of Customer Satisfaction R&D Cost Cost Reduction People Planet (KRW billion) by In-house Consulting (KRW billion) Sustainability Issues ➊ Customer first management, ➋ Information protection and enhanced security, Environmental ➌ Communication with customers, ➍ Innovative management and R&D, 15.2 24.1 ➎ Brand management, ➏ Customer health and safety Management Customer Benefits Customer Benefits (in the order of importance based on the 2016 materiality test) by Smart Energy Service by Intelligent Transportation (KRW billion) (KRW billion) 42 43 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Customer First Environmental Best Management Management Customer Service KT's Approach Customer Product Evaluation Panel The customer satisfaction starts from the innovation of service. Being fully aware of this, Product with No. 1 For offering customized services for customers, the top priority of KT, we have operated the Customer KT provides the best customer experience and generates the best customer values through Customer Awareness Product Evaluation Panel since 2011; customers of the Customer Product Evaluation Panel participate constantly innovating its services based on the corporate culture where the customer is in the product evaluation process. It is composed of diverse groups of people with varied interests, the top priority. Therefore, KT is striving to stand tall as the most preferred company with such as housewives, college students, workers, and employees at customer contact points. By reflect'No. 1 brand awareness.' ing the voice of customers to the product development, the Customer Product Evaluation Panel has been devoting for Customer First products that satisfy customer needs. Composition of Customer Product Evaluation Panel Vision of Customer First Management For the vision, 'world's top class company realizing customer satisfaction (CS) by heartful commuCategory Persons (337 in total) Key Responsibility Customer First Management System nication and trust,' KT is implementing the management for the customer satisfaction regarding its Customer Product Evaluation 177 Panel (Customers) •Excavating and improving complaint factors through customers as the first among everything. For instance, we continue to advance wire/wireless commuproduct evaluation before launch nications products and services while offering services that can care customers' emotional aspect. In On-site Customer Product •Upgrading and optimizing complaint factors through Evaluation Panel (On-site 160 particular, the scope of activities to improve the quality of customer experience has been expanded employees) follow-up verification after launch to include corporate customers as well since 2015. Also, multilateral activities are being promoted to •Providing differentiated customer/site-focused Super Conan (Experts of each 88 product ideas proactively improve possible complaint factors before customers recognize. Through these continufield) (included in total 337 persons) ous improvement activities, we will consolidate the corporate culture which considers the quality of customer experience material and thus will become a sincere Customer First Company. Key Activities of Customer Product Evaluation Panel In 2015, the Customer Product Evaluation Panel promoted a range of activities in all areas related to Total Customer Satisfaction in Customer-first Perspective a product, such as verifying new products, improving existing products, and proposing product ideas; it The customer satisfaction is a key factor which defines the current corporate value as well as conducted 139 product evaluations which is a 53% increase compared to the previous year (91 cases). the sustainable future. Strongly believing that the value creation for customers realizes the growth Especially, an 'On-site Customer Product Evaluation Panel' has encouraged the execution of activity of KT, we are implementing corporate-wide improvement activities through establishing the four key by analyzing the customer need for key trend products in the market. As a result, for example, it conareas (CS, network, product, and channel) and subdividing the customer experiences into about 2,000 tributed to new customer-first products through the intense usability verification before the launch stages. To further actively promote the improvement activity, besides, KT is operating a Customer of services such as 'special rate system for servicepersons' and 'Kakao Friends for olleh tv.' In 2016, First Council mainly composed of directors and executing the performance evaluation system with the KT will further reinforce supporting activities for a higher product competitiveness by developing new practical indicators in the customer's perspective. products in the perspective of actual sites through a 10% larger Customer Product Evaluation Panel. Customer First Management System Key Activities of Customer Product Evaluation Panel in 2015 Welcome Day Event of Category Key Activities Major Performance Customer Product Evaluation Panel Vision for Customer Satisfaction (CS) •GiGA WiFi Home, •Improving speed and coverage of GiGA Wi-Fi Home olleh tv UHD STB, •Improving errors relevant to olleh tv UHD STB general viewing World's Top Class Company Who Realizes Customer Satisfaction (CS) Evaluation of Kakao Friends for olleh tv, •Improving errors relevant to the launch of 'Kakao Friends for olleh tv' service by Heartful Communication and Trust New Product and diverse plans & •Improving customer complaints for other rate systems combination products and combination products •olleh.com, olleh •Improving the main page of olleh.com and raising competitiveness Model of Customer Satisfaction (CS) Improvement of olleh membership membership, olleh navi, of Existing We Will Become KT Being Respectful and Favorable to Its Customers as Customers Have Believed Us. smart STB, olleh TV •Improving performance for enhancing customer convenience of olleh navi Product Mobile (OTM), and etc. •Improving customer-friendly UI/UX for Genie, OTM, and smart STB •Identifying new ad ideas •Identifying customer communication method that allows customers Promoting Total CS in Perspective Pursuing Customer First for GiGA Internet to experience outstanding speed of GiGA Internet and reflecting it to •Excavating new K-Live advertisements Proposition of contents •Excavating key improvement factors and providing ideas after the visiting Product Idea •Use-based deferred of 'SCIENCE SHOW THE BODY' that is the K-Live content payment model of kt •Launching a new kt music 'Genie' product of flat rate deferred payment music, 'Genie' system with additional charge for the number of music streaming QuALITY KT Stands Tall as a Leader in Creating Product with No. 1 Customer Awareness 1 2 3 In order to create 'product with No. 1 Customer-awareness,' we are operating a Customer Product Evaluation Quality of Customer Turning to Customer Differentiated Panel with the willing engagement of customers. This year, we launched the sixth Customer Product Evaluation Experience First Mindset Customer Service Panel which implemented total 139 product evaluations; it verified the usability of new products such as GiGA [Quality First] [Customer Needs] [Competitive Performance] Internet, GiGA Wifi Home, and GiGA IoT terminal while excavating innovative ideas to improve the convenience of Starting from quality of detailed Increasing simplicity and Developing into the Global No. 1 customer experience that satisfies convenience and solving and 1st and winning the quality customers. Aiming to develop products with No.1 customer-awareness and achieve zero VOC, KT will continuously hidden needs Pain Point for higher quality competition focus all its efforts on delivering the best quality as well as differentiated ingenious services. of on-site/customer experience 44 45 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Best Customer Service Customer First Environmental Management Management KT accomplished outstanding performances on the National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) by Network Monitoring System Service with No. 1 the Korea Productivity Center (KPC): 1st rank in wire phone sector (17 consecutive years), 1st rank Stable Service with No. 1 KT is fulfilling its responsibility as the communications company who owns the national network in Customer Awareness in internet phone sector (6 consecutive years), and 1st rank in high-speed internet sector. Moreover, Customer Awareness a faithful manner by establishing an environment optimized for the efficient cutting-edge network on the Korean Standard Contact Service Quality Index (KS-CQI) by the Korean Standards Association monitoring system for the provision of stable services. Through the Network Monitoring Center, we (KSA), we were selected as the 1st rank in both wire and wireless communications sectors as the first monitor the nation-wide network comprehensively and direct activities for the prevention and prompt in Korea. Hence, our sincere efforts for the highest brand awareness have been proven. recovery of national and social emergencies as well as breakdowns/disasters. In addition, the network monitoring system is being consistently operated by regional monitoring centers while the nation-wide Result of National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) (Unit: points) wire/wireless operation centers are responsible for the stable operation and repair/maintenance of communications facilities. For further organized network monitoring system, we also redefined roles No. 1 KT Wire/Wireless Call Center of each network monitoring bodies in 2015. Wire Phone 1st Internet Phone 1st By newly building a Cyber Security Center under the Network Monitoring Center, we will found an expeditious and effective response system for cyber attacks and hackings that are rapidly increasing. 75 74 74 74 73 Thus, we will focus all our capabilities on preventing damages on our customers due to phishing scams 72 such as SMS phishing and pharming. 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Emergency Recovery Training High-speed Internet 1st Mobile Phone 2nd In preparation for cases when the communications service is disrupted because of general breakdown Commendation from President and the Ministry of the Science, and disasters such as a typhoon and earthquake, KT has established the emergency recovery plan 74 74 ICT and Future Planning by damage types in advance conducting regular trainings. Especially, a back-up system where an 73 72 72 72 automatic alternative communications is available has been operated minimizing damages caused by 4 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Consecutive 2012-2015 communication disruption. Years Communication On 19 May, 2015, KT also held the Safe Korea Training for disaster response in the communications and Disaster Sector area jointly with the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning and the Ministry of Public Safety and To always listen to our customers, we operate the Responsibility System to Improve Customer OpinSecurity. Furthermore, in August 2015 when North Korea bombarded South Korea, the government ions enabling all executives and employees of the entire company to share Voice of Customers (VOC) executed an inspection for the operational stability of the communications industry; KT accomplished Communication with No. 1 recorded by the call center. Thus, we are striving for establishing improvement plans for each departa substantial performance at the inspection for establishing such an impeccable communication Customer Awareness ment as well as advancing customer services. For instance, we greatly decreased VOC regarding misupport system. cropayments via mobile phones by providing a service that customers can check their micropayment Since received the presidential citation in 2012, KT's outstanding capability in disaster response status so that they can avoid excessive spending unrecognized. has been highly recognized with meaningful achievements such as winning institutional citations of the Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future Planning for 2 consecutive years in 2014 and 2015. For conEstablishment of Infrastructure for Prompt Customer Center solidating the foundation of the safe national network, KT will actively respond to threats to commuSince established the Integrated Call Center System by investing KRW 40 billion in October 2014, nications as well as thoroughly prepare for the data traffic that skyrockets in cases of major events of KT is running the Korea's grandest integrated customer center of about 11,000 employees covering the country (e.g. the general election in April 2016). wire/wireless/collection. By improving the infrastructure of customer consultation in 2015, we have decreased the waiting time of the Auto Response System (ARS), diversified the ARS service types, and 96% simplified the identification process. These multidimensional efforts of KT have been concentrated on VOC Response Rate improving the service quality in the perspective of customers. Consequently, we maintained the VOC response rate at 96% thus accomplished significant successes such as being selected as the 1st rank in wire/wireless sectors on KS-CQI and achieving certifications in KSQI wire/wireless sectors. Moreover, in 2016, we further improved the design of our 'ARS on Smartphone' service which we developed for the first among communications companies. Maximizing the convenience of customers, therefore, KT will fortify its foothold as the Korea's representative communications company who Emergency Recovery Training Conference about Public Safety-LTE realizes the customer satisfaction. Communication with Customers 2015 2014 Average Talk Time and Follow-up Monthly Response Rate VOC Regarding Response Delay/Inconvenience Process Time (seconds) of Customer Center and Service Level (%) in Auto Response System (ARS) (cases) KT Delivers Deep and Sincere Impression to Customers VOC Regarding Response through Customer First Management 11.600 Delay/Inconvenience in Average Talk Time Response Rate (ATT) 197 96.2 Auto Response System (ARS) 19.000 (1Q) Since declared the 'Customer First Management' in 2015, KT has been at the forefront leading the communications 174 96.3 paradigm. As a consequence, we were selected as the 1st rank in wire and wireless communications sectors on the Rate of Self-processing for Customer Complaint (%) '2015 Korean Standard Contact Service Quality Index (KS-CQI)' that is an authoritative evaluation about customer Follow-up Service Level centers. In order to realize the customer impression, furthermore, various emotion care services based on the Big Process Time 87 82.9 Self-processing Rate within 20 27.5 Data are being provided. As the first in the communications industry, we are providing a customer service in sign Seconds 129 (1Q) 82.9 (Monthly average) KT Customer Center Celebrating 19.1 (1Q) language for the hearing-impaired who have a difficulty in the voice communication. Its Performance on KS-CQI 46 47 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Customer First Environmental Generation of Management Management Brand Value Efforts to establish the design identity of KT's own have generated substantial performances in 2015 KT's Approach Establishment as well throughout various categories such as brand, product, space, and graphics. For the recent To deliver differentiated services overcoming the limit of communications, we are advancing of KT’s Design Identity 7 years, numerous products of KT have been awarded at Red Dot Award and iF Design Award that forward to generate brand values through its ingenious marketing communication activities. are notably authoritative in the world. Hence, we are solidifying the foothold of the KT design on the Consolidating the foothold as the representative communications brand of Korea, KT will lead international stage. the market by constantly innovating the communication with customer engagement. Phone Series (Design Product) KT has constantly launched products of 'Phone+OOO Series' which is the world's first to combine the IT with necessary items in customers' daily life. Our unique and differentiated design identity has Customers are not fascinated any more by companies that implement one-way communications. For been highly recognized by our customers. Phone-brella, especially, started from a design that takes Integrated Marketing this reason, companies now should attract interests and generate sympathy of customers to create customer's convenience as the first priority and was notably valued in the world as a result. FurtherCommunication with meaningful message and further enlarge and evolve it. Hence, KT has introduced the Integrated Marmore, it consolidated the global status of KT design by being exhibited at the headquarters of GSM keting Communication (IMC) method to comprehensively utilize all customer contact channels, which Association (GSMA) for the first among domestic communications companies. We will continue to Consumer Engagement has been highly recognized as a representative best practice in the marketing. In particular, we are excavate items for the Phone Series which are IT-convergence items closely related to the daily life promoting KT's unique 'campaign with consumer engagement' where our customers are voluntarily in the era of GiGA. expanding and reproducing contents. As a consequence, we have created a new compound, 'consumedia' (consumer and media), guiding trends of the marketing. Phone Series No. 1 Phone-diary The Phone-diary is designed for its users to able to place their smartphones on the diary; it achieved Phone Series Era of GiGAtopia Opened through GiGA Campaign (Phone-diary, Phone-brella, Phone-mouse) such an honor to be awarded in the Communication Publishing category as well as in the Consumer In 2014, we initiated the corporate PR advertisement under the slogan of Between You and Products category on iF Design Award. Furthermore, we linked the Phone-diary to CLiP (smartphone 'GiGA Era Be upon Korea' Campaign the Future and thus proclaimed that the era of GiGAtopia has arrived which can be realized by peerapp), our mobile digital wallet service, and conducted a promotion to give out 20,000 free Phone-dia(Campaign Launching, GiGA Internet for One Million People) less GiGA Infrastructure and convergence ICT technology of KT; a series of GiGA campaigns have been ries. As a result, more than 280,000 people applied to the event and we were able to attract more than sequentially promoted. 100,000 new subscribers of CLiP service. In 2015, additionally, we executed the business to analyze gene in children as well as implemented the KT-MEG (Micro Energy Grid), the world's first complex energy efficiency solution. Therefore, we Phone Series No. 2 Phone-brella further raised the understanding of customers about Intelligent GiGA Infrastructure that provides Phone-brella, a compound of phone and umbrella, is an umbrella with a C-shaped handle which enables advanced values based on IoT/Cloud/Big Data technology. Consequently, we have been reinforcing users to move two hands freely even in rains. Thanks to its innovative design, the Phone-brella won our corporate image as the company for the people rooted from the tech leadership. two Best of Best awards in Fashion and Smart categories on Red Dot Award as the first in the global communications industry; the Red Dot Award is the award all designers around the globe are keen to attain. In addition, it was introduced for more than 20 times by various international press in 30 counUpgraded Campaign with Consumer Engagement tries such as Fortune of the USA, CNET, and BBC of the UK. Through SNS channels such as Facebook KT has devoted to sympathizing with customers by diverse efforts such as constantly advancing and and YouTube, on the other hand, it acquired such a compelling performance of 1,500,000 views. promoting 'GiGA-ro' campaigns with customer engagement based on the GiGA WiFi Home Service since March 2015. While an advertising jingle that altered an aria of 'The Marriage of Figaro' became Phone Series No. 3 Phone-mouse a smash hit, we also performed the first street opera in Korea and Below the Line (BTL) advertisement The Phone-mouse is a device with a new concept, a mouse of a slim shape that functions as an extercampaigns for customers to participate in and experience GiGA WiFi. Furthermore, in the ad campaign nal battery. It is ergonomically designed considering the height of wrist and the width of palm. Thanks of 'GiGA LTE Gives Time to You' in last July, KT showed how the high speed of GIGA LTE can presto its compact size, users can use it even on a small table of a cafeteria while the usability in a daily life ent a leisure time to people in the modern society who are living hectic moments. As a result, we is also guaranteed for it can be used as a power station for mobile devices. The Phone-mouse achieved attracted great attention encouraging active discussions about the value of technology. In 2016, we the Winner at the 2016 Red Dot Award with its exciting design. declared the 'GiGA era' with our competitiveness and confidence proven by the record of one million subscribers of GiGA Internet. We effectively visualized and presented innovative changes due to our service by comparing lives before and after the introduction of GiGA service. The ad campaign proposwiz-stick es the future KT will lead through combining sensuous video, narration, and pleasant BGM delivering The wiz-stick to be launched in 2016 is the world's first portable platform device for the security. In a message: 'Now in 2016, GiGA customers in Korea are enjoying a preeminent communications life.' wiz-stick September 2015, the CEO of KT introduced the wiz-stick at 'Press Conference on KT Future Strategy'; In addition, diverse events to experience the GiGA speed using drone and VR are being promoted to form reflecting the product identity of KT's own, the device has a shape of necklace so that it can be used a consensus with customers in their twenties and thirties stimulating a desire for KT services. as an employee ID card. At a global design award, the wiz-stick accomplished the Winner of 2016 as well. Through its advanced design concept meeting customer desires for the security and comfort, Established the management system for the group brand in 2011, relevant activities such as brand the wiz-stick will become a solid foundation for the cyber security of the future. Strategic Brand Management and internal/external communications are managed primarily by the Group Brand Committee. Also, we have established objective standards and foundation to protect the brand, 'KT,' by executing the and Operation Development of GiGA · 5G Identity System to Impose Royalty on Brand Name for group companies since 2014. The Brand Performance In order to increase the brand awareness and preference about the 5G and GiGA, KT has developed Index (BPI) survey was conducted for group companies in 2015 settling the brand management sysits design identity; the design identity has been widely applied to window graphics, shopping bag, and tem as well. For 2016, KT is planning to extend the number of group companies subject to the BPI clerk uniforms of about 3,300 customer contact points such as retail stores. As a result, the awaresurvey from 5 to 10; an in-depth review for the System to Impose Royalty on Brand Name will be ness and preference of customers about KT has been greatly improved against competitors. In 2016, carried out. Therefore, we will further enhance the strategic brand management. we will continue striving to develop designs for diverse applications to acquire further higher brand awareness. 48 49 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Customer First Environmental Protection Management Management of Customer Information KT's Approach Furthermore, we thoroughly observe the customer information protection management system by To KT who considers its customers as the top priority, the protection of customer information executing the security check for new service before the launch. The White Hacker group also rouis the first principle in realizing the corporate values. In order to proactively and efficiently tinely simulates hacker attacks to the website for proactively responding to attacks any time. Thus, we respond to security threats that are becoming advanced and more intelligent, accordingly, we have successfully established a system to identify and improve weak points of the security system. have intensified the management system for protecting the customer information and strived In 2016, KT will advanced the security status inspection for customer contact points such as retail for guaranteeing the right of the subject of information. stores. In addition, the prediction·identification·analysis·response system will be founded through the Big Data analysis platform, which will lead to the consolidation of the information security system. Since acquired the Information Security Management System (ISMS) certification in 2013, the national Education about Customer Information Protection information protection management system, we are annually conducting the reauthorization and thus Dissemination of In order to predict and prevent security threats that are becoming more advanced and intelligent, KT Customer Information has reinforced its security system by utilizing the cutting-edge security technology and professional Protection Management operating a customer information protection management system according to the national stanCulture to Protect Customer dard. The level of technical and administrative measures to protect customer information has been talents. On the other hand, all employees, group companies, and suppliers are cooperating to establish System Information constantly improved through the regular check on the security status of systems and suppliers that an environment that everyone voluntarily protect the customer information with a sense of responsihandle with the customer information. bility. For example, all employees are to make a pledge on the personal information protection every year while the information protection training is constantly fortified; in 2015, every employee received Technical·Administrative Measures to Protect Customer Information online trainings about the personal information protection. Furthermore, training specialized for each position and work type are provided to employees who deals with the customer information and thus Category Detail have a high risk in protecting information for the higher efficiency. While sharing the action plan for Integrated Security Control System to monitor suspicious behaviors that seem to the security through the distribution of information security posters and PC wallpapers, KT is operatbe hacker's attack ing an in-house reporting center of security violations and promoting Clean Office activities to encourEnhancement of the approval and authentication process of the Access Control System age the voluntary participation of employees. Establishment of Firewall/Intrusion Detection System/Access Control System Encryption of privacy Technical Protection Enhancement of Customer Information Protection Activity Measures Digital Right Management (DRM) and Data Loss Prevention (DLP) Solutions We prevent the leakage of personal information by analyzing the entire life cycle from the gathering Information Protection Further application of DB Access Control System and enhancement of privacy control to destruction of information and thus applying technical and administrative protection measures Poster Response to APT attacks optimized for each stage. In 2015, for instance, we introduced the response system against APT attacks in order to proactively block websites and emails with malicious codes included. The information Security Coding required during the software development leakage risk due to storing excessive information has been averted through the privacy destruction Compliance with security review process before launching a service on PC as well as information destruction of customers who have not used KT services for more than Destruction of social security number gathered 1 year. As the Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) trend is being widely spread in 2016, on the other hand, Regular inspection and improvement activity conducted for loopholes smart devices are being increasingly utilized for work leading to the increase of security threats. Administrative Protection Measures Simulation tests for infringement accidents with relevant organizations such as the government Therefore, KT will further enhance the security level for PC and mobile devices for the effective Information destruction of customers not using KT's service for more than 1 year response to the threats. Destruction of personal information on PC KT is protecting its customers from SMS phishing scams and preventing the information leakage due to Information Protection and Security System the loss of smartphones through its diverse information protection services. Moreover, our customers Customer Service can view their information and status of information use and submit inquiries about the personal inforfor Information Protection mation to an email address solely responsible for the information protection. Protection of Users Four Reporting Areas Major Services for Customer Information Protection Inquiry about Information Protection Customer Corporate Service Protection/ Network privacy@KT.com Information Information Proposition of For cases in which apps with malicious code or potential malicious code Security olleh Anti-smishing Protection Protection Values are installed, users are advised to delete the apps App (Link: http://smartblog.olleh.com/2780) Internet Security ｜ Infrastructure Security Consulting by experts is provided for smishing damage and fraud Customer Damage with micropayment Aid Center (View history of personal information usage: Governance Policy Process Compliance http://inside.olleh.com/html/olleh_clean_sub12.asp) Three Aspects olleh Relief SMS For cases in which an MMS text message from a company with an announcement, information, and advertisement by company is sent, the Relief mark is added Service to indicate that the text message has no illegal elements KT Group Companies Suppliers (Link: http://smartblog.olleh.com/4581) 50 51 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Customer First Environmental Innovative Management Management Management KT's Approach Environmental Vision & Strategy Environmental issues that the world is facing, such as the climate change, energy depleThanks to the development of information and communication technology, the ICT convergence industry has been greatly advanced changing the industrial paradigm. In order to lead Management tion, and resource scarcity, are emerging as new challenges and business opportunities. the IT market rapidly changing as well as to deliver differentiated customer values, KT defined Under the vision of our environmental management, 'Green KT, Green KOREA,' we will Empowerment as its unique corporate culture in 2014. Hence, we have developed into the global No. 1 KT by constantly promoting innovation activities throughout the company. turn into a Convergence Builder who contains the global climate change through environmental ICT convergence services while increasing the environmental efficiency in every process of corporate activity. KT has been innovating the work environment through the empowerment so that employees can Innovation through work efficiently and actively based on their creativity and passion. For prompt and exact service, Empowerment in particular, KT has allowed the autonomy to on-site departments such as branches and centers where customers contact with KT employees; detailed guidelines have been established and operated accordingly. In 2016, we will continue our efforts to realize the management with customers as Sustainability Aspect Key Performances 2015 the top priority by simplifying relevant systems and decision-making processes so that every single KT customer can enjoy the best service. We are operating diverse programs for the diffusion of the innovation through the empowerment. Sustainability Transparent 'Top Rank Workshop' is the most representative communication and cooperation channel of KT that Management Management Empowerment Programs innovates the way of working by identifying and improving basic problems at sites. It has significantly contributed to settling the empowerment as the part of KT's unique corporate culture. 'Building 2,472,342 GiGA No. 1 Team' is a program for KT employees who work with passion and energy based on the effective Prosperity Competitiveness Energy Consumption teamwork. It has become a foundation of encouraging on-site employees and helping them to deliver in Environmental Management (Mwh) 2015 CDP Global Carbon Management innovative customer services through the advanced teamwork and active communications. Shared Growth Customer First Inclusion in CDP Honors Club for 3 Consecutive Years Management Management Programs to Strengthen Empowerment GiGA GiGA People Planet No. 1 Teaming Key Performance Future Plan Effect •Since September 2014, •In 2016, EFT capability training will be •Reinforcing execution ability Top Rank excavated 717 tasks and carried reinforced so that EFTs can grow into for CEO's management Workshop out in-depth discussions with innovation professionals philosophy, vision, and core 10,483 employees •Cultivated 470 Empowering •In 2016, discussion topics will be mainly increase of customer awareness and cost value •Contributing to performance Talent Management Environmental Management 1,064 8,800 Facilitators (EFT) who lead innovation that are closely related to improvement by enhancing discussions encouraging corporate strategy; in 2016, an efficient cross-departmental employees as catalysts for execution system of the Workshop will be cooperation and execution Sales of Environmental Cost Reduction change and innovation established for performance generation ability Service by Energy Savings (KRW billion) (KRW million) •Since April 2015, formed •'No. 1 Teaming' is an advanced program •Building strong teamwork No. 1 sympathy with empowerment for the entire KT Group being currently by enhancing interdepartmental Teaming through total 101 seminars operated in an integrated form; communications and trust with 3,350 employees through the program, detailed team•Securing foundation for building activities will be promoted •In October 2015, encouraged performance generation Sustainability Drivers teams and helped for performance generation. by encouraging teams communications of 1,623 •By implementing the program for •Attaining a basis for No. 1 employees of 149 teams by departments contacting customers, customer awareness a trail program, 'KT Teaming-Up' it will contribute to encouraging on-site by inspiring customer-contact employees and offering better customer service as a result. departments Strategy Driver Objective Driver 1,096,053 4,883 Increasing EnvironContaining Climate mental Efficiency Change GHG Emissions Waste Generation (tCO2eq) 16.7% reduced compared to 2014 (tons) [Value Creation Activity] Value Creation through In-house Consulting Status of NCG Project in 2015 Business Establishing measures for efficiency of Big 34 cases Nomad Consulting Group (NCG) is an in-house consulting group of KT that is composed of Departments Data-based SCN system experts of various fields. Since its foundation in 2011, it has provided professional solutions Group Conducting management diagnosis and Sustainability Issues 9 cases for projects and cross-functional issues of each business department. Expanded the scope Companies developing growth index for group companies ➊ Expansion of environment-friendly ICT service, of the project to cover not simply within the company but sites in 2014, KT executed total 66 Setting up improvement plan for building Sites 23 cases in-house consulting projects in 2015 while including the group companies to the scope as well. share by housing types/markets ➋ Energy, ➌ Environmental policy and system, By promoting a project to innovate the corporate cost structure, the NCG was able to reduce Total 66 cases ➍ Electromagnetic wave, ➎ Greenhouse Gas, 1,108,740 2,766,418 costs by KRW 15.7 billion. Moreover, we designed and established a data-based Target Tool for marketing and thus won new contracts, which led to the sales increase of KRW 1.8 billion; ➏ Climate change strategy, ➐ Waste the contracts are to supply 4,378 lines annually. In 2016, KT will further diversify its work scope KRW 15.7 billion KRW 1.8 billion (in the order of importance based on the 2016 materiality test) Reduction of Social Water Usage GHG Emissions (tons) into new growth businesses such as future convergence and platform by cooperating with Cost Reduced by In-house Consulting Sales Increased by In-house Consulting (tCO2eq) external management consultancy. 52 53 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Customer First Environmental Consolidation of Management Management Environmental Management KT's Approach Response to Climate Change The environmental management does not simply mean saving energy any more; it is now Establishment of Carbon Climate change caused by the constant emissions of GHG has been intensified due to the drastic indusSystem the future growth engine which generates new business. Accordingly, KT is doing its best Management System trialization in emerging countries. It is anticipated that the GHG emissions of 2030 will be skyrocketed within the company to minimize environmental impacts to energy, GHG, water, and waste by more than 20% compared to the emissions of 2010. Therefore, the corporate competitiveness is which are caused by KT's business. On the other hand, new environmental businesses relenow determined by the capability to improve the energy efficiency and reduce the GHG emissions in vant to the climate change are being constantly identified and fostered. most industries. For understanding impacts of the climate change and proactively responding to them, KT is voluntarily complying with the national policy for the GHG emissions and thus enhancing its leadership in the global carbon management through diverse efforts: setting carbon management goals in accordance with the national GHG reduction goal, promoting GHG reduction activities, and In 2009, KT proclaimed a vision of 'Green KT, Green KOREA' in order to identify new opportunity in leading the GHG and Energy Target Scheme. Vision and System of the green ICT convergence field by defining the environmental management as the new growth engine Environmental Management of the company. In particular, we have also established the three strategies for areas of the environCarbon Management Strategy mental management: Green-izing KT Business, Green-izing Korea and Life of Koreans, and Converting Long-term GHG Reduction Goal In order to accomplish the vision of 'Green KT, Green KOREA' and contribute to the achievement of ICT Convergence into New Growth Engine. Hence, a variety of activities for the environment-friendthe national GHG reduction target, we are actively executing the carbon management strategy with liness of the entire supply chain as well as business activities of KT are being actively implemented. Additionally, a far stable and more powerful environmental management has been realized and sys35% Reducing GHG Emissions by 2030 Compared to 2007 an aim to reduce the GHG emissions by 35% compared to the emissions of 2007 until 2030; KT's goal has been set to proactively correspond to the Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC) for tematically executed by founding a 'Sustainability Management Committee' under the Board of DiKorea determined by the C​onference ​O​f the P ​ ​arties (COP21) in December 2015, which is to reduce the rectors at the end of April 2016. 'The Environmental Management Committee' is being also operated GHG emissions by 37% compared to the BAU (Business As Usual) until 2030. Moreover, we will confor accelerating the execution of the corporate-wide environmental management. The Committee tribute to curbing the estimated temperature increase of the earth by 2 degrees. Thus, KT has estabholds regular meetings all year round and consists of five different divisions: external affairs division, lished the reduction goal by excavating annual tasks for each organization through the Environmenenergy division, purchase division, environmental business division, and resource division. Moreover, tal Management Committee as well as defined the departmental role and responsibility (R&R) about it discusses material issues related to the environmental management at the perspective of the entire the energy saving. Thanks to the active promotion of these reduction activities, we are significantly company while establishing implementation strategy. assisting to meet the midto long-term GHG reduction goal. Vision of Environmental Management Leadership in Carbon Management Execution of environment-friendly business activities Green of KT KT, who established the GHG inventory system in 2010 for the first among domestic communications and the low-carbon management through energy saving ·Procuring environment-friendly products companies, is developing into the global No. 1 environment-friendly company by greatly expanding Green-izing KT Business ·Enhancing suppliers' capability in the environmental management the scope of managing the GHG to the Scope III emissions. Especially, the credibility of the data has ·Promoting Green IT Supporters activity been acquired through the annual third-party verification about the Scope Ⅰ, Ⅱ, and Ⅲ emissions and Realization of low-carbon national economy calculation methodology. We are also discussing with the government to adjust the carbon manageGreen by KT Performance of Carbon Green KT, and life of Koreans by KT's IT capability ment goal and level of execution based on the corporate-wide energy consumption, GHG emissions Management in 2015 (Unit: tCO2eq) Green KOREA Green-izing Korea and Life of ·Making communications infrastructure and work environment report, and GHG monitoring plan. In 2016, KT will further advance the efficiency by innovating the GHG ·environment-friendly Establishing green life of customer Koreans through green service management system in order to respond to the Cap & Trade Scheme in advance. 1,276,872 1,131,257 1,096,053 Excavation of ICT convergence business Green Paradigm by KT as new growth engine Performance of Carbon Management ·Identifying new growth engine The total GHG emissions of 2015 is 1,096,053tCO2eq while the total energy consumption is 2,472,342 Converting ICT Convergence ·Discovering new growth engine in IT and convergence fields into New Growth Engine ·Home, office building, infrastructure, energy Mwh; we reduced the emissions by 14.2% compared to 2007. For attaining the GHG reduction goal, the energy consumption by wire/wireless communications, electricity of IDC, and building operation has been persistently reduced. Thanks to this, moreover, we are accomplishing positive financial perOrganization for Environmental Management formances by decreasing the energy saving cost. Through the provision of environment-friendly and 2007 GHG 2015 2015 GHG low-carbon products and services, the social GHG emissions were reduced by 1,108,740tCO2eq in BoD Organization Sustainability Management Emissions Goal Emissions 2015; the figure is a 101.2% of KT's total GHG emissions. Committee Reporting Review/Feedback Sustainability Front-line Sutainability Management Management Advisory KT Takes a Challenging Leap to Become the Global Leading Organization Center Counseling Committee Environment-friendly Company Reporting Identifying and Executing agenda Inclusion in CDP Carbon Management Honors Club for 3 Consecutive Years Environmental Management In November 2015, KT was selected as one of the five best companies who are awarded Carbon Management Committee Honors Club at the 2015 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Award; the CDP Award is to nominate companies with outstanding attainments in responding to the climate change. Furthermore, it is the most authoritative External Affairs Energy Purchase Environmental Resource environmental management index that evaluates climate change response, environmental management, and Division Division Division Business Division Division carbon emissions of the world's major enterprises. Achieving 100 points on the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Respond to environmental Reducing corporate-wide Management of Development and Reduction of water use regulation and index energy consumption suppliers' GHG emissions distribution of green IT and waste; management Index (CDLI), KT accomplished the 1st rank in the global communications sector and its efforts and performances and procurement of technology of electromagnetic wave environment-friendly for the environmental management have been highly valued. 2015 CDP Korea Carbon Management Honors Club Award product 54 55 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Consolidation Customer First Environmental of Environmental Management Management Management System We calculate the GHG emissions and report the results to the government every year in order to fulfill Scope Ⅲ Emissions (Unit: tCO2eq) Management of Scope Ⅰ the corporate responsibility in managing the Scope I and Ⅱ emissions according to the Framework Category 2013 2014 2015 and Ⅱ Emissions Act on Low Carbon, Green Growth. The reporting scope includes all facilities that are under the managerial control of KT covering every communications facility such as buildings, front-line sites, base Wire Devices 472 251 106 stations, and relay stations. For the accurate calculation of emissions, in addition, KT has strictly comEmissions Wireless Devices 1,269 1,472 1,595 plied with the Guideline for GHG Emissions Calculation and “Guideline for GHG Target Management. from the Supply Chain Communications Service-based Facilities 48,197 47,240 30,798 There are various emission sources such as diesel, gasoline, kerosene, fuel oil, LNG, electricity, and Management (SCM) Stage Total 49,938 48,963 32,499 heat (steam). Electricity for the wire/wireless communications equipment and operation of IDC server accounts for the largest portion, which is more than 95% of the total emissions. Home Terminals 40,783 35,026 32,883 Mobile Terminals 168,621 199,790 153,673 Emissions Internet Terminals 237,846 226,692 295,517 Scope Ⅰand Ⅱ Emissions (Unit: tCO2eq) Energy Consumption (Unit: Mwh) from the Service Use Stage Total 447,249 461,508 482,073 Scope I Scope Ⅱ Water 997 932 918 1,097,774 1,096,053 Domestic Waste 349 357 686 1,088,728 2,527,385 Waste Recycled Waste 750 650 1,297 2,460,536 2,472,342 1,037,293 1,054,698 1,044,655 Construction Waste 114 113 847 Within Downtown 380 296 215 Business Long Distance 659 669 714 trips Overseas 8,551 1,677 4,072 Other Scope Ⅲ Bus (Local, Express) 762 877 747 60,481 44,073 Emissions 41,355 Subway 76 57 59 Commuting Private Vehicles 22,495 17,828 22,397 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Train 25 22 24 Bus & Subway 210 438 464 Total 35,368 23,916 32,442 Scope Ⅲ emissions, other indirect emissions, refer to the indirectly emitted GHG due to the business Waste Management Management of Scope Ⅲ activity. KT subdivides the Scope Ⅲ emissions by emission sources into three categories: emissions Management of Resource For the active circulation of resources through the recycling and reduction of the resource consumpEmissions from the supply chain management (SCM) stage, emissions from the service use stage, and other Efficiency tion, KT has reinforced the management of waste and water. For example, the advanced waste manScope Ⅲ emissions. agement system was established through the project of 2012 to settle the process in managing waste. Moreover, the role and responsibility (R&R) between departments on the management of waste re1) Emissions from the Supply Chain Management (SCM) Stage sources has been defined. Wastes generated by KT are classified into the household waste, recycled It is the emissions caused by suppliers during manufacturing products that are to be supplied to KT. waste, communications material waste, and construction waste while recyclable wastes are all reused. The methodology has been developed according to the 'Corporate Value Chain (Scope Ⅲ) Accounting The amount of waste in 2015 is total 4,883.2 tons which has been reduced by 16.7% compared to and Reporting Standard' of World Resources Institute (WRI). The emissions from the SCM stage in 5,860.1 tons of 2014. 2015 were 32,499tCO2eq. Water Management 2) Emissions from the Service Use Stage The amount of water used within KT buildings in 2015 is 2,766,418 tons that decreased by about 1.5% It refers to the emissions generated when customers use KT products and services; we calculate the compared to 2,807,124 tons of 2014. For further reducing the water use, KT has installed a variety emissions of the B2C services for ordinary customers. The calculation scope is limited to the electricof water-saving devices such as automated flushing bidet and bubble foam-typed faucet at the office ity consumed by modems and set-top boxes installed at home for services like the internet and IPTV building while the water purification system is being operated at KT buildings such as Namcheongju as well as the electricity for charging mobile phones. The emissions from the service use stage in 2015 Office and thus recycling effluents of cable tunnels. were 482,073tCO2eq. Waste Generation (Unit: tons) Water Usage (Unit: tons) 3) Other Scope Ⅲ Emissions GHG Verification It is defined as the emissions due to the use of water and waste treatment within the company and Statement business trips/commuting by KT employees. KT calculates the emissions following the methodology 5,859.3 5,860.1 3,002,193 of Guideline for Low-carbon Events (Ministry of Environment), Standard for Carbon Footprint Label2,807,124 ling Certification (Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute), and methodology presented 4,883.2 2,766,418 by Life Cycle Inventory Database (LCI DB). The other Scope Ⅲ emissions in 2015 were 32,442tCO2eq. 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 *Amount of waste generated has been recalculated due to the change of an internal standard for the waste management. 56 57 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Customer First Environmental Fortification of Management Management Energy Strategy KT's Approach Considering the climate change as an opportunity rather than a crisis, KT has been fostering the energy As the global climate change has been intensified and the energy consumption has been inStrategy for New Growth business integrated with ICT as one of its new growth engines for the future. In 2014, the Smart Enercreasing, a new era where the capability of the energy efficiency determines the corporate Energy gy Division was newly founded in order to take the responsibility for executing the new energy busicompetitiveness has started. KT has constantly enhanced its capability of the energy efficienness which is now a solid basis for multilateral energy businesses KT has been promoting since 2015. cy based on its cutting-edge ICT technology. Additionally, we are turning into an ICT company that will lead the future by promoting multidimensional energy saving businesses. KT olleh biz BEMS, Energy Optimization Solution KT olleh biz Building Energy Management System (BEMS) is a solution for the energy optimization at buildings that enables to analyze the energy consumption status in real time and to control the consumption reducing the energy use and GHG emissions through the smart management of energy. The wire/wireless data traffic has gone through a drastic increase as the smartphone is becoming Through the system, the energy use at buildings is monitored in real time as well as optimized at the Energy Efficiency Strategy widely used; the IoT will be the starting point of the era of communications by things where the data same time by controlling conditioning equipment, refrigerators, and lights. KT is currently developing traffic will skyrocket accordingly. Therefore, KT is doing its best to reduce the energy consumption the Factory Energy Management System (FEMS) which is an energy optimization solution for factoby introducing cutting-edge technology such as the high-efficient energy saving technology, network ries; after the development will be completed in 2016, the FEMS will be supplied to customers. efficiency technology, and green IDC. Reducing Electricity for Air Conditioning by Master Cooling System Factory Energy Management System KT olleh biz BEMS (FEMS) The interior temperature in the KT's communications room is high for the wire/wireless data is being Environment-friendly Master continually processed. Fully aware of the fact that a slight temperature increase may cause a commuSupporting High-efficiency Operation of Facility through Real-time Monitoring Cooling System nications disorder, KT is operating a cooling system for 24 hours a day. Moreover, we are devoting to of Energy Consumption Status in Building and Analysis about Accumulated Data reducing the electricity use by realizing the low-power cooling system in the communications room. Since 2014, for example, we have significantly decreased the energy for the air conditioning by the air 1 2 3 intake which has a low temperature due to the cold weather in winter. A cooling tower at the rooftop Monitoring Statistical Management/Control is also contributing to the consistent reduction of the electricity use. of Energy Analysis of Service Operation Gathering and analyzing energy Comparing and analyzing energy Monitoring or controlling of energy consumption and GHG emissions of consumption by weathers and time consumption by user Saving Power through High-efficiency Temperature Chamber buildings in real time and supporting and yearly changes the monitoring of facilities The Internet Data Center (IDC) is a data facility that provides the server computer and network line. 8,800 A proper temperature in the server room is necessary for the stable operation of the servers; the Cost Reduction by Energy Savings in 2015 (KRW million) temperature is being controlled by the temperature chamber which requires a great amount of energy. Hence, KT substantially reduced the electricity use by replacing regular fans/motors of temperature KT-MEG Center, Integrated Monitoring of Energy chambers and double-lined condensers consuming a large amount of power with brazing condensers In December 2015, KT opened the KT-MEG Center in Gwacheon Network Control Center. At the KTwhich use high-efficiency inverter fans/motors. KT-MEG Center MEG Center, experts in the energy field are managing the renewable energy, energy efficiency of clients, and demand-side resource service in an efficient manner. Furthermore, through the integrated Installing High-efficiency LED Lights monitoring of the Center, we support various services: improving the efficiency of renewable energy KT is currently operating its business at about 500 buildings throughout the country; the energy used power facility, generating energy, monitoring the reduced amount, operating facility stably, and refor lighting has been persistently reduced through the project to replace lights within the buildings sponding to disorder of facility. with high-efficiency LED lights. In 2015, for instance, we changed lights of server rooms, corridors, and offices in Mokdong and Bundang IDC buildings which consume a significant amount of electricity. Energy Efficiency Business With new high-efficiency LED lights, we have been able to significantly reduce the electricity use at We have been implemented energy efficiency businesses for a range of clients such as factories, hosIDC buildings. pitals, and hotels with large GHG emissions; the energy efficiency business is to establish an energy saving facility and FEMS for client through the proactive investment by KT. Through the business, our Decreasing Electricity with Wider Network clients have achieved an additional 20-50% energy reduction compared to the energy consumption of In order to minimize the electricity consumed for the network operation, we have further expanded previous facilities. In particular, energy saving solutions customized for each client have been provided regions where communications stations are located while increasing the transmission distance by through the free energy diagnosis by KT's internal energy experts. In 2015, we assisted the reduction 5 times, from 4km to 20km, through the establishment of the efficient access network. It has been of energy consumption and GHG emissions of clients by executing the energy efficiency business for actively promoted as a long-term project achieving meaningful performances in reducing electricity about 60 factories, hospitals, and buildings. and GHG emissions with the installation of high-efficiency equipment at new facilities. Demand Response (DR) Business Establishment of Efficient Access Network Since 2012, quality services are provided to various clients such as supermarkets, public institutes, factories, and buildings through KT's electric demand side management service. The electric demand Increasing the 50km 20km 10km Communications Station transmission side management business refers to the business where customers who consume a large amount distance by ONT RN OLT of electricity (e.g. factory and building) are registered as the participant through the demand side advancing lightbased FTTH management company and receive financial rewards for reducing the electricity as the Korea Power ONT RN Ntopia SW (4km → 20km) Exchange determines. As one of the demand side management companies, KT has been significantly ONU RN SER contributed to the reduction of the national electricity consumption. We will persistently increase the number of participating customers. 58 59 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Fortification of Energy Customer First Environmental Customer First Environmental Strategy Management Management Compliance with Management Management KT's Approach Electromagnetic As the telecommunication service becomes diversified, areas where base stations and rePromotion of Renewable Energy Business Limits peaters are installed are being expanded. Accordingly, customers are increasingly concerned Strategy for Energy Cooperating with outstanding SMEs that own key renewable energy technology, KT has been promotabout the effect of electromagnetic wave. In order to realize the safe service environment for Diversification ing diverse renewable energy businesses. Established a PV plant with 7.5MW capacity in Daecheok customers, KT measures and manages the electromagnetic wave of mobile phones. We have in 2014, we are implementing various types of PV businesses: rooftop PV installed on the roof and also promoted various activities to reduce the electromagnetic wave's effect on human body: floating PV on idle surface of reservoir. In addition, about 20 PV projects were executed in 2015 while compliance with the governmental standards, joint researches with major mobile carriers and the renewable power generation project using building and idle land of KT is currently being promoted. the Korean Institute of Electromagnetic Engineering and Science. Future Energy World Realized by KT Expansion of PV Power When installing base stations for mobile communication, KT voluntarily measures the electromagnetic For the past 5 years since it constructed a PV plant within the land of Gangneung receiving station Measuring Strength intensity according to the Radio Waves Act as well as reports the result to the relevant governmental (19,720m2) in 2011, we have constantly invested in the renewable energy facility. We also built addiof Electromagnetic Wave department, the Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future Planning. By conducting strict inspections on tional PV plants in Gangneung and Taehwa Mountain, Gwangju. A PV plant is a highly critical facility a regular basis, moreover, we are trying our best to maintain the electromagnetic level below the since it generates electricity without consuming fossil fuel and thus practically reduces GHG emislimitation of Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) exposure set by the government. In 2015, inspections of sions. In 2015, the total amount of the electricity generated at Gangneung and Gwangju PV Plants the electromagnetic wave were carried out at all 20,966 base stations of KT. As a result, 20,955 base was 623.8Mwh while the GHG emissions were reduced by 291tCO2eq as well. Moreover, we sold the stations (99.8% of the total) were found to be in the 1st class, which means the electromagnetic level generated electricity according to the Renewable Energy Portfolio Standard (RPS) achieving the profit is lower than 50% of the standard level. Hence, it has been proved that most areas are maintaining Gangneung PV Plant of KRW 190 million as a result. the safe electromagnetic level. For base stations with higher than 50% of the standard level, on the other hand, we promptly changed equipment and antennas and thus restored to the normal level. PV Power Generation (Unit: Kwh) As the government announced, KT has measured the electromagnetic waves and attached rank stickCategory Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Total Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future ers to 29,000 base station according to the result of the measurement. Furthermore, we voluntarily Planning attached the stickers to base stations whose electromagnetic waves were measured before the anGangneung PV Plant 129,999 178,913 154,073 123,130 586,115 www.ekcc.go.kr nouncement of the government (1st August, 2014). In 2016, it is planned to measure the electromagGwangju PV Plant 8,990 11,611 9,930 7,186 37,717 netic waves of about 36,000 base stations. We will keep endeavoring to create the electromagnetTotal 138,989 190,524 164,003 130,316 623,832 ic-free environment by developing an environment-friendly installation method of base stations by cooperating with the Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future Planning as well as the three major mobile carriers. Use of Geothermal Energy Beyond the PV power, KT has been actively expanding the scope of renewable energy to the geotherNot merely does KT provide safe mobile telecommunication service thorough check-up and managemal energy. Since the underground water in the cable tunnel which is up to 30m deep maintains its Offering Electromagnetic ment but diverse efforts have been concentrated on building the safe environment for customers. temperature within the range of 16 and 17 degrees, we are taking it as the energy source using a therAdditionally, KT is measuring the electromagnetic waves of all mobile phones it sells in order to select mal heat pump. In 2015, air conditioning and hot water were provided to 3 office buildings including Information and Gathering models with the level of below 1.6w/kg, the limitation of exposure. The electromagnetic wave levels Banghak Office by the thermal energy; we also accomplished the reduction of the energy cost which Stakeholder Feedback by mobile phone types are publicly disclosed on the KT website while a brochure, 'Electromagnetic is worth about KRW 100 million. Wave in Daily Life , ' has been published and distributed as well. Thus, we have conveyed appropriate information about the electromagnetic wave to our customers. Due to the drastic climate change, the global temperature is becoming abnormal making the electricity KT has always attained the prior consent of all residents and signed the lease contract before installsupply a key issue of the country. Hence, KT has implemented regular energy saving campaigns in Corporate-wide Energy ing new transmission antennas in residential or commercial areas; when the electromagnetic level is order to realize the corporate-wide energy saving by improving the awareness of employees about Saving Campaign measured according to the Radio Waves Act, we are reporting the result to the Ministry of Science, the issue. Guidelines for energy saving have been established and distributed to the entire office ICT, and Future Planning. If residents require the additional measurement, a separate precise examinabuilding with the campaign poster. Also, we encourage the participation of employees by awarding tion is implemented. Also, we have posted the measurement result of our base stations/relay stations offices with outstanding performance. In March 2016, we participated in an environmental movement KT EMF Measurement Service on the KT EMF Measurement Service website. Through the transparent disclosure of information, we campaign, Earth Hour of World Wild Fund (WWF), and promised to save energy and curb the climate http://www.KTemf.co.kr will continuously strive for guaranteeing customers' right to know and building the safe mobile comchange by turning off lights of all 472 offices for 60 minutes. munication environment. KT is focusing its capability as well as investments in the R&D on minimizing the impact of electromag[Value Creation Activity] Value Creation through Video Conferencing netic wave on the human body. For example, we invested KRW 3 billion for 10 years since 2000 collabPerformance of Video Conferencing in 2015 Electromagnetic Research orating with professional research institutes: Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute (ETRI), Korean Institute of Electromagnetic Engineering and Science. Consequently, we promoted a Video conferencing has generated diverse positive effects such as cutting the cost for business trip, 437,000 persons 41,736 hours decreasing time spent for decision making and travel, and curbing the GHG emissions. Video conferencing research project “Research on Impact of Electromagnetic Wave on Human Body,” which consisted of Number of Video Conferencing Users Hours Spent 1st (2000-2004) and 2nd (2007-2012) rounds. Furthermore, we have been investing additional KRW also significantly contributes to the settling of a smart working environment of a company; the number of for Video Conference users has been skyrocketing as well: 348,000 in 2013, 410,000 in 2014, and 437,000 in 2015. KT not only 1.5 billion since 2014 for the Research on Safety of Electromagnetic Wave for Human Body project; reduced the cost for business trip by KRW 6.86 billion but also decreased the GHG emissions by 4,520tCO2eq in 2015. Furthermore, we will implement video conferencing for more affiliates in 2016 enlarging the number 24,168 times 6.86 KRW billion the investment for the project will continue for 5 years. KT is also operating the Mobile EMF Forum composed of experts in the field as well as contributing to the government-led research on electroof subject companies from 11 to 16. Number of Video Conferences Reduced Cost for Business Trip magnetic wave as an advisory member. Therefore, we have realized the public-private cooperation for the environment-friendly mobile communication. 60 61 GiGA People Talent Vision & Strategy KT employees are the ones who will walk along till the end realizing the corporate Management vision and goals. New Era to Humankind Presented by GiGA Infrastructure Assisting our employees to grow into the global talents through the systematic human resource development, we are providing diverse benefit programs for the work-life Goal Accomplishing annual social values worth more than KRW 4 trillion balance. Therefore, KT will be continuously striving for the establishment of Great Work Place which contributes to the increase of corporate values and advancement of the 2020 in 2020 quality of life. Sustainability Aspect Key Performances 2015 Sustainability Transparent Management Management GiGA 80 7.2 Prosperity Competitiveness Proportion of Female Executives in Talent Management level higher than directors Employee satisfaction (%) Shared Growth Customer First Management Management (points) GiGA GiGA People Planet 62 256.2 Talent Environmental Management Management Training Hours per Employee Cost of Employee Benefits (hours) (KRW billion) GiGA Sustainability Drivers Prosperity Strategy Driver Pursuing Objective Driver 0.41 59.98 Advancing Shared Growth GiGA GiGA Work-Life Balance Quality of Life Employee Turnover (%) Average Severance Pay of defined benefit plan People Planet (KRW million) Management Sustainability Issues ➊ Human resource and capability development, ➋ Appraisal and compensation, ➌ Employee health and safety, ➍ Employee benefits, ➎ Human right protection, 77.67 0.09 ➏ Diversity and equal opportunity, ➐ Work-life balance Percentage of Employees Accident Rate Talent (in the order of importance based on the 2016 materiality test) Joining Labor Union of Past 3 Years (%) (%) Management 62 63 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Talent Shared Growth Nurturing Management Management of Global Talents KT's Approach To KT, it is highly critical to secure global talents who possess expertise and passion in the Employee Diversification midst of the managerial environment which is swiftly changing due to internal and external Securing the diversity of employees is a key factor of the corporate competitiveness to KT who is factors such as advancing technology, globalizing market, and diversifying customer need. We to advance into the global market. We respect individual diversity while providing equal opportunities have been devoting all of efforts to accomplishing the corporate vision of 'Global No. 1 KT' to all employees so that a discrimination on the grounds of personal or academic connections, gender, through the cultivation of global talents by acquiring capable human resources as the driving religion, or physical hardship never occurs. Moreover, the culture respecting employees has been built http://www.kt.com/recruit/rpolicy.jsp force of our growth and development. by executing policies for work-life balance and equal opportunities. Minors and maternity are protected by the system as well. In addition, pregnant employees are not allowed to work overtime and offered reduced workloads while 90-day pre/postnatal leave while one-day non-paid menstruation leave are also provided. At the same time, KT offers diverse caring packages operating a leave system KT strongly believes that fostering of human resources has a direct influence on the corporate comby life cycles of female workers. Ideal Employee of KT petitiveness. For this reason, we have defined the ideal employee of KT as those who fulfill the basics and principles, communicate continuously to realize customer value, and face challenges with perseverance and hiring appropriate talents with passion. Employees hired through the fair personnel Commitment to Hiring the Disabled system are assigned to suitable positions while a detailed performance evaluation is implemented. KT never discriminates or sets limitations against employees with disability in the entire personnel Moreover, the corporate culture where employees can maximize his or her capability with educations system such as recruitment, work assignment, and promotion. Currently, the number of employees of the human resource development program has been consolidated. with disability is 469 while the rate of employment of the disabled is 2.19% as of 2015. Also, KT encourages the disabled employees to be respected and exert their capability. Consequently, the rate Ideal Employee of KT of directors among the disabled, such as team directors and executives, has reached 10%. The talent The talent The talent The talent complies Creation of Jobs continuously takes communicates respects with the basics and In spite of the severe managerial environment, KT is faithfully executing its social responsibilities for on challenges without barriers customers principles KT Star Audition relieving the youth unemployment and creating jobs by expanding the scale of recruitment. ParticularAchieving the best results Continuously striving Considering interests and Conducting tasks with ly, for solving the regional imbalance of jobs which are mostly available in metropolitan areas and proby not yielding to hardship to ensure mutual growth satisfaction of customers the pride of being the owner and adversity and continuing and development in conducting all tasks. of a company. moting the balanced development of community, we increased the rate of employment for applicants to challenge goals. by communicating with Respecting customers Acting based on ethical colleagues. from rural areas. Additionally, KT is actively supporting the employment policy of the government Realizing differentiated and fulfilling promises decisions and assuming services by leading changes Creating synergistic effects with customers. responsibility for the results. by implementing 'Creative Job Fair' and 'Foundation for Employment' project as the representative and innovation. by cooperating with each other for the success of KT. company of Korea. Through open recruitment programs such as nationwide 'KT Star Audition,' we are establishing a culture where employees can be hired based on their capability rather than careers Hence, we have assisted the youth to minimize the cost to develop unnecessary skills. Recruitment of Capable Talents Equal Opportunities In order to hire qualified employees to the ideal employee of KT, we operate the fair and transparent As a responsible global communications company, KT publicly endorses global standards on human in Employment recruiting process and provide equal opportunities to all applicants. Thus, we hired 277 new employand labor rights such as the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ILO ConvenProtection of Human Rights ees and 33 experienced employees in 2015 and the total number of KT employees is 23,648. Also, tions, OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human and Compliance contracted workers are hired regarding the characteristic of work; the proportion of contracted workRights. Since joined the UN Global Compact in 2008, which is an international agreement on the corers is 1.2% (excluding senior managers and professional and experienced part-timers) as of the end with International Standards porate social responsibility, we have actively delivered the ten principles in the four areas of human of 2015. We fairly treat our contracted workers complying with relevant laws. rights, labor, the environment, and anticorruption. Also, we strictly prohibit the child and forced labor according to the Labor Standard Act. By developing the human right risk framework based on the UN Status of Recruitment (Unit: persons) Status of KT Employees (As of 31 December, 2015) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, we analyze the exposure level to the human rights Category 2013 2014 2015 risk for all businesses on an annual basis to prevent human right violations. Thanks to these multiple Experienced Newly Hired efforts of KT, neither restrictions nor accusations in regard to human rights occurred in 2015. 310 Male 26,599 19,085 19,117 Full-time Female 4,993 3,661 3,744 33 Male 413 64 365 208 277 Temporary Female 219 8 216 Employment Type 24 (persons) Male 213 389 71 184 Others KT Devotes for Protecting Human Rights with UN Guiding Principles Female 14 28 18 on Business and Human Rights Male 27,225 19,538 19,553 Total Female 5,226 3,697 3,978 2014 2015 Based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights adopted at the 17th UN Human Rights Council Female 5,226 3,697 3,978 Social Minority (UNHRC) in June 2011, KT excavates potential human rights issues at all domestic and overseas sites every year (persons) People with and thus contributes to the improvement of human rights of the world by identifying the vulnerable groups in the 809 477 469 Disabilities aspect of human rights. To provide the relief to refugees in the world, KT signed a memorandum of understanding Employee 15.7 17.6 24.0 (MOU) with International Organization for Migration (IOM) in October 2015 while building a cooperative relationship Ratio of Female workers by Positions (%) Manager* 8.0 6.7 7.2 with Bangladesh through a MOU in February 2016. KT will strive to advance the life of people in Bangladesh by the cooperation for the national communications infrastructure beyond merely conducting relief activities. MOU Signing Ceremony of Bangladesh, KT, and IOM *Manager: Top executives, executives, senior managers above team directors 64 65 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Talent Shared Growth Fortification Management Management of Employee Capability KT's Approach KT Value Shared Program: Cultivating Members with Initiative and Endurance based on Core Values In order to identify and dominate new growth opportunity in the communications market Key Programs for Enhancing We are implementing the 'Education for Change and Innovation' for employees to internalize the four core rapidly changing, fortifying the employee capability as well as the corporate competitiveness Employee Capability values of 'Number 1 KT,' 'Single KT,' 'Customers First,' and 'Right-Path Management' as well as to advance has become more important than ever. For this reason, KT provides various and systematic forward in one direction. Hence, the pride as a KT person and the sense of belonging have been strengthprograms to develop employees into global No. 1 KT people who can concentrate all capabilened through the understanding of the CEO's management philosophy and diffusion of mind for 'change and innovation.' While thoroughly executing education about new appointment and promotion for newly hired ities of the company for customers. employees and managers, we are contributing to the cultivation of No. 1 KT talents through the Work Smart Change and Innovation Academy Academy for the better work performance. Moreover, the right-path management has been actively internalized by providing proactive educations about topics such as the information security and legal the occurrence Aiming to nurture employees who are 'members with initiative and endurance,' 'leaders leading change of risks is being prevented. Group Education System and and performance,' and 'experts whose performance is recognized in the market,' KT has established Innovation of Infrastructure and executed the three education systems: education about core values, education for fostering KT Leadership Program: Fostering Leaders Leading Change and Performance leaders, and education for fostering job experts. In 2015, we newly founded a 'Group Talent DeFor securing the next-generation leaders of the Group, KT has expanded the existing education for candidates velopment Academy' that is responsible for the education of KT Group and thus greatly innovatof director assistants by providing additional education to cultivate director assistants among team directors; ed the educational organization to further enhance the synergy within the Group. In addition, by inthe trainees participate in the online e-MBA first and carry out an in-depth study through offline education. tensifying the educational infrastructure such as a portal for the Group education and the Group's Through the Action Learning method which is to resolve the actual business agendas, trainees can further KT Group Bundang Academy training facility, we accomplished significant progresses in the aspect of educational methods. actively accomplish and execute tasks. Besides, opportunities to study MBA and other master's courses Based on the KT Group's ICT capability, moreover, the paperless and two-way interactive education Status of Domestic & International in Korea and other countries are constantly provided to KT employees so that they can acquire outstanding has been realized by smart devices, which leads to the increase of the employee engagement. Aiming MBA/Master's Course Supported by KT capability to generate corporate performance and grow into the global No. 1 leaders. to stimulate the education of group companies, the KT Group Bundang Academy that is capable of Course Institute 600 people on 1 day was newly established and has been functioning as a space for employees to KT Expert Program: Nurturing No. 1 Job Experts Whose Performance is Recognized in the Market Major uniersities including MBA in Korea gather any time sharing opinions about and discussing the Group history and future, far beyond simply Seoul National University Through the job capability evaluation to cultivate job experts based on capabilities, KT selects trainees by providing a place for education. MBA in Foreign Universities among training courses of each level according to the evaluation result and thus implements the customized talent Countries the top 30 in United States development. In 2015, especially, we contributed to the enhancement of the competitiveness of the entire Major universities including KT group by expanding the scope of trainees to the Group from KT itself. Full-time KAIST in technology Course management and Master Program for Enhancing Employee Capability of Engineering sectors KT Expert Program Master course such as EMBA Part-time and Media and Information Course •Future convergence: Providing special education for personnel responsible for planning and major executing projects Education about Core Values Education for Fostering Leaders Education for Fostering Job Experts Core Tasks • R&D: Providing task-based education to commercialize resesarch results of KT KT Value Shared Program KT Leadership Program KT Expert Program • Global business: Cultivating experts in overseas projects and providing localization education for expatriated engineers • Advancing capability at Group level and cultivating experts for staff's tasks such as management Common Tasks and adminstration of KT Group • Providing systematic education following the course map for the six areas of IT, finance, HR, marketing, ethics, and strategy To enable our employees to learn working at sites and to increase the effect of diverse education, we GOAL GOAL GOAL Education Culture for Site have introduced an informal learning program called 'No. 1 Education Organization' and thus settled it Cultivating Members Fostering Leaders Nurturing No. 1 Job Experts Whose as KT's own education culture contributing to the performance of each task. By building 509 organiwith Initiative and Endurance Leading Change and Performance Performance is Recognized in the Market zations for the education covering various agendas from on-site sales activity to business strategy, a positive cycle has been successfully consolidated: enhancement of personal capability→active comNecessary Optional Necessary Special Optional munications→generation of organizational performance. Therefore, KT cultivated total 222 'No. 1 Professional Lecturers' who possess job expertise and loyalty. In addition, we encouraged our employees Business Managerial Sharing Change Innovation Cultivation administration Technology to actively participate in the in-house offline education as leaders of 'No. 1 Education Organization'; CompGeneral Marketing, sales, and of ways of next-generation core liance innovation to work leaders leadership global, future Strategy, HR, Network, employees are sharing diverse best practices and work know-hows and thus assisting to improve the values IT, R&D convergence finance, ethics managerial performance. No. 1 Education Organization Hours and Expenses of Employee Education (As of 2015) Hours of Education Education Expenses per Category Offline Education e-learning per Person (hours) Person (KRW thousand) Executives/director assistants/team directors/employees Education High (professional)/Middle (in-depth) Education by Positions (from deputy general manager to new employee) by Levels /Basic (elementary) Course (courses) 1,558 1,425 62 716 Trainee (persons) 57,242 167,652 66 67 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Talent Shared Growth Work-life Management Management Balance KT's Approach KT believes that employees can enjoy a happy life as well as the corporate profitability can For helping employees reduce conflicts between work and life and thus achieve the work-life balance, increase when an ideal balance between the work and life of an individual employee is guarFamily-friendly Programs KT has defined every Wednesday as a 'family day' encouraging all employees to leave the office on anteed. Consequently, we have built an environment where employees can possess a sense time. On the family day, heads of each department voluntarily become a model by leaving the office of ownership and work with creativity and passion. Furthermore, we are striving to provide on time so that other employees can follow. Moreover, meetings and work orders after the quitting the working condition that assists employees to pursue happiness and excitement in life time are prevented. With the rule of not having company gatherings and meetings for drinking after and home. the working hour, we are striving to settle the family day as a part of the organizational culture. In addition, employees can leave work early on their or their spouses' birthdays and wedding anniversary contributing to the firm balance between work and home. In order to realize a work place where families are happy, we will additionally conduct family-friendly Expansion of Flexible Working System programs in 2016 such as 'invitation of employee family' event. Innovative Working In order to realize the work-life balance by innovating the way of work, we have operated the flexiEnvironment ble working system expanding the scope to cover all employees. The flexible working system refers Welfare and Benefit Programs to a smart working system that breaks a traditional concept of working time allowing employees to efficiently adjust the time to start and end work regarding circumstances and characteristics of indiIn-house Recreational Facility Status of Flexible Working viduals. It will impose positive impacts on the work efficiency and work-life balance of our employees Support for a Stable Life Support for Leisure/Culture/Living System in 2015 (Unit: persons) · Support for housing funds to buy or rent a house · Operating in-house recreational facilities at 6 offices as well as will increase the productivity and customer satisfaction. for employees who do not own their own homes (Gyeongju, Geoje, Jiri Mountain, Muju, Dogo, · Providing a dormitory and company housing for employees Daegwanryeong) on a regular basis Besides, KT is operating various flexible working systems by reflecting work characteristics: since 429 Selective Working November 2014, employees in the R&D and IT departments distribute working hours by themselves living alone or from other regions · Lending funds for stabilizing living condition · Operating R&R facilities for summer · Providing selective welfare points for self-help, culture/leisure, healthcare, and etc. through the discretionary working system. On the other hand, the core-time working system is being Education for Children 58 Discretionary Working operated at customer contact points so that employees can care customers not bound by their work time. In 2015, we strived for improving the system to further encourage these diverse flexible working · Operating 8 nursery facilities for employees' children · Granting scholarships to employees' children Support for Family Events/Disaster Relief · Support for expenditures for congratulations and who go to high school condolences and supplies for funeral/condolence flowers systems. Through the vitalization of the discretionary working system, it is expected that the R&D ca· Support for application for mutual protection policy and funeral service (in matching grant method) 992 Core-time Working pability of KT will be reinforced while the virtuous cycle to deliver differentiated values to customers will be expanded as well. Support for Medical Expenses/Medical Check-up · Supporting medical expenses for employees, their spouses, and children · Application for group insurance by the company Support for Pension · Supporting medical check-ups for employees · Support for pension savings and their spouse Female Life Cycle Caring Program With a deep interest in the low birth rate of the Korean society, KT is providing a caring program by life cycles of female for the happy work environment where female employees can achieve the selfrealization through the balance between work and home. For the pregnancy stage, we provide financial supports for medical expenses, leave for fetus check-up, Refresh Leave Program and shortened working hours. A leave before and after childbirth is also offered with a subsidiary for Self-development Program KT provides an incredible refresh leave program for employees who have served the company for a childbirth. Moreover, emotional care programs for childbirth are also available. At the stage of child long period of time; KT presents them opportunities for the self-development and recharge; employrearing, KT gives institutional and financial supports by cutting working hours, allowing to use nursery ees with more than 10 service years and outstanding performance receive a 6-months paid vacation. facilities at the workplace, and granting scholarships. Thanks to these efforts, we were re-certified as Benefitting employees thus can have diverse options to do what they wanted to do, such as self the family-friendly company in 2015 as well as received a commendation from the Ministry of Gender -improvement activity, travel, or language study. The vacation period, in particular, is counted as the Equality and Family. service year for it is considered as ordinary working year, which also means all benefits for employees are remained still. Besides, we have applied the income increase rate during the leave as well while preventing any possible disadvantages in the promotion from occurring. Ratio of Returning to Work after Parental Leave Use of Women Talents and Gender Support Program for Outplacement Employees Using Parental Leave Ratio of Returning to Work Equality of KT (Unit: persons) after Parental Leave (Unit: %) By operating our own KT Life Plan, we are assisting employees to adapt to the social environment Support Program for Outplacement rapidly changing as well as to prepare for the 2nd life after the retirement. For instance, the Change Female Female 99 Management Program for all current employees consists of value enhancement courses, vocation95 Male 93 92 91 al development courses, capability enhancement for start-ups courses, and career development & 87 215 management courses. Additionally, employees who are subject to the regular retirement in a near fu164 ture can participate in the Professional Education Program ; it supports a successful outplacement by 147 2013 2014 2015 maximizing one's career and capability. It is composed of programs to support professional start-up/ job placement/return to farming village and achievement of professional certifications while providing Ratio of Working for 12+ Months after Returning to Work (Unit: %) a 1-to-1 consultation service for starting business. Male Female 61 99 Leave System to Support Starting Business Male 86 28 30 62 76 73 Since 2009 when introduced a leave system to assist the start of a business for the first in Korea, KT 59 has supported registered employees who challenge for opening a start-up. Particularly, we conduct an evaluation for applicants who have served the company for a long period of time and are subject to 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 the retirement. Through the evaluation, we provide a leave that is up to 3.5 years at its maximum and wages of a certain level. Hence, the selected employees can successfully plan their 2nd life. 68 69 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Work-life Balance Talent Shared Growth Talent Shared Growth Management Management Fair Appraisal Management Management and KT's Approach A corporate culture of an open communication is necessary in order to respond to the rapidly changing Compensation A company can use its full capability when a transparent and fair evaluation of employees' Corporate Culture market environment as well as to promote the sustainable growth of the company and employee benperformance is conducted and appropriate compensation corresponding to the evaluation is for Communications efits. Consequently, KT has improved the work satisfaction of employees by actively handling grievprovided. KT has been flexible in responding to the labor market that is swiftly changing as ances and consolidated the labor-management relations for a mutual growth through the operation of well as operated the HR policy regarding an importance of works and employees' capability various communications channels. and performance. Hence, KT are persistently excavating measures for both the organization and individuals to grow further. Grievance Handling System Performance of KT 119 Grievance KT is currently operating diverse grievance handling channels for preventing employee grievances Handling Center in 2015 and addressing them swiftly. At 252 offices, the Grievance Handling Committee have been installed Compensation based on Appraisal which consists of labor-management representatives. Also, through KT 119, a website for reporting We conduct an annual performance evaluation and provide a fair compensation such as an increase of Rational HR Policy 2,378 Grievance Case (cases) grievances, we have greatly improved the convenience for employees to use the system realizing the expedient handling of grievances. The Labor-Management Mutual Growth Center has been operated wages, promotion, and reward assisting to generate a better performance; the standard and process of evaluation are clearly disclosed to all employees. Moreover, the fairness of the evaluation has been as well for 24 hours a day to provide an integrated solution to accept and resolve employee grievancreinforced through an education for appraisers, acceptance of an objection about the result, and after95.6 Satisfaction (points) es in a swift manner. The Center is operated with a strict confidentiality for the protection of users; ward monitoring. By the calibration between primary and secondary appraisers, it is possible to prevent by diversifying the reporting channels such as phone, email, text message, and website, the convedogmatic assessment errors. On the other hand, KT applies the differential rate of the income increase nience of users has been significantly increased. KT will further devote to solving the basic problem based on the individual performance; evaluation ranks are divided into S, E, G, N, and U and the ratio of of grievances by a range of efforts such as submitting key topics to the Labor-Management Mutual employees at G-level has been maintained above 90%. Based on relevant regulations, employee wages Growth Committee as meeting agendas. are paid in a fair manner according to work, performance, and service year; there is no wage difference between genders. The wage level of newly-hired employees of KT is 163% of the legal minimum wage. Labor-Management Relations for Mutual Growth Labor-Management Mutual Growth Compensation for Employees Committee KT guarantees an employee’s free join or withdrawal from the Labor Union in accordance with Article *KT offers both Defined Benefit (DB) and Defined Contribution (DC) plans. 5 of the Trade Union and Labor Relations Adjustment Act and Article 3 of the Collective Agreement Division for Respected No. 1 KT 2015 15,215 1,534 2,562 19,311 Wage in the Labor Union Act. Besides, we encourage employees to join the labor union through the Union Severance Pay* Addressing grievances safety and health issues; Shop system where employees join as a member of the labor union upon entering the company by Welfare Benefits innovating working conditions; improving the quality 2014 16,282 1,477 2,958 20,717 of life the collective agreement. As of December 2015, the ratio of members of the Labor Union who are (Unit: KRW 100 million) subject to the protection by the right of a collective bargaining is 77.67% of KT's total employees. Division for Making Advanced Additionally, we have been leading the labor-management culture of Korea by operating the regular Labor-Management Culture Labor-Management Mutual Growth Committee since 2015, which is the creative and active commuMultidimensional Performance Appraisal Finding and spreading the best cases; fulfilling social responsibility; finding role models for nications body between the labor union and the management. The Committee held total 18 meetings In order to secure the fairness of the performance evaluation, a Job Competency Assessment that is Labor-Management culture; taking the global lead in 2015 with division for “Respected No. 1 KT and division for “Making Advanced Labor Management a 360 degree appraisal is implemented for all employees annually i.e. him/herself, co-workers (up to Culture” and discussed and resolved measures to encourage employees and promote the employee three people), and seniors (up to three people). The evaluation result is used as a reference for the Labor-Management Mutual Center welfare. Through the communications organization, KT can share the managerial status of the compromotion of first line managers, employee relocation, and performance/competency appraisal. This Accepting reports regarding grievances, safety, and pany and key policies with the labor union in advance and thus can improve the working condition of evaluation is applied to assessments of not only ‘common job competency’ but ‘specific job competenhealth 24 hours a day; processing reports in possible promptest time (Diversification of report channels employees. Also, shared values of the labor and management can be generated while the cooperation cy’ which is an indicator for individual jobs. Therefore, it has contributed to an objective assessment such as ARS, SMS, email, OC, and messenger) is further enhanced. We will solidify the labor-management communications through in-depth discusbeing used as a reference for securing the fairness of the evaluation. sions about grievances of employees. Fair Promotion System KT abolished the single band/name system, which had been executed since 2009, and reintroduced By introducing retirement pension plans in 2011, we have supported a stable later life of our employthe rank/promotion system in 2014 to motivate employees to achieve performance. Employees' positions Stable Pension Plans ees. KT's retirement pension plans are being operated combining Defined Benefit (DB) and Defined are subdivided into five categories: employee, assistant manager, manager, deputy general manager, and Contribution (DC) plans; employees can select their own pension plan. In addition to the retirement head of department. In a case of promotion, we apply an income increase rule of quantum-jump correpayments from KT, furthermore, the amount employees pay to the individual retirement pension acsponding to the pay-band for each position. Employees subject to the promotion are selected in the order count is deducted as well guaranteeing the finance for later. As of December 2015, the amount of of scores they have acquired by adding mileages granted each year based on the personal performance/ retirement payments of the DB plan is KRW 59.98 million while that of the DC plan is KRW 5.85 million. capability and in/external activities. Thus, we have been able to establish a transparent promotion system and an organizational culture where everyone pursues a long-term and outstanding performance. Retirement Pension Plans Encouragement and Reward Benefitting Employees of (Unit: %) Category Operation of Retirement Pension Plan Pension Holder No. 1 KT Employee Award Top-down Compliment Culture of KT has been actively spread throughout the company with an Pension Plans Defined Defined Benefit Company operates retirement payments by saving at a financial institute; 16,858 persons aim to praise and encourage employees at any time. Furthermore, we are operating the Branch Man2.6 (DB) employees receive designated amount (average wage x service years) (75.3%) Benefit (DB) ager Commendation enabling immediate rewards without being bound by procedures. For increas: 16,858 persons Defined ing the pride and loyalty of awarded employees, a special awarding ceremony is conducted as well 22.1 Defined Company saves retirement payments for 1 year to DC account; employees operate 4,934 persons Contribution (DC) Contribution retirement payments thus the final amount is determined by employees where team leaders visit the recipient or recipient's family is invited to the company; Presents En(22.1%) (DC) : 4,934 persons couraging Family are also provided so that recipents and families can share the impression and joy Combined 75.3 Considering advantages of DB and DC plans, a retirement payment is operated in DC 584 persons of the rewards. Moreover, we disclose the detailed achievements of those honored with the CEO Cita: 584 persons Combined type before changing the plan and in DB plan after the changing point. (2.6%) tion or the KT Award on the website. Accordingly, the transparency of rewards has been secured while interests and engagement level of employees have been improved as well. 70 71 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Talent Shared Growth Employee Management Management Health Shared Growth Vision & Strategy and Safety KT's Approach While the local community is a base for KT to execute corporate activities, suppliers are KT has reinforced the health and safety system in order to build a working environment where the safety and health of all employees are secured. Also, an organic cooperation has been Management the partners of KT who will accomplish the shared growth. realized between offices and divisions while the Safety Conference has been continuously Reflecting the characteristics of the communications industry, we promote corporateheld on a quarterly basis. Therefore, we will further advance the healthy corporate culture wide social contribution activities in areas of people, society, and culture. to respond to safety risks. Through various shared growth programs, the capability of the entire value chain is being advanced as well. Hence, KT will continue doing its best to realize the human development and the social progress and enlarge the Shared Value Chain. For settling the corporate culture where the safety of employees are the first priority, we have estabEstablishment of lished annual occupational health and safety plans and executed detailed plans at the level of on-site Preventive Safety and departments. While promoting the four-stage daily safety activity for the zero accident by on-site departments, we hold a Safety Check Day on a monthly basis; the Safety Check Day has various themes Health System by seasons such as cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), health check-up, and prevention of food Sustainability Aspect Key Performances 2015 poisoning and car accidents. In particular, KT sends a safety message in a case of emergency including a heavy snow or rain and frozen road striving to prevent severe disasters. In addition, we are encouraging our employees to establish the safe corporate culture through the annual Occupational Safety and Health Contest where sites are awarded for their excellent safety Sustainability Transparent performance and zero accident records. In 2016, it will be advanced by holding the video conference Management Management of departmental managers before the event. KT will also improve contents of the safety education by themes and CPR skills education. Hence, the safe and healthy corporate culture will be established 62.67 168.48 GiGA and further consolidated. Prosperity Social Contribution Expense Amount of Rate Reduction for (KRW billion) the Disabled and Low Income Class (KRW billion) Reinforcement of Safety·Health Education Shared Growth Customer First Management Management The safety education is necessary in order to prevent unexpected accidents. Being fully aware of GiGA GiGA CPR Skills Education this, KT is delivering knowledge about safety regulations and the promotion of health through regular People Planet safety and health educations. Also, KT employees participate in the CPR education so that they can execute first-aid measures in emergency. In 2016, we will make it compulsory for employees to receive the CPR education at least once a year. Additionally, the annual number of beneficiaries of supports for CPR and AED Certificate will increase to 600 from 400. Group companies and suppliers that are stationed within the KT headquarters will be also supported with educational equipment and joint Talent Management Environmental Management 59.3 1.5 educations. Consequently, we will constantly focus corporate-wide efforts on diffusing the culture to Contribution to Social Progress Contribution to Social Progress actively promote the healthy life. through Integrated Security by Next-generation Media Service Service (KRW billion) (KRW billion) Healthcare for Employees and Prevention of Diseases The joyful corporate culture starts from healthy employees. Thus, we are endeavoring for the early Performance of diagnosis of disease and regular health care by conducting comprehensive medical check-ups for all Sustainability Drivers Psychological Consultation employees and their spouses at least once a year. When an employee is found to have a disease such Center in 2015 (Unit: persons) as a cancer, the employee can receive medical costs through the group health insurance KT employees 348 1,680 have joined. In addition, KT operates the psychological consultation center for the stress management of employees while measuring their stress level cooperating with a professional agency to offer Strategy Driver Objective Driver 21.54 2,916.9 Expanding Shared Realizing Society the customized stress management service. Personal Group Value Creation of Shared Growth Amount of Social Values Generated Products/Service Procurement Consultation Consultation By advancing our ERP medical check-up system, employees will be able to view the relevant informaby Shared Growth of Value Chain from Suppliers tion by their own becoming more interested in their health. KT will continue to promote the health of (KRW billion) (KRW billion) employees and improve the employee satisfaction through the development and introduction of spe145 319 cialized psychological consultation program. Sustainability Issues Visit & Healing Consultation Camp Performance of Safety Management ➊ Supplier management policy, ➋ Online security, KT has retained the low accident rate by operating the comprehensive safety management system 2,115 and establishing the preventive safetyhealth system. Thanks to our diverse efforts, the number of ➌ Social contribution, ➍ Narrowing the gap of information access, 91.9 ➎ Shared growth policy, critical accidents occurred at sites in 2015 were decreased. Consequently, KT's accident rate of the Education past 3 years has recorded at 0.09% which is 19% lower than the industry average, 0.11%. The Lost ➏ Engagement with local communities and aid for disaster relief, Result of Sustainability 2015 CSV Poter Award Management Assessment Won CSV Porter Award Time Injury of 2015 is 0.22 case (in 200,000 man hours) as well. With the aim to decrease the accident ➐ Employee volunteer activities for Suppliers for 2 consecutive years in Process and Project sectors rate by 10% compared to the previous year, KT has established the 2016 Disaster Safety Plan and Average (points) (in the order of importance based on the 2016 materiality test) actively promoted activities against industrial accidents. 72 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Talent Shared Growth Strategies Management Management UN SDGs Social Contribution Activities of KT Group for Social Contribution People 01 No Poverty Employee Volunteer Group (KT Group) Conducting voluntary works with about 60,000 employees for the vulnerable class KT's Approach Activities The communications industry starts from 'to connect' and KT is best at connecting each oth02 Zero Hunger Red Food Truck (BC Card) Operating a food truck for the underprivileged er. To establish a fair world where everyone is connected and enjoys benefits of GiGAtopia, KT is implementing multidimensional activities in people, society, and culture areas to reduce 03 Good Heath and Well-being Healing Hearing Impairment Supporting medical service and rehabilitation of hearing-impaired children in low Campaign (KT) income families as well as supporting their families the social gap. Dream School (KT Group) Providing two-way mentoring platform through video conferencing system IT Supporters (KT) Addressing information gap by teaching IT knowledge Supporting education and culture of children at local children centers by operating The social contribution of KT focuses on establishing a sustainable society by activities to address KT Dream Center (KT) KT Dream Center within KT buildings Social Contribution Vision the social through key capabilities such as GiGA Infrastructure and ICT technology. KT is also aiming to Scholarship Business (KT) Cultivating future talent in ICT sector among teenagers and college students and System realize a management philosophy in the social contribution area which is to become the best national 04 Quality Education Experiencing Universe & Inviting children/teenagers to a satellite control center providing experiencing company that pursues the convenience of customers based on ICT. Therefore, diverse activities to Science (kt sat) programs narrow the gap are being actively executed in areas of people, society, and culture with characteristics Education for Future Providing special IT education for employment cooperating with vocational high IT Talents (kt ds) schools of the communications industry reflected. We will advance the life of people through the cooperation Global Citizenship Education with affiliates as well as will try our best to accomplish the UN SDGs. for Teenagers (nasmedia) Providing teenagers with education to advance the global citizenship In April 2016, moreover, we newly established the 'Sustainability Management Committee' under the Board of Directors enabling a further efficient and stable social contribution activities. CompreWonder-mom Campaign Supporting vocational education, childcare, and cultural experience of single moms 05 Gender Equality (kt cs) for their independence hensive social contribution activities at the level of the KT Group are implemented by the 'Group Social Contribution Committee' under the Sustainability Management Committee; the Group Social Contribution Committee is responsible for public services of the Group, operates the Group employClean Water and Dongja Hope Sharing Center Improving the health of residents in poor regions through cultural support and 06 ee volunteer group and social contribution fund, and plans and monitors the identification of mutual Planet Sanitation (KT Group) operation of public bath projects of affiliates. Responsible Consumption Supports for Flea Market Encouraging flea markets by supporting materials and human resources 12 and Production (kt commerce) for promotion KT Mission KT Social Contribution Goals Better ㆍ IT Supporters 13 Climate Action Climate Change Campaign Increasing the awareness of customers about climate change through campaigns (kt m&s) conducted at KT stores People ㆍ Dream School ㆍ Scholarship Businesses Protection of Marine Environment 14 Life below Water Contributing to healthy marine environment through voluntary cleaning activity ㆍ Employee Volunteer Group (kt submarine) Preservation of Green City 15 Life on Land Promoting campaign to manage city parks for protection of terrestrial ecosystems (kt engcore) Better ㆍ GiGA Story Society ㆍ Dongja Hope Sharing Center The best national company ㆍ KT Dream Center Affordable and Clean Improving energy efficiency by installing photovoltaic facility at community service Prosperity 07 GiGA Sarang-bang (KT Group) that provides the fastest and Better Future ㆍ Universal Services Energy center in remote areas Decent Work and most innovative ICT-based 08 Mentoring for Start-up (kth) Providing ICT solutions and supporting market penetration through T-Commerce Realizing a better future ㆍ KT Chamber Hall Economic Growth Better telecommunications and through key capability of KT ㆍ KT SQUARE Life Advancing quality of life through offering GiGA Infrastructure and customized GiGA Story (KT Group) convergence services ㆍ Healing Hearing solutions to remote and isolated areas Impairment Campaign KT Chamber Hall & for the convenience Industry, Innovation KT SQUARE (KT) Culture sharing for citizens at spaces within KT buildings 09 and Infrastructure Addressing information gap by providing remote areas with UHD TV and of customers Antenna of Love (kt skylife) broadcasting free of cost Convenience by Public Telephone Utilizing old telephone booths as 'safe booths' and charging station for electric cars Social Contribution Organization Booth (kt linkus) Sustainability Management Becoming Friends (kt is) Calling and visiting seniors who live alone BoD Organization Committee Reduced Supporting Providing LTE walkie-talkie (RADGER) to support public institute's safety 10 Inequalities Free Walkie-talkie (kt powertel) enhancement program Reporting Review/Feedback 3-color Sharing of KT Sports Helping community through 3-color sharing activities (revenues, seats, and talents) Sustainability (kt sports) Front-line Establishment Sutainability Management Advisory Management of Strategy Center Body Organization Advisory Committee Sustainable Cities and Fixing House with Love Improving living environment of vulnerable class such as the disabled and the old 11 Communities (kt estate) (fixing wallpaper or floor) Reporting Identifying and Executing Agenda KT and Affiliates Adjustment & KT Group’s Social Contribution Execution (including Coordination Committee Foundations) Peace, Justice and Strong Protecting Dok island and supporting research by operating donation fund of 'Dokdo Peace 16 Institutions Dokdo Keeper (kt telecop) Keeper' plan 1 2 3 4 Giftishow Public Campaign Taking exclusive responsibility of KT Group's public business Operating KT Group's Employee Volunteer Group Operating KT Group's social contribution funds Identifying KT Group's joint businesses Partnership 17 Partnerships for the Goals (kt mhows) Conducting public campaign using advertisement on mobile gift card page (cooperating with NGO) 74 75 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Talent Shared Growth The Three Management Management Social Contribution Scholarship Businesses KT's Approach Since 1988, KT has operated a variety of scholarships such as 'Scholarship for Creative and InnoActivities KT is actively promoting social contribution activities in addressing gaps of people, society, Key Performance of Scholarship (Unit: KRW 100 million) vative Leader' and 'Labor-management YOUTH Scholarship.' In 2014, we strived to support dreams and culture to build a better future through the connection and dissemination; KT connects Businesses S  cholarship for of teenagers by extending the scope of scholarships through a launch of 'Scholarship for Social InnoCreative and person with person, home with home, and city and rural area while disseminating knowledge Innovative Leader vation Talent' as well as by carrying out a mentoring program by Dream School, an online education (636 persons) to where in need for knowledge and culture where in short of cultural advantages. platform. Especially, foreign college students from 28 countries such as Portugal and China were S  cholarship for 3.5 Social Innovation selected in 2015 to participate in providing an one-to-one online mentoring to elementary school 12.3 7.3 Talent (58 persons) students in Imja Island, Baengnyeong Island, and Cheonghakdong where GiGA Story projects of KT 1.5 Labor-management YOUTH are being operated. Strongly believing there should not be the youth giving up dreams, we are operating IT Supporters, (233 persons) Better People Dream School, Employee Volunteer Group, and diverse scholarship businesses for creating the world where everyone is guaranteed with equal opportunities and dreams of new dreams. Employee Volunteer Group KT has been operating an 'employee volunteer group' of which the leader is CEO for systematically IT Supporters and efficiently implementing the corporate-wide volunteering activities: supporting local children’s IT Supporters are Korea's first Probono activity which were launched in 2007. A probono refers to centers, helping the underprivileged in local communities, assisting disaster recoveries, offering helps Launch Ceremony of IT Supporters an activity for experts in various fields to help the social minority and the vulnerable through their to farming and fishing households through the One Company One Village campaign, checking the facilexpertise. KT employees are utilizing their IT capability to provide a nation-wide IT education to ities at welfare centers, and offering experience-based training through KT’s facilities. the vulnerable in information through IT Supporters. We select IT Supporters throughout the nation on an annual basis and the selected members receive an education to cultivate IT professionals which Employee Participation in Employee Volunteer Group in 2015 is conducted by regions: metropolitan region, Chungcheong region, Honam region, and Yeongnam region. After completing the course, IT Supporters initiate the activity to address the information gap Activity of Employee Volunteer Group by education about IT knowledge. In 2015, KT offered total 2,318 IT educations to 30,795 persons throughout the country. 2,318 Number of Activities Category Key Activity 58,566 180,029 11.6 The underprivileged in Utilizing the Internet; basic OA; smart devices; education about SNS Information Target: The disabled, farmers and fishermen, the elderly, the low income people 387 Benefiting Institutes Basic computing skills; utilizing internet; supporting the adaptation to Korea through IT (e.g. education about Korean) Activity Hours (hours) Number of Beneficiaries (persons) Disbursement of Fund (KRW 100 million) Multi-culture Supporting stable settling in Korea through IT, economic independence, and child education 30,795 Benefiting Persons Small and Medium Supporting basis for marketing through blog/web community and SNS Businessman/Owner-operator Increasing productivity through practical O/A work and various S/W educations Reduction of Smart Information Resolving smart information gap through smart education for all Koreans Gap Visiting Lectures: Lectures about smart devices and use of SNS for each institute/organization Labor-Management Together Labor-Management Together is a sharing campaign that systemizes the mutual cooperation activity of Education about side effect of internet (game) and smartphone for teenagers, Education to Prevent Side Labor-Management Together Activity parents, and others the KT Group's labor and management in order to fulfill the social responsibility through the labor-manEffect of IT Cultivation of professional lecturers teaching side effect of internet agement culture based on the coexistence and cooperation. Total 149 corporate-wide practice committees are being operated for disseminating the sharing activity by employees while encouraging emDream School ployees to participate in the social contribution activity for more than 8 hours a year. We will strive for Dream School Mentoring is a two-way mentoring platform established in 2013 using the video condeveloping Labor-Management Together into a representative social contribution activity conducted Global Mentoring of Dream School ferencing system of KT. It is a representative program that reduces the education gap by Dream menby a national company by attracting the participation of employee families as well. tors consisting of retirees and foreign students; Dream Teachers are mainly retirees and participate in the society by sharing their talents. They contribute to addressing the education gap of the socially UCC as Labor-Management Sharing Committee vulnerable class through ICT, art, and physical education as well as personality education for about For a greater sharing, KT is standing at the forefront in diffusing the labor-management culture of 40,000 teenagers and 100 social welfare facilities every year. Along with mentoring by Dream TeachUCC Environmental Campaign the mutual cooperation and sharing activities through leading the UCC, an intercompany labor-maners, KT has expanded areas subject to 'Global Mentoring' within the GiGA Story regions since 2014 in agement sharing committee consisting of labor unions from 18 companies. Key activities of UCC inorder to teach foreign language and provide education about the global culture to elementary school clude promoting the reunion of about 400 Vietnamese in multi-cultural families using KT's IT techstudents in remote areas where have a poor educational infrastructure. The Dream School Project nology and providing medical service free of cost; we execute activities in both Korea and Vietnam has been highly recognized for it has proposed a new social contribution model where the company assisting the prompt assimilation of immigrant females into the Korean society while advancing provides an ICT-based mentoring platform to the society. the status of Korean companies in the world. In 2015, KT promoted 'No Automobile Day' event for delivering UN SDGs at the level of UCC; total Status of Dream School Mentoring in 2015 82,000 employees of KT and UCC member companies participated in the event commuting by public Number of Number of Beneficiaries Number of transportation. An environmental clean-up activity, 'Green Earth' campaign, was also executed at 12 Dream Mentor Participants (accumulated) Educations national parks and reservoirs throughout the nation by employees of UCC member companies. Dream Teacher (Retiree) 89 persons 40,901 persons 4,732 cases Global Mentor (Foreign student) 58 persons 2,092 persons 2,092 cases 76 77 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix The Three Social Talent Shared Growth Contribution Activities Management Management As IT devices such as smartphone and the Internet have been widely generalized, the world is becomDongja Hope Sharing Center Better Society ing more closely connected; however, regional gaps are continuously increasing. Hence, KT is devoting Since 2013, KT has implemented IT educations and volunteering works for 1,099 local residents Cafeteria within Dongja Hope to addressing the imbalance caused by regional gaps and helping everyone enjoy benefits of ICT in Dongja-dong, Yongsan Province that is one of poor regions in Seoul. Providing social contribution Sharing Center by conducting activities to reduce the gaps between regions through GiGA Story, Dongja Hope Sharing activities, we recognized that the local residents need a space where they can resolve the inconveCenter, and KT Dream Center. nience in basic life and take a rest. In June 2014, therefore, the Dongja Hope Sharing Center was established as an ICT-based complex cultural space. For the past 1 year since the launch of the Center, KT has generated various positive changes in the region; for instance, Dongja-dong used to have many GiGA Story Project accidents and crimes. Thanks to KT, however, the number of crimes broken out in the area has signifiGiGA Story is KT's representative social contribution project being actively promoted by creativity and GiGA Island in Bangladesh cantly decreased. Compared to the previous year, the number of gambling cases decreased by 91% innovative ideas; the world has been paying an attention to this next-generation value creating project while violence/theft cases were decreased by 22%. of KT. Furthermore, it is a social contribution model that is in line with GiGAtopia, KT's future network strategy in order to secure a new growth engine through the 'speed' of GiGA network and 'converPerformance of Dongja Hope Sharing Center gence' of ICT solution. By providing GiGA Infrastructure and appropriate solutions to remote and isolated regions with a relatively large information gap, we have been advancing the living environment Category Key Activities of local residents in diverse aspects such as the education, culture, economy, and environment. Education Cultural education 1,358 trainees According to regional characteristics, GiGA Story is being operated in types of GiGA Island (for remote (October 2014 December 2015) Education about smartphone and use of PC 675 trainees areas) and GiGA Creative Village (for isolated areas); Following Imja GiGA Island and Daeseongdong GiGA School launched in 2014, Baengnyeong GiGA Island and Cheonghakdong GiGA Creative Village Cafeteria Accumulated customers visiting the cafeteria: 54,351 persons (September 2014 December 2015) (Monthly average: about 3,397 persons) were successfully established in 2015. In October 2016, moreover, we will further apply our GiGA Story model to the global community contributing to the accomplishment of UN SDGs; we will establish Beneficiary of a GiGA Island in Bangladesh utilizing our experiences and know-hows accumulated in Korea. KT Dream Center (Unit: persons / Accumulated) KT Dream Center We are operating the KT Dream Center in cooperating with local children centers by key regions for 346,339 supporting children in the disadvantaged class to grow into leaders of the future. Launched since Performance of GiGA Story Project 288,028 2010, the KT Dream Center has installed IT devices, such as IPTV, beam projector, smart pad, and GiGA Story 01 Vitalizing the Local Community Utilizing ICT GiGA Story 04 228,895 e-book in idle spaces within 21 KT office buildings conducting various educational activities including Exchanging Traditional Culture through Online Venues English, music, and integrated culture and arts education. Through cooperating with various institutes, Imja GiGA Island KT is helping children receive a quality education at the KT Dream Center. In 2015, as a result, we were (October 2014) Cheonghakdong GiGA Creative Village able to offer the personality education and art&physical education to total 58,311 children throughout (July 2015) 2013 2014 2015 · Selected as 'creative village' benchmarking model by the Ministry the nation. of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs · Introduced as the best practice in diffusing broadband on UN Broadband · Promoted creative village project through ICT cooperating Annual Report with the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs · Highly valued as an innovative CSV by Professor Michael Porter · Supported local residents with ICT for beacon, remote lectures, of Harvard University receiving CSV Porter Award safe use of drone, and mobile medical check up KT Addresses Information Gap through Universal Services GiGA Story 02 Establishing the Environment for Smart Learning Universal services refer to basic communications services that every user can be provided at proper Bangladesh price regardless of time and space. For faithfully delivering the responsibility as the national company Daeseongdong GiGA School by operating the social network, KT is providing basic communications services including local and (November 2014) public phone, communications for remote regions, and vessel wireless phone. · Established Smart Learning system and next-generation classroom for global leaders of future Korea unified · Signed a contract of 'First Village for Reunification' with the Ministry of Government Administration and Home Affairs; established Rate Reduction by Beneficiary Groups an ICT-based complex cultural space 01 02 Telephone Service for 03 · Simplified overall administrative works (e.g. admission to village, Wire Telephone Service Rate Reduction Service Annual Total in 2015 video telephony) through ICT Provided IoT programming education Emergency Communications with Korea Creative Economy Federation As of the end of 2015, KT provided the In order to maintain the social order and We have assisted the enhancement Category Number of Reduction Recipients Amount local call service to total 13,150,000 protect Koreans safe, KT provides free of the welfare of 1,840,000 persons (1,000 persons) (KRW million) subscribers while operating 70,000 telephone service for special emergenwho have a disability or are in the public telephone booths throughout the cy numbers, such as crime report (112) socially vulnerable class through Disabled 1,263 105,879 country. In order to advance the public and fire and distress report (911), transthe rate reduction by KRW 168.5 billion GiGA Story 03 Building the Safe Environment Network GiGA Story 05 benefit, moreover, we have replaced mitted by wire/wireless subscribers. In for services such as local calls, mobile Low-income Promoting the First International GiGA Story Model Bracket 393 46,004 the telephone booths with 'safe booths' addition, the company has also provided calls, and high-speed internet. Besides, Pensioner Baengnyeong GiGA Island Individuals by cooperating with local governments a vessel wireless phone service for we engaged in a “Providing High-speed (March 2015) Lower such as Seoul City Hall and financial inabout 4,000 vessels contributing to Internet to Children from Low-income 68 7,633 Bangladesh GiGA Island Income Class (Forthcoming) stitutes. Also, we offer communications the vessel safety by immediately Families” project as well as IT Sharing · Accomplished ICT-based development of the local community Patriots and services to connect residents in about delivering distress reports to relevant business by the Ministry of Education. Veterans 100 8,525 through the public-private cooperation with Incheon City Hall · Presidents of Korea Communications Commission and the Ministry ·Selected Moheshkhali Island of Bangladesh as target region 440 remote and isolated islands through institutions on a real-time basis. Hence, we greatly supported the inforOrganizations of Science, ICT and Future Planning visiting the site and conducting of GiGA Story Project the connection between the land and matization of the education. (e.g. welfare institutes 11 435 benchmarking ·Signed an MOU with International Organization for Migration (IOM) island or between islands. for the disabled) · Supported local residents based on ICT solutions in communications, for global GiGA Island Project safety, and education areas Total 1,835 168,476 78 79 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix The Three Social Talent Shared Growth Talent Shared Growth Contribution Activities Management Management Management of Management Management Sustainable Disseminating and advancing the culture through music is closely related to our corporate identity. Supply Chain Better Life As the communications company who conveys voice via signal, KT is contributing to the wide diffusion KT's Approach of 'sound.' For example, we are actively promoting activities to reduce the cultural gap by operatIn order to reduce the corporate loss and sustain the business, it is necessary to manage ing KT Chamber Hall and KT SQUARE and donating the entire revenues from the admission fee of the supply chain considering economic, environmental, and social factors. Based on the policy performance for the KT's 'Healing Hearing Impairment Campaign.' for the supply chain sustainability, KT conducts the sustainability assessment to minimize risks within the supply chain and promote the shared growth in a long-term perspective. KT Chamber Hall KT Chamber Hall, opened in 2009, is a concert hall to popularize the classical music. With professional KT Chamber Hall Policy facilities and total 403 seats, it is leading the spread of culture by holding various musical programs Management System For the first among domestic communications companies, KT enacted the 'KT Sustainability Guideline such as performances by an orchestra or a choir, a chamber music, and recital. In 2015, we held total of Sustainable Supply Chain for Suppliers' in December 2012. Thus, we have realized a systematic management of the sustainable 24 performances and attracted 9,811 audiences; the figure is an increase of 17% from 8,131 audiences supply chain. The Guideline reflects KT's strong will to diffuse its responsible and sustainable managein 2014. KT Chamber Hall was built with an aim to diffuse a beautiful 'sound' to the public. Revenues ment into the entire supply chain. It consists of four sections: principles of business execution, envifrom the performance at the KT Chamber Hall are used for KT's social contribution program to help ronmental management, corporate social responsibility and role, and product stewardship. Throughout hearing-impaired children, 'Healing Hearing Impairment Campaign.' Additionally, KT makes all perforKT Sustainability Guideline the total 18 areas, additionally, the Guideline presents standards of the sustainability management mances into visual contents to distribute them through the olleh tv real-time live streaming and Video for Suppliers that KT expects of suppliers. On Demand (VOD) services. By doing so, everyone including those who have a difficulty in moving or Section Sustainability Management Area cannot come to the Chamber Hall due to a geographical condition can enjoy beautiful music. Principles of Business Execution •Corporate governance Education •Ethics management Since 2014, we have been providing the sustainability management education for responsible person•Sustainability management KT SQUARE nel of suppliers so that they can share their knowledge about the sustainability management fulfilling •Management of subcontractors KT SQUARE opened in May 2010 on the 1st floor of a KT building at Gwanghwamun with a size of it into practice. Besides reinforcing the execution ability through optimizing the management system 'Culture Day' Event at KT SQUARE Environmental Management 3,300m2. As a complex cultural space for experiencing IT, the KT SQUARE allows customers to try of the sustainable supply chain, we will operate diverse education programs for suppliers to internalize cutting-edge IT devices and services as well as provides a space for enjoying culture and taking rest; •Environmental management system the sustainability management. •Environmental performance evaluation in addition to operating a cafeteria, KT provides a variety of programs such as performances at Dream •Climate change Hall, Korea Telecommunications Museum, 5G Technology Exhibition. In particular, we also held 'Expe•Management of toxic substance •Water •Waste recycling rience Pyeongchang Winter Olympic 2018' and 'Event with DreamWorks Character' presenting a range Assessment for Sustainability Management of Suppliers of cultural opportunities for citizens. KT will continue to expand the use of KT SQUARE that is located Corporate Social Responsibility and Role With the enactment of the 'KT Sustainability Guideline for Suppliers,' KT introduced the assessment at the center of downtown. system for the sustainability management of suppliers in 2013. Accordingly, we have measured •Labor •Human rights •Safety management the level of negative economic, environmental, and social risks that can occur within the supply chain •Voluntary announcement and external communication to regularly manage the risks. The assessment result is reflected to the annual evaluation of each supHealing Hearing Impairment Campaign Product Stewardship plier, which influences key selection processes such as re-selection and appointment of best suppliers. Reflecting the characteristics of the communications industry, we have been promoting the 'Healing As a result of assessments for electronic equipment suppliers and construction contractors in 2015, Exhibition of Healing Hearing •Product safety Impairment Campaign Hearing Impairment Campaign' since 2003 to help hearing-impaired children from low income families •Product environmental footprint the average was 91.9 proving that the sustainability level of our suppliers is satisfactory. to recover their hearing; the Campaign consists of supports for medical treatment, supports for reha•Product efficiency •Product recycling bilitation, and supports for family. As of the end of 2015, KT supported the rehabilitation of 5,515 children by operating a hearing rehabilitation center, 'KT Dream Class,' within Severance Hospital. KT provided total 5,940 cases of supports through the 'Healing Hearing Impairment Campaign': 279 children 2015 Assessment Result for Sustainability Management of Suppliers received the hearing aids and 146 children received supports for their surgery for the cochlear implant. Number of Assessment System Assessment Category Participants in Assessment Index Result for Sustainability Management Assessment Performance of Healing Hearing Impairment Campaign in 2015 (Unit: cases) of Suppliers Electronic Equipment ESG + Product (Product) 116 companies 81.3 on average Suppliers : 40 items Shared Growth ESG + Construction (Construction safety) Construction Contractors 271 companies 96.0 on average : 32 items Economy Environment 5,940 5,515 279 146 15 items including ethics 13 items including ISO14001 and management and CO2 reduction management risks management Selection and Management of Suppliers Supports for Supports for Supports for Total In order to select suppliers in a fair manner, we have publicly disclosed the registration and selection Rehabilitation Hearing Aid Cochlear Implant Product/ processes while operating the purchase process with the quality as the top priority. After the quality Society Construction rank is defined through the quantitative evaluation, suppliers with the outstanding quality are selected 2 items including 10 items safety of product/ including income, and sign a contract with KT. Therefore, our suppliers can endeavor for the technology development construction discrimination, while we can optimize the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) by trading with excellent suppliers. and compliance with the labor act 80 81 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Talent Shared Growth Shared Growth Management Management System KT's Approach For attaining the future growth and sustainable development, it is necessary for KT to increase In the midst of the communications market rapidly changing, the shared growth through Environment the competitiveness of suppliers as well as to stabilize their management. Accordingly, KT has comthe close cooperation with suppliers is necessary to secure the competitiveness for leading for Shared Growth plied with the Four Guidelines for Mutual Cooperation between Large-sized companies and SMEs the future technology as well as to deliver differentiated service values. Thus, KT is striving enacted by the Fair Trade Commission. Also, diverse programs to support suppliers are being executed to establish the shared growth system through the communication and cooperation where for the improvement of their managerial environment. KT and suppliers can coexist. Increase of Supports for Suppliers Support for Suppliers 2015 2014 In order to intensify the competitiveness of the entire supply chain, KT has executed the shared Since founded an organization responsible for the shared growth in 2010, KT has constantly executed growth programs expanding the scope of subject suppliers to include not only primary suppliers but diverse activities to fortify the competitiveness of suppliers beyond simply communicating with them. Technology Protection for secondary suppliers. We have participated in the Industrial Innovation program of the Ministry of Organization and Policy Suppliers (cases) Trade, Industry and Energy with a budget of KRW 2.5 billion for five years. Hence, we are providing for Shared Growth Through a range of programs generating shared values of suppliers, we are leading the shared growth culture that is to respect suppliers and advance together. Therefore, KT has solidified the foothold the consultation for a better process and support production facilities of primary and secondary sup5,269 to enter the global market has by enhancing the ecosystem of the Korean communications industry. pliers. In 2015, as a result, we consulted total 19 suppliers and thus the suppliers accomplished a substantial increase in the productivity by 104% on average. Furthermore, KT signed a contract to donate 49 total KRW 4.46 billion for 3 years since 2013 to the Large & Small Business Cooperation Foundation; Shared Growth Program we donated KRW 3.06 billion for enhancing the R&D capability of suppliers supporting their overseas advancement. Transfer of Patent and Technology (cases) Vision of Shared Growth Support for Establishment of Green Ecosystem 92 To enhance the environmental management capability and improve the productivity of the whole Establishing Ecosystem for Creative and Competitive Shared Growth supply chain, we are consistently assisting primary and secondary suppliers to acquire ISO 14001 54 (Environmental Management System); 91% of KT suppliers achieved the environmental certificates Innovative Cooperation Fair Trade as a consequence. In addition, we promoted trainings to cultivate responsible personnel for the ef· Support for suppliers and cooperation ficient internalization and practical execution of the environmental management. Accordingly, total Free Education for Suppliers’ ·Sharing of shared growth vision and · Establishment of environment for fair trade Employees (persons) 726 personnel completed the training. KT will strive to minimize negative environmental impacts by establishing environment · Strict restriction against unfair behavior · Connecting tier-1 and tier-2 suppliers establishing the green ecosystem with suppliers. 1,323 726 Improvement of Procurement System 01 04 Through the effective procurement system, KT has significantly contributed to the settlement of fair Support for Financial Technology and trade. Also, we have applied the whole bidding system to prevent insolvency within the supply chain Support Development due to the participation in the bidding with the lowest price. By reflecting factors that make costs * KT significantly increased the number of technology protection cases for suppliers in 2015 fluctuate, such as exchange rate and material prices changing, the target price is being flexibly adjust02 05 by newly introducing the Certification System of ed as well. We strictly observe the volume contracted and thus minimize the discrepancy between Six Areas of Original Document of Trade Secrets. the supplied volume and contracted volume while making a full cash payment for small and mediSupport for Support for Procurement Shared Growth Commercialization um-sized suppliers. and Market of External Development Proposal Supplier Satisfaction 03 06 By implementing the regular supplier satisfaction survey, KT actively identifies requests of suppliers Support for Support for Management/ devoting to the shared growth. The supplier satisfaction survey is executed in three aspects: the trade, Recruitment and Quality Education level of cooperation, and shared growth system. KT will keep focusing on accepting and reflecting Consultation suppliers' requests as much as possible through a range of communication channels including the satisfaction survey. 01 Financial Support 02 Support for Procurement 03 Support for Management/ 04 Support for Technology 05 Support for 06 Support for Recruitment and Market Development Quality Consultation and Development Commercialization of and Education External Proposal · Cash payments in full · Demand Forecasting System · Vendor Coaching for suppliers ·S upport for technology · Support for commercializing · Support for Job Fair KT Expands the ICT Ecosystem through Shared Growth (electronic equipment suppliers) (2nd-tier electronic equipment transfer external ideas ·S upport for education within · Network loan suppliers) · Support for suppliers' · Free patent transfer ·S  upport for trial of external SMEs · Financial support for retail overseas exhibition · Consultation for supplier SCM ideas stores ·N on Disclosure Agreement and supports · Joint advancement (NDA) · Partners Fair, RTC · Win-win Cooperation (electronic equipment suppliers) Supporting System (WinC) into international market · Escrow for technological data (Round Table of Convergence) For a culture that respects and coexists with suppliers, KT held a 'Shared Growth Ceremony' with the participation · Consultation for advancing · Global Partner's Day ·C  onditional development of about 70 people including Chang-Gyu Hwang, the CEO of KT, Chung-Young Ahn, the president of the Korea · Financial support for contents development capability of ·S upport for Certification of of new product suppliers · Global Business Fair suppliers (SW development area) Original Document of Trade (electronic equipment suppliers/ Secrets · Performance Sharing System Commission for Corporate Partnership, and representatives of 57 suppliers. KT, the Korea Commission for · Investment into projects construction contractors) · Support for achieving of SMEs/ventures certifications in quality and · Mentoring on venture/developer Corporate Partnership, and KT's suppliers proclaimed their will to promote the shared growth and settle and · Supporting center for entering environment ideas (SW/app development area) · Investment into start-ups disseminate the shared growth culture. We will continuously strive to expand the global IoT ecosystem with our Japanese market of creative economy · Industrial innovation campaign · System to check supplied suppliers. Shared Growth Ceremony · Management Doctor System equipment 82 83 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Shared Growth System Talent Shared Growth Management Management KT is realizing the open communication with suppliers through a variety of communication channels: In addition to our suppliers, we are looking for and nurturing capable venture companies expanding Reinforcement Early Technology Sensing (ETS), Information Sharing Council, and On-site Shared Growth Discussion. Overseas Advancement opportunities to advance overseas. Opened the Creative Economy Innovation Center in Pangyo, Korea of Communication In particular, two-way communication programs such as Partner's Camp were introduced in 2015. through Shared Growth in March 2015, particularly, KT has been accelerating to cultivate the hidden champions of Korea, Therefore, we have endeavored to generate a stronger sympathy with suppliers as well as to fortify 'K-Champs,' who own the creativity of ventures and small enterprise as well as infrastructure and with Suppliers the mutual trust. know-hows of large enterprise. Key Communication Channels (As of 2015) Start-up Assistance for Creative Economy Partner Portal Category Detail Performance The Gyeonggi Creative Economy Innovation Center of KT is an incubator of start-ups to realize Gyeonggi Creative Economy Promoting Skin-ship Program to reinforce strategic partnership and mutual 54 suppliers the creative economy. In 2015, we identified 46 start-ups through a contest; we provided the startPartner’s Camp Innovation Center cooperation between KT and suppliers participated. ups with diverse supports such as assigning working spaces in the Center, offering testbed-based Information Sharing Implementing improvement activities by gathering opinions of suppliers The council met infrastructure and one-to-one mentoring service, and introducing them to investors. Furthermore, Council in each sector about shared growth and mutual cooperation 14 times. KT has raised a fund of KRW 15 billion with the KT Group to invest in the game, IoT, Fintech, and 5G On-site Shared Accepting grievances and executing one-stop resolution activity through KT visited 120 sectors while providing investments and loans with a fund of KRW 105 billion cooperating with the Growth Discussion visiting suppliers by responsible personnel of procurement department suppliers. Small and Medium Business Administration and Gyeonggi Metropolitan City Government. In addition, KT Partner's Supporting KT Partner's Conference, an association of electronic equipment 51 suppliers Conference suppliers, for interactive communication between KT and suppliers participated. KT is planning to support domestic start-ups by attracting overseas investment funds worth KRW 200 billion which KT has invested. Operation of Grievance Handling System Start-up Assistance for Creative Economy We accept and handle grievances of suppliers in real time through the Partner Portal where all of our suppliers can submit their opinions. For the prompt resolution, KT starts an investigation as soon as Category Detail Overseas Advancement a grievance case is submitted. Therefore, KT can proactively avoid risks related to labor and human through Shared Growth •Cultivating venture start-ups in the game industry through connection to large game companies rights that can possibly occur within the supply chain. and relevant institutes Game •Establishing and operating a Game SW Lab for everyone to use game production tools and Mobile Lab to play a trial version of the developed game within the actual distribution network KT endeavors to establish the innovative shared growth system which creates performances of both •Founding the only Fintech Support Center in Korea where financial experts are stationed Performance Creation KT and suppliers; through the active communication, suppliers can propose and commercialize creative providing technological advisory supports and one-to-one mentoring service ideas. Since introduced new programs such as the Partner's Fair and Round Table for Convergence Fintech* •Playing a leading role for fostering innovative Fintech start-ups in all aspects, from securing through Shared Growth marketability and possibility to enter the finance market to financing and attaining sales channels (RTC) in 2014, we have launched new services and products in the ITC field; KT develops suppliers' * Fintech: New financial technology whose name is a compound word of financial and technology outstanding technology into business as well as shares ideas with suppliers from the start of a project. •Selecting promising SMEs and ventures in the IoT field and providing working space, Hence, the shared growth of KT and its suppliers has leaped into the level of cooperation far beyond global mentoring, and test bed Partner's Fair & RTC IoT •Supporting every process from identification start-up idea to commercialization and overseas the simple co-working. advancement through establishing and operating a 'GiGA IoT Alliance' which is Korea's first and largest business alliance Partner’s Fair •Promoting the foundation of 'Open Innovation Lab' that has relevant facilities such as terminals and relay stations; cooperating with large global communications facility companies to foster 5G At the Partner's Fair, KT suppliers can not only exhibit new technology and equipment but turn them 5G ventures and SMEs into real business. Moreover, Biz Talks of each item are implemented enabling R&D and other business •Holding a contest to excavate ideas about next-generation mobile communications departments of KT can exchange opinions with suppliers for the commercialization, which leads to an Partner's Fair increase of opportunities for actual business. Support for Overseas Advancement of Outstanding Start-up KT has helped start-ups to advance into overseas markets and attract investments through the alliRound Table for Convergence (RTC) Communic Asia 2015 ance with major overseas start-up centers as well as venture capitals. For further supports, we are Round Table for Convergence (RTC) is a program to identify new future convergence agendas led by annually holding a 'Global Startup Korea,' the global investment expo, and inviting overseas venture KT and suppliers of various sectors including technology, equipment, software, and solutions. Supcapitals and thus providing start-ups with opportunities to acquire new investments. Besides, excelpliers and relevant departments of KT carry out open discussions to commercialize ideas excavated lent suppliers and start-ups receive KT's supports to participate in overseas Demo Day event and fairs. RTC through the RTC sharing the performance. In 2016, KT will establish a foundation for global capable start-ups to interact with each other through 'Global Bootcamp.' Also, we plan to take a further step to enhance the capability of suppliers and startups in advancing overseas by programs to cooperate with business incubation institutes. Results of Performance(Unit: cases / Accumulated) Support for Global Exhibition of Suppliers sharing System [Value Creation Activity] Value Creation through Performance-sharing System Category Country Period Participants Detail 113 MWC 2015 2 March, 2015 NEONEXSoft and KT's devotion for the shared growth has turned into meaningful fruits generating shared performance with Spain (Mobile World Congress) 5 March, 2015 6 other suppliers suppliers. Having operated the Performance-sharing System since 2006, KT is co-developing equipment and Provided space 2 June, 2015 Mercury and for booth within services with its suppliers as well as achieving and sharing performances such as cost reduction and quality 64 Communic Asia 2015 Singapore KT's exhbition hall; 5 June, 2015 5 other suppliers improvement. In 2015, we conducted a total of 25 performance-sharing tasks: 21 theme-based and 4 regular supported suppliers to 24 MWCS 2015 15 July, 2015 Carvi and and advance overseas performance-sharing tasks. Therefore, KT and suppliers shared performances worth about KRW 650 million. China (Mobile World Congress Shanghai) 17 July, 2015 5 other suppliers by placing KT 2013 2014 2015 Partnership sign 12 October, 2015 IRIENCE and ITU Telecom World 2015 Hungary 15, October, 2015 5 other suppliers 84 85 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Key Sustainability Indicators Appendix Economic Performance Key Sustainability Indicators 87 Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Consolidated Financial Statement GHG Verification Statement 89 Current Assets KRW million 9,790,659 10,517,419 9,968,449 8,750,934 8,583,176 Third Party Assurance 90 Non-current Assets KRW million 22,294,750 24,040,489 24,878,084 25,024,568 20,758,009 GRI Content Index 92 Total Assets KRW million 32,085,409 34,557,908 34,846,533 33,775,502 29,341,185 Major Awards and Membership 96 Current Liabilities KRW million 8,745,125 11,266,766 11,187,738 9,992,244 8,639,906 Non-current Liabilities KRW million 10,802,475 10,073,167 10,793,885 11,992,970 8,535,814 Total Liabilities KRW million 19,547,600 21,339,933 21,981,623 21,985,214 17,175,720 Capital KRW million 1,564,499 1,564,499 1,564,499 1,564,499 1,564,499 Premium on Common Stock KRW million 1,440,258 1,440,258 1,440,258 1,440,258 1,440,258 Retained Earnings KRW million 10,219,633 10,646,383 10,046,883 8,571,130 9,059,305 Accumulated Other Comprehensive KRW million -22,865 1,325 24,538 25,790 13,870 Income Other Capital Component KRW million -1,497,289 -1,343,286 -1,320,943 -1,260,709 -1,232,863 Non-controlling Interests KRW million 833,573 908,796 1,109,675 1,449,320 1,320,396 Total Equities KRW million 12,537,809 13,217,975 12,864,910 11,790,288 12,165,465 Total Liabilities and Equities KRW million 32,085,409 34,557,908 34,846,533 33,775,502 29,341,185 Consolidated Income Statement Operating Revenue KRW million 21,272,033 23,856,375 23,810,599 22,311,666 22,281,221 Operating Expenses KRW million 19,523,624 22,647,142 22,971,256 22,718,256 20,988,277 Operating Profit KRW million 1,748,409 1,209,233 839,343 -406,590 1,292,944 Shares for New Profits and Loss by KRW million -3,038 18,079 6,601 18,697 6,143 Related Companies and Joint Ventures Income Before Taxes KRW million 1,603,371 1,414,842 -5,258 -1,328,558 719,452 Income Taxes KRW million 315,946 277,869 54,993 -275,982 229,239 Net Profit from Continuing Operations KRW million 1,287,425 1,136,973 -60,251 -1,052,576 490,213 Operating Profit (Loss) from Discontinued KRW million 164,594 31,534 86,400 141,075 Operations Net Profit KRW million 1,452,019 1,105,439 -60,251 -966,176 631,288 Shareholder Composition Unit Number of Shares Equity Ownership Shareholder Composition (2015) Treasury Stock share/% 16,262,008 6.2% Foreign Investors share/% 126,383,224 48.4% National Pension Fund share/% 19,150,489 7.3% Employee Stockholders share/% 1,484,611 0.6% Domestic Institutions share/% 24,734,296 9.5% (Excluding the National Pension Fund) Other Entities share/% 4,343,989 1.7% Individual Investors share/% 68,753,191 26.3% Total Number of Shares Issued share/% 261,111,808 100.0% 86 87 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Key Sustainability GHG Verification Indicators Statement Long-term Sustainability Target & Performance Indicators KQA-T1601 Verification No. Long-term Sustainability Target KT Corporation KT's Long-term Realization of Global GiGAtopia* Company Sustainability Target *GiGAtopia refers to a world where humankind and things are connected through GiGA Infrastructure and thus everyone deserves comfort far beyond convenience. Chang-Gyu Hwang Representative Three Sustainability Areas Category Detail Unit Goal 2020 102-81-42945 Investing KRW 13 Trillion by 2020 Long-term Business Registration No. Target Realizing the global economic prosperity through promotion of the 4th Industrial Revolution by investing total KRW 13 trillion in GiGA Infrastructure and ICT convergence 90, Buljeong-ro, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Investment in GiGA Infrastructure and ICT convergence technology/service KRW 100 million 130,000 Address Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea Revenues of ICT convergence business KRW 100 million 26,462 GiGA Prosperity Performance Indicator Revenues of global business KRW 100 million 20,000 New Era of Prosperity KQA confirms that the verification result of GHG emissions and energy consumption Created Profit from dissemination of GiGA Internet KRW 100 million 629,000 by GiGA Infrastructure reports of above company is proper. Goal 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth Goal 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure UN Sustainable The GHG and Energy Target Scheme Guidelines Goal 10 Reduced Inequalities Development Goals Regulation Applied Goal 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities Goal 12 Responsible Consumption and Production GHG emissions and energy consumption reports (in the year of 2015) Verification Scope Long-term Offering Annual Environmental Benefits Worth of KRW 3 Trillion in 2020 Target Offering annual environmental benefits worth of KRW 3 trillion in 2020 through environment-friendly ICT product/service Scope 1 Scope 2 Total Environmental benefit due to environment-friendly ICT service and energy efficiency KRW 100 million 31,411 GHG Emissions & GiGA Planet Performance Energy Consumption GHG Emissions (tCO2eq) 41,355 1,054,698 1,096,053 Customer benefit due to Smart Energy service KRW 100 million 12,393 Indicator New era of Innovation Energy Consumption (TJ) 22,427 Customer benefit due to Networked Transportation service KRW 100 million 8,300 Opened Up by GiGA Infrastructure Goal 6 Clean Water and Sanitation Goal 7 Affordable and Clean Energy 10 March, 2016 31 March, 2016 UN Sustainable Development Goals Goal 13 Climate Action Verification Term Goal 14 Life below Water Goal 15 Life on Land 31 March, 2016 Date of Issue Accomplishing Annual Social Values Worth More than KRW 4 Trillion in 2020 Long-term Target Accomplishing annual social values worth more than KRW 4 trillion in 2020 by expanding social ICT product/service, social contribution, and shared growth Social value created through social ICT, social contribution, and shared growth KRW 100 million 41,561 Revenues of Next-generation Media service KRW 100 million 1,348 GiGA People Performance Indicator New Era for Humankind Contribution to health promotion through Life-enhancing Care service KRW 100 million 2,730 Presented Contribution to social progress through Integrated Safety service KRW 100 million 1,691 by GiGA Infrastructure Goal 1 No Poverty Goal 2 Zero Hunger UN Sustainable Goal 3 Good Heath and Well-being Development Goals Goal 4 Quality Education Goal 5 Gender Equality Korea Quality Assurance (GHG Energy verification body 「2011-3rd」 accredited by the ministry of environment.) * The details regarding the range of this Verification Statement and requirement of the GHG and Energy target scheme guidelines can be obtained by requesting to the relevant organization. KQA Address : 2Fl., Hojeong Bldg., 49, Manan-ro, Anyang-si, Gyeonggi-do, 14034, Republic of Korea 88 89 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Third Party To the Management of the 'KT Integrated Report 2016,' [Responsiveness] Assurance The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (hereafter the Auditor ) was engaged by KT to provide an independent third-party assurance statement on the contents of the KT Integrated Report 2016 (hereafter the Report ), and hereby presents the Does the Report provide an adequate response to stakeholder demands and interests? The Auditor found KT to be providing an adequate response to issues of interest and concern to its stakeholders. It has established various following third party statement of assurance. channels of communication targeting different stakeholder groups, while also working to reflect its engagement results in the Report. The Auditor noted efforts by KT to explore the future direction of sustainability management as it seeks to be improve its responsiveness, i.e. carrying out surveys on sustainability management-related issues as well as targeted stakeholder surveys specific to its eight segmented sub-category groups to collect their feedback to provide a more adequate response, while also documenting its policies on stakeholder KT is responsible for all information and claims contained in the Report regarding the establishment of its sustainability engagement to ensure that all engagement channels that have been introduced continue to be utilized in a systematic way aligned to the Responsibility management goals, performance management etc. The responsibility of the Auditor is to deliver the findings from its principle of responsiveness. assurance undertaking to the management of KT. The key objective of the assurance is to check whether there are any and Objective [GRI In Accordance Criteria] material bias or errors present in the Report; assess whether the underlying data collection system is in proper working order; while undertaking in an overall review of the Company’s process for identifying issues of material importance to The Auditor found the Report to be consistent with the in accordance Comprehensive option of the GRI G4 Guidelines with respect to its General Standard Disclosures and Additional Disclosures (materiality aspects, DMA, performance indicators) as indicated in the G4 Guidelines. sustainability management as well as the produced results so that the Auditor may deliver recommendations that can help improve the quality of future reporting. [Reliability of Performance Indicators] Upon reviewing the performance data stated in the Report, which are derived based on KT's Sustainability Management Model , the Auditor found the underlying data collection system adequate and failed to find any material errors that may either bias the Company’s judgment The Report was reviewed against the following criteria and guidelines: or compromise the reliability of any reported data. For the purpose of this assurance, the following performance indicators were reviewed. Assurance Type (1) AA1000 Assurance Standards(2008)*, (2) Global Reporting Initiative’s(GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines** and (3) B.E.S.T Sustainability Reporting Guidelines*** and Level KT Sustainability Assurance Scope: Contents of the KT Integrated Report 2016 by KT Core Issue Performance Indicator Management Model Assurance Type & Level: Type Ⅱ, Moderate level Sustainability management goals Investment into GiGA Infrastructure and ICT Convergence Assurance Criteria: IPS Assurance Manual to verify compliance against AA1000AS (2008) standard's three core principles KRW 13 trillion in the economic dimension by 2020 IPS Performance Indicators Assurance Criteria™ to assess the reliability of performance indicators Sustainability management goals GRI Guideline’s in accordance options  B.E.S.T Guideline’s reporting level GIGAtopia Annual environmental benefits achieved, 2020 KRW 3 trillion in the environmental dimension Sustainability management goals Annual social values created, 2020 KRW 4 trillion in the social dimension The Auditor confirmed 1) the inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness of the reported content; 2) the reliability of the Sustainability management Overall benefits delivered through spread of GIGA Internet KRW 62.9 trillion Work Undertaken reported performance data; 3) the Report’s level of compliance against GRI's G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines; and GIGA Prosperity 4) the level of compliance relative to the B.E.S.T Reporting Guidelines through the process outlined below. Transparent Management BOD evaluation results 4.5 pts (out of 5) and Scope Review of the KT’s processes for identifying material issues and outcomes Customer First Management Product validation activities 139 times GIGA Planet Review of the Company’s stakeholder engagement processes Environmental Management GHG emissions (direct/indirect) 1,097,038tCO2eq Interviews with persons responsible for each performance dimension and the collection of performance data to determine the adequacy Talent management Employee/management satisfaction 79.8 pts of the reported content GIGA People Shared Growth Management Suppliers' sustainability evaluation 91.6 pts O n-site review of KT's Head Office to assess raw sustainability performance data as well as systems and processes for data collection and reporting *Only a partial sub-set of indicators pertaining to KT's Sustainability Management Model and core issues Review of underlying reference data on key economic, environmental and social performance that have been reviewed are presented above. Sample testing of materiality issues to ascertain the completeness and accuracy of information contained in the Report Review of the Report’s compliance against GRI/ B.E.S.T reporting guidelines [Level of B.E.S.T Guideline Application] In view of the coverage and reliability of the information provided, the Auditor finds the Report to qualify for a Level 4 Report (Levels 1 to 5) relative to the B.E.S.T Guidelines, which is indicative of a level of sustainability consistent with the anchoring phase. Interviews with individuals responsible for different performance dimensions and the collection of performance data; review of the adequacy of the reported data Limitations The Auditor found the KT Integrated Report by KT highly commendable in the following regard. The Report (1) highlights On-site review of KT's Head Office Assurance based on relevant data and information available for the relevant reporting period Recommendations the importance the Company places on sustainability management, showing how sustainability management-related isReview of the reliability of reported performance data sues identified through its Sustainability Management Committee, which was newly established as a permanent body unThis undertaking does not include data on green-house gas emissions, which is subject to a separate review der the BOD are treated as a priority within KT; (2) reflects the Company's commitment to offer a concrete and innovative solution toward achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals, which envisions the convergence of ICT with various industries backed by the strength of KT's core competencies; and (3) in the interest of providing a more integrated report, The Auditor finds the Report to be free from any material misstatements or bias. provides information outlining the Company's future objectives, including those concerning future industries, such as its Assurance Findings [Inclusivity] planned investments, expected benefits, social values to be created, etc., broken down across the respective economic, Are strategy-setting and related processes for stakeholder engagement adequate at KT? social, and environmental dimensions. It is the Auditor's view that KT acknowledges the importance of engaging stakeholders in its sustainability management initiatives, putting in place various processes for stakeholder participation to better reflect relevant findings toward its business management activities. The Auditor took note of efforts by the Company to segment its stakeholders into eight sub-groups factoring in both the functional dimension as For the purpose of future reporting, the Auditor recommends considering the following. well as a business perspective to assess the interests and concerns of the different groups through diverse stakeholder-specific communiStrengthen application of the integrated reporting framework and content elements, i.e. report on the Company's short, mid, cation channels to better reflect key engagement findings in its management activities with the overall goal of reinforcing its sustainability and long-term goals specific to KT's Sustainability Management Model and respective business models including respective processes management and business transparency activities consistent with the principle of inclusivity. that are intended to create value; Provide a fuller account of time-series trend data on key issues of concern and major activities; and [Materiality] Promote the increased use of stakeholder engagement channels, and operate stakeholder-specific channels more systematically. Does the Report contain information of the highest material importance to KT stakeholders across the economic, social, and environmental dimensions? It is the Auditor’s view that KT has not omitted or excluded any issues of key importance concerning its sustainability management activities. Apart from this independent assurance undertaking, the Auditor was not involved in the preparation of any part of the The Company has established a three-step process (identifying sustainability-related issues through an analysis of internal/external enviIndependence Report, and has no commercial affiliation with KT that might compromise our independence. ronment; generating issues of material concern via materiality testing; selection of material issues by validating feasibility) to identify the Company's top 20 core issues of material concern as well as the top 30 main and general reporting items. Moreover, once identified, all issues were categorized and reported upon in accordance with the KT Sustainability Management Model reflecting the Company's commitment to genuinely provide a fuller account of how it is handling those issues concerned as well as its achieved outcomes in line with the principle Commissioned by KT as the Auditor for this assurance undertaking, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) was of materiality. Qualifications established in 1993 and has since developed into a specialized institution with broad expertise in the areas of business ethics, CSR, and sustainability management since 2002. of the Auditor * AA1000AS is a sustainability assurance standard developed by the UK-based Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability (AccountAbility) in November 1999 to assure organization-wide sustainability performance and accountability by improving the quality of accounting, auditing and reporting practices in the social and business ethics domain. The revised 2008 version has been in effect since 2010. May 23, 2016 ** The GRI G4 Guideline was established by the GRI, convened by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES) and UNEP in 1997. After the first universal GRI sustainability reporting guidelines for multinationals was Lee, Yoon-Cheol released in 2000, the latest G4 version was introduced in May 2013, with enhancements in supply chain, governance, ethics & integrity, anti-corruption, GHG emissions & energy disclosures. Chairman, The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies *** The B.E.S.T Guideline was jointly developed by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Energy (MOCIE), the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), and the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) in 2006 as a sustainability reporting and assurance guideline, and provides for five levels of reporting rigor (Level 1 5). 90 91 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix GRI Content Index GRI G4 Index Contents Page BEST 2.0 Remarks GRI G4 Index Contents Page BEST 2.0 Remarks Governance Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her function within the G4-39 34 GR1 organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 4-5 A_1 Strategy & Analysis Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for G4-40 34 GR4 G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 4-5,40-41 A_2 nominating and selecting highest governance body members Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether G4-3 Name of the organization 6 A_3 G4-41 34 GR13 Organizational Profile conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services 6-7 A_4 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s G4-42 34-36 GR6 purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters 6 A_7 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest overnance body’s collective knowledge of economic, G4-43 35 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically environmental and social topics. G4-6 25 A_7 relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, G4-44 36 GR5 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 6 A_8 environmental and social topics Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served and types of customers/beneficiaries) 6-7 A_9 G4-45 36 GR8 risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 6,32,64 A_10 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for G4-46 41 GR8 economic, environmental and social topics. a. Total number of employees by employment contract and gender b. Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and G4-47 41 GR8 c. Total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender opportunities. d. Total workforce by region and gender Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures G4-10 64 EM1 G4-48 35 e. Whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, that all material Aspects are covered. or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors f. Any significant variations in employment numbers G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 41 GR12 (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries) Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 70 EM12 G4-50 70 mechanism (s) used to address and resolve them. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain 84 G4-51 Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives 36 GR7 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period relating to size, structure, or ownership or its supply chain 7 B_8 Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 40-41 GR11 G4-52 remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration 36 GR7 consultants have with the organization. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, G4-15 38 GR10 or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses G4-53 Report how stakeholder's views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration 32 G4-16 Memberships in associations 96 A_11 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization's highest-paid individual in each country of significant G4-54 36 operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees in the same country. a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents Identified Material G4-17 b. Whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not 87 A_5, A_6 Aspects & Boundaries Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country covered by the report G4-55 36 of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees in the same country. a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries G4-18 30-31 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content Ethics & Integrity G4-56 37 EM26 social performance and the status of their implementation G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 31 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to G4-57 37-38 organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. G4-20 The Aspect Boundary within the organization 31 B_1, B_2 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to G4-58 37-38 G4-21 The Aspect Boundary outside the organization 31 B_1, B_2 organizational integrity G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements 97 2. Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosures on a. Why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 57 B_5 management G4-DMA b. How the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts 30-31 DMA G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 32 C_1 approach (DMA) c. Evaluation of the management approach Stakeholder Engagement Economic G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 32 C_1 Economic Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee wages and benefits, payments to G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 32 C_2 G4-EC1 32 EC1 providers of capital, payments to government Performance Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those G4-27 32 C_3 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 40,55 EC2 key topics and concerns, including through its reporting G4-28 Reporting period 97 B_3 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations 69 EC3 Report Profile G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 92 July 2015 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government EC5 Not applicable G4-30 Reporting cycle 92 B_6 Annual Market G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation 71 EM4 Presence G4-EC6 Propertion fo senior management hired from the local community at significat locations of operation EC4 Not reported G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 97 B_9 a. ‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen Indirect Economic G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 32,83 EC6 b. GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below) G4-32 30,90-91 B_10 Impacts c. Reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 32 EC7 of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines Procurement a. Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 82-85 b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis Procedures of any external assurance provided Environmental G4-33 90-91 B_7 c. Relationship between the organization and the assurance providers d. Whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume EV10 Not applicable the organization’s sustainability report Materials G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 28,34-35,54,74 GR1 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 57 EV11 Governance Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 55-56 EV7 G4-35 28 to senior executives and other employees. G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 57 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, G4-36 34-35 environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. G4-EN5 Energy intensity 56 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social G4-37 28,54,74 GR12 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 58-60 EV5 topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees 34-35 GR2, GR3 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 58-60 92 93 KT Integrated Report 2016 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix GRI Content Index GRI G4 Index Contents Page BEST 2.0 Remarks GRI G4 Index Contents Page BEST 2.0 Remarks G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 57 Labor Practices Water Grievance G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 84 PN5 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 57 Mechanisms G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 57 Human Rights Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in or adjacent to protected areas and areas G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 81 PN3 Biodiversity G4-EN11 EV22 Not applicable Supplier Assessment of high biodiversity value outside protected areas for Labor Practices G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken 81 PN4 Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high G4-EN12 EV22, EV26 Not applicable biodiversity value outside protected areas Labor Practices G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored EV6, EV27 Grievance G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 84 PN5 Not applicable Mechanisms Total number of IUCN RED list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, G4-EN14 EV28 by level of extinction risk Total number and percentage of significant invesetment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses of that G4-HR1 81 PN2 Human Rights underwent human rights screening Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 55-56 EV12 Investments Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to G4-HR2 65 EM30 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 55-56 EV12 operations, including the percentage of employees trained G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope3) 57 EV13 Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 65 EM7 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 56 Freedom of Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated G4-HR4 81 EM8 Association or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights G4-EN19 Reduction of Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 55-56 EV4 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) EV14 Not applicable Child Labor G4-HR5 65 EM9 effective abolition of child labor G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions EV15 Not applicable Forced or Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to G4-HR6 65 EM10 Compulsory Labor contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Effluents & Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 57 EV17 Security Practices G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations EM31 Not reported G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 57 EV16 Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken 61 CO2 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills EV21 Not applicable Human Rights Weight of trnasported, imiported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 65 G4-EN25 57 EV29 Assessments of the BASEL Convention Annex I, II, III, AND VIII, and percentage of transported wasted shipped internationally Supplier Human G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 81 PN3 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly G4-EN26 57 EV19 affected by the organization's discharges of water and runoff Rights Assessments G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 81 PN4 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 55 EV23, EV25 Human Rights Products & Services G4-EN28 Percnetage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category EV24 Not applicable Grievance G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 70 Mechanisms Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws Compliance G4-EN29 61 EV31 and regulations Society Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 74-75,78-79 CO1, CO2 Transport G4-EN30 56 EV30 and transporting members of the workforce Local Communities Environmental G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 61 G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 60 Investments Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified 40 CO5 Supplier G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using enivronmental criteria 81 PN3 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 38 CO5 Environmental G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 81 PN4 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 38-39 CO5 Environmental Grievance G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 61 Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary CO7 Not applicable Mechanisms Anti-competitive G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 39 CS3 Society Behavior Labor Practices & Decent Work Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 38-39 CO9 G4-LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region 63-64 EM5 Supplier Assessment G4-SO9 Percentage fo new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 81 PN3 Employment for Impacts on Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken 81 PN4 G4-LA2 68-69 EM20 Society of operation Grievance G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 68 Mechanisms for G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 82 Labor/ Management Impacts on Society G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements 70 EM13 Relations Product Responsibility Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor Occupational Health G4-LA5 70 EM14 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of and advise on occupational health and safety programs Customer Health & G4-PR1 45,47,49,61 CS4 & Safety significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, Safety G4-LA6 72 EM19 by region and by gender Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of G4-PR2 61 CS11 products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 72 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 72 EM15, EM17 Product & Service Type of product and service information required by the organization's procedures for product and service information and labeling, G4-PR3 39 CS5 and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Labeling Training & Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 67 EM27 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and G4-PR4 38-39 CS13 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in labeling, by type of outcomes G4-LA10 52,66-69 EM28 managing career endings G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 46-47 CS6, CS9 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category 67-69 EM29 G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products 39 CS10 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group Diversity G4-LA12 64-65 EM2 Marketing & membership and other indicators of diversity Communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including G4-PR7 39 CS14 Equal Pay for Women advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation 71 EM3 & Men Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 38 CS10, CS15 Supplier Assessment G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 81 PN3 for Labor Practices Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken 81 PN4 Product Compliance G4-PR9 39 CS12 services 94 95 Intro Special Feature GIGA Prosperity GIGA Planet GIGA People Appendix Major Awards and Membership Major Awards Award Host / Provider Date The Most Admired Companies, All Star Korea Management Association Consulting February 2015 Winner of 2015 iF Design Award in Corporate Identity, Consumer Products, Communication Publishing Categories as iF Design Exhibition Hamburg February 2015 GiGAtopia PR Image and olleh Membership Diary INNO STAR 2015-Best Innovation Awards in the IPTV and Ultra-high-speed Internet Sectors Korea Management Association February 2015 2015 NCSI (National Customer Satisfaction Index)-ranked 1st in the PSTN, Korea Productivity Center March 2015 Internet Call and Ultra-high-speed Internet Sectors Winner of Grand Prize of Korea CSR Corporation in the CSV Sector The Dong-a Ilbo February 2015 Korea Commission for Selected to Be Included In the Best Index at Win-Win Index June 2015 Corporate Partnership Winner of Grand Prize of Sustainability Management Sector at Korea Management Awards 2015 The Dong-a Ilbo June 2015 2015 KS-SQI (Korea Standard-Service Quality Index)-ranked 1st in the IPTV Sector Korea Standard Association June 2015 Korea Service Quality Index Certifications for Wire/Wireless Call Center Korea Management Association Consulting June 2015 Ranked 2nd in the Asian Telecommunication Sector at Asia CSR Ranking Asia CSR Ranking Conference July 2015 Reporting Period & Boundary 2015 NBCI (National Brand Competitiveness Index)-ranked 1st in Ultra-high-speed Internet Service and IPTV. Korea Productivity Center August 2015 This report covers performances of total 510 sites including DowJones (US) / the headquarters and branches, from January 2015 to DecemRanked 1st in the Telecommunication Sector and Selected to Be Included at DJSI World Index for the 6 Straight Year RobecoSAM September 2015 (Swiss-based Investment Company) ber 2015; meaningful activities until the end of April 2016 are Winner of Integrated Report 2015 in Korea Reader’s Choice Awards 2015 Korea Standards Association September 2015 partially included as well. Besides, data of the recent 3 years are Won Two Best of the Best Awards at Red Dot Design Awards as Phone-brella Design Zentrum Nordrhein-Westfalen September 2015 provided enabling the comparison between yearly performances. Winner of Global Standard Management Awards in the Sustainability Management and Sustainability Report Sectors Korea Management Association October 2015 Reporting Standard KCSI (Korean Customer Satisfaction Index)-ranked 1st in the Local/Long-distance Call and Internet Call Sectors Korea Management Association Consulting October 2015 This report complies with the Comprehensive option of the Winner of Grand Prize at Korea Customer Award 2015 Korea Society of Cunsumer Studies October 2015 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines, the international 'KT's Global No. 1 Service through Innovating Quality of Customer Experience' 2015 CPLI (Climate Performance Leadership Index)_ranked 1st in the Telecommunication Sector CDP in the U.K., CDP Korea November 2015 guideline for the sustainability reporting. Also, it was prepared in accordance with the <IR> framework of International Integrated Winner of Korea PR Awards as GiGA Island Korea PR Association November 2015 Reporting Council (IIRC). Financial performances are reported 2015 KSSI (Korea Sales Service Satisfaction Index)-ranked 1st in Mobile Telecom Service Sector Korea Management Association Consulting November 2015 based on the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards Korea Standard Contact Service Quality Index Korea Standard Association November 2015 (K-IFRS). Winner of 'Process' Sector at the 1st Porter Prize for Excellence in CSV The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies December 2015 Customer Satisfaction Survey 2015-ranked 1st in Ultra-high-speed Internet Sector Korea Consumer Agency December 2015 Assurance For the reliability and transparency of the writing process and contents of the report, a third-party assurance was conducted Membership by an independent external assurance service provider. The assurance report is available on p. 90-91 of this report. Domestic Open Standards and Internet Association, Online Privacy Association, Spatial Information Industry Promotion Institute, Safe-Net Forum, Network Security Forum, Korea Industrial Safety Association, Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Korea Housing Builders Association, D-AD Forum, Korea Bigdata Forum, Internet of Things Forum, Korea IoT Association, Success EconFor More Information omy Forum, Seongnam Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Demand-Response Management Association, Smart TV Forum, Spectrum Engineering Forum, Korea Association of Energy Service Company, UN Global Compact Network Korea, Incheon Employers Federation, Federation of Korean Industries, Korea Electrical Contractors Association, Korea Electric Engineers Association, KT Integrated Report is also available on the website Information Sharing & Analysis Center, Korea Business Council for Sustainable Development, Location Based Services Industry Council, Korea 3D Printing Association, Korea Building Energy (http://www.kt.com). Please contact us for additional Management System, Korea Chief Privacy Officers' Forum, Korea IDC Association, Korea IPTV Broadcasting Association, Korea Investor Relations Service, Korea IT Business Promotion Association, Korea Virtual Reality Industry Association, Korea Employers Federation, The Korean Academic Society of Business Administration, Fair Competition Federation, Korea Advertisers information or to send inquiries about this report. Association, Korea Association of Network Industries, Korea Association of ICT Convergence in the Agriculture and Food Business, Korea Mecenat Association, Korea Mobile Internet Business Association, Korea International Trade Association, Korea Biotechnology Industry Organization, Korea Bigdata Society, Korea Industrial Technology Association, Korea Listed Company Associ-K T Sustainability Management Center, 178, Sejong-daero, ation, Korea Fire Safety Association, Korea Software Industry Association, Korea Smart Grid Association, Korea Food Industry Association, Korea New & Renewable Energy, Korea Engineering Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea, 03154 & Consulting Association, Korea Foreign Company Association, Korea Internet Service Promotion Association, Korea Electric Vehicle Association, Korea Radio Promotion Association, Korea Tel : 82-2-100 Email : sustainability@kt.com Phone Bill Industry Association, Korea Institute of Information Security & Cryptology, Korea Information & Communication Contractors Association, Telecommunications Technology Association, Korea Institute of Information & Telecommunication Facilities Engineering, Korea Association for ICT Promotion, The Korea Institute of Information & Communication Engineering, Korea Intellectual Property Association, Consortium of CERT (CONCERT), Korea Cloud Service Association, Consortium of Cloud Computing Research, Korea Telecommunications Operators Association (KTOA), Korean Standards Association, Korea Hosting Domain Association, 5G Forum, Hightech Marketing Group (HMG), Korea Marketing Club, Korean Association for Supporting SDGs for the UN, SDN/NFV Forum, Korea National Assembly UN SDGs Forum Published : June 2016 Publisher: Chang-Gyu Hwang Overseas Publishing Entity: KT Sustainability Management Center 3rd Generation Partnership Project, Asia Pacific Telecommunity, Global Certification Forum (GCF), Global System for Mobile communications Association, International Telecommunication Union, Next Generation Mobile Networks (NGMN), oneM2M, OPNFV, Wireless Broadband Alliance (WBA), Wi-Fi Alliance, WiMAX Forum Planning & Design: Nstein Co., Ltd. 82-2-336-7865 96 97
