2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Creating a Sustainable Future I I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Performance Highlights We committed to: We achieved: 2020 Environmental Our 2015 Progress Sustainability Goals (vs. 2010 Baseline) COP 21 Paris Climate Change agreement Achieved 100 and an “A”, by CDP for carbon Reduce energy use by 20% -12.2% 2015 performance and CLIMATE disclosure -17.8% United Nations Global For Life certifications Reduce GHG Compact for several naturals emissions by 25% Papal encyclical, a case for business action on climate RSPO certifications for multiple facilities Reduce water use by 50% -39.5% change American Business Act on Climate Pledge EcoVadis Gold CSR Rating Reduce hazardous waste -16.8% by 25% Reduced greenhouse gas emissions intensity by 7% in 2015 We initiated partnerships with: II I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Table of Contents II PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS ABOUT IFF MATERIALITY & STAKEHOLDER V FROM OUR CHAIRMAN ENGAGEMENT 1 ABOUT IFF 7 MATERIALITY AND 2 Organizational Profile STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 3 Our Operating Footprint 9 Materiality 5 Supply Chain 11 Engaging with our Stakeholders 5 Expanding Our Business 6 External Partnerships and Voluntary Initiatives ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE 14 ABOUT THIS REPORT 17 GOVERNANCE 15 Reporting Cycle, Boundaries & Scope 19 Governance Structure 16 Data Measurement Techniques 20 Risk and Crisis Management and Basis of Calculations 16 Reporting Process 16 Feedback 16 External Assurance III I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Table of Contents MATERIAL ASPECTS 21 ENVIRONMENT 33 OUR SUPPLY CHAIN 40 LABOR PRACTICES 52 HUMAN RIGHTS 24 Energy 34 Our Supply Chain 41 Employment Practices 26 Emissions 36 Strengthening Local Communities 47 Occupational Health and Safety 28 Water 49 Cultivating Talent 30 Waste X APPENDIX 54 SOCIETY 58 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 66 APPENDIX 59 Customer Health and Safety 66 Assurance Statement 61 Product and Service Labeling 67 GRI Content Index 62 Green Chemistry 73 Stay Up to Date 62 Health & Wellness IV I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Creating a Sustainable Future A Message from our Chairman IFF advances to meet the needs of today while embracing our role as stewards of tomorrow. We boldly push our commitment to sustainability by challenging our own boundaries. 2015 was a testament to our progressiveness and forwardthinking as sustainable leaders within our industry. In addition to the advancements we made within our own business, we collaborated with like-minded partners in support of a more sustainable, unified future. In this landmark year, we executed with inspiration and perseverance against our 2011 strategy and advanced it to the next phase. This was particularly evident when we established sustainability as an enabler of our Vision 2020 business strategy, embedding sustainability deeper into our company and throughout our culture. V I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T From Our Chairman CONTINUED Our four strategic pillars — sourcing, cross-section of the world’s prominent We also further enhanced At IFF, our pioneering spirit helps us impact, products and people — help business, political and NGO leaders, our sustainable sourcing practices. answer the questions of tomorrow, steer our efforts to address the global we celebrated the approval We pioneered industry-leading and inspires a limitless vision on our trends that affect us all. Climate of a comprehensive worldwide climate membership in the Together for ability to lead transformational change. change, water scarcity, increasing agreement. By formalizing IFF’s Sustainability sourcing initiative and This will continue in 2016 with the world populations and the health and support on this vital measure, we earned For Life social responsibility launch of a more ambitious wellness needs of millions touch our added this partnership to the cadre of certification for our naturals: ylangsustainability vision that will reinforce business, employees, customers and significant initiatives we joined this ylang, patchouli and basil from our growth and acceleration within our consumers. Globally, with the past year, including the United Nations Madagascar, and vetiver from Haiti. environmental framework. As with all enhanced focus on healthy products Global Compact and the American We progressed our 2020 sustainability aspects of business, evolution is the and responsible sourcing practices, we Business Act on Climate Pledge. goals by obtaining Roundtable on only true option — and our work in are working to transform these trends It is my belief that as industry Sustainable Palm Oil process sustainability is no different. Yes, being into opportunities. Last year, we leaders, we have an unyielding certification at many of our facilities, environmentally responsive makes achieved the CDP Climate “A” List commitment to the Earth. In 2015, and achieving year-over-year good business sense, but even more rating with a perfect score of 100 in we reaffirmed our commitment to company-wide reductions in our water than that — it is the right thing to do. disclosure and an “A” in performance. renewable energy — notably and use, energy use and greenhouse gas Additionally, we attained gold status formally with our support of RE100, emissions intensities. A ND R E AS FI B I G with EcoVadis, a corporate social a collaborative, global initiative of Yet, it is only through the C HAIRM AN AN D C HIEF EX ECUTIVE OF F IC ER responsibility rating system that influential businesses committed to engagement of our employees that assesses suppliers in sustainable 100% renewable electricity. In addition these achievements are realized. business practices. to having the largest solar array in the Our safety performance has steadily IFF was not the only one who had a flavors and fragrances industry in improved with our total recordable landmark year. The global community Hazlet, New Jersey, we broke ground incident rate decreasing each year made great strides at the 2015 Paris on the industry’s first on-site wind since 2011. Our Green Teams are active Climate Conference (COP21). I turbine at our Tilburg, Netherlands at every manufacturing facility — and attended the World Business Council facility. Once completed, the windmill a number of our creative centers — for Sustainable Development is estimated to provide up to 30 and fuel our passion for advancement (WBCSD) forum at the Paris Climate percent of the site’s electricity by putting action behind our Conference to demonstrate IFF’s needs — and when combined with the aspirations. I thank them deeply for support and stood with nearly 200 green electricity we are purchasing, their efforts. other leading businesses. Along with a Tilburg will be powered on 100 percent green electricity by mid-2016. G R I I N D I CATORS G4-1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization. VI About IFF IN THIS SECTION Organizational Profile PAGE 2 Our Operating Footprint PAGE 3 Supply Chain PAGE 5 Expanding Our Business PAGE 5 External Partnerships and Voluntary Initiatives PAGE 6 1 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Organizational Profile International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (IFF) is a leading global creator of flavors and fragrances (including cosmetic active ingredients) that are used in the food, beverage, personal care and household products industries. Our flavors and fragrance compounds combine a number of ingredients that are blended, mixed or reacted together to produce proprietary formulas created by our flavorists and perfumers. IFF is headquartered at 521 West 57th Street, New York, New York, U.S.A. Detailed information about the scale of our organization and our operational structure, markets served and geographical footprint is available in our 2015 Annual Report and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Form 10-K. G RI IN DI CATO RS G4-3 Report the name of the organization. G4-4 Report the primary brands, products and services. G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 2 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Our Operating Footprint The flavors and fragrances market is air fresheners; personal wash, The global market for flavors and part of a larger market that supplies including bar soap and shower gel; fragrances has expanded consistently, a wide variety of ingredients and as well as toiletries and hair care primarily as a result of an increase in compounds used in consumer products. We design and create many demand for, as well as an increase in products. On the flavors side, the fine fragrance compounds, where the variety of, consumer products products for which we supply the product we create is directly containing flavors and fragrances. ingredients and compounds include experienced by consumers and is not The flavors and fragrances markets in savory packaged foods, such as soups, part of a larger formulation. We also which we compete were estimated by sauces, condiments, prepared meals, source and distill natural fragrance IFF management to be $18.0 billion in meat and poultry, potato chips ingredients and create and 2014, and are forecasted to grow to and other savory snacks; beverages, commercialize other synthetic approximately $21.6 billion by 2019, including juice drinks, carbonated fragrance ingredients for use in our primarily driven by expected growth in beverages, flavored waters and spirits; own formulations or for sale to the emerging markets. The active sweet goods, including bakery larger market. In 2015, we acquired cosmetics industry is a $1.5 billion products, candy, chewing gum and Lucas Meyer Cosmetics, which market, growing approximately 5 cereal; and dairy products, including expanded our business into that of percent annually. yogurt, ice cream, cheese and other cosmetic active ingredients. We sell We operate in two business products. On the fragrances side of our products to many global, regional segments, Flavors and Fragrances. the business, consumer fragrances and local manufacturers. In 2015, our Flavors business include fabric care items such as represented 48 percent of our sales, detergent, fabric softener and while our Fragrances business G R I I N D I CATORS specialty laundry products; home care represented 52 percent of sales. G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and products, are used in household For more information, see Item types of customers and beneficiaries). cleaners, dishwashing detergents and 1 of our 2015 Annual Report and G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of SEC Form 10-K. countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-9 Report the scale of the organization, including: • Number of employees worldwide • Total number of operations • Net sales • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity • Quantity of products or services provided 3 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Our Operating Footprint CONTINUED Our Markets As of the end of 2015, our 17% organization had approximately 6,700 employees, 34 manufacturing 31% 8.1% of Sales facilities, six R&D centers and 33 Spent on R&D creative centers, located in 35 countries. Our 38,000 individual 24% 6,700 products reach customers in approximately 150 countries. In 2015, we achieved sales of approximately Employees Worldwide $3.0 billion, making us one of the 28% top four companies in the global flavors and fragrances sub-segment of the broader ingredients and Greater Asia 3.0 Billion North America compounds market. Within the in Net Sales Latin America flavors and fragrances sub-segment Europe, Africa, Middle East of this broader market, the top four $419 Million companies represent approximately two-thirds of the total estimated sales. in Net Income Our Products FLAVORS FRAGRANCES 150 Countries in which IFF’s Beverages Fabric Care Customers’ Products Are Sold Dairy Fine Fragrance Savory Fragrance Ingredients Sweet Home Care Personal Wash OTHER Hair Care Cosmetic Actives Toiletries 4 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Supply Expanding Chain Our Business We have an integrated supply chain from raw material sourcing through We believe that our diversified business platform, consisting of We believe that our diversified manufacturing, quality assurance, expansive geographic coverage, a regulatory compliance and broad product portfolio and a global distribution, which permits us to and regional customer base, provide our customers with consistent quality products on a positions us to achieve long-term growth as the flavors and fragrances business platform positions us to timely and cost-effective basis. markets expand. We use both natural and synthetic In 2015, we acquired Lucas Meyer ingredients in our compounds. Cosmetics, which allowed us to add achieve long-term We purchase approximately 9,000 to our portfolio active and functional different raw materials from about ingredients, botanicals and delivery 2,500 domestic and international systems to support our customers’ suppliers. Approximately half of the materials we purchase are naturals or cosmetic and personal care product lines. We estimate the market size for growth as the flavors and fragrances crop-related items and the other half cosmetic active ingredients to be are synthetics or chemicals. Natural approximately $1.5 billion as of 2015. ingredients are derived from flowers, We also acquired Ottens Flavors, markets expand. fruits and other botanical products as which has strengthened our flavors well as from animal products. More market position in North America and information about our supply chain is increased our capabilities to serve available in our SEC Form 10-K and in small and midsized customers. the Our Supply Chain section later in this report. G RI IN DI CATO RS G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership or its supply chain. 5 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement External Partnerships and Voluntary Initiatives We are members of several trade We also engage in the following organizations and associations. environmental and sustainabilityThese include: related organizations and – American Chemical Society partnerships: – American Cleaning Institute – Clean the World – American Society of Perfumers – EcoVadis – Association for Chemoreception – Natural Resources Stewardship Sciences Circle – Fragrance Foundation – Renewable Citrus Products (serve on board) Association – International Fragrance Association – Roundtable on Sustainable (serve on board) Palm Oil – International Fragrance – Sedex Association — North America – World Business Council for (serve on board) Sustainable Development – International Organization of – AIM-PROGRESS the Flavor Industry (serve on – Together for Sustainability Communications board) – UN Global Compact – Monell Chemical Senses Center – Research Institute for Fragrance Materials (serve on board) G RI IN DI CATO RS G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations. 6 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement IN THIS SECTION Materiality PAGE 9 Engaging with our Stakeholders PAGE 11 7 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Emerging issues that are important to our In 2011, we conducted a formal our core strategy to this point, and materiality assessment to better emerging issues will continue to stakeholders form the basis for the content of understand the sustainability issues shape our strategy and activities this sustainability report, consistent with the that impact our business — these were as we move forward. We will focus used to develop our sustainability our sustainability strategy and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines strategy. We refreshed the assessment reporting on those issues identified for determining materiality. in 2014 by working with an external as most material, as well as those consultancy to elicit feedback from that are increasing in importance our stakeholders on our sustainability to stakeholders. We are using this performance. As part of this process, materiality assessment to inform our we surveyed internal stakeholders, application of the GRI G4 guidelines. including members of our senior We have identified material aspects leadership team, our Sustainability using the matrix and the GRI Principles Business Council and representatives for Defining Report Content. from our Flavors and Fragrances In 2015, we continued to engage business units, and external internally and externally with our stakeholders including customers, customers and suppliers. We also nongovernmental organizations and reviewed the results of materiality regulatory bodies. assessments conducted by two of We also conducted in-depth our trade associations, the American interviews with key customers to Cleaning Institute and the International better understand their sustainability Fragrance Association North America. needs and expectations of our Based on these studies and on recent business. The assessment allowed events, we will identify additional us to prioritize issues based on GRI aspects in the future that may their importance to our business warrant reporting on the associated and society business and society, GRI indicators. We plan to continue to as illustrated in the matrix on the evaluate materiality on a biennial basis following page. to identify new opportunities and risks G RI IN DI CATO RS The material issues we identified and to determine our material topics G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. during this process have informed for future reporting. 8 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Materiality This matrix depicts the issues that HIGH were identified as material during our Product Safety 2014 assessment and their importance to our business and to Responsible Sourcing Human Rights Health and Wellness society. The issues indicated in purple Transparency Traceability IMPO RTANCE TO SO CIE TY were used to guide our reporting. Community Support Biodiversity Climate Change Eco-efficiency: Water Green Chemistry Diversity and Inclusion Eco-efficiency: Waste Workplace Health and Safety Renewable Raw Materials Eco-efficiency: Energy Governance Stakeholder Engagement Product Innovation Employee Engagement M EDIUM HI G H IMPO RTANC E TO BUSI N ESS H IGH LOW HI G H G RI IN DI CATO RS G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 9 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Materiality CONTINUED ISSUES EQUIVALENT EQUIVALENT BOUN DARIES ISSUES EQUIVALENT EQUIVALENT BOU NDA R I ES MATERIAL G4 CATEGORY G4 MATERIAL MATERIAL G4 CATEGORY G4 MATERIAL TO IFF ASPECTS TO IFF ASPECTS Governance, Ethics and Society Labor Practices Within Outside IFF: Outside IFF: Within Outside IFF: Outside IFF: IFF Our Supply Our Customers IFF Our Supply Our Customers Chain and Consumers Chain and Consumers Governance Social: Society Anti-corruption; Employee Social: Labor Employment; Public Policy Engagement Practices and Training and Standard Ethics and Decent Work Education Disclosure Integrity; Governance Workplace Social: Labor Occupational Stakeholder Standard Stakeholder Health and Practices and Health & Safety Engagement Disclosure Engagement Safety Decent Work Environment Human Rights Eco-efficiency: Environmental Water Human Rights Social: Human Child Labor; Forced Water Rights or Compulsory Labor; Freedom of Association Eco-efficiency: Environmental Energy & Collective Bargaining; Energy Human Rights Eco-efficiency: Environmental Effluents & Waste Grievance Mechanisms; Waste Supplier Human Rights Climate Change Environmental Emissions Assessment Green Environmental Energy; Effluents Social: Labor Employment; Chemistry & Waste Practices and Supplier Decent Work Assessment for Supply Chain Labor Practices Responsible Economic Procurement Practices Product Responsibility Sourcing Product Safety Social: Product Customer Environmental Supplier Environmental Responsibility Health & Assessment Safety; Product & Social: Human Child Labor; Forced Service Labeling Rights or Compulsory Labor; Health and Social: Product Customer Supplier Human Wellness Responsibility Health & Safety Rights Assessment Transparency Social: Product Product & Social: Society Supplier Assessment Responsibility Service Labeling for Impacts on Society Traceability Economic Procurement Practices Environmental Supplier Environmental Assessment Social: Product Product & Service Responsibility Labeling G R I I N D I CATORS Social: Society Supplier Assessment G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization for Impacts on Society for each material aspect. G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization for each material aspect. 10 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Engaging with Our Stakeholders We engage with our stakeholders on issues that are important to them, Our goal is to collaboratively to our industry and to IFF. We interact with many different types of stakeholders, ranging from employees, customers, investors, regulators, suppliers, consumers, identify opportunities that communities and the sustainability community. Our goal is to collaboratively benefit our internal identify opportunities that benefit our internal and external stakeholders and improve our business. Specific examples of recent engagement are detailed in this section. and external stakeholders and improve our G RI IN DI CATO RS business. G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that engaged by the organization. have been raised through stakeholder G4-25 Report the basis for identification and engagement, and how the organization selection of stakeholders with whom has responded to those key topics to engage. and concerns, including through its G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to reporting. Report the stakeholder groups stakeholder engagement, including that raised each of the key topics frequency of engagement by type and and concerns. by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. 11 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Engaging with Our Stakeholders CONTINUED Employees Regulators Suppliers IFF informs employees about company industry events with dedicated IFF is a member of the Research Relationships with our suppliers strategy, performance, policy and sustainability agendas, including the Institute for Fragrance Materials, the are managed by our Global procedures through regular print and American Cleaning Institute® Annual International Fragrance Association Procurement group, and we continue electronic communications, town halls Meeting & Industry Convention. and the International Organization to leverage global platforms such and face-to-face meetings. Employees Customer input is an essential part of of the Flavor Industry, which are the as Sedex, EcoVadis and Together for are kept up to date on sustainability our materiality assessment. principal trade associations Sustainability to facilitate the issues through a dedicated intranet representing the interests of the global exchange of information on our portal. Green Teams, in place in all of Investors flavors and fragrances industry. We are sustainability requirements and to our manufacturing facilities, enable IFF engages with the investor actively engaged in both global and assess the performance of our us to embed our global sustainability community throughout the year. local trade associations as well as suppliers. Our Quality team monitors strategy with our employees locally In addition to quarterly earnings calls, directly with regulators, as applicable, our suppliers through periodic audits. and on a broad scale. Input from in 2015 we hosted our biannual in order to ensure that developing Our IFF-LMR Naturals division works members of our Sustainability Investor Day and also participated in regulations increase both protection directly with growers on research and Business Council as well as many several events, including the to consumers and confidence by development projects. of our senior leaders is an essential Consumer Analyst Group Europe governments in our industry. component of our materiality conference, the Barclays Back-toRegulatory inputs were also taken into Consumers assessment. School conference, the Morgan consideration as part of our materiality Although IFF does not market to Stanley Global Consumer & Retail assessment. consumers directly, our Consumer Customers Conference, and the J.P. Morgan All Research, Consumer Insight and Maintaining dialogue with our Stars Conference. Our Investor Marketing teams engage with customers on sustainability issues is a Relations team also regularly meets consumers through extensive market key part of our sustainability strategy. with investors on an individual basis. research, interpreting key market In 2015, we continued this effort trends, monitoring product launches through a series of meetings, surveys, and conducting interviews throughout presentations, formal and informal the year. sustainability performance reviews, as well as through participation at 12 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Engaging with Our Stakeholders CONTINUED Communities IFF is actively involved in the Sustainability Community We are actively engaged in several In 2015, we joined the World Business communities in which we operate sustainability-focused organizations, around the world through a range of including the Environmental, Health, localized IFF volunteer and charitable Safety & Sustainability Management activities, implemented by our sites and addressing the specific needs Roundtable, the Sustainability Leadership Forum and the Natural Council for Sustainable of local communities. Resources Stewardship Circle. In 2015, we joined the World Business Council for Sustainable Development Development and (WBCSD) and confirmed our support of the 10 principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact. As part of the WBCSD, our CEO supported a robust agreement at the confirmed our support of the ten UN Climate Change Conference (COP21) in Paris. We continue to contribute to the principles of the sustainability community through media outlets and panels on emerging issues. We were the first company in the flavors and fragrances industry to join Together for Sustainability, a sustainable UN Global Compact. sourcing initiative. 13 About This Report IN THIS SECTION Reporting Cycle, Boundaries and Scope PAGE 15 Data Measurement Techniques and Basis of Calculations PAGE 16 Reporting Process PAGE 16 Feedback PAGE 16 External Assurance PAGE 16 14 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Reporting Cycle, Boundaries & Scope We annually report our sustainability performance in accordance with the GRI’s G4 Core Guidelines. We believe our new This report describes our strategy and performance sustainability report format lends with respect to environmental, social and governance issues in 2015. A GRI G4 Content Index, crossreferenced with the UN Global Compact principles, is available at the end of this report. itself to greater The scope of this report includes facilities owned and operated by data set as a result of that acquisition. No significant changes have been transparency. International Flavors & Fragrances made from previous reporting Inc. during calendar year 2015 periods in the Scope and Aspect and all entities included in IFF’s 2015 Boundaries. consolidated financial statements. Financial and governance For more information on our legal information, including our annual entities, see Exhibit 21 of our 2015 report and SEC Form 10-K and our SEC Form 10-K. proxy statement, is available on We acquired Aromor Flavors our website. Prior years’ sustainability and Fragrances Ltd. in 2014 and reports can also be found on Ottens Flavors in 2015.To enable our website. comparisons, prior years’ We have changed the format of our environmental data have been report this year to align more closely restated to reflect these acquisitions. with the Global Reporting Initiative. Lucas Meyer Cosmetics, which We believe this format lends itself we also acquired in 2015, did not have to greater transparency in reporting in-house manufacturing operations, our sustainability performance. so no data will be integrated into our 15 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Data Measurement Techniques and Reporting Process External Assurance Basis of Calculations IFF’s annual sustainability report is ISOS Group, a U.S.-based integrated We have internal systems in place to prepared by our Global Sustainability sustainability consultancy and ensure consistent and accurate data team and follows a robust content GRI Certified training partner, has collection and aggregation from all development and review process with conducted annual third-party of our facilities. We conduct quarterly key internal stakeholders. The content assurance of our sustainability report quality assurance/quality control is based on our sustainability strategy content since 2011. ISOS also reviews processes to evaluate the reliability of and materiality assessment and is our GHG emissions data using ISO facility-specific and aggregated data. developed through an in-depth 14064-3 and AA1000AS, which Due to rounding, individual numbers in consultation process with relevant are standards that are allowed under text, charts, and tables may not sum to subject matter experts. The report is Verification of Climate Data (CDP, the totals shown. The unit of currency then reviewed by representatives 2011). ISOS’ External Assurance used in this report is the U.S. dollar. from each business function. Feedback Statement can be found at the end Several of our data points are reviewed is incorporated, and the final draft is of this report. and assured by ISOS Group on an reviewed by senior management and As noted above, prior years’ data annual basis. See the External our CEO prior to publication. have been restated in this year’s report Assurance discussion at right for more to reflect the acquisition of Aromor information. More detailed data Feedback Flavors and Fragrances Ltd. and measurement techniques with respect Your comments and suggestions are Ottens Flavors in 2014 and 2015, to our energy and greenhouse gas important to us. To provide feedback respectively. As such, it is important to G R I I N D I CATORS (GHG) emissions calculations are on IFF’s sustainability performance note that this year’s assurance process G4-17 Entities in financial statements. provided in the Environment section. and our 2015 report, please email included the 2015 data only and G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, sustainability@IFF.com. that prior years’ restated data have and the reasons for such restatements. not been assured. G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). G4-32 Report the “in accordance” option the organization has chosen. G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. G4-33 Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 16 Governance IN THIS SECTION Governance Structure PAGE 19 Risk and Crisis Management PAGE 20 17 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Governance Our Commitment Everything we do to drive growth and profitability Everything we do must be done with the highest standards of ethics, to drive growth and profitability must honesty and integrity. Governance, risk, compliance and ethics are a priority at IFF. Our commitment starts with our Executive Committee and Board of Directors and is supported by our governance be done with the framework, which is driven through our organization with continual communication and training on highest standards best practices in governance, risk management, compliance and ethics. of ethics, honesty and integrity. G RI IN DI CATO RS G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. 18 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Governance Structure Our Approach Governance Structure Our key corporate values of passion, for Sustainability creativity, expertise and empowerment of compliance topics. In addition, we effectiveness of our risk management, Our Sustainability Business Council are embedded in our culture. We have have many ways that employees can internal control, financial reporting and (SBC) provides the governance a Code of Business Conduct and communicate any ethical concerns governance processes. oversight for execution of our global Ethics (or “Code”), a Code of Conduct they may have, including through an IFF is governed by the Executive sustainability strategy. An Executive for the Board of Directors, and a Code anonymous reporting hotline. Committee (EC), which is chaired by Committee member directly reporting of Conduct for Executive Officers, Employees who become aware of our CEO and comprises the company’s to our Chief Executive Officer serves as which set the ethical tone for our or suspect violations of any of our most senior executives. The EC is 62 Executive Sustainability Champion to organization. These Codes apply to Codes or policies are expected to percent male and 38 percent female. the SBC, providing leadership and each of our employees, officers and report such violations or suspicions, The EC addresses strategic, executive oversight. The SBC is a directors, including the employees, any of which are investigated. operational and financial matters and multifunctional group led by our officers and directors of our IFF’s Board of Directors (or “Board”) is the highest approval body before Director of Global Sustainability, and subsidiaries. provides the highest level of oversight the Board of Directors. comprises Pillar Owners and Leads, We expect our employees to in our organization. Our diverse, Our cross-functional Global which represent each focus area of understand and comply with our Code independent Board of highly Compliance and Ethics Committee our sustainability strategy: sources, and to annually affirm that they have accomplished directors brings value meets quarterly and reports to the impact, products, and people. Also read and understand it. We refreshed to our organization, and we benefit Chief Compliance Officer. The purpose serving on the SBC are the managers our Code in 2015 to adapt it to a from their guidance. The IFF Board of the committee is to oversee the of our business units: Operations, quickly changing compliance has three committees: Audit, company’s implementation of Sourcing, Human Resources, landscape and made it more userCompensation, and Nominating and programs, policies and procedures Engineering, Product Development, friendly by adding commonly asked Governance. In addition to overseeing that are designed to respond to the Legal, Finance, Communications questions. and reviewing the financial reporting various compliance and regulatory and IT. Our SBC governance model We conduct compliance training process and the integrity of IFF’s risks facing the company. relies on functional integration of on a global basis in person, via online financial statements and related Please refer to pages 12 – 17 of our our sustainability strategy across IFF, webinars and through creative financial information, the Audit Proxy Statement, SEC Form DEF14A, including goal development, contests and events on a wide range Committee oversees and reviews the the governance section of our website implementation and progress procedures for monitoring compliance and our Corporate Governance toward goals. G RI IN DI CATO RS with our Code and applicable laws Guidelines for more information about G4-34 Report the governance structure of the and regulations. We also have an the overall governance structure of our organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify internal audit function that assists in organization. any committees responsible for decisionevaluating and improving the making on economic, environmental and social impacts. 19 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Risk and Crisis Management Risk Management Crisis Management The Precautionary Principle IFF’s general approach for identifying Unexpected events can disrupt our We do not formally apply the significant risks and opportunities operations. When they do, IFF stands precautionary principle. We relies on our management’s evaluation ready to implement our implemented a robust risk evaluation of current events and its expectations comprehensive crisis management tool to identify significant risks faced regarding future developments. plan. This plan outlines preparation for by our company. This tool involves We have a multidisciplinary, companyand responses to emergency surveying employees to gauge wide enterprise risk management situations that may imperil the safety their assessment of risks and then program that annually assesses risks, of our employees, customers, facilities, consolidating their responses into including sustainability risks, to our operations or reputation. We have a set of key risks, such as the quality business. IFF’s risk management is global and regional crisis management of or disruptions to our supply chain. overseen by the Board of Directors, but plans and procedures, and we conduct The consolidated set is communicated the CEO and other senior management training for members of our crossto the operating committee and Board are primarily responsible for day-tofunctional global and regional of Directors at least annually. Our SEC day risk management processes and crisis teams. Form 10-K includes a detailed report to the Board. Please refer to the During 2015, the Company was description of our financial risks. Risk Management Oversight section notified by Chinese authorities of on page 18 of our Proxy Statement, compliance issues pertaining to the SEC Form DEF14A. emission of odors from several of its plants in China. As a result, the Company’s Flavors facility in China G R I I N D I CATORS was temporarily idled. Accordingly, G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is the Company invested approximately addressed by the organization. $6.5 million in odor-abatement G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics equipment at these facilities to from the highest governance body to senior address these issues. executives and other employees. G4-36 Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. 20 Environment Inspired by nature and dedicated to helping it thrive IN THIS SECTION Energy PAGE 24 Emissions PAGE 26 Water PAGE 28 Waste PAGE 30 21 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Environment Our Commitment Thoughtful manufacturing means striving to Thoughtful deliver eco-effective flavors and fragrances to our manufacturing means striving to customers, helping them create more sustainable products for consumers. Our 2020 goals are in place to reduce our environmental footprint. deliver ecoeffective flavors Our Approach Energy, emissions, water and waste To ensure integration across IFF are key components of our broader globally, we have a series of Green sustainability strategy, which has four main pillars: sources, impact, Teams that manage eco-effectiveness projects at each of our manufacturing and fragrances to our customers. products and people. Company-wide, facilities and meet monthly to share environmental issues are managed best practices. Green Teams are within our impact pillar, which focuses cross-functional groups of employees on eco-effectiveness. The Pillar with a demonstrated passion for Owner is accountable for our ecosustainability, who identify and effectiveness goals, and the Pillar implement solutions to help their Lead is responsible for implementing locations operate more sustainably. the reductions necessary to meet the Through this structure, facility goals. We use a centralized leadership and the Green Team at management system to track each site benefit from the resources environmental performance metrics and learnings of other sites, while at each site. Performance is reviewed taking responsibility to minimize the on a quarterly basis by our pillar footprint at their own facility. This leadership team. autonomy allows each site to focus on the projects that will result in the most significant improvements. 22 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Environment Performance in 2015 Assuring Through Certification A key focus of our sustainability As we work to reduce our footprint strategy is eco-efficiency throughout the value chain, we rely on improvements in our operations — external certification systems to doing our part to address critical validate our procedures and guide our environmental issues, such as global continuous improvement plans. climate change and water scarcity. For example, we continued to work 2015 was a year of environmental toward our 2015 goal of expanding accomplishments for IFF. ISO 14001 certification to all of our We were pleased to be recognized by major manufacturing facilities. Our the CDP for a perfect score in carbon Gebze, Turkey; Zhejiang, China; and management — achieving a 100 in Haverhill, U.K., facilities achieved this disclosure and an “A” in certification in 2015 or early 2016. performance — placing us in the top We anticipate that we will receive 5 percent of companies in the world. certification for the three remaining IFF demonstrated a commitment to a sites — Garín, Argentina; South low-carbon global economy by Brunswick, New Jersey, U.S.; and supporting COP21 in Paris. Leading Jacksonville, Florida, U.S. — in 2016. up to this event, we showed action Implementing the ISO 14001 leadership by joining the Renewable environmental management system Energy 100 (RE100) effort and the at our facilities helps us improve WBCSD. We also signed President resource efficiency, reduce waste and Obama’s American Business Act on manage costs, while assuring our Climate Pledge and Pope Francis’ employees and external stakeholders encyclical “On Care for Our Common that our environmental footprint is Home,” and confirmed our being measured and managed. commitment to the UN Global Compact. 23 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Energy Our Commitment Performance in 2015 We are pleased to report that for 2015 – Our Dandenong, Australia, flavors Energy efficiency is good for the environment and we achieved a 3.7 percent year-overfacility upgraded the lighting system can reduce operating costs. GHG emissions are highly year reduction in energy intensity to use LEDs and induction plasma (energy use per metric ton of tubes, which decreased overall dependent on energy use, so our carbon reduction production) even as we continued electricity usage at the site by strategy includes a focus on minimizing energy use to increase production worldwide. 14 percent. This was accomplished through – Our Benicarló, Spain, fragrance and increasing our purchases of renewable energy. facility upgrades, new equipment and ingredient facility focused on We have set a goal to reduce our energy intensity by operational changes at several of improving steam pipe insulation. our sites. – We gained synergies with the closure 20 percent (from a 2010 baseline) by 2020. of our Augusta facility in 2014, as Examples of energy reduction projects that resulted in an overall reduction include: in global energy use by shifting – Our South Brunswick, New Jersey, that production to our more efficient U.S., flavors compounding facility facilities. completed a steam system optimization project that Since 2010, we have reduced energy decreased natural gas usage by intensity by 12.2 percent. We continue approximately meters. to focus on finding ways to manufacture more efficiently and effectively and are on track to meet our 2020 goal of reducing energy intensity by 20 percent. G RI IN DI CATO RS G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization. G4-EN5 Energy intensity. G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. 24 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Annual Energy Intensity by Type Gigajoules (GJ) per metric ton of production 12 11.04 .53 10.06 9.69 Powering Our Facilities 10 1.34 .55 .56 1.01 8 1.28 with Renewable Energy 5.36 6 5.22 4.74 IFF continually looks for ways to utilize The facility is located approximately 4 renewable power and minimize energy 80 miles southeast of Amsterdam and .89 .22 .26 use in our operations. In 2015, we is suited to wind power generation, .93 1.12 .98 joined RE100, a global initiative of given its location in a coastal country 2 1.99 1.95 businesses that are committed to the along the North Sea. Installation of a 1.86 0 Green Electricity goal of procuring 100 percent of their 2.4 megawatt turbine began in late 2010 2014 2015 Process Derived electricity from renewable sources. 2015 and is slated for completion by Natural Gas We are assessing our current situation mid-year 2016. Fuel Oil & LPG and identifying opportunities to Once fully operational, the turbine 2015 Total Energy Consumption Steam increase our use of clean, renewable will produce approximately 6.5 million 2,924,486 gigajoules Electricity electricity. In 2015, approximately 23 kilowatt-hours of renewable electricity percent of our global electricity use per year, enough to power 30 percent 6% came from renewable sources, such as of the location’s electricity needs. 19% wind or solar power. We also intend to purchase additional 13% In 2014, we opened a 4 megawatt green power with the applicable photovoltaic solar array — the largest renewable energy certificates for the in our industry — at our Hazlet, New facility’s remaining needs, moving Jersey, U.S., facility. Additionally, our toward achieving 100 percent flavors and fragrances compounding renewable electricity status. 10% facility in Tilburg, Netherlands, will become the first in the industry to 3% generate wind power on-site. The ratio used in the bar chart above is total energy in GJ per metric ton of finished goods produced. The ratio only includes energy consumed within 49% the organization. Annual energy data is based on actual figures drawn from utility bills dating back to 2010 for each operating location. 25 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Emissions Our Commitment GHG emissions are a significant contributor to global Our global climate change, and we are committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions intensity our Scope 1 (direct emissions we control) and Scope 2 (emissions generated through purchased electricity and steam) GHG emissions. We also track and aim to reduce Scope 3 (indirect emissions in our value decreased chain) GHG emissions. We have set an ambitious 2020 goal of a 25 percent reduction in GHG emissions 7 percent from intensity against our 2010 baseline. the prior year. Performance in 2015 Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions Scope 3 Emissions In 2015, we made good progress We generated 34,845 metric tons of toward our 2020 goal. We are very CO2e Scope 3 emissions related to pleased to report that our global fuel and energy-from activities. CO2, greenhouse gas emissions intensity CH4, and N2O are included in these (Scope 1 and Scope 2) decreased emissions calculations, but biogenic 7.0 percent from the prior year, emissions are not included. We plan resulting in an overall reduction of to report additional Scope 3 approximately 17.8 percent from the emissions categories in 2016. 2010 baseline. This puts us well on our way to achieving our 2020 goal of a 25 percent reduction. GRI IN DICATO RS G4-EN17 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions. 26 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Annual Emissions Intensity by Scope Metric tons CO2e per metric ton of production .976 1 .478 .863 .802 .392 .75 Data Measurement Techniques .394 .5 .498 and Basis of Calculations .471 .408 .25 Scope 1 Our greenhouse gas emissions are calculations include greenhouse gases 0 Scope 2 calculated following the Greenhouse covered by the Kyoto Protocol: carbon 2010 2014 2015 Gas Protocol. Annual energy data used dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous to calculate Scope 1 and Scope 2 oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons emissions are based on utility bills (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and 2015 Total Stationary Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions dating back to 2010 for each operating sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) and are 242,225 metric tons of CO2e location. In 2015, we updated our reported as CO2 equivalents (CO2e). annual energy and emissions data to This year, we began using the global 3% account for a corrected natural gas warming potentials (GWPs) provided 16% conversion factor as well as our recent in the IPPC's Fourth Assessment acquisitions, which adjusted our 2010 Report. We have restated prior years’ 35% Wastewater baseline. data based on the updated GWPs; Steam The organizational boundaries for however, changes to overall totals were Process Derived this report align with the Operational negligible. In this report, only location14% Natural Gas Control approach outlined in the GHG based emissions are being disclosed, Fuel Oil, LPG, Mobile Protocol. For direct emissions, as we are working towards disclosing Vehicles and Refrigerants 3% appropriate emission factors from the market-based emissions in the near Electricity IPCC 2006 Guidelines for National future. The Solar Renewable Energy 29% Greenhouse Gas Inventories and the Credits generated from the Hazlet, EPA’s Fugitive Emissions Guidance are New Jersey, U.S., solar array are used. For electricity, the latest regional retained by the array’s owner, and IFF emission factors are supplied by the is supplied with equivalent Green-e EPA and the International Energy certified Renewable Energy Credits G RI IN DI CATO RS Agency, while emission factors for (RECs). Qualifying RECs are also G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1). The ratio used in the bar chart above is steam and process-derived fuels are purchased for Benicarló, Spain, and G4-EN16 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2). total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in G4-EN18 GHG Emissions Intensity Ratio. metric tons of CO2e per metric ton of specific for each site and are provided Hilversum and Tilburg, Netherlands, finished good produced. The ratio only G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas includes emissions generated within the by the suppliers. The emissions and are accounted for in this report. (GHG) emissions. organization. 27 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Water Our Commitment In 2012, we set a 2020 goal of a 25 percent reduction The knowledge in water use intensity against our 2010 baseline. we gain about our water footprint After meeting that goal in 2014, we increased our commitment to reach an overall 50 percent reduction by 2020. informs decisions for future Our Approach In order to map our water footprint The knowledge we gain helps us to and identify possible risks, we use assess water-related risks and several publicly available tools. Globally, we have used the World informs decisions for future water conservation initiatives at our sites. conservation initiatives. Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Tool In 2015, we continued to disclose to identify water stress, flood our water use data and assess our occurrence and drought severity risks performance through CDP’s water for all of our manufacturing facilities. questionnaire. The Assessment gives On a project basis, we have used us access to performance other tools, such as the WBCSD's benchmarks and helps us to focus Global Water Tool and the EPA's Surf our efforts. Completion of the Your Watershed tool. These enable assessment requires a solid us to determine watershed location, understanding of how our operations access to water and sanitation, are affected by potential water risks and water stress and scarcity for and how we manage those risks. a specific facility location. G RI IN DI CATO RS G4-EN8 Total volume of water withdrawn by source. 28 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Water CONTINUED Annual Water Intensity Cubic meters per metric ton of production 30 29.77 Performance in 2015 We withdrew approximately Examples include: 25 5.4 million cubic meters of water from – Water-saving, “clean-in-place” groundwater, surface water and systems on bulk compounding tanks 20 municipal sources in 2015. We are at our Hazlet, New Jersey, U.S., 19.04 18.02 pleased to have achieved an overall facility. 15 year-over-year water use reduction of – State of the art metering on the approximately 5.4 percent due to boiler flue gas abatement system, 10 several water-saving projects that have allowing us to reduce the water been recently implemented at the purge flow down, at our Haverhill, 5 facility level. U.K., facility. –Recycling systems to recirculate 0 cooling water at our Hangzhou, 2010 2014 2015 China, facility. To date, much of the improvement 2015 Water Use by Source in our water performance has been 5,438,491 cubic meters due to reductions in water usage rather than water recycling or reuse. 28% 51% Municipal System Groundwater 21% Surface Water Each site submitted total water G RI IN DI CATO RS withdrawn from each source, and the G4-EN8 Total volume of water withdrawn values were converted to cubic meters by source. and summed at the global level. 29 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Waste Our Commitment We have set a goal to reduce our hazardous As we look ahead, waste generation by 25 percent (from a 2010 we will explore eliminating the baseline) by 2020. concept of waste Performance in 2015 In 2015, due to the addition of As we make progress toward our acquired sites and a shift in product 2020 goal, our eco-effectiveness throughout our mix at a few key facilities, we saw a management team is focusing on the year-over-year increase in hazardous relationship between product mix and waste of 7.2 percent from 2014, going hazardous waste generation. Each from 0.075 to 0.080 metric tons of hazardous waste per metric ton of production. Despite this increase, the region follows different regulations and protocols to classify hazardous waste. As we attempt to stay ahead of operations. majority of our sites reduced their this dynamic process, we face new generation of hazardous waste. challenges, including the Overall, we have reduced hazardous incorporation of acquired sites into waste generation by 16.8 percent our inventory. For accuracy and trend against the 2010 baseline, which analysis we gathered historical data means we are still on track to meet dating back to 2010 to align with our our 2020 goal. baseline year. Through this analysis we have identified those sites with higher waste intensities. We see this as a great opportunity to better understand our facilities' production processes in order to set a path to decrease waste in the future. 30 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Waste CONTINUED Annual Hazardous Waste Intensity Metric tons per metric ton of production 30 IFF does not import hazardous waste In 2015, we gained greater insights into 0.096 from outside locations nor transport it our non-hazardous waste disposal 25 between IFF sites. All hazardous waste metrics and methods. As we look 0.080 is handled in accordance with country ahead, we will develop goals to reduce 0.075 20 regulations. Three facilities are able to non-hazardous waste, increase treat and convert hazardous waste onrecycling rates and incorporate the 15 site to process-derived fuels, which idea of eliminating the concept of can be burned instead of natural gas waste, starting with zero waste to 10 to generate steam. Our hazardous landfill. Shown on the following page is waste disposal methods are identified a chart to indicate the destination of 5 in the chart at right, which includes our waste, which includes the the amount we convert to processpercentage breakdown of each 0 derived fuels. disposal method. We continue to refine 2010 2014 2015 our methods and develop a deeper understanding of our waste streams. 2015 Hazardous Waste by Disposal Method 24,210 metric tons <1% 11% 38% Landfill Incineration 50% Recovery Other Disposal G RI IN DI CATO RS G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type (hazardous and non-hazardous) and disposal method. 31 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Waste CONTINUED Spills 2015 Non-Hazardous Waste by Disposal Method There were no significant spills 23,609 metric tons in 2015. We believe the amounts we have 14% paid and anticipate paying in the future for clean-up costs and damages at all sites are not material and will not 7% have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. We follow the 1% SEC guidance for disclosure of Landfill material issues. Please see our Annual <1% Incineration Report and SEC Form 10-K for more Composting information. Other Disposal 78% Recycling Disposal methods were reported by site-based Environment, Health & Safety personnel, based on first-hand knowledge or information provided by the waste disposal contractor, and aggregated at G RI IN DI CATO RS the corporate level. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type (hazardous and non-hazardous) and Only manufacturing facilities are currently included in this chart. Data for Ottens disposal method. Flavors are not included in the totals, as it G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant is a recent acquisition. It will be included spills. in the 2016 sustainability report. 32 Our Supply Chain Engaging our suppliers and improving resiliency IN THIS SECTION Our Supply Chain PAGE 34 Strengthening Local Communities PAGE 36 33 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Our Supply Chain Our Commitment Responsible sourcing is a key part of IFF’s broader We are assessing sustainable strategy. We are committed to sourcing our supply chain for vulnerable raw raw materials in a way that respects the environment and supports the people and communities that are part of our global supply chain. We are also growing our portfolio of sustainable materials and establishing materials and long-term community partnerships in areas where we source these raw materials. To better understand our developing and supply chain, we require that our major suppliers be assessed through Sedex, a collaborative platform for advancing policies sharing supply chain information. to ensure its longOur Approach IFF’s Vendor Code of Conduct is concerning human rights. term resiliency. the cornerstone of our relationships Discrimination, child labor and forced with our vendors. We expect our or compulsory labor are prohibited, vendors to provide a safe working and we require our vendors to environment and to conduct their recognize and respect their business with integrity. They are employees’ rights to freely associate expected to comply with all laws, and engage in collective bargaining in rules, regulations and industry a manner that is consistent with standards, including those applicable laws and regulations. 34 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Our Supply Chain CONTINUED Performance in 2015 Engaging Our Suppliers Certifying our Raw Materials We actively participate in AIMThese audits include labor standards, We also have a Vendor Management IFF-LMR Naturals has a long-standing PROGRESS, a forum of manufacturers health and safety, environment and Program which helps us ensure commitment to sustainability and has and suppliers that is dedicated to business ethics. More than 50 percent that our supply chain meets our increased that commitment in recent promoting responsible sourcing of our 2015 spend was with vendors rigorous quality expectations. New years with the introduction of thirdpractices. We also increased our registered on Sedex. raw suppliers undergo initial audits of party certification. LMR worked with participation in the Supplier Ethical We are new members of Together their business operations to confirm the rigorous Fair For Life program of Data Exchange (Sedex), the largest for Sustainability (TfS), an initiative that they meet IFF’s requirements and the Institute for Marketecology to collaborative platform in the world of leading chemical companies to standards, while existing suppliers are achieve For Life certification for our for sharing supply chain data. Sedex develop and implement a global audited on an ongoing, periodic basis. first ingredient — Turkish rose — in helps drive continuous improvement supplier engagement program that Our auditing efforts are 2014. For Life Social Responsibility in our supply chain in the areas of assesses and improves sustainability complemented by our vendor risk certification is broad in scope, and labor standards, health and safety, sourcing practices. With TfS, management program, which tracks everyone along the value chain must environmental management and suppliers are able to communicate vendor performance to help determine adhere to criteria that require fair ethical business conduct. We focus their ecological and social practices audit frequency. Our use of vendor working conditions, transparent our efforts with Sedex on a core set through one form instead of multiple risk scorecards allows us to focus administration, good community of suppliers that are critical to our questionnaires, and buyers can access our resources where the needs relations and the monitoring of business, reviewing the list annually as the information through a shared are greatest. As part of our Vendor environmental performance. We have our supply chain evolves. The Sedex platform called EcoVadis. Through Management Program, we share since achieved certification for Risk Assessment Tool allows us to this initiative, we have committed to best practices and advice on technical additional ingredients. In 2015, we prioritize our suppliers for completion conduct assessments and audits issues, which supports our vendors achieved For Life certifications for of the Sedex Self-Assessment of our suppliers annually, beginning around the world on their path to ylang-ylang, patchouli and basil from Questionnaire and Sedex Members in 2016. continuous improvement. Madagascar and vetiver from Haiti. Ethical Trade Audit 4-pillar audits. The Sedex and EcoVadis platforms Our Vendor Code of Conduct, Certifications for additional allow us to assess our suppliers’ Sustainable Palm Oil Policy and ingredients are planned for 2016. G RI IN DI CATO RS human rights and environmental Responsible Sourcing Report G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were policies and performance. are available on our website. screened using environmental criteria. G4-S09 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society. G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria. G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria. 35 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Strengthening Local Communities We source ingredients locally wherever we can, while acknowledging that many of our raw materials can only be sourced from countries where they grow naturally. Vetiver in Haiti The oil produced from the roots of As members of the Natural Resources vetiver (Chrysopogon Stewardship Circle (NRSC), a not-forzizanioides) — a perennial grass profit organization founded by native to India — is a common leaders in the beauty, flavor and ingredient in perfumes and a key fragrance industry committed to the natural ingredient sourced by IFF. goal of responsible sourcing of Haiti produces some of the best natural ingredients, we are working vetiver in the world, but due to with our vetiver suppliers to ensure economic pressure, farmers often that they will comply with the harvest the roots before they are fully specifications laid out by the NRSC mature, leading to low prices and for fully traceable, sustainable and poor oil yields. IFF is proactively high-quality product. We have also working in Haiti to strengthen our implemented two community relationship with our vetiver suppliers, projects in recent years. In 2015, for sharing our technical expertise to example, we installed a well in one help improve yields and oil quality. of the local villages and, together with one of our customers, renovated the National Library in Les Cayes, Haiti. G RI IN DI CATO RS G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operations. 36 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Vanilla in Madagascar In collaboration with one of our As part of the program, IFF provides vendor partners in Madagascar, additional funding for development Bourbon vanilla beans became our projects chosen by the local first Natural Ethics product. communities. A new primary school, IFF supports more than 350 Bourbon Ecole Primaire Publique, was vanilla bean farmers and their families constructed in the village of through prefinancing, price premiums Maevatanana in 2014. The school is and community development recognized as a national public school projects. Most farmers do not have and is open to all the children of the access to credit. Their decision village, with the state providing to harvest vanilla is dictated by their teachers. Construction began on an need for cash, not optimal harvest additional school in early 2016. conditions. The program’s prefinancing model encourages farmers to harvest the vanilla beans at their peak, giving IFF access to high-quality vanilla beans while ensuring that farmers are able to meet their own financial needs. Farmers who reach quality targets are given a price premium. The area processor, which sources vanilla beans from surrounding farms, undergoes a third-party audit on an annual basis. Through this program, we are able to source high-quality organic and fair trade vanilla beans for a cost that is comparable to conventional ones. 37 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Patchouli in Indonesia IFF has also initiated a partnership in local networks and community Indonesia to develop a sustainable development expertise of our partner and traceable supply of high-quality in Indonesia, we will see a significant patchouli oil and improve the and growing portion of the patchouli livelihoods of local small farmers with we need being produced in this fair pricing structures. Through the way over the next three years. In fact, expertise of our local agronomist, as in 2015 we already had our first well as Research and Development quantities of For Life certified scientists in LMR, we are able to patchouli oil produced by our provide seedlings to farmers that partners. This program is an example enable them to grow high-quality of bringing innovation to all steps of patchouli. By leveraging the expertise the supply chain by improving returns of LMR in the selection of the best to farmers, providing high-quality variety of patchouli and then products to consumers, and optimizing its cultivation, harvest, benefiting the communities where drying and distillation, along with the patchouli is grown. 38 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Sourcing Palm Oil Ethically Palm oil is used minimally in our products, but because the production In 2015, we revised and updated our Palm Oil Policy, which is available on We have set a goal to have 100 percent of palm oil is linked to deforestation, our website, and we will continue biodiversity destruction and human to expand supply chain certification rights abuses, we have an important to our other facilities around the role in ensuring that the palm oil in our supply chain comes from world. The policy outlines our commitment to purchase palm oil of the palm oil used in our products sustainable sources. We joined the products from suppliers who have Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil made public commitments to protect (RSPO) in 2012 and issued our first human rights and to avoid to be RSPO-certified policy on palm oil soon after. We have deforestation and development on achieved RSPO Supply Chain peat lands or high-conservation-value Certification for three of our facilities, areas. As outlined in the policy, we in the United States, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, enabling us to supply certified mass have set a goal to have 100 percent of the palm oil used in our products to be RSPO-certified by 2020. by 2020. balance ingredients to our customers from these IFF facilities. We also engage with several of our suppliers that are working toward RSPO certification, by regularly visiting their plantations to engage with them and monitor their progress. 39 Labor Practices Nurturing a valuesbased culture IN THIS SECTION Employment Practices PAGE 41 Occupational Health and Safety PAGE 47 Cultivating Talent PAGE 49 40 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Employment Practices Our Commitment We integrate our Passion, creativity, expertise and empowerment: These are our core corporate values. Identified by our corporate values employees and validated and expanded upon by our managers, these values are an essential part of what into recruitment, it is to “be IFF.” Prospective employees are evaluated on their values fit, as well as the skills and experience career development, they bring to the table. In 2015, we continued to and performance and talent nurture a values-based culture that fosters a work environment in which employees can perform at management. their best. Globally, we integrate the values into recruitment, career development, and performance and talent management. Our Approach IFF operates in 35 countries local needs and priorities of their worldwide with various legal region. An engaged workforce is frameworks and requirements for very important to us, and increases diversity in the workplace. Human morale, productivity, innovation and resources teams in each region commitment and reduces turnover. are accountable for ensuring We are pleased to report that our that we comply with local legal global retention rate of permanent requirements, and the teams are employees increased slightly, from empowered to implement additional 90.9 percent in 2014 to 91.5 percent programs and projects to support in 2015. employee initiatives based on the 41 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Diversity and Inclusion As a global company, we believe Embodying Diversity creativity is propelled by diversity in Latin America and inclusion. Thus, diversity and inclusion are key components of Our operations throughout Latin Brazil also provides targeted training positions or new hires must be from providing a workplace that fosters America exemplify our efforts to to local managers to ensure that female candidates. The presence of our values. In 2015, 37 percent of our increase employee diversity. For they are managing employees with women in our plants has increased permanent employees were women. example, we have programs in place disabilities effectively, addressing each year, and as of 2015, our We continue our work to increase to address the gender balance of any needs-specific issues that may proportion of female employees is employee diversity. our workforce and to facilitate the emerge and providing consistent nearly 50 percent in both the creative recruitment of people with disabilities. performance evaluations. center and manufacturing facilities. Below are a few examples. Using the model established Women have successfully achieved in Brazil in 2014, other locations management roles as well. For Disability Inclusion in Brazil in Latin America have started to example, in 2015, we appointed our To foster diversity in the workplace, the establish partnerships with nonprofit first female Operations Manager in the Brazilian government sets quotas for organizations to facilitate the region. hiring people with disabilities, and we recruitment of people with disabilities. are proud to exceed the quota set for a company of our size. Our approach Balancing Gender in Mexico is structured around the principle Our operations in Mexico include of equal opportunity: We provide flavor and fragrance manufacturing the necessary accommodations to facilities and a creative center in ensure that people with physical Tlalnepantla. Several years ago, the disabilities have the same opportunity local team identified an opportunity to succeed as employees without to increase the presence of women them. People with disabilities work in in the workforce at our compounding our manufacturing plants and creative plants. A plan was developed and center, with roles in customer service, implemented, requiring that at least laboratories and maintenance. IFF half of all applications for replacement 42 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Total Workforce by Region and Gender Total Workforce by Employees/Supervised Workers and Gender Region Employees Male Female % Male % Female Gender Europe, Asia 2,206 1,350 856 61% 39% N/A Male Female Total Headcount and Middle East Europe, Asia and Greater Asia 1,945 1,299 646 67% 33% Middle East Latin America 895 561 334 63% 37% Employees 1,350 856 2,206 North America 1,552 949 603 61% 39% Interns 35 50 85 Total 6,598 4,159 2,439 Outsourced Services 8 99 37 144 Temps 1 179 80 260 Europe, Asia and 9 1,663 1,023 2,695 Permanent Employees by Employment Contract and Gender Middle East – Totals Region Employees Work Time Full-Time Part-Time Full-Time Part-Time Gender Male Male Female Female N/A Male Female Total Headcount Europe, Asia 2,206 1,310 40 673 183 Greater Asia and Middle East Employees 1,299 646 1,945 Greater Asia 1,945 1,293 6 636 10 Interns 5 16 21 Latin America 895 558 3 328 6 Outsourced Services 130 81 211 North America 1,552 945 4 601 2 Temps 55 80 135 Total 6,598 4,106 53 2,238 201 Greater Asia – Totals 0 1,489 823 2,312 Temporary Workforce by Gender Gender N/A Male Female Total Headcount Region Temporary N/A Male Female %N/A % Male % Female Latin America Europe, Asia 260 1 179 80 0% 69% 31% Employees 561 334 895 and Middle East Interns 16 29 45 Greater Asia 135 55 80 0% 41% 59% Outsourced Services 2 38 84 124 Latin America 25 14 11 0% 56% 44% Temps 14 11 25 North America 140 102 18 20 73% 13% 14% Latin America – Totals 2 629 458 1,089 Total 560 103 266 191 Gender N/A Male Female Total Headcount North America Employees 949 603 1,552 Interns 1 1 Outsourced Services 93 10 8 111 Temps 102 18 20 140 North America – Totals 195 977 632 1,804 Grand Total 206 4,758 2,936 7,900 G RI IN DI CATO RS G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract and gender. 43 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Companywide New Hires by Age Group, Gender, Region Companywide Turnover Rate by Age Group, Gender, Region New Hires Male Female Turnover Male Female Europe, Asia and Middle East Count Rate Count Rate (Voluntary, Involuntary, Retirement, Death) <30 53 33.97% 47 35.88% Europe, Asia and Middle East Count Rate Count Rate 30 – 50 81 10.00% 45 8.14% <30 25 16.03% 14 10.69% >50 4 1.04% 2 1.16% 30 – 50 47 5.80% 34 6.15% Total 138 10.22% 94 10.98% >50 26 6.77% 9 5.23% Total Male and Female 232 Total 98 7.26% 57 6.66% Total Male and Female 155 New Hires Male Female Greater Asia Count Rate Count Rate Turnover Male Female <30 111 39.08% 42 33.87% (Voluntary, Involuntary, 30 – 50 88 10.05% 27 10.02% Retirement, Death) >50 2 1.44% 2 3.77% Greater Asia Count Rate Count Rate Total 201 15.47% 91 14.09% <30 38 13.38% 22 17.74% Total Male and Female 292 30 – 50 47 5.37% 37 7.89% >50 22 15.83% 3 5.66% New Hires Male Female Total 107 8.24% 62 9.60% Latin America Count Rate Count Rate Total Male and Female 169 <30 36 29.75% 32 46.38% 30 – 50 31 8.83% 34 14.66% Turnover Male Female (Voluntary, Involuntary, >50 4 4.49% 0 0.00% Retirement, Death) Total 71 12.66% 66 19.76% Latin America Count Rate Count Rate Total Male and Female 137 <30 12 9.92% 9 13.04% 30 – 50 26 7.41% 30 12.93% New Hires Male Female >50 5 5.62% 6 18.18% North America Count Rate Count Rate Total 43 7.66% 45 13.47% <30 52 42.28% 31 42.47% Total Male and Female 88 30 – 50 46 10.65% 36 10.59% >50 13 3.30% 5 2.63% Turnover Male Female Total 111 11.70% 72 11.94% (Voluntary, Involuntary, Total Male and Female 183 Retirement, Death) North America Count Rate Count Rate <30 15 12.20% 7 9.59% 30 – 50 38 8.80% 37 10.88% >50 33 8.38% 19 10.00% Companywide New Hires: 844 Total 86 9.06% 63 10.45% (12.8% of global, permanent headcount) Total Male and Female 149 Companywide Turnover: 561 Companywide Total Turnover Rate: 8.5% G RI IN DI CATO RS Companywide Voluntary Turnover Rate: 4.6% G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee Turnover rate is based on the total turnover headcount divided by total headcount in that category at year-end 2015. hires and employee turnover by age group, New hire rate is based on the number of new hires divided by total gender and region. headcount in that category at year-end 2015. 44 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Green Teams Our employees around the world, in an Adopt-a-Highway program The Green Teams at our whom we refer to as IFFers, are through which employees periodically manufacturing locations manage ecopassionate about the environment work to remove debris from alongside effectiveness projects at each facility and the communities in which a local roadway. by identifying and implementing we operate. One of our goals is to The Green Team at the Hilversum, solutions to help their location operate continue to educate our employees Netherlands, creative center gathered more sustainably. The facilities’ Green about our sustainability strategy, a group of musically inclined IFFers Teams meet globally each month to and our employees are important in to perform an eco-awareness version share best practices. Facility upgrades, peer education. Each of our global of the “Cups Song” during the site’s new equipment and operational manufacturing facilities and many annual barbeque, raising awareness changes were implemented by of our creative centers and office for the need to reduce the amount of these teams in 2015, leading to locations have Green Teams in place to plastic cups being used in the center. global improvements in our energy help employees channel this passion. In addition, the team piloted Alchemy, intensity and water use. For example, Throughout 2015, IFFers continued to an online ideation platform that helps the Green Team at our flavors and leverage their creativity and expertise teams to collaborate, share ideas and fragrances compounding facility in through projects and events that inspire each other on a global level. Tilburg, Netherlands, has installed a helped green our facilities and support The pilot project asked employees 2.4 megawatt wind turbine. Once fully local communities. For example, for ideas on how to reduce paper operational, it will be the first facility in we saw an 84 percent reduction in usage in the office. Fifty-one ideas the industry to generate wind power disposable cup usage at our creative were submitted, and the winning idea on-site. Center in Hazlet, New Jersey, U.S., is currently being implemented. By when the local Green Team began engaging the IFF community to think encouraging the use of reusable cups creatively to solve business challenges, and issued reusable cups to new the platform serves as an innovation employees. The team also participates pipeline to generate new ideas and put them into action. As a direct result, several functions within IFF have taken the first steps in adopting Alchemy for their departments. 45 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Commending Sustainability Performance In 2015, we achieved our goal to Additionally, awards were granted to launch an eco-efficiency awards the three facilities that showed the program to formally recognize most improvement year-over-year for facilities that have been the most their performance related to energy, effective at implementing a culture water and waste. These sites included of sustainability and improving Chennai, India; Garin, Argentina; and performance related to sustainability Dandenong, Australia. This awards standards. In 2015, a panel of senior program gives leaders across the leaders selected our compounding company an added opportunity to facility in Hazlet, New Jersey, U.S., engage with employees, reinforces and our fragrance ingredients site in the importance of sustainability in our Haverhill, U.K., as recipients for our business and reflects the great strides Most Sustainable Site award. The our sites have made to reduce their Haverhill facility achieved substantial environmental footprints. waste and energy reductions, and the Hazlet facility installed a solar field, among other achievements. 46 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Occupational Health and Safety Our Commitment Keeping our employees safe and healthy is a top In 2015 we again priority at IFF and a critical part of our sustainability reduced our accident rates, agenda. IFF is committed to an accident-free workplace, and our employees play a critical role in fostering safety. due to the efforts of our employees Our Approach Our Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) department is responsible responsible for employee safety, throughout the world. and we hold them accountable by for setting comprehensive safety evaluating their achievement of policies and procedures to guide safety-related key performance our employees and operations. EHS indicators (KPIs) and objectives. We training is managed at the site level, believe this increases awareness and and the EHS department conducts affects overall program success. periodic internal inspections and audits to ensure that sites meet Performance in 2015 our rigorous standards. All sites We are pleased to report that in 2015 are expected to develop their local we again reduced our accident rates, safety programs based on IFF global due to the efforts of our employees polices. Plant managers are ultimately throughout the world. 47 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Occupational Annual Total Recordable Incidents per 100 employees Health and Safety 1.5 1.2 Safety Committees 1.23 Each site has a cross-functional safety .9 team made up of employees and their 0.76 .6 0.73 managers, including the department manager and sometimes the plant .3 manager. The committees discuss 0 areas of focus for safety efforts, 2010 2014 2015 develop reports for problems that arise and conduct regular inspections 2015 Lost Time Incidents to improve conditions and safety awareness. Manufacturing safety 17% committees meet monthly while 22% creative center safety committees meet quarterly. Burns 17% Trips/Falls Same Level Struck by Objects 17% Strains/Sprains Other Falls to Different Level 5% 22% Annual Lost Time Incidents per 100 employees .5 .4 0.42 G RI IN DI CATO RS G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented .3 0.31 in formal joint management – worker health and safety committees that help monitor .2 0.24 and advise on occupational health and safety programs. .1 G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and 0 absenteeism, and total number of workrelated fatalities. 2010 2014 2015 48 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Cultivating Talent Our Commitment Our Approach Training & Education Career Development In an industry that has highly specialized scienceOur materiality assessment identified Performance management at IFF is based roles, from flavorists to microbiologists, it is employee engagement as a material a yearlong process that begins with issue, and one of the four pillars of managers and their direct reports critical to IFF’s success that we help employees excel our broader sustainability strategy is working together to develop annual at their jobs and develop the unique skills necessary dedicated to our people. Leaders from objectives that support core business our Human Resources department priorities as well as professional to build long-lasting careers at IFF. We are committed are responsible for achieving the development goals. Formal progress to providing training and development resources in objectives in this pillar as well as evaluations take place twice a year, managing training and evaluations to creating opportunities for feedback to order to attract and retain top talent. ensure employees have the tools and drive continuous improvement. We use resources they need to achieve their an online performance management professional goals and contribute system that captures performance to IFF’s success. To ensure that history, strengthens accountability training and education is tailored to and enhances transparency. In 2015, the specific employee skillsets and 99.8 percent of eligible employees business needs of each division, our hired before October 1, regardless nearly 500 training courses are run by of gender or employee category, individual departments around used the performance management the world. system and received performance reviews. Eligible employees hired after October 1 began participating in the performance management process at the start of 2016. G RI IN DI CATO RS G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category. 49 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Expertise is a core value for IFF. Keeping that in mind, we conduct Critical Talent Reviews In addition to regular performance Our goal is to empower our training around the world with the reviews, IFF conducts talent reviews goal of empowering both managers several times each year. Our CEO and employees to excel as experts and Chairman partners with the in a variety of roles. From specific, job-related skills (such as culinary Executive Committee to review about 120 IFFers throughout the business, people to excel as experts in a training, product development from flavorists to chemists, with and aroma chemistry) to general the goal of examining progress and business skills (such as public understanding where these critical variety of roles. speaking, sales and emotional employees are headed in their intelligence), we leverage internal and development paths. This process external resources to offer learning serves to retain and engage our most opportunities to IFFers. In 2015, we critical talent, helping them to feel also prepared for the 2016 launch of that their career is supported by IFF. our new Research and Development Academy, which supports scientists Freedom of Association and in our R&D department with high Collective Bargaining leadership potential. Throughout IFF fully respects the rights of its 2015, we developed curriculum and employees to freely associate and worked with managers to identify bargain collectively in a legal, ethical potential participants. and safe way. In 2015, 16 percent of our permanent employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. G RI IN DI CATO RS G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 50 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Career Ladders Leadership Programs Career Ladders are designed to Flavorist School IFF offers four specialized leadership Organization Leader Program provide clear role expectations 2015 saw the first four graduates from courses to help employees develop With a focus on leading innovation, at all levels and to help managers our Flavorist School, which combines their personal leadership ability. In strategy execution and change, the and employees create more full-time training and on-the-job total, 380 employees participated in yearlong Organization Leader program meaningful and focused career and experience. The curriculum is focused one of these programs in 2015. helps midto senior-level managers development plans. The ladders detail on understanding raw materials learn from each other in a highly the knowledge, experience, skills, and solvents, how to build a flavor Leadership Essentials Acceleration interactive development process. competencies and performance language, flavor applications and flavor Program (LEAP) expectations for specific roles and creation techniques. The school has LEAP is a two-day workshop in INSEAD Partnership explain the criteria for success. In been global since 2013, with trainees in which participants learn about selfIFF partners with INSEAD, one of the combination with our extensive all four regions. awareness, effective communication, world’s leading graduate business training programs, the ladders provide building stronger working relationships schools, to help participants explore a comprehensive roadmap for building Scent Design Management School and more. Typical participants new business opportunities, new a successful career at IFF. They are In 2015, 12 IFFers graduated from our include first-line supervisors, new markets and enhanced profitability valuable assets both for current Scent Design Management School, leaders, potential new leaders and models. Midto senior-level managers employees and for IFF as we seek to where they developed their olfactory individual contributors with leadership leave having received increased recruit and retain employees looking skills while gaining an understanding responsibilities. exposure to marketing, operational for a company that can help them of consumer insights, finance, creative and corporate finance, cross-cultural succeed in the long term. Our schools strategy and project management. People Leader Program leadership and more. serve as the first “rung” on the Career In this program, the formal school is From this yearlong training experience, Ladders. followed by a 12-month, on-the-job People Leader participants build training program back in the home a foundation for understanding Perfumery School creative center. leadership at IFF while broadening Trainees are selected and prepared their perspectives and building their for careers as creative and technical internal networks. It is designed for perfumers, following a rigorous first-line supervisors, managers curriculum and guidance from IFF’s with direct reports and senior or expert perfumers. Since the school’s specialist employees who are new to inception, more than 20 IFFers have management. graduated. 51 Human Rights Supporting and respecting the rights of our employees and communities where we operate 52 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Human Rights Our Commitment Our Approach Issues related to human rights are IFF also requires that all of our vendors As part of our endorsement of the UN Global managed by our Law department, comply with our Vendor Code of Compact, we support and respect the protection of which oversees corporate governance, Conduct. The Code requires that ethics and compliance, crisis planning vendors respect the right of their internationally proclaimed human rights. and training, securities law filings and employees to form and join trade meetings of the Board of Directors. unions and to bargain collectively; The Law department works in requires compliance with appropriate conjunction with Human Resources, regulations and guidelines regarding Operations and Global Procurement minimum legal age of employees; and on human rights issues. prohibits the use of involuntary labor IFF has not identified significant of any kind, including prison labor, risk in our operations for forced debt bondage, indentured servitude or compulsory labor, child labor, or forced labor. Our Vendor Code of or violations of the right to freely Conduct is updated periodically and associate and bargain collectively. We distributed regularly. Vendor Code of prohibit the employment of underage Conduct. children and the use of forced labor Our Code of Business Conduct in our global operations. Slavery and and Ethics requests our employees Human Trafficking Statement. and others to report concerns and complaints without risk of retaliation. Complaints or concerns can be submitted through the IFF Compliance Hotline, which accepts anonymous G RI IN DI CATO RS G4-HR4 Report operations and suppliers in which G4HR6 Report operations and suppliers considered calls and emails in any language, employee rights to exercise freedom of to have significant risk for incidents of 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. IFF association or collective bargaining may be forced or compulsory labor. violated or at significant risk. G4-HR12 Report the total number of grievances responds promptly and thoroughly G4-HR5 Report operations and suppliers identified about human rights impacts filed through to any reported concerns and takes as having significant risk for incidents of formal grievance mechanisms during child labor. the reporting period. Of the identified appropriate action where necessary. grievances, report how many were addressed and resolved during the reporting period. 53 Society Committed to respect and doing what’s right 54 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Society Our Commitment Being a world-class flavor and fragrance company We are committed and increasing our profitability and operational to high standards of ethics, honesty excellence worldwide cannot, and will not, be done at the expense of our commitment to doing the right thing. We are committed to high standards of ethics, honesty and integrity. When it comes to and integrity. sustainability, we won’t accept the status quo. That’s why sustainability is foundational to our Vision 2020 business strategy, and why we are committed to embedding sustainability throughout our business practices and our corporate culture. Our Approach Our Code of Business Conduct and to all employees of IFF worldwide, Ethics serves as a compass outlining and mandate compliance with all the general ethical standards that anti-bribery and corruption laws each member of our organization and with IFF’s global standards. Our is expected to follow. The Code, as Board of Directors is responsible well as our Anti-Bribery, Political for ensuring the integrity and ethics Contributions, and International of our business at the highest level. Business Transaction Policies, apply These documents are updated periodically and distributed G RI IN DI CATO RS regularly. Our Code was last updated G4-SO4 Communication and training on antiin 2016. corruption policies and procedures. 55 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Society CONTINUED We conduct compliance training on Anti-Corruption a global basis in person, via online Throughout each year, IFF conducts In addition to its communication enabled employees will be required webinars and through creative worldwide training and provides campaign, IFF regularly conducts to complete online Code training and contests and events. These trainings ongoing communications to ensure live and online training on a variety additional online training on workplace cover a wide range of topics, including, employees understand and comply of compliance topics. In 2015, we harassment, reporting concerns, but not limited to, compliance matters with IFF’s Code of Business Conduct conducted training on several cybersecurity and use of company and the laws related to anti-bribery and Ethics. The Code, which was compliance-related topics, including assets. The successful completion of and corruption, including the Foreign updated in 2016, provides guidance the Code, anti-bribery and corruption, such training by required employees Corrupt Practices Act and U.K. Bribery to all employees on compliance workplace harassment, reporting (including each member of the Act. In addition, we have many ways topics and frequently encountered concerns and our anti-retaliation Executive Committee) is a component that employees can communicate scenarios and is prominently policy, handling confidential of each employee’s performance any ethical concerns they may have, featured on IFF’s intranet page. information, technology use and asset rating. In addition, live Code and antiincluding through an anonymous We regularly communicate with protection. Live training on the Code bribery training will continue to be reporting hotline. Employees who employees about the Code and the and separate training sessions on our conducted in every region throughout become aware of or suspect violations various topics, policies and ethical Anti-Bribery Policy were conducted in 2016. of our Codes or policies are expected dilemmas referenced within it. Such over 15 countries in 2015. Mandatory to report any violation, and they communications include “top stories” online workplace harassment training will not be subject to disciplinary on IFF’s intranet page, email blasts was completed in every region by measures or retaliation for making from cross-functional senior managers email-enabled employees, including any reports in good faith. All matters and video messages from each of IFF’s every member of the Executive reported to IFF are investigated. Executive Committee members. Committee. In 2016, all emailG R I I N D I CATORS G4-SO4 Communication and training on anticorruption policies and procedures. 56 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Society CONTINUED Political Contributions We participate in industry and IFF’s Policy on Political Contributions customer trade associations strictly prohibits direct or indirect that coordinate advocacy and contributions by the company to any communications on public policy political office and the reimbursement issues related to our business. of any such contribution made by We work through both industry an employee. All political activity on trade associations (International behalf of the company must receive Fragrance Association, International prior clearance from the company’s Organization of the Flavor Industry, General Counsel. etc.) and through our customers’ trade associations. The core position of the industry is that our products are safe for their intended use. This assurance is determined through a science-based, safety risk assessment utilizing validated scientific methods and experts. There are no significant differences between our industry lobbying efforts and stated policies and IFF’s goals or public positions. G RI IN DI CATO RS G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary. 57 Product Responsibility Creating innovative customer solutions IN THIS SECTION Customer Health and Safety PAGE 59 Product and Service Labeling PAGE 61 Green Chemistry PAGE 62 Health & Wellness PAGE 65 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Customer Health and Safety Our Commitment Our Approach IFF’s Global Regulatory Affairs Our Global Quality team conducts We are committed to pioneering innovation in our department manages a audits and manages quality control products and processes and training our people to comprehensive set of policies and processes for our products. All finished procedures to help us achieve safety IFF products undergo final quality incorporate green chemistry principles into their compliance in all the countries where control testing, which, depending on formulations. we operate. We continue to advance the product, might include sensory, our Regulatory Disclosure Policy, analytical and microbiological analysis. which provides a framework for IFF is an active member of the responding to product information International Organization of the requests from regulatory agencies Flavor Industry and the International while managing confidential business Fragrance Association, the leading information. In addition, we are trade associations representing the working with a variety of external interests of the global flavors and stakeholders and initiatives to create fragrances industries. By taking and implement additional ingredient leadership positions within the disclosure models that provide trade associations and working consumers with valuable information with regulators, we seek to ensure while protecting our proprietary that upcoming regulations benefit formulations. In the meantime, we consumers while protecting the understand that information requests interests of the industry. We had will continue to vary by product and no significant incidents of noncustomer, and we therefore tailor our compliance with respect to customer disclosures to the requirements of health and safety in 2015. each situation. G RI IN DI CATO RS G4-PR1 Significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement. G4-PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle. 59 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Committed to Efficiency and Quality As part of our commitment to operational excellence, quality engagement of our employees. We have sponsored Green Belt training Facility Certifications products and customer satisfaction, for dozens of employees in recent at IFF we have incorporated Lean and Six years, and in 2015, 125 employees Sigma principles throughout our completed a one-day “white belt” We maintain several certifications at organization. training session, which provides an many of our facilities, depending on Lean is a way of thinking and overview and tool around Six Sigma’s the nature of the facility’s processes acting that eliminates waste, Define, Measure, Analyze, Improve, and product mix. improves quality and creates value Control (DMAIC) approach. At the – ISO 9001(2000), the international to our business. Six Sigma is a set core of our implementation of Lean standard for quality management of tools and strategies that enable and Six Sigma is the development of – The Hazard Analysis Critical Control improvement in business processes. a culture of learning and execution, Point system, which provides a We have implemented these enabling our employees to solve systematic approach to safety techniques across our manufacturing problems they face every day and management locations worldwide, with the aim of focus on the long-term solutions – Good Manufacturing Practices enhancing customer satisfaction, necessary to meet our goals. – American Institute of Baking and personal development and Global Food Safety Initiatives Standards – ISO 14001, which sets criteria for environmental management systems 60 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Product and Service Labeling Our Commitment Our Approach IFF belongs to, actively participates 2010 and 2013 registration deadlines. All of our products are subject to labeling in, and leads where appropriate, the We are undertaking the same exercise requirements that vary by region, country and activities of the key organizations that in Korea. regulate our business in the regions In addition, IFF took a leading role industry, and we are committed to adhering and countries in which we operate. in the development and publication to these requirements. We monitor registration requirements of standard exposure scenario carefully as they continue to develop methodologies for substances for around the world. In most cases, the REACH and has been actively involved emerging registration requirements in the ongoing discussions related to are closely modeled on existing fragrance allergens. IFF is also actively registration processes in other engaged in the U.S. Toxic Substances countries and regions, and we are Control Act modernization efforts, able to leverage our global expertise as well as various other emerging and leadership for compliance. This chemical, food and/or labeling ability to keep current on these everregulations around the globe such changing registration requirements as the Globally Harmonized System enables us to factor their potential (GHS) of Classification and Labeling of impact into the overall cost and benefit Chemicals. During the past few years, of any new R&D initiative. IFF has implemented GHS globally. The GHS goal is to promote safety and Performance in 2015 consistency in labeling and transport. In Europe, we are preparing for the As always, communication and 2018 REACH (Registration, Evaluation, transparency are key elements in this, G RI IN DI CATO RS Authorization and Restriction of and IFF communicates regularly with G4-PR3 Type of product and service information Chemicals) product registration our customers well in advance of any required by the organization’s procedures for product and service labeling, and and plan to complete all mandatory required implementation dates. percentage of significant product and registrations within the required We had no significant incidents service categories subject to such information requirements. deadlines, as we did with both the of non-compliance with respect to G4-PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with product and service information and regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service. labeling in 2015. 61 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Green Chemistry 12 PRINCIPLES OF GREEN CHEMISTRY 1 Prevent Waste 8 Reduce Derivatives 2 Atom Economy 9 Use of Catalytic Reagents 3 Less Hazardous Chemical Syntheses (vs. Stoichiometric) 4 Designing Safer Chemicals 10 Design for Degradation 5 Safer Solvents and Auxiliaries 11 Real-Time Analysis for Pollution Prevention 6 Design for Energy Efficiency 12 Inherently Safer Chemistry for 7 Use of Renewable Feedstocks Accident Prevention Our Commitment We are committed to pioneering innovation in our products and processes and training our people to incorporate green chemistry principles into their formulations. Our Approach Green Chemistry At IFF, green chemistry is the foundation of creating sustainable flavors and fragrances. Incorporating the 12 Principles of Green Chemistry into our processes results in measurable environmental and economic benefits through improved yields, reduced energy, reduced waste, improved safety, use of renewable resources, degradable products and lower manufacturing costs. 62 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix CONTINUED Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Green Chemistry Our proprietary IFF Green Chemistry production is scaled up. In 2015, IFF Refresher training sessions were held Applying the Green Assessment Tool is now routinely received a patent for an innovative in 2015 to further promote the routine Chemistry Tool used from early discovery of our green chemistry process invention use of the 12 Principles in everyday Demand for one of our key fragrance ingredients at R&D to commercial involving the use of a novel solid activities. These refresher sessions ingredients has continued to grow production at our manufacturing catalyst in a flow process to replace help to reinforce and continuously in recent years. Using the IFF Green plants. The Tool enables our scientists a mineral acid and consequently elevate the culture of sustainability Chemistry Assessment Tool, our to quantitatively score and evaluate improve yield and eliminate significant at IFF. The 2015 training sessions scientists developed a greener our products and processes against amounts of waste. were kicked off with an overview of synthesis technique using flow each of the 12 Principles. The scores We continue to use the IFF Green IFF’s sustainability initiatives and process and catalytic air oxidation. are charted to provide a visual display Chemistry Assessment Tool globally, achievements, along with short-, The new synthesis results in a of how “green” that product is for each with our sites defining specific mediumand long-term future goals. significant reduction of waste, Principle. Using the Tool, our scientists targets that are most relevant to their This was followed by successful more efficient use of resources, use establish baselines for overall green programs and product portfolios. green chemistry applications from of a renewable resource, greater chemistry performance, identify Our goal is to have every scientist at industries outside of IFF, compiled energy efficiency, improved worker potential areas for improvement, set IFF well-versed in green chemistry and presented by our external expert safety and reduced costs. The IFF goals and track progress toward those principles. We introduced green collaborator Professor Michael Green Chemistry Assessment Tool goals. The Tool is especially helpful chemistry training at our global R&D Cann. Internal green chemistry is conveniently included in routine in the case of new molecules, which headquarters in North America in success stories on the use of the business practices to boost overall are invented in a laboratory and then 2012 and have trained all scientists IFF Green Chemistry Assessment sustainability. For example, it would be transferred to a manufacturing facility and technical personnel throughout Tool for applications in fragrances, part of a project proposal for capital where they continue to be assessed. IFF’s global operations since then. flavors, delivery systems and so forth, appropriation, with sustainability Improvements are made continuously were then shared, followed by lively benefit targets to supplement to ensure optimal performance as discussions. financial justification. 63 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix CONTINUED Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Green Chemistry Understanding the Full Life Cycle Biotechnology Designing for Degradation of Our Products Using renewable feedstocks is A product is biodegradable when it Knowing the environmental impact and human health and ecosystem one of the 12 Principles of Green can readily break down into organic of a product throughout its entire considerations — from the production Chemistry. IFF is continuing to compounds found in nature. Since life cycle allows us to identify of the raw material inputs through the leverage biotechnology to create many of our fragrances are used opportunities to minimize that impact manufacturing of the final fragrance renewable and cost-effective flavor in products for washing, such as as our chemists and creative teams or flavor. We found that the majority and fragrance solutions and to reduce shampoo and detergents, our focus develop new flavor and fragrance of the impacts in all of the indicator supply volatility of critical ingredients. on biodegradability is an example formulas. We continue to leverage our categories are from the agriculture and In 2015, our collaboration with Amyris, of IFF’s commitment to water collaborations with life cycle experts distillation phases. As a result of this a leading global renewable products stewardship. Our chemists can design and have begun to focus on productassessment, we know where to focus company, progressed in providing biodegradability into new fragrance level assessments. For example, we our efforts in reducing the life cycle IFF with raw materials and aroma ingredients by creating molecules that recently conducted in-depth cradle-toimpacts of these and other products. chemicals derived from plant sugars. promote degradation and minimize gate assessments for the natural and persistence in the environment. Our synthetic versions of four materials chemists use biodegradability and commonly used in our formulations: persistence models to assess newly rose oil, neroli oil, cis-3-hexenol, and designed molecules prior to synthesis. vanillin. Our assessment measured impacts — such as greenhouse gas emissions, energy and water intensity, 64 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix CONTINUED Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement Health & Wellness Scent as an Enabler of Health Improving Lives through Flavors Understanding the effect of our treatment known as olfactotherapy. As a leading supplier to some of the Further, understanding consumer products on the personal health of This therapeutic approach uses world’s largest food and beverage concerns on the health and consumers helps us to make smart fragrances created by us to help brands, we play a critical role in environmental impact of their dietary decisions about what we create, how people regain their memory and addressing the changing needs choices led us to focus on solutions we create, and how our products are speech after traumatic brain injury. and desires of consumers. Our for plant-based diets with alternative enjoyed. At IFF, we believe there is so More recently, IFF has partnered commitment is reflected in our longprotein sources, such as legumes, much more that we can do with the with Thought Collider as part of a term investment in our naturals grains and seaweed; as well as foods power of scent — and our legacy of Creative Industry Scientific Program platform and in the development of a and beverages fortified with fiber, pioneering firsts leads us to further (CRISP) administered through broad palette of taste technologies. vitamins and minerals. We believe that explore the potential of fragrance and the Mistral Rehabilitation Clinic in With our deep expertise in food by supporting our customers with its positive impact. The Hague, the Netherlands. This science and consumer insights, we solutions that help them meet evolving Our previous sustainability reports initiative explores the use of smell as are able to help our customers create consumer needs, we are contributing have highlighted IFF’s focus on global a storytelling tool that can be used in delicious foods with better-for-you to a healthier population and a health and wellbeing. Wherever therapeutic settings. profiles — enabling foods lower in healthier planet. possible, we partner with organizations Wherever possible, we will continue sodium or sugar, for example, that that can benefit from our expertise to partner with organizations that can taste as good as the original. When and use our products in the interest benefit from our expertise and use consumers are better able to keep to of improving lives. IFF continues to our products in the interest of making their low-sodium or low-sugar diets, collaborate with Cosmetic Executive people happier and healthier. we feel we are playing an important Women (CEW) in support of a role in their healthier lifestyles. 65 Appendix IN THIS SECTION Assurance Statement PAGE 67 GRI Content Index PAGE 68 Stay Up to Date PAGE 74 66 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement External Assurance Statement 2015 GRI G4 Core In Accordance Report Executive Summary Scope of Assurance Methodology ISOS Group [“Assurance Provider”] has been commissioned by the management of International To form our conclusions, we undertook the following activities: reviewed information data Flavors & Fragrances, Inc. [“IFF”] to provide a limited assurance arrangement on its 2015 GRI-based management systems, procedures and controls; performed process interviews with persons Core “In Accordance” Sustainability Report [“Report”] for the period of January 1 December 31, responsible for overseeing efforts, identifying and mitigating risks; conducted online investigations of 2015. The scope of our assurance covered underlying reporting processes and a selection of priority public records to determine legitimacy of IFF’s assertions; and reviewed several drafts of the Report Specific Standard Disclosures [‘Performance Indicators’] within IFF’s operational control and along with supporting evidence. Further, additional detail was analyzed for three U.S.-based facilities beyond, in the case of supplier initiatives. in New Jersey during onsite visits in order to better identify gaps and execute controls that could be replicated across the enterprise. Reporting Process Environmental Impacts Social Impacts • Materiality • Certifications • Employee • Product Conclusions • Stakeholder • Energy consumption & Savings Demographics Responsibility Based on the assurance procedures conducted, nothing has come to our attention that causes us Engagement • GHG Emissions (Scopes 1-3) • Diversity • Supplier Standards to believe that IFF’s sustainability-related strategies and key performance indicators defined in the • Impact Boundaries • Hazardous Waste • Employee Turnover & Expectations 2015 Sustainability Report are materially misstated. Verifiers were intent on evaluating systems • Non-Hazardous Waste • Human Rights • Water Consumption Issues integration across the enterprise confirmed IFF’s efforts to institute sound policy, data management • Wastewater • Labor Practices & schemes and quality controls. IFF has made significant strides to introduce innovative solutions • Resource Conservation Efforts Decent Work toward mitigating impacts and influence supply chain partners in the process. Continued internal alignment and capacity building will further strengthen IFF’s global sustainability practice. To stay consistent with previous reports, IFF opted to continue using its hybrid method for calculating scope 2 emissions in 2015. The intent is to refine its process for calculating and displaying Statement of Independence market/location-based figures in future reporting cycles. Re-baselined figures, year-over-year ISOS Group is an independent professional services firm that specializes in sustainability disclosures performance and financial data verified during the annual reporting process fell outside the scope of under the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), CDP and other specialized management and reporting this assurance arrangement. All activities were performed from January through May 2016. mechanisms. Independent verifiers have not been involved in the development of the Report nor have they been associated with IFF’s sustainability program, data collection or strategic processes. Objectives ISOS Group ensures that the assurance team possesses the required competencies, maintained The objective of this assurance arrangement was to independently express conclusions on neutrality and performed ethically throughout the engagement. Further information, including a underlying reporting processes and validate qualitative and quantitative claims, so as to limit statement of competencies, can be found at: misinterpretation by stakeholders and increase overall credibility of the reported. www.isosgroup.com Criteria for Assurance and Level of Assurance Procedures selected were based on the Assurance Provider’s judgment and experience. The focus Signed on behalf of ISOS Group: San Diego | May 10, 2016 of all work performed is to ensure that IFF’s 2015 Sustainability Report was prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Guidelines, the GHG Protocol (WBCSD/WRI, 2004), Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard (WBCSD/WRI, 2011), GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance (WRI, 2015), ISO 14064-3:2006 (“Specification with Guidance for Nancy Mancilla Alexandru Georgescu Christina Schwerdtfeger the Validation and Verification of Greenhouse Gas Assertions”), SA8000 for social factors, and in Project Lead Quantitative Analysis Lead GHG & Environmental Analyst adherence to the AA 1000AS for underlying reporting processes. A minimum quality standard was set at 95% for all evaluative tasks performed. 67 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix CONTINUED Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement GRI Content Index General Standards Disclosures Standard Disclosure Link to Page Disclosure or Location of Disclosure UN Global Compact Principle(s) STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 VI From our Chairman ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 2 About IFF > Organizational Profile G4-4 2 About IFF > Organizational Profile G4-5 2 About IFF > Organizational Profile G4-6 3 About IFF > Our Operating Footprint G4-7 2 About IFF > Organizational Profile G4-8 3 About IFF > Our Operating Footprint G4-9 3 About IFF > Our Operating Footprint G4-10 43 Labor Practices > Employment Practices Principle 6 G4-11 50 Labor Practices > Employment Practices > Freedom of Association and Collective Principle 3 Bargaining G4-12 5 About IFF > Our Supply Chain Our Supply Chain G4-13 5 About IFF > Expanding Our Business G4-14 20 About IFF > External Partnerships and Voluntary Initiatives G4-15 6 About IFF > External Partnerships and Voluntary Initiatives G4-16 6 About IFF > External Partnerships and Voluntary Initiatives IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 16 About this Report > Reporting Cycle, Boundaries and Scope G4-18 8 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement G4-19 9 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement > Our Key Issues G4-20 10 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement > Our Key Issues G4-21 10 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement > Our Key Issues G4-22 16 About this Report > Reporting Cycle, Boundaries and Scope G4-23 16 About this Report > Reporting Cycle, Boundaries and Scope STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 11 Materiality & Stakeholder Engagement > Engaging with our Stakeholders G4-25 11 Materiality & Stakeholder Engagement > Engaging with our Stakeholders G4-26 11 Materiality & Stakeholder Engagement > Engaging with our Stakeholders G4-27 11 Materiality & Stakeholder Engagement > Engaging with our Stakeholders 68 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix CONTINUED Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement GRI Content Index General Standards Disclosures Standard Disclosure Link to Page Disclosure or Location of Disclosure UN Global Compact Principle(s) REPORT PROFILE G4-28 16 About this Report > Reporting Cycle, Boundaries and Scope G4-29 16 About this Report > Reporting Cycle, Boundaries and Scope G4-30 16 About this Report > Reporting Cycle, Boundaries and Scope G4-31 16 About This Report > Feedback G4-32 16 About this Report > Reporting Cycle, Boundaries and Scope G4-33 16 About this Report> External Assurance GOVERNANCE G4-34 19 Governance > Our Approach > Governance Structure Proxy Statement, SEC Form DEF14A Governance section of our website Corporate Governance Guidelines G4-35 20 Governance > Our Approach > Governance Structure for Sustainability G4-36 20 Governance > Our Approach > Governance Structure for Sustainability G4-46 20 Governance > Our Approach > Risk and Crisis Management ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 18 Governance > Our Approach Principle 10 G4-58 18 Governance > Our Approach Principle 10 69 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix CONTINUED Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement GRI Content Index General Standards Disclosures Standard Disclosure Link to Page Disclosure or Location of Disclosure UN Global Compact Principle(s) CATEGORY: ECONOMIC ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 34 Our Supply Chain > Our Commitment Our Supply Chain > Our Approach G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 36 Our Supply Chain > Performance in 2015 > Going Local CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 24 Environment > Our Management Approach G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 24 Environment > Energy Principles 7 and 8 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 24 Environment > Energy Principle 8 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 24 Environment > Energy Principles 8 and 9 ASPECT: WATER G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 28 Environment > Our Management Approach Environment > Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 28 Environment > Water > Performance in 2015 Principles 7 and 8 ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 26 Environment > Our Management Approach Environment > Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 27 Environment > Emissions > Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions Principles 7 and 8 About this Report G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 27 Environment > Emissions > Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions Principles 7 and 8 About this Report G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 26 Environment > Emissions > Scope 3 Emissions Principles 7 and 8 About this Report G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 27 Environment > Emissions Principle 8 About this Report G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 27 Environment > Emissions > Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions Principles 8 and 9 About this Report ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 30 Environment > Our Management Approach G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 31 Environment > Waste Management Principle 8 “Other waste” is defined as waste for which the disposal method is chosen by a third party provider of waste disposal services. Information about the disposal method for this category is not collected at the corporate level. G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 32 Environment > Spills Principle 8 ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 34 Our Supply Chain > Our Commitment Our Supply Chain > Our Approach G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 35 Our Supply Chain > Performance in 2015 > Engaging our Suppliers Principle 8 70 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix CONTINUED Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement GRI Content Index General Standards Disclosures Standard Disclosure Link to Page Disclosure or Location of Disclosure UN Global Compact Principle(s) ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 22 Environment > Our Approach G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and — During 2015, the Company was notified by Chinese authorities of compliance resolved through formal grievance mechanisms issues pertaining to the emission of odors from several of its plants in China. As a result, the Company’s Flavors facility in China was temporarily idled. Accordingly, the Company invested approximately $6.5 million in odor-abatement equipment at these facilities to address these issues. CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 41 Labor Practices > Employment Practices G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age 44 Labor Practices > Employment Practices Principle 6 group, gender and region ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 47 Labor Practices > Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management – worker 48 Labor Practices > Occupational Health and Safety health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 48 Labor Practices > Occupational Health and Safety absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by Omissions: IFF does not track occupational diseases or absenteeism at the global gender level. ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 49 Labor Practices > Training, Education and Career Development G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 49 Labor Practices > Training, Education and Career Development Principle 6 development reviews, by gender and by employee category. ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 34 Our Supply Chain > Our Commitment Our Supply Chain > Our Approach G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 35 Our Supply Chain > Performance in 2015 > Engaging our Suppliers ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 41 Labor Practices > Employment Practices G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved — In each of the 35 countries where we conduct business, we take seriously our through formal grievance mechanisms responsibility to follow local regulations and respond to community and employee concerns. Where challenges arise, we do our best to uphold our high ethical standards of doing business. In 2015, less than 1% of working time was lost due to industrial disputes, strikes or walkouts. 71 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix CONTINUED Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement GRI Content Index General Standards Disclosures Standard Disclosure Link to Page Disclosure or Location of Disclosure UN Global Compact Principle(s) SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 50 Labor Practices > Employment Practices > Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Human Rights > Our Approach G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of 53 Labor Practices > Employment Practices > Freedom of Association and Collective Principle 3 association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and Bargaining measures taken to support these rights Human Rights ASPECT: CHILD LABOR G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 53 Human Rights > Our Approach G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of 53 Human Rights Principle 5 child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 53 Human Rights > Our Approach G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of 53 Human Rights Principle 4 forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 53 Our Supply Chain G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria — Our Supply Chain > Performance in 2015 > Engaging our Suppliers Principle 2 ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHT GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 53 Human Rights > Our Approach G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and 53 Human Rights Principle 1 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Omission: The IFF Compliance Hotline permits anonymous calls and e-mails in any language 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. All grievances about human rights are addressed and escalated through appropriate mechanisms. At this time, grievances filed through the hotline are not tracked by the category of “human rights.” SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 56 Society > Our Approach G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 55 Society > Our Approach > Code of Conduct Training and Awareness Principle 10 ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 57 Society > Our Approach Society > Our Approach > Political Contributions G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary 57 Society > Our Approach > Political Contributions Principle 10 ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 39 Our Supply Chain G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on 35 Our Supply Chain > Performance in 2015 > Engaging our Suppliers society 72 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix CONTINUED Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement GRI Content Index General Standards Disclosures Standard Disclosure Link to Page Disclosure or Location of Disclosure UN Global Compact Principle(s) SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 59 Product Responsibility > Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and 59 Product Responsibility > Customer Health and Safety safety impacts are assessed for improvement G4-PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning 59 Product Responsibility > Customer Health and Safety the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 61 Product Responsibility > Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s 61 Product Responsibility > Product and Service Labeling procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning 61 Product Responsibility > Product and Service Labeling product and service information and labeling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction — Our products are developed solely for the business-to business market. Therefore, we do not have a system in place to measure satisfaction of the end consumer. However, we do have a robust system for measuring on-time performance (OTP) for all IFF shipping locations. If IFF does not meet the customer’s first requested ship date, it is a penalty against the plant. OTP is a standard metric that is monitored daily by all facilities. Our customers track our performance and this is utilized during periodic performance reviews. IFF’s Consumer Insights programs are designed to understand consumer experiences, preference, and the emotional bond between fragrances, flavors, and consumers. These insights drive us to create fragrances and flavors that people love, both within and across critical global markets. 73 I F F 2 0 1 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About IFF Materiality & About This Governance Material Appendix Stakeholder Report Aspects Engagement What If This Is Just the Beginning? WE VALUE YOUR FEEDBACK © 2016 International Flavors & SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY We welcome any questions, Fragrances. All rights reserved. Kip Cleverley comments or suggestions you IFF is a registered trademark. Bonnie Sharphouse might have about this report: Neil Patel iff.com/contact-us 521 West 57th Street New York, NY 10019 CONTENT AND PRODUCTION United States Director: Bonnie Sharphouse Data Analytics: Neil Patel Editorial Director: Carol Brys Design: Pure+Applied, New York Stay Up to Date VISIT US ENGAGE WITH US Follow #IFFGoGreen to learn more iff.com iff.com/sustain iff.com/media ir.iff.com 74 75
