United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 TM WORLD LEADERS IN SYNTHETIC TURF Global Compact Communication on Progress Global Compact Communication on Progress Table of contents Executive Letter Communication on Progress November 8, 2015 November 8, 2015 Dear Stakeholders, Executive Letter This past year, Act Global has centered on bringing new focus to our mission: “With a foundation of innovation, integrity and Corporate Profile quality, Act Global strives to positively impact society and maximize land use through the use of synthetic turf.” Company History At Act Global, we are innovating more, to change the way the world uses synthetic turf. Our planet has added more than 2 billion people in the last 25 years alone. As a society, we are traveling more, producPromoting the United Nations Global Compact ing more waste and filling up landfills, expanding city spaces and using more natural resources. Act Global is focused on creating synthetic turf solutions which address these issues, protect our resources, and enhance land use for business, Human Rights leisure, sports and communities. Principle 1 & 2 : Protection of human rights The opportunities for artificial turf to enhance land use are expanding, and to meet these needs requires constant prodLabor Rights uct development, responsible business practices, advocacy and education. It is our goal to be a leader in promoting Principle 3 : Freedom of association and collective bargaining responsible industry practices, while doing so in a sustainable, environmentally-conscious manner. Principle 4 : No forced or compulsory labor Principle 5 : No child labor This will be the eighth year that Act Global is a proud member of the United Nations Global Compact. It our responsibilPrinciple 6 : Eliminate discrimination ity and privilege to maintain honest, positive business practices, and the principles set forth by the United Nations Global Compact will continue to guide our future decision-making. Environment Principle 7 : Precautionary approach to challenges Principle 8 : Promote greater responsibility Best Regards, Principle 9 : Develop and diffuse environmentally-friendly technologies Chris Clapham and John Baize Managing Directors Anti-Corruption TM Principle 10 : No Corruption, extortion and bribery Corporate Profile Global Compact Communication on Progress Corporate Profile Global Compact Communication on Progress As one of the world’s largesT producers of synthetic turf, we take quality seriously. Manufacturing facilities on 3 continents Installations in over 70 countries We are a dynamic, global synthetic turf company committed to be more. Our mission to “Be More” is ingrained in every facet of our business, every employee and throughout our value chain. With a foundation of innovation, integrity and quality, Act Global strives to positively impact society and maximize land use through the use of synthetic turf. Innovate more. Protect more. Manufacturing facilities on 3 continents Installations in over 70 countries Advancing turf products and Investing in green-friendly services, with a focus on research, technologies, enhancing development and a vision to innovate. safety and promoting sustainable practices. ISO 9001 Quality Act Global adheres to strict international standards proven to increase quality. We maintain state of the art operations to ensure each order Play more. Give more. is of the highest quality, and our team manually inspects every turf roll Enhancing sports, community Supporting charitable and coming out of production. Strict quality controls, reporting and annual spaces, and leisure activity global aid organizations audits keep our operations lean, clean and accountable. through synthetic turf. around the world. Corporate Profile Global Compact Communication on Progress Corporate Profile Global Compact Communication on Progress 6. Obtain client and user feedback, and adjust Inspired by nature, engineered to exceed. Verified by Testing product strategy accordingly technology leaders 4 Full range of synthetic turf for A vision to Natural Grass Benchmarks sports, landscape, aviation and landfill capping solutions innovate. We start with the best natural grass 4 Long-term investments in benchmarks and latest safety data, 3. Source the new manufacturing centers, Product Range finest raw materials considering a variety of markets, needs and suppliers and regulations. in-house R&D laboratory, and testing equipment 4 Patented technologies Our sports turf has been used in community 4 ISO 9001 Quality Certification fields to elite professional stadia. 4 Certified Synthetic Turf Council Manufacturer 4 Complete environmental, Artificial grass provides natural looking, ASTM, EN/DIN, UV and low-maintenance landscape solution. Lisport Durability testing Designed to PERFORM 4 Cross optimization of global resources, trends and 4 Grass fibre and system testing that technologies with local support Patented aviation turf enhances safety and exceeds TYPICAL ASTM REQUIREMENTS operations for airports. 4 Melting point, breaking strength, tuft bind, strength, elongation, dtex/denier, thickness, width and environmental Reinforced natural grass combines the properties of synthetic and natural to offer elite 4 UV and artificial weathering performance and durability. 4 Instron tester for tensile strength Patented synthetic turf capping system offers 4 Extended Deltec Lisport testing up to protection for long-term cover of landfills. 140,000 cycles Global Compact Communication on Progress Global Compact Communication on Progress Overview of Global Compact Communication on Progress Company history About Act Global Promoting the United Nations # Principle Implemented Comment Global Compact 4 Founded in February 2004 as Global Sports Systems We are proud to call ourselves partners with the United No issues 4 Management team with extensive industry 1-2 Human Rights Yes Nations Global Compact. Our goal as a world leader -Support to CARE experience in each functional area in synthetic turf industry is to educate and encourage 4 Sales in over 70 countries through exclusive other companies in the industry to gather the basic Labor Rights Freedom of association distribution partners 3 and collective bargaining Yes No issues principles to action for continued communal growth. 4 Excellent reputation for quality, strong No issues Labor Rights No forced or compulsory relationships, integrity and expertise 4 We will maintain a current copy of our latest 4 Yes ISO 9001 Certification labor 4 Worldwide industry and charitable partnerships Communication on Progress archived on our 4 Only company holding all five certifications company website www.ActGlobal.com, for the No issues —FIFA Preferred Producer for Football Turf, FIH public to view and download. 5 Yes Support to World Vision Labor Rights No child labor Preferred Supplier, World Rugby Preferred 4 We display the United Nations Global Compact Donations to FOMO and Field of Dreams Uganda Producer, Synthetic Turf Council Certified Support logo in our marketing materials and efforts Manufacturer and ISO 9001 4 Act Global is committed to building personal No issues relationships with customers, and promoting 6 Yes -Support of World Vision Micro Loan Program Labor Rights -Eliminate discrimination -Homeless World Cup Sponsor our support of the Global Compact through 2015 Corporate Milestones these relationships. 4 Achieved status as FIH Preferred Supplier 4 We hope to inspire others to make a difference Environment – Precautionary Developing recyclable technologies 4 Installed 150th FIFA Certified installation in the world by administering the principles of the 7 Yes approach to challenges -Educating on environmental benefits of synthetic 4 Joined ESTO Organization Global Compact in their own business. turf 4 Completed new FIFA Goal projects in Africa -Support of Conservation International 4 Purchased new USA manufacturing headquarters 8 Environment – Promote greater responsibility Yes LEED credit education 4 Purchased aviation turf arm, AvTurf LLC 4 Becomes sponsor of Homeless World Cup Environment – Develop and diffuse LiteEarth environmental solutions 4 Supplied artificial turf for FIFA Women’s World 9 Yes environmentally-friendly technologies -Developing recyclable friendly technologes Cup Canada 2015 10 Yes Anti-Corruption No issues Global Compact Communication on Progress Global Compact Communication on Progress Labor standards Principle 3 Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of Businesses should uphold the elimination of the right to collective bargaining. all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Actions and Achievements: Act Global upholds a zero tolerance policy to all forms of forced and compulsory labor. To avoid miscommunication regarding labor expectations, responsibilities, wages, and schedules are formally outlined for each employee. We openly invite employees to provide feedback and suggestions, and treat all our worldwide partners with the same open courHuman rights tesy and respect. ACT GLOBAL RECERTIFIED Principles 1 and 2 foster an open culture by encouraging regular communication amongst employees. Actions and Achievements: FOR ISO 9001 WITH ZERO Act Global continues to uphold the freedom of associaCOMPLIANCE ISSUES Businesses should support and respect tion and the effective recognition of the right to colACT GLOBAL SUPPORTS HUMAN RIGHTS lective bargaining. We do not discriminate on grounds the protection of internationally proclaimed To achieve ISO 9001 recertification, an independent, ORGANIZATIONS of membership in a labor union. Act Global fosters an third-party audit found zero complicance issues is the human rights and make sure that they are not open environment and welcomes open dialogue and complicity in human rights abuses. areas of manufacturing quality, labor practices, employAct Global annually contributes to association among team members, without interferee training processes and customer service. CARE, a humanitarian organization that ence from our management. Actions and Achievements: fights global poverty in part by providAct Global advocates human rights and equal opportuing economic opportunities to women “For a company to truly achieve a nities worldwide. We display posters and have educain particular. Our goal with CARE is to culture of quality, it takes team members Measurement: tional materials available for all employees regarding provide resources needed for survival Our company policies clearly indicate our compliance with skill, commitment and passion to the Occupational Safety & Health Association, Employin the hands of those individuals most adept to make a make it happen. We maintain open lines of with these issues. Act Global will engage open disee Rights, and Workers Compensation. We maintain change in their immediate community. With our donacommunication and a comfortable working cussions and formal reviews of work environment to a comfortable, safe and professional working environtions, the women, mothers, and wives are able to proensure these policies are continually met. environment to motivate employees and ment for our employees and partners, and full-time employees are offered medical insurance benefits. We vide value to their families and friends while developing encourage growth.” a sense of empowerment. Measurement: We have implemented feedback systems to allow employees to express any concerns or feedback to leadership. With regular communication and proper training of business ethics we confirm no human rights are violated. Global Compact Communication on Progress Global Compact Communication on Progress honest relationships, and our worldwide network of Labor standards continued... Labor standards continued... partners and suppliers in over 70 countries are truly an extension of the Act Global family. We also have offices ACT GLOBAL SUPPORTS WORLD VISION stationed in the Netherlands, United Kingdom, Malaysia, France, Poland, Cyprus, Australia, Canada, as Measurement: MICRO LENDING PROGRAM well Texas, Arizona and Georgia, USA. International partners and employees undergo an The World Vision Micro Loan program takes a holistic interview process to ensure they can comply with our approach to combat the root causes of poverty, by We treat every person, in every regional market, with company standards and those set forth by the United providing a path to a self-sustaining income. The micro a mutual respect. With this understanding between Nations Global Compact. ISO 9001 holds company loans help entrepreneurs establish business, create our valued stakeholders and Act Global we are able accountable via a third party audit. jobs, and develop infrastructure in regions which have to develop an open line of communication and accephistorically struggled with access to basic resources. tance. We do not discriminate against race, color, sex, Once repaid, the loans are then redistrubted to another religion, political opinion, national extraction, social Principle 5 entrepreneur in the same community, creating a ripple origin, age, disability, HIV/AIDS status, trade union effect to help break the cycle of poverty and build a membership, and sexual orientation. Our employees thriving, sustainable economy. According to the World Businesses should uphold the effective and contractors are hired based on their skills and abilVision website, a $100 micro loan can provide $7,150 abolition of child labor. ity to do the job. of economic impact to a community over 10 years. Actions and Achievements: Child labor is cruel and inhumane and our company does not tolerate this type of behavior. All of our employees are hired within the legal working age and do so by consent of both parties. We establish a comfortact global donates to able working environment to ensure our employee’s field of dreams uganda happiness. Act Global helped sponsor a recent Field of Dreams Act Global lends support to World Vision, a Christian mission trip, which supports the children of Uganda through the vehicles of sports and education. humanitarian organization dedicated to working with ACT GLOBAL BEcomes official children, families and their communities worldwide homeless world cup sponsor to reach their full potential by tackling the causes of Measurement: poverty and injustice. With a mission to inspire life change through football, act global supports Our hiring guidelines and practices clearly outline our the Homeless World Cup brings together individuals friends of mulanje orphans policies against child labor. We implement a strict from around the world for a week of football and fellowevaluation process when working with outside suppliship. Act Global is honored to be the official synthetic Friends of Mulanje Orphans (FOMO) is a communityers and partners to ensure their practices align with turf donor for the event, which has impacted the lives based programme which houses, feeds and educates these standards. of more than 1 million homeless individuals around the orphans in Malawi. Act Global director Chris Clapham globe. has been involved with FOMO for 8 years, and this year Act Global sponsoredFOMO teams in a U-14 football Principle 6 tournament. Businesses should eliminate discrimination in Measurement: During a recent visit, the children danced, laughed and respect of employment and occupation. We will maintain documentation of all complaints listened to talks from Chris and the Malawi National and issues. football coach. Act Global is both humbled and inspired Actions and Achievements: by those who dedicate their lives to helping others! To be a successful global company, Act Global accepts and embraces diversity. We believe in building lasting, Global Compact Communication on Progress Global Compact Communication on Progress Environment continued... Environment Sustainabile practices Act Global Principle 7 has put in place: SUSTAINABLE PARTNERSHIPS Actions taken & Achievements: 4 Provide ongoing monetary support to environmental Act Global regularly communicates to its stakeholdBusinesses should support a precautionary SUSTAINABLE MANUFACTURING ers and the public regarding the importance of enorganization Conservation International approach to environmental challenges. 4 Established recycling program at our manufacvironmental soundness, best practices in energy 4 Participate in environmental causes such as turing facilities reclaim every by product of turf and resource efficiency, waste reduction, renewable Actions and Achievements: Carbonfund.org’s Million Tree Challenge resources, and the use of cleaner production. production fibre, turf, backing, cardboard, Sustainability can be described as meeting the needs 4 When general contractors and architects of the present without compromising the ability of plastic and wood. purchase and install our synthetic turf products When general contractors and archifuture generations to meet their own needs. For Act 4 Segregated waste facilities to facilitate recycling. they can gain LEED credits. tects purchase and install our synthetGlobal to be sustainable, we must simultaneously 4 Responsibly sourced raw materials. ic turf products they can gain LEED 4 Engaging with local communities, such as local maintain a profitable business, be conscious of staff 4 Detailed records of environmental testing for credits. Established by the US Green football team sponsorship and company needs, be forward thinking in our green lead, mercury, zinc, cadmium, chromium, tin, Builders Council, the Leadership in technology, and prevent detrimental harm to the enviEnvironmental toxicity, EOX and DOC. ronment. We strive to ensure that the environmental Design (LEED) organization designates products as 4 Implementing robust inventory and project Measurement: impact of all our activities is minimised, while balancing “green friendly” by obtaining points through environthe needs of stakeholders, communities and employtracking process to minimise waste and Detailed records of all our environmental testing for mentally-conscious organizations. ees to ensure satisfaction. improve efficiencies lead, mercury, zinc, cadmium, chromium, tin, toxicity, 4 “Switch Off” labels on all electrical equipment, EOX and DOC. We confirm these results to the general Act Global also continues to support environmental public by placing labels on all our artificial turf rolls. We independent A/C units and light switches. organizations such as Conservation International. are beginning to monitor energy consumption to bench4 Replacing IT equipment at end of life with energy mark and improve company use. star rated equipment 4 Low energy lighting Measurement: 4 Using recycled paper for marketing materials and Principle 8 Act Global makes measurable monetary donations to global environmental organizations. Records of LEED documents credit projects, energy consumption and water conUndertake initiatives to promote greater sumption maintained. environmental responsibility. Global Compact Communication on Progress Global Compact Communication on Progress Act Global’s products and services are available through distribution partners in over 70 countries. Environment continued... Measurement: Xtreme Grass is 100% recyclable. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentallyfriendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Actions and Achievements: Based on feedback from partners, industry affiliations Businesses should work against corruption in and with a focus on sustainability, Act is committed to all its forms, including extortion and bribery. research and development to expand our green-friendly technologies. Actions and Achievements: Act Global does not condone any form of corruption, 4 Our latest product development. Xtreme Grass, extortion and bribery. With clear lines of communicais designed to be 100% recyclable at end of life. tion we confirm that we only work with those individuals and companies that share the same value systems as 4 Synthetic turf promotes greater utilization of Act Global. It is our policy to limit the amount of gifts land, as you can achieve more with the same that can be given or received by an employee or professurface space. Our LiteEarth product provides HEAD OFFICE | AMERICA EUROPE ASIA PACIFIC | MIDDLE EAST | AFRICA sional partner. We do not tolerate corruption or bribery an aesthetically pleasing, functional final closure 4201 West Parmer Lane Dinxperlosestraatweg 50 P.O. BOX 53191 in any shape or form. Suite B 175 7122 AH Aalten Limassol 3301 for landfill, coal ash deposits and other land Austin, Texas 78727 USA The Netherlands Cyprus reclamation projects. 4 We are conducting ongoing research and development for offering products with SALES OFFICE greater recyclability. Measurement: AMERICAS Arizona, Canada, Georgia and Texas ASIA PACIFIC China, Thailand and Australia Any policy or ethical violation that is detected by an EUROPE Cyprus, France, Netherlands, Poland and United Kingdom employee is immediately reported to management and documented. W W W. AC T G L O B A L . C O M | E M A I L : I N FO @ AC TG LO B A L . C O M | P H O N E : + 1 . 51 2 . 7 3 3 . 5 3 0 0
