2015 Sustainability Report Alcatel Lucent Sustainability 1 Alcatel-Lucent combines with Nokia 2 2 Our approach to sustainability: Responsible business innovation 2 3 Our engagement with stakeholders 9 4 Ethical Business 12 5 Environment 17 6 Our people 24 7 Society and philanthropy 34 8 Supply chain 36 9 Sustainability data 39 10 Article 225 of France’s Grenelle II Law (July 10, 2010) 47 11 United Nations Global Compact 50 12 Independent verification 51 Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 1 SUSTAINABILITY Alcatel-Lucent combines with Nokia 1 Alcatel-Lucent combines with Nokia In April 2015, Nokia announced its plan to create a global leader This report reviews only Alcatel-Lucent’s 2015 sustainability in connectivity by acquiring Alcatel-Lucent. The two entities performance; it does not include information related to Nokia’s officially began operating as a combined company under the performance. Nokia name on January 14, 2016. 2 Our approach to sustainability: Responsible business innovation Sustainability at Alcatel-Lucent means responsible business making global communications more innovative, sustainable innovation. It was integrated in all of our activities in 2015. As and accessible for people, businesses and governments the leading specialist in IP networking, ultra-broadband access worldwide. and cloud technology, Alcatel-Lucent remained focused on 2.1 Alcatel-Lucent sustainability priorities Our sustainability activities in 2015 focused on five core Supply chain priorities, aligned with the results of our materiality assessment Š Do business with suppliers and contractors who meet our in 2014 (see Section 2.2) of the key issues related to sustainability requirements and work to improve sustainability and validated by our Chief Executive Officer and performance the Leadership Team. Those priorities were: Our people Eco-sustainability Š Create a diverse and highly skilled global workforce that is Š Lead in eco-innovation by providing energy efficient, able to meet customer demands for reliable, quality service environmentally sustainable networks and technologies that meet growing bandwidth demands Digital inclusion | The Alcatel-Lucent Foundation Ethical business Š Help youth innovate in a digital world Š Reinforce ethical business in every action by every employee, contractor and subcontractor, with zero tolerance for compliance violations 2.2 Sustainability materiality assessment Alcatel-Lucent carried out a materiality assessment in 2014 in inclusion, and diversity and philanthropy. Each issue was line with its strategy for refocusing the business, The Shift Plan. carefully defined and weighted both for impact on the Group’s The aim of the materiality assessment was to identify top issues commercial success and stakeholder expectations. More than and monitor and fine-tune our sustainability strategy, priorities 30 key executives within Alcatel-Lucent were interviewed in and key performance indicators according to the expectations depth over a four-month period along with all members of its of material stakeholders internally and externally. Sustainability Advisory Panel. The assessment looked at more than 35 business issues The materiality assessment identified key issues related to ecoaffecting our short-, mediumand long-term corporate strategy sustainability (with a focus on developing energy-efficient — everything from products, services, customers, operations, networks), ethical business practices (including the increasing employees, risk management and energy efficiency to ethics need for data privacy and protection), our supply chain, and governance, information security, human rights, digital employee wellbeing and diversity, and digital inclusion. 2 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Our approach to sustainability: Responsible business innovation Product innovation and environment Ethics and compliance Our people 2. Product safety 1. Intellectual property (infringement, 5. Professional development and talent 7. Electromagnetic environment avoidance) retention 10. Product stewardship 14. Information security 6. Employee satisfaction and engagement 17. Product energy efficiency 15. Anti-corruption / code of conduct 9. Global diversity 21. Management of hazardous substance 16. Anti-trust and fair business practices 11. Non-discrimination and equality 22. Greenhouse gas emissions (operations) 19. Public policy on fair business practices 13. Health and safety / well-being at work 25. Non-GHG emissions (operations) 23. Data privacy 33. Freedom of association / collective 26. Waste management 27. Responsible marketing bargaining 32. Biodiversity and environmental protection 31. Freedom of expression and privacy 34. Taxation Digital inclusion Supply chain Sustainability management 4. Local sustainability Impacts 12. Supplier diversity 3. Customer Satisfaction 8. Inclusion and access 18. Sustainable practices in the supply chain 24. Corporate social responsibility vision and 20. R&D partnerships 28. Material content traceability strategy 30. Philanthropy and volunteering 29. Transparency, accountability and reporting 35. Shared value community investment In 2015, we continued to apply the findings of our materiality addressing industry issues such as energy efficiency, ethics, assessment. With the validation of our CEO and Management human rights and freedom of expression, data privacy, supply Team, we recalibrated our sustainability strategy and approach chain transparency, employee well-being, gender diversity and to responsible business innovation. For each material priority, social innovation via the Alcatel-Lucent Foundation. we established a dedicated action plan concentrating on Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 3 SUSTAINABILITY Our approach to sustainability: Responsible business innovation 2.3 Our sustainability strategy and reporting framework Alcatel-Lucent’s sustainability strategy and reporting framework 2013, we were granted Gold Recognition with a score of conformed to the following key regulatory, investor and 71/100, placing us in the top two percent of suppliers customer requirements and globally recognized sustainability assessed in all industrial categories. In early 2015, we were frameworks in 2015: granted Gold Recognition for the third year in a row with a score of 81/100 placing us in the top 1% of suppliers Š Article 225 of French Grenelle II law (July 10, 2010): assessed in all industrial categories. Grenelle II requires companies’ annual reports to include Š Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI): Our sustainability information on the environmental, social and societal impacts strategy is closely based on the RobecoSAM DJSI of their business activities and on their commitments to framework. In 2015, for the fourth year in a row, we were sustainable development, with independent, third-party named Industry Group Leader for the Communication verification of the information published. Equipment Industry with a score of 92/100. This follows being named Leader of the Technology Supersector’s CMT Š Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): Our sustainability report is Communications Technology Sector in 2011, and prepared according to the GRI sustainability reporting recognized Group Leader for the Communication Equipment guidelines. The 2010 report was prepared according to the Industry in 2012, 2013, 2014 with scores of 86/100, 87/100 GRI Guidelines, at Application Level B+. The 2011, 2012 and and 91/100, respectively. 2013 reports were prepared according to the GRI Guidelines, at Application Level A+. All these reports were Š Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): Alcatel-Lucent referred to submitted for the GRI Application Level Service. The 2014 the CDP framework relating to climate change strategy, report was prepared following GRI G4 Core Guidelines. The governance, performance as well as supplier requirements, in 2015 report will only focus on the Grenelle II legal preparing its 2015 sustainability report. In 2015, Alcatelrequirements and the Principles of the United Nations Global Lucent received a score of 100A for transparency and Compact. performance placing us in the A-List of companies. AlcatelLucent was also classified in the CDP Supplier Climate A-List. Š United Nations Global Compact (UNGC): In 2015, AlcatelLucent based its sustainability activities and reporting on the Š International Integrated Reporting Framework (IIRC): In 2014, 10 Principles of the UNGC. Alcatel-Lucent performed a gap assessment to incorporate the IIRC framework into its corporate reporting. In 2015 we Š EcoVadis: Our sustainability strategy follows the EcoVadis launched a dedicated analysis on quantifying value for one framework, which is a mandatory annual evaluation of major product solution set based on energy efficiency customer and supplier corporate social responsibility. It is requirements. The findings are being finalized at the time of based on the GRI, UNGC and ISO 26000 standards. In the publication of this report. 2.4 2015 Sustainability Achievements, progress and commitments We continued to measure our sustainability performance last reflect our commitment in 2015 to responsible business year according to the 14 distinct indicators in the dashboard innovation in line with The Shift Plan and key sustainability below, categorized by challenge. Together, these indicators frameworks. 2015 Alcatel-Lucent dashboard Challenge: Reduce the impact of our products on the environment COMMITMENTS TIMEFRAME STATUS 2015 1. Improve the functional energy efficiency of our radio access By 2015 ACHIEVED: The energy efficiency of typical WCDMA technology, which is now part of the lightRadio™ portfolio, by configurations improved by 190% between 2008 and 2015. at least 75% by 2015 compared to 2008. 2. Eliminate PVC from all products (subject to the availability of By 2015 ACHIEVED: We successfully eliminated PVC from our technically, environmentally and economically sound products where technically, environmentally and alternatives). economically sound alternatives were identified. In 2015, we completed an exhaustive review of the remaining PVC used in our products, partnered with suppliers to identify and switch over to appropriate PVC-free alternatives. 4 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Our approach to sustainability: Responsible business innovation COMMITMENTS TIMEFRAME STATUS 2015 3. Measure how the Green portal (GWATT) demonstrates the By 2015 ACHIEVED: More than 28,000 visitors accessed the energy challenge for ICT in the short/middle term and the GWATT (Global ‘What if’ Analyzer of NeTwork Energy impact on technology deployment choices. ConsumpTion) portal since its April 2014 launch. A third version for dedicated product evaluations is planned for 2016. Challenge: Reduce our eco-footprint COMMITMENTS TIMEFRAME STATUS 2015 4. Reduce our absolute carbon footprint (CO2 equivalent) from By 2020 ON TRACK: Since 2008, we have reduced our carbon our operations by 50% by 2020 (from 2008 baseline). footprint by 46%. Challenge: Our people COMMITMENTS TIMEFRAME STATUS 2015 5. Launch employee awareness and training to deliver on The By 2015 ACHIEVED: In 2014, we designed an online course on The Shift Plan. Shift Plan for delivery through Alcatel-Lucent University and updated employees on a quarterly basis through pushmails, corporate intranet video messages and live progress reports during all-hands calls. 6. Introduce a new performance-based reward program (ABP) By 2015 ACHIEVED: The Achievement Bonus Plan (ABP) launched for management and employees based on corporate, worldwide in February 2014 to more than 32,000 managers business line/organization and individual KPIs to drive The and individual contributors for that calendar year. Under the Shift Plan. plan, employees were rewarded for corporate and business line KPIs achieved in alignment with The Shift Plan, and for KPIs reflecting individual performance measured through the performance management process. Challenge: Stakeholders COMMITMENTS TIMEFRAME STATUS 2015 7. Via the Central Marketing Organization (“CMO”), continue to By 2015 ACHIEVED: We actively promoted ultra-broadband and promote public policies favoring ultra-broadband in key infrastructure investment policies via multilateral bodies such countries worldwide. as the OECD, Broadband Commission, ITU, GSMA and B20. 8. Via the CMO, continue to promote best-in-class CSR policies By 2015 ACHIEVED: We participated actively in the B20 coalition on to public authorities (in particular, corporate governance) to anti-corruption, which brought together key stakeholders enhance legislation and voluntary initiatives. and influential working groups from bodies such as the ICC, UN Global Compact and OECD. Challenge: Philanthropy COMMITMENTS TIMEFRAME STATUS 2015 9. Via the Alcatel-Lucent Foundation, create a company-wide By 2015 ACHIEVED: New mission statement, strategy and two key strategy to guide corporate philanthropic activities aligned priorities defined in May 2014 by the Alcatel-Lucent with The Shift Plan. Foundation, aligned with the company’s industrial strategy, The Shift Plan. Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 5 SUSTAINABILITY Our approach to sustainability: Responsible business innovation Challenge: Ethics and compliance COMMITMENTS TIMEFRAME STATUS 2015 10. Deploy annual Code of Conduct review process to By 2015 ACHIEVED: More than 94% of global employees employees globally and target 90% and above completion. completed the Alcatel-Lucent Code of Conduct annual review. 11. Deploy business integrity training for deployment to By 2015 ACHIEVED: More than 94% of employees globally employees globally in 2015. completed Conducting Business with Integrity training in 2015, which included modules on conflicts of interest, anticorruption, harassment, fraud and other compliance topics. 12. Deploy human rights communications and education to By 2015 ACHIEVED: Information on the Group’s human rights enhance employees’ global awareness of human rights policy and program was included in business integrity issues. training and Code of Conduct reviews in 2015 to raise awareness of human rights principles and actions within Alcatel-Lucent. Challenge: Supply chain COMMITMENTS TIMEFRAME STATUS 2015 13. Roll out our anti-corruption screening program with suppliers. By 2015 ACHIEVED: We completed the global rollout of a corruption risk screening control triggered by any request to create a new supplier account or add an additional location to an existing supplier account within our global supplier database. 14. Establish conflict minerals traceability from smelters to By 2015 ACHIEVED: In 2015, 52% of suppliers who responded to Alcatel-Lucent. our survey were able to fully trace the origins of their minerals compared to 27% in 2014. 2.5 Sustainability governance The following bodies governed Alcatel-Lucent sustainability Group’s sustainability strategy, key performance indicators activities in 2015: and commitments, and to identify key risks and commercial opportunities related to sustainability performance and Š Management Committee activities. The Head of Brand and Corporate Sustainability participated Š Sustainability Advisory Panel in the Group’s Management Committee. Management Committee validated sustainability priorities, strategy and key This panel engaged material stakeholders in Alcatel-Lucent’s performance indicators, and tracked progress on sustainability strategy and KPIs over the course of the year, commitments in collaboration with the CEO and Leadership providing insight into and guiding actions related to key risks team. The Head of Brand and Corporate Sustainability also and opportunities. The panel was made up of key customers, reviewed potential risks and opportunities, providing an investor, a key supplier, a government representative, a oversight to the Board of Directors on emerging and critical representative from an Non-governmental Organization (NGO) sustainability issues as appropriate. and a representative from a rating agency. It was led by the Head of Brand and Corporate Sustainability with the support Š Sustainability Council of Management Committee and Sustainability Council Led by the Head of Brand and Corporate Sustainability, this members, and was moderated by an external advisor. The five body of experts represented key corporate functions meetings held in 2015 focused on the priorities arising from including Human Resources, the Office of Business the previous year’s materiality assessment: energy efficiency, Conduct, Operations, Strategy, Bell Labs and Quality and data privacy, responsible supply chain management, diversity Risk. The Chief Technology Office and Chief Marketing Office and digital inclusion/philanthropy. During each meeting, a representatives also sat on the council, along with various designated panel member presented on activities and business line representatives. The Sustainability Council met expectations related to a given material topic, prompting virtually on a quarterly basis to help define and execute the exploration of concrete partnership opportunities. 6 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Our approach to sustainability: Responsible business innovation Š Corporate Sustainability Team accountability for regulatory and reporting requirements and for leading proactive stakeholder dialogue. The AlcatelThis group defined and drove the implementation of AlcatelLucent Foundation was an integral part of the corporate Lucent’s sustainability strategy and initiatives worldwide, with sustainability function. 2.6 Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) management Through our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) policy, we on applicable Scope 1 and Scope 2 activities using the remained committed to operating in a way that protected the reporting tool. These sites accounted for 87% of our worldwide environment as well as the health and safety of employees, annual average real estate area and 80% of our total annual contractors, customers and the communities in which we did average headcount. For the remaining sites that we did not business in 2015. Meeting this commitment was a primary have operational control, we estimated their electricity and management objective as well as an individual and collective natural gas usage, electricity transmission/distribution loss and responsibility. refrigerant loss using company-specific algorithms, to obtain a 100% accounting for all worldwide locations. Scope 3 Category information was obtained from both Alcatel-Lucent groups Our EHS Management System along with our suppliers. Last year, Alcatel-Lucent continued to rely on its Environment, Waste management: 173 of our 467 sites in 2015 were Health & Safety Management System (EHSMS) to facilitate the responsible for completing the Group’s online waste survey. The use of a common EHS management model. The EHSMS was response rate to this survey represented 72.3% of Alcateldesigned to identify risks, maintain compliance and promote Lucent’s total headcount; these data were extrapolated based on EHS excellence. It provided an efficient and effective way to per-employee ratios to account for the organization’s full manage EHS issues with products, services and activities while employee base. To account for 100% of our employees, we cost-effectively pursued continuous improvement in our extrapolation procedures were applied based on calculated ratios EHS performance. per employee. The EHSMS met the needs of customers insistent on thirdFor more detail on Alcatel-Lucent’s environmental performance party-certified EHS systems. Decisions regarding third-party in 2015, see the Environment indicators section (See certification were made locally based on risk, the nature of Section 9.1). hazards, customer requirements and competitive advantage. We drove this EHS management approach throughout our supply chain to minimize the overall impact of our operations. OHSAS 18001 Alcatel-Lucent maintained EHSMS certification to the Centralizing environmental information Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems (OHSAS) 18001:2007 standard and the International Organization for Assigned contributors at Alcatel-Lucent facilities used an on-line Standardization (ISO) 14001:2004 standard. In 2015, the Group cloud-based reporting tool to collect, analyze and report on expanded its EHSMS to include Alcatel-Lucent New Zealand, sustainability metrics and account for the Group’s energy use, where operations in Wellington obtained OHSAS 18001:2001 water consumption, direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions certification. The EHSMS in the United Kingdom was consolidated last year (applicable invoices and bills authenticated this data.) from three locations to a new, single location in Bristol. Using the tool improved the accuracy and completeness of the data used in our annual sustainability reporting. In addition, we used an online survey that was sent to assigned contributors at EHS Compliance Audit Program Alcatel-Lucent facilities for collecting, reporting and analyzing The aim of this program was to confirm that EHS programs at waste indicators data. Alcatel-Lucent facilities and field worksites were implemented At the beginning of 2015, 429 sites were contained within our real properly and effectively, and to assure management that the estate portfolio, representing a total area of 2,528,951 square organization was operating consistently with our EHS Policy. meters. Over the course of the year, 38 sites were added to and Facilities and fieldwork were evaluated against a number of 77 sites were removed from our portfolio. At year-end, 390 sites criteria including Alcatel-Lucent standards, international norms were contained within our real estate portfolio for a total area of and country-specific federal and local regulations. 2,245,769 square meters. As a result of these changes to our As part of our EHS audit strategy in 2015, subcontractor field portfolio, in 2015 we achieved a 11% reduction of our worldwide audits were completed in the United States, Spain, Portugal, real estate area. 100% of facilities contained within our real estate France, Belgium, Argentina, Mexico, Ecuador, Peru, Chile, Qatar, portfolio were accounted for in the reporting tool. South Africa, Australia and China. Facility audits included AlcatelCarbon footprint: Of the 467 sites in our real estate portfolio Lucent Vermicate (Italy), Murray Hill (United States), Villarceaux during the year, 196 were directly responsible for inputting data (France), RFS Shanghai (China) and ASB Shanghai (China). Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 7 SUSTAINABILITY Our approach to sustainability: Responsible business innovation 2.7 Environmental risks Risks related to climate change such as pandemics while local emergency response plans supported individual facilities. Any company with global operations faces extreme weatherrelated risks resulting from climate change. Alcatel-Lucent designed many of its products to withstand extreme conditions, Laws and regulations and worked with customers to develop and customize product specifications to meet their needs. We maintained procedures Alcatel-Lucent’s operations, facilities and products remained throughout the year to ensure the safety of installation and subject to international, national and local laws and regulations engineering workforces in the field, factoring conditions in every jurisdiction where it operated last year. These laws and encountered due to climate change. These procedures were regulations impose various limits (including on the discharge of reviewed periodically and adjusted as needed. pollutants into the air and water) and establish standards for treating, storing and disposing of solid and hazardous waste that required the Alcatel-Lucent Group to remediate certain Provisions and guarantees for environmental risks sites. We continued to incur annual costs to comply with these laws and regulations in 2015. We continued to comply with all applicable environmental Throughout 2015, Alcatel-Lucent monitored legal, regulatory requirements and maintained our commitment to provide safe, and other developments that might affect the environmental, environmentally sound workplaces that will not adversely affect health and safety aspects of its activities, products or services. the health or safety of the communities in which we operate. Compliance reviews were performed regularly and appropriate The Group believes it is in material compliance with all remedial measures were implemented once applicable legal, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and that regulatory and other requirements were identified. it has obtained all material environmental permits and authorizations required for its operations and products. However, we may need to incur future expenditures significantly Remedial and investigative activities in excess of current expectations and forecasts to cover environmental liabilities, maintain compliance with current or Remedial and investigative activities continued in 2015 at future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, or numerous current and former facilities owned or operated by the undertake any necessary remediation. The future impact of former Alcatel and Lucent entities. In 2015, Lucent Technologies environmental matters, including potential liabilities, changes in Inc. (Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.) remained a potentially responsible carbon and environmental reporting requirements and the party at numerous Superfund sites, pursuant to the U.S. pricing of carbon emissions, is often difficult to estimate. We Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and modeled the potential pricing of carbon on our financial Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) or comparable state statutes in statements and, while it is not possible to predict the outcome the United States (Lucent Technologies Inc. had been named as of remedial and investigatory activities with absolute certainty, a successor to AT&T with respect to certain Superfund sites we believe the ultimate financial impact of these activities — net liabilities, as described below). of applicable reserves — will not have a material adverse effect Under a Separation and Distribution Agreement with AT&T and on our consolidated financial position or our income (loss) from NCR Corporation (a former subsidiary of AT&T), Alcatel-Lucent operating activities. USA Inc. agreed to assume responsibility for certain liabilities As of December 31, 2015, Alcatel-Lucent’s remaining resulting primarily from or relating to its assets and the operation outstanding balance related to its main provisions for of its business as conducted at any time before or after environmental risks was €67 million. separating from AT&T, including related businesses discontinued or disposed of prior to its separation from AT&T. Under the Separation and Distribution Agreement, AlcatelContingency planning and adaptation to Lucent USA Inc. is required to pay a portion of contingent liabilities in excess of certain amounts paid out by AT&T and environmental risks NCR, including environmental liabilities. In 2015, Alcatel-Lucent had 64 real estate business continuity For more information, including our anticipated remedial costs plans (BCPs) in place to address environmental and other risks associated with the cleanup of the Fox River Superfund Site in related to the potential loss of critical functions. These BCPs Wisconsin, please see Section 6.5 “Contractual obligations and targeted locations with more than 500 employees (or more than off-balance sheet contingent commitments,” subtitle “Specific 200 employees in areas with elevated risks) and covered all commitments — Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.” of the 2015 Annual critical real estate functions for a given location — enabling the Report on Form 20-F. In Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.’s Separation Group to respond to diverse threats mitigate risks. Certain plans Agreements with Agere and Avaya, those companies have were managed centrally as part of the Group’s corporate crisis agreed, subject to certain exceptions, to assume all management process for response to regional or global events environmental liabilities related to their respective businesses. 8 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Our approach to sustainability: Responsible business innovation 2.8 Taxation risks Alcatel-Lucent strove to comply with tax law and regulations in management (ERM) efforts and had one file on the group’s all countries where we operated last year. We published our tax ERM dashboard at year-end, relating to a complex tax audit policy (along with all major company policies) on our website. underway since mid-2012. Alcatel-Lucent used a third-party online application to track tax Throughout the year we actively followed developments at the litigations and areas of tax uncertainty around the world, and OECD related to Base Erosion & Profit Shifting (BEPS), reported any significant changes internally to management and especially for intellectual property remuneration and country-byalso to external auditors at least once every calendar quarter. country tax reporting requirements. The company’s tax team contributed to enterprise risk 3 Our engagement with stakeholders 3.1 Dialogue and action Stakeholder dialogue remained the cornerstone of our All our interactions with partners were constructive, completely approach to sustainability in 2015. We engaged actively with transparent and premised on meaningful action. These included material stakeholders in the public and private sectors direct discussions via the Alcatel-Lucent Sustainability Advisory (customers, investors and members of civil society) and with Panel, joint initiatives, global forums and conferences. We also employees to collectively address the global challenges of hosted online conversations via the Alcatel-Lucent Blog, Twitter, climate change, digital inclusion, human rights (e.g., freedom of YouTube and our internal social media platform, Engage. In all expression and privacy), ethical business practices and the such interactions, we applied relevant stakeholder governance evolution of digital economies. structures and ethics and compliance policies. 3.2 Stakeholder engagement highlights Below are select highlights of Alcatel-Lucent’s stakeholder engagement approach in 2015, including the frequency of engagement by type and stakeholder group, key topics and concerns, and how they were addressed: STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT VEHICLES 2015 RESULTS Employees Engage, our social networking Š Our award-winning social networking platform had more than 47,000 registered platform users and 2015 saw a 6.8% increase in interaction per piece of content. Engage is open to all employees, including management, and enables open, transparent Talent Dialogue tool and horizontal communication company-wide. Town hall meetings Š Our Talent Dialogue tool helped employees connect with managers bi-annually Annual “Top 200” Leadership on objectives and track individual progress meeting Š From April to December 2015 members of our leadership team travelled to Top10 Women nearly 30 major sites around the world to talk with employees about the Nokia deal and integration progress in person. These Town Hall meetings included live Intranet communications Q&A sessions. “You Made My Day” digital Š The annual Top 200 leadership meeting was held in September 2015 in Paris. initiative The theme was: “Proud of our Past, Inspired by our Future”. The meeting featured a highly informative keynote address and Q&A session with Nokia CEO, “Text-Me” SMS service Rajeev Suri. “On the Air” radio program Š The TOP10 Women leadership program continued its second year, providing “InnoZap” WebTV program customized career-development support to 10 women in each region. “Tip of the Month” intranet series Š As part of our global employee recognition program, a new digital initiative called “You Made My Day” was launched in mid-2015. The idea is to show how Podcasts and videos grateful we are to a colleague who offered a much appreciated helping hand by The Blog, Twitter, YouTube sending them a personalized message telling them so. Š The company maintained best-in-class open communications with employees, including social media and the “Text-Me” and “On the Air” tools to keep employees informed of the latest company news. 2015 saw the launch of a new innovation-focused webTV program known as “InnoZap” and a best practice series known as “Tip of the Month” Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 9 SUSTAINABILITY Our engagement with stakeholders Customers Sustainability Advisory Panel Š Three global service provider customers — members of the Alcatel-Lucent Sustainability Advisory Panel — continued to provide feedback on our strategy BT Better Future Supplier Forum and performance, shared their own programs and KPIs, and sought concrete The Shift Plan opportunities for partnership. Customer Satisfaction Survey Š In Spring 2015 Alcatel-Lucent was invited to participate in BT’s Better Future Program Supplier Forum (BFSF), dedicated to helping our customer meet its sustainability objectives of reducing its overall carbon footprint by a factor of 3. The first part of Quality Management System this program consisted of a deep evaluation of Alcatel-Lucent’s sustainability (QMS) activities according to BFSF metrics both at corporate and local levels. Following this first step evaluation, BT ranked Alcatel-Lucent among its top-performing Dedicated meetings at major suppliers. This program will continue in 2016 with a focus on supply chain industry events such as Mobile process improvements, quantifying the eco-sustainability value of Alcatel-Lucent World Congress and Broadband flagship products deployed in BT’s networks and exploring how to challenge the World Forum sustainability of BT’s communications solutions leveraging Bell Labs innovation. Dedicated operational reviews Š Alcatel-Lucent continued to work with customers including service providers, and audits on sustainability extra-large enterprises, network platform players, cable providers and certain Ad hoc initiatives such as the sectors of government investing in IP networking, ultra-broadband access and Telecommunications Industry cloud to address their communications needs. Dialogue on Human Rights Š Through our Customer Satisfaction Survey Program we interviewed 333 customers in person, representing our top 34 accounts (80% of our total revenue). Our QMS includes TL 9000 standards quality certification in 108 locations, 49 countries and 35 different product categories. We renewed our certification 2013-16. Š Over 1100 customer meetings and tours were held at Mobile World Congress in 2015. Š 823 customer events hosted at our global Executive Briefing Centers. Š We responded to more than 50 customer questionnaires on sustainability, supported audits in facilities globally, and participated in dedicated operational reviews on our sustainability performance and activities. Š We continued to work with seven of our customers to exchange best practices on human rights, freedom of expression and privacy via the Telecoms Industry Dialogue. Suppliers Require, Assess, Improve Š We continued to pursue sustainable purchasing through contracts with our approach suppliers, assessing their sustainability performance via ratings and onsite audits and supporting the remediation efforts of suppliers whose performance is not at EICC Code of Conduct and UN the expected level. Global Compact Principles Š 80% of our active suppliers rated “satisfactory” or above for their sustainability Anti-corruption requirements performance. Conflict Minerals Traceability Š We worked with suppliers to ensure compliance with the UN Global Compact Program Principles and EICC Code of Conduct. Š We implemented a compliance screening process for all suppliers, with two levels of screening depending on risk profiles. Š We surveyed more than 360 suppliers on conflict minerals to determine the origin of key components, and published our second conflict minerals report. Š We invited a Tier 1 supplier to join our Sustainability Advisory Panel and provide dedicated feedback on our strategy and performance. Š Alcatel-Lucent worked with approximately 40 governments and regulators — Public institutions Promotion of ultra-broadband many in emerging countries — to promote the benefits of ultra-broadband action and regulators access plans plans and digital inclusion. Š We invited a major regional public representative to join our Sustainability Advisory Panel and provide feedback on our strategy and performance. 10 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Our engagement with stakeholders Multilateral and Promotion of ultra-broadband Š We worked within the UN Broadband Commission and International industry access plans Telecommunication Union on key topics including ultra-broadband access, organizations energy efficiency, climate change and sustainable development goals at large. Energy efficiency and climate change Š In the context of the COP21, we worked with the European Round Table (ERT) to contribute to the global debate on carbon pricing, and more specifically, how Digital Health carbon pricing can incentivize low carbon innovation and investment in industry, Compliance and fair business while supporting the achievement of the UNFCCC worldwide 2°C goal. practices for the Š We partnered with the United Nations (UN, ITU) and the Inter-American telecommunications sector Development Bank on large scale digital health initiatives in Senegal and Mexico. We work closely with other organizations to promote and scale digital health to developing and emerging countries such as GSMA, UN Foundation, USAID and World Bank. Š We engaged in dialogue with the UN Global Compact and Transparency International on compliance and fair business practices for the telecoms sector following our signing of the UNGC’s Call to Action on Anti-Corruption in 2014, and participating in the UNGC’s Annual Summit and Work Group in New York City. Š We invited a major NGO to join our Sustainability Advisory Panel and feedback NGOs and civil Alcatel-Lucent Foundation on our strategy and performance. society Human rights, privacy and Š The Alcatel-Lucent Foundation launched 22 partnerships with non-profit freedom of expression organizations to develop digital education for youth in key geographies of strategic value to our business and significant for our employees. Š We launched a major Youth Innovation program in October 2015 in partnership with UNESCO and MakeSense. Š We communicated with key NGOs such as Access Now, CDT, GNI, IHRB, CDT and Privacy International on human rights issues. This was done both directly and through the Telecoms Industry Dialogue, which continued to collaborate with GNI on issues of freedom of expression and privacy. Š Alcatel-Lucent chaired the Telecoms Industry Dialogue between April and October to finalize the merger of the Industry Dialogue and GNI, enabling a truly multi-stakeholder ICT organization dedicated to mitigating risks related to freedom of expression and privacy worldwide. Š Alcatel-Lucent regularly updated shareholders and prospective investors on its Investors Regular meetings business strategy, activities and financial performance — with a focus on The Quarterly earnings Shift Plan — through quarterly earnings announcements. announcements Š We interacted regularly with investors in one-on-one meetings to discuss specific Annual shareholder meeting aspects of our sustainability performance in all five priority areas identified by the materiality assessment. Annual Financial Report on Form 20-F Š We invited a key investor to join our Sustainability Advisory Panel and provide dedicated feedback on our strategy and performance. Sustainability Report Š We reported our financial performance and activities through our Annual Financial Report on Form 20-F (with a dedicated chapter on sustainability under “20-F Additional Information”) and through our 2014 Sustainability Report and Annual Review. Š The Alcatel-Lucent Foundation provided US$0.9 million to charitable programs Local communities Philanthropy benefitting 47,000 individuals in communities around the world. More than 2,500 Digital literacy of youth, with a employees donated 10,400 volunteer hours to these programs. focus on young women, in Š We continued to support local organizations and grassroots programs dedicated disadvantaged communities to education, the digital literacy of youth and — especially — innovation. Our ConnectEd program concluded in 2015: over 4 years it provided training to 22,575 youth, 58% of whom were girls. Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 11 SUSTAINABILITY Ethical Business 4 Ethical Business 4.1 Our approach to ethics and compliance Alcatel-Lucent maintained a zero-tolerance policy for representatives from Law, Finance, Operations, Human compliance violations and reinforced full integrity in every Resources, Communications, Corporate Audit Services, business action from every employee in 2015. The Group’s Corporate Investigation Services Operations, and the Office of ethics and compliance activities were overseen by an Ethics Business Integrity & Compliance. The Council met quarterly and and Compliance Council established in February 2007 and oversaw Alcatel-Lucent’s Group-level design and composed of the Chief Compliance Officer as well as implementation of an integrated ethics and compliance system. 4.2 Ethics and Compliance Management System We began implementing a comprehensive Ethics and Š a Compliance Hotline and other reporting vehicles; Compliance Management System in 2007 — to promote Š policies, procedures and controls; compliance and ethical behavior consistent with the highest standards of our customers, shareholders and employees. This Š monitoring and auditing practices; system aims to prevent and detect violations of law, regulation and company policy, and to cultivate an ethical business culture Š an annual compliance risk assessment (with related throughout the company. Key elements of the Ethics and mitigation plans and processes for continuous improvement); Compliance Management System include: Š education and training; Š a comprehensive compliance governance structure; Š ethics and compliance communications focusing on Š the Alcatel-Lucent Code of Conduct; maintaining a “speak-up” culture; and Š a global compliance-resolution process. 4.3 Alcatel-Lucent Code of Conduct and Compliance Hotline Alcatel-Lucent Code of Conduct All reports made to the Compliance Hotline are subject to due diligence to determine the organization best suited to respond. The Code of Conduct is available in 22 languages on our Most are investigated by Corporate Investigation Services with intranet and can be viewed by third parties on our external help from other bodies, as appropriate, such as Law, Regional website. In 2015, all employees and non-employee workers Compliance, Human Resources and Corporate Audit Services. were required to review the Alcatel-Lucent Code of Conduct to In 2015, 425 issues/allegations were reported to the understand their obligation to abide by it. The company Compliance Hotline. During the year, 90 allegations (49 of which achieved greater than 94% compliance globally for this review were opened prior to 2015) were substantiated with “cause and acknowledgment process. found” after investigation. Of these, 80 resulted in disciplinary action up to and including termination. Compliance Hotline Last year, 30 cases involved allegations of potential harassment or discrimination (including those categorized as sexual Alcatel-Lucent’s Compliance Hotline is available in 114 harassment), and 36 potential harassment or discrimination countries — 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Our noncases were closed in the year (16 of which were opened prior to retaliation policy specifically prohibits adverse action against 2015). Of the 36 cases closed, six resulted in a “cause found” employees who report suspected violations of law or company determination. policy in good faith. Zero cases involved violations related to our commitments on human rights freedom of expression and privacy. 4.4 Compliance with competition and anti-trust laws Alcatel-Lucent has a clear policy to obtain business solely on with laws that promote and protect competition in the the merits of its products, services and people. Compliance marketplace (“competition laws” and “anti-trust laws”) is 12 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Ethical Business carefully spelled out in our Code of Conduct and competition/ Suppliers and contractors from whom we purchase goods and anti-trust law policy and guidelines. We comply with all services are also required to comply with our competition/antiinternational trade laws, including applicable export, import and trust law policy. Competition/anti-trust law violations can be sanction laws, and regulations in the countries where we do reported via the Alcatel-Lucent Compliance Hotline. business. Employees whose jobs are affected by this policy participate in relevant in-person and online training programs. 4.5 Ethics and compliance training In 2015, Alcatel-Lucent’s Compliance and Business Integrity Targeted compliance areas included export control, national Training Program continued to educate employees about their security agreements, data privacy for Information personal and professional responsibilities under the AlcatelSystem/Information Technology, free/open source software, Lucent Code of Conduct, fostering commitment to the highest environment health and safety, and harassment and levels of ethical business conduct. Courses were updated as discrimination. Additional recommended training was delivered needed to reflect current business requirements and evolving on information security, data privacy for human resources, regulations. environment, and health and safety. This complemented the requirement for all employees and non-employee contract We also continued to implement a comprehensive global ethics workers to complete the “Conducting Business with Integrity” and compliance training program, deploying seven mandatory, training, which reviewed the Alcatel-Lucent Code of Conduct. specialized compliance courses based on job responsibility. 4.6 Actions taken to prevent corruption Anti-corruption is a key compliance priority for Alcatel-Lucent. Š enhanced risk management of sales and other third parties Our policy is to conduct business only on the merits of our through the application of new third-party screening and products, services and people. We never pay, offer or promise selection processes, and globally implementing a third-party to provide anything of value to obtain or retain business or to registry and online screening tool. secure any improper advantage, and we never allow a The Anti-Corruption Third-Party Risk Management, Screening representative or business partner to make illegal payments or and Selection Policy (and its accompanying approval promises on our behalf. Our position on anti-corruption comes processes) are subject to annual review and revision to capture from the highest level of the company, is unmistakable and any changes in regulatory requirements and lessons learned definitive, and applied with zero tolerance for non-compliance. during the year. We maintain processes and training to prevent and detect potential business risk regarding bribery and corruption. AlcatelConsolidated risk assessment results are shared regularly with all Lucent strictly prohibits bribes in any form and continues to interested stakeholders including senior management. enhance policies, programs and procedures to include a clear Compliance Committees composed of management from Sales, requirement to comply with anti-corruption requirements. Finance, Legal, HR and Compliance have been established in the regions and business units to regularly review anti-corruption Our Anti-Corruption Compliance Program focuses on ensuring compliance. In addition, unit compliance leaders provide quarterly employee awareness of and compliance with our 6 company status reports to the Office of Business Integrity & Compliance policies and applicable laws such as the United States Foreign detailing ongoing implementation of their action plans. Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act. Key pillars of our anti-corruption program include: Š ongoing monitoring of legislative and regulatory activities; 2015 highlights Š annual program self-assessment and development of related Every part of our business (including regions, business groups enhancement plans; and central functions) was analyzed for risks related to corruption. To ensure full alignment, each operating unit’s Š annual compliance risk assessment with related mitigation compliance risk assessment report was reviewed, approved plans; and documented by the Management Committee member Š regular status reporting to senior management; responsible for that organization. Š continued implementation of a web-based tool to ensure Alcatel-Lucent updated eight policy documents connected to gifts, travel and hospitality events are granted in accordance Anti-Corruption, to align with the stricter policies and tool with anti-corruption policies; and procedures introduced in 2014. Full deployment of the Gifts, Travel and Entertainment online tool, and related training occurred in early 2015. Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 13 SUSTAINABILITY Ethical Business 4.7 Protecting privacy Alcatel-Lucent remained committed to respecting individual Š designed and deployed training modules for specific privacy rights and expectations, and to protecting personal data audiences (e.g., HR, IS/IT, Sales, R&D) to complement the against unauthorized access, use, retention or disclosure in Code of Conduct; 2015. We set up a comprehensive organizational structure in Š made available various awareness and educational charge of privacy and data protection (P&DP) compliance that resources including FAQs and “what if?” scenarios, some of includes the following: which were produced for specific occasions such as the Š Chief Privacy Officer (CPO) annual international data privacy day; and The CPO served as primary senior sponsor and leader Š continuously monitored data privacy regulatory responsible for ensuring Alcatel-Lucent had a consistent and developments as well as changes in regulations pertaining to effective P&DP strategy in line with the overall business areas such as the Internet of Things, cloud and Big Data. strategy, as well as an associated P&DP compliance program. Specific to 2015, the P&DP Compliance Program also: Š P&DP Compliance Program Owner Š conducted an internal review to identify how this corporate The Compliance Program Owner’s primary responsibility was team could further support to Alcatel-Lucent entities in to establish and execute the P&DP Compliance Program complying with applicable local data privacy laws; (including chairing the P&DP Steering Committee). Š analyzed data privacy-related requirements from a sample of Š P&DP Lead Counsel customers’ Request for Information (RFI), Request for This person ensured the various P&DP players had all Proposal (RFP) and Request for Quotation (RFQ) documents necessary legal advice and support throughout the year. to better understand customer expectations and prepare standardized responses on behalf of our pre-sales and sales Š P&DP Steering Committee teams; and Established in 2010, this committee’s role was to provide overall cross-functional oversight of the design and Š introduced the Alcatel-Lucent approach on P&DP to the implementation of Alcatel-Lucent’s privacy program. It met Sustainability Advisory Panel during a session focused on several times during the year and was composed of the Ethics & Compliance (a representative from Orange CPO, the Lead Counsel and other senior leaders from CTO, reciprocally presented how that company handles similar Corporate Security, Corporate Sustainability, Human issues with end users and consumers). Resources and IS/IT. As Alcatel-Lucent operates in a business-to-business model, its Š Data Privacy Team (DPT) privacy activities continued to focus on its own employees. This multi-disciplinary team carried out daily operational Nonetheless Alcatel-Lucent has a public Global Privacy and tasks and activities in support of the various business units Data Protection Policy, which can be viewed at the bottom of and their project teams assessing and mitigating P&DP risks. every page of our website. This policy applies to all business It also worked to ensure members of the Data Privacy activities of Alcatel-Lucent S.A., AlcatelLucent International Network (DPN), which represented Alcatel-Lucent affiliates, and all of their subsidiaries, and to all Alcatel-Lucent websites had the necessary information to conduct their own that are operated by or on behalf of Alcatel-Lucent and/or link compliance assessments with local laws, and to implement to the Global Privacy and Data Protection Policy. This policy necessary local actions such as submitting filings to data does not apply to consumer activities as Alcatel-Lucent does protection authorities or preparing needed communications not have direct business relations with consumers. to works councils and users. In April 2015, Nokia announced the intention to acquire AlcatelAs part of its annual activities, the P&DP Compliance Program Lucent to create a global leader in connectivity. Working last year: sessions about Data Privacy compliance took place throughout the second half of the year between Nokia and Alcatel-Lucent Š conducted an assessment and developed a related as a specific sub-stream under the overall Legal & Compliance enhancement plan; integration stream, for the two companies to understand the Š developed policies, procedures and guidelines to meet values, policies, governance model and other aspects in order regulatory and customer requirements; to prepare a successful integration of Alcatel-Lucent into Nokia upon Closing of the Offer. 4.8 Telecoms Industry Dialogue on freedom of expression and privacy The United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Framework — were endorsed in June 2011. They clarify the Rights — the so-called “Ruggie Principles” that led to the responsibility of governments to protect human rights and the establishment of the UN Protect, Respect and Remedy responsibility of the business community to respect human 14 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Ethical Business rights in its global operations and ecosystems. In 2012, Alcatelglobal telecommunications operators and vendors that has Lucent updated its Global Human Rights Policy to align with the been meeting since 2011 to discuss freedom of expression and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and privacy rights in the telecommunication sector. In 2013, ID designated the Chief Compliance Officer as the company’s members jointly launched the 10 Guiding Principles on representative on human rights at the executive level. Telecommunications and Freedom of Expression and Privacy of which Alcatel-Lucent’s implementation measures can be found In 2013, as part of our internal processes, we developed human in the table below. In 2015, Alcatel-Lucent chaired the ID from rights due diligence requirements for material commercial April to October, bringing greater visibility to vendor issues proposals and extended our human rights commitments to relating to freedom of expression and privacy such as resellers. We also designed and deployed a multilingual encryption, and furthering collaboration with the Global Network employee training module to build awareness of human rights Initiative (GNI) to create a united multi-stakeholder ICT approach principles throughout the company. These measures were to human rights. We also chaired the publication of ID’s Annual deployed in 2014 – 2015. Report (available at http://www.telecomindustrydialogue.org/ The Group continued to broaden its security geographic wp-content/uploads/Telco-Industry-Dialogue-Annual-Reportscreening processes and compliance screening of third parties, 2015.pdf) and hosted a major stakeholder event in April 2015 and to engage in ongoing monitoring of its supply chain to presenting ID’s achievements and milestones to more than 30 assess key aspects of human rights. organizations — from investors and multilateral bodies such as OECD and UNESCO to individual rating agencies and peers Externally, we deepened our collaboration with the from the telecoms sector. Telecommunications Industry Dialogue (ID) — a group of nine Implementing the Industry Dialogue Guiding Principles GUIDING PRINCIPLE ALCATEL-LUCENT 2015 ACTIVITIES: 1. Create and revise relevant policies with Board oversight or equivalent, Alcatel-Lucent published a revised version of its Human Rights policy outlining our commitment to prevent, assess and mitigate to the best in line with UN Guiding Principles. The Chief Compliance Officer of our ability the risks to freedom of expression and privacy associated (CCO) served as the designated company executive for human with designing, selling and operating telecommunications technology rights, freedom of expression and privacy activities. and services. In 2015, the CCO, Corporate Investigation Services and legal counsel, with the assistance of the Head of Sustainability and involvement from the Anti-Corruption Program Office, progressively deployed company-wide implementation measures focused on commercial due diligence. These measures were reviewed by senior management and our Sustainability Advisory Panel, and included: Š screening for commercial due diligence; Š creating legal clauses for resellers; Š designing employee-wide training; Š ensuring implementation across our supply chain; and Š continuing advocacy and stakeholder engagement via the Industry Dialogue and in one-on-one sessions with investors, members of civil society and public institution representatives. 2. Conduct regular human rights impact assessments and use due With the help of Compliance legal counsel, we broadened our diligence processes (as appropriate to the company) to identify, company-wide export control and compliance processes to identify mitigate and manage risks to freedom of expression and privacy — in freedom of expression and privacy risks. Two major cases were relation to particular technologies, products, services or countries — identified and reviewed. We also monitored potential technology, according to the Guiding Principles for the Implementation of the UN commercial and geographical risks via our Compliance Hotline and Protect, Respect and Remedy Framework. enterprise risk management processes. 3. Create operational processes and routines to evaluate and handle As a vendor of telecommunications equipment, we usually receive government requests that may have an impact on freedom of government requests at the operator service level (i.e., from our expression and privacy. customers). Our compliance and export control processes offer mechanisms to report and evaluate requests that affect our business. Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 15 SUSTAINABILITY Ethical Business 4. Adopt, where feasible, strategies to anticipate, respond to and The Alcatel-Lucent Code of Conduct encourages reporting of minimize the potential impact on freedom of expression and privacy in suspected or observed violations of law or company policy, the event that a government demand or request is unlawful, or where including unlawful use or misuse of products, through the governments are believed to be misusing products or technology for Compliance Issues Reporting Methods Initiative. During 2015, we illegitimate purposes. implemented further screening at the regional level to anticipate, respond to and minimize the potential impact on freedom of expression and privacy related to a government demand or request. We also continued to work with key stakeholders (i.e., investors, NGOs and multilateral organizations) to provide awareness of unlawful or misuse of telecommunications products and technology via the Telecommunications Industry Dialogue. 5. Always seek to ensure the safety and liberty of company personnel The Alcatel-Lucent Code of Conduct includes a zero-tolerance who may be placed at risk. commitment to protect the health, safety and security of employees during their operational activities. 6. Raise awareness of and train employees in relevant policies and Dedicated material on human rights, freedom of expression and processes. privacy was included in the company’s mandatory employee training on business integrity. This was extended to non-employee contract workers. A dedicated module was also included in Alcatel-Lucent University in English, French and simplified Chinese. 7. Share knowledge and insights with all relevant and interested As an individual company and member of the Industry Dialogue, we stakeholders to improve understanding of the applicable legal participated in regular meetings with key stakeholders and met with framework and the effectiveness of these principles in practice, and investors, government and civil society representatives to share our provide support for the implementation and further development of progress and challenges relating to human rights. Where possible, the principles. we actively participated in key global forums via the Industry Dialogue, exchanged ideas at bilateral meetings and leveraged social media platforms such as Twitter. Alcatel-Lucent also chaired the Industry Dialogue from April-October 2015 with a particular focus on advancing collaboration between ID and the Global Network Initiative (GNI). We also spoke in the November 2015 Ethical Corporation conference to share best practices relating to human rights. 8. Report externally — on an annual basis, and whenever circumstances Through our Sustainability Report and associated website, we make it relevant — on progress implementing the principles, and as transparently reported on our implementation of the Industry appropriate on major events occurring in this regard. Dialogue’s Guiding Principles. 9. Inform the development of policy and regulations that support Through the Industry Dialogue and its GNI collaboration, we spoke freedom of expression and privacy including, alone or in cooperation with members of the ICT industry last year to inform the with other entities, using our leverage to mitigate potential negative development of policies and regulations supporting freedom of impacts from policies or regulations. expression and privacy. We also engaged in conversations with multilateral organizations including UNESCO, investors, rating agencies and individual members of the telecoms industry to share challenges and best practices relating to freedom of expression and privacy. 10. Collectively examine options for implementing relevant grievance In 2015, the Industry Dialogue exchanged best practices and tools mechanisms as outlined in Principle 31 of the UN Guiding Principles on grievance mechanisms. Alcatel-Lucent continued to provide a for Business and Human Rights. comprehensive grievance mechanism to all employees via its Compliance Hotline. 16 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Environment 5 Environment 5.1 Overall environmental policy Our approach to eco-sustainability provided technical support to local EHS representatives for the implementation of EHS programs, and used the EHS The information and communications technology (ICT) sector Management System (EHSMS) to ensure compliance, has the potential to play a critical role in addressing challenges continual improvement and performance in line with industry related to climate change. In 2015, Alcatel-Lucent continued to best practices. leverage its technological innovations to help customers Š The Chief Technical Office (CTO) and Bell Labs, which respond to their environmental challenges, while reducing its addressed environmental initiatives and goals linked to own direct environmental impact following a three-part products, services and solutions. In collaboration with approach: product and research teams, the CTO and Bell Labs looked Š Developing eco-sustainable networks: Creating and for ways to minimize the environmental impact of our bringing to market products, services and solutions that products throughout their life cycle by developing and contribute to environmentally responsible end-to-end deploying eco-conscious design processes, practices and networks. tools. It also sought to identify ways in which ICT can be used to enable a low-carbon economy. Š Leading the telecoms industry: Finding new responses to today’s climate change challenges through open, collaborative research partnerships and forums (such as the Employee eco-awareness GreenTouch™ consortium) as well as our own Bell Labs research on energy efficiency. To inspire all employees to be aware of EHS issues, we: Š Reducing our carbon footprint: Decreasing our absolute Š shared updates on sustainability progress through blog carbon footprint from operations by 50% by 2020 compared posts, podcasts and Twitter sessions; to our 2008 baseline. By the end of 2015, our carbon footprint had decreased by 46% compared to the 2008 Š offered web-based EHS training; baseline. Š held an Earth Day awareness campaign through the AlcatelLucent intranet and on-site events; Eco-sustainability governance Š distributed EHS employee news via email, our internal Engage social media platform and our EHSMS intranet Environmental activities at Alcatel-Lucent fell under the website; and responsibility of three bodies in 2015: Š renovated our facilities to ensure all new offices implemented Š The Green Operations Sustainability Team, which cost-effective, eco-efficient standards for heating, cooling managed operational initiatives linked to the environment and and recycling. climate change, and leveraged a network of local Green In 2015, a survey was sent to 20,317 employees around the team leaders to ensure reliable, on-time carbon footprint world to learn more about the commuting habits of Alcatelreporting and proper implementation of local action plans. Lucent employees. With a response rate of 24%, the survey Š The Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) Office, which allowed us to estimate the carbon emissions associated with developed compliance assurance programs and policies to employee commuting. In addition, our efforts related to meet legal, customer and company requirements. It also environmental protection were rated as “good” or “excellent” by 57% of employees. 5.2 Developing networks with sustainable use of resources Managing materials: Measures to improve efficiency products. Data and results from LCA assessments inform continual improvements to achieve more efficient use of raw of raw materials use materials and energy at every stage of product life: raw material We use a life cycle assessment (LCA) approach to evaluate the extraction, pre-processing, intermediate material and consumption of raw materials throughout the life cycles of our component manufacturing, final manufacturing and assembly, packaging, distribution and installation, use, and end-of-life Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 17 SUSTAINABILITY Environment reuse and recycling. These improvements are then incorporated substances, providing key details on current and pending into our best practices for environmentally conscious product restrictions, hazards and issues of concern. Designers could design. then take appropriate steps to avoid using those substances in the components and materials being selected for a Examples of Alcatel-Lucent processes for improving the product under development. Other stakeholders such as efficiency of raw materials use are as follows: researchers also used the database to learn about any Š Designing for standardization reduces parts inventories by concerns related to the potential use of a particular increasing the use of “golden catalogs” and reuse of “golden substance. The tool was updated on a regular basis as new parts.” The use of golden catalogs ensured adherence to our information emerged regarding a substance’s environmental, list of preferred/allowed suppliers and compliance with our health and safety impacts. policies on restricted substances and other factors. Golden Š Accelerated innovation delivers technological and parts were selected after comprehensive analysis, confirmed environmental innovations to market more quickly, increasing by preferred suppliers and approved by a forum of technical, access to resource-efficient equipment that uses less energy business and quality experts. The primary purpose of a and material resources. For example, network functions golden catalog for a family of materials, components or virtualization (NFV) enables both network automation and the products is to minimize the variety of parts across business rapid scaling up and down of services, allowing service lines and product divisions, which in turn reduces costs, providers to innovate more quickly and make more efficient improves quality and flexibility, and accelerates time-touse of their resources for a better return on their market. At Alcatel-Lucent, golden catalogs were refreshed investments. NFV can optimize the delivery of services such on either a 12or 18-month cycle (depending on how fast as voice over LTE, web real-time communications and the technology changes) to ensure accuracy and relevance machine-to-machine communications — and can cut the in our very dynamic environment. At year-end 2015, Alcateltime and costs of bringing other new services to market. Lucent was using approximately 4,030 golden parts in its Shifting from dedicated hardware to virtualized or shared product components. For new product development in hardware also helped us reduce the use of material 2015, golden parts comprised 61% of all items used in a bill resources. of materials — a significant achievement from a standardization and complexity reduction perspective. Š Product packaging has a direct impact on the raw materials consumed and waste generated from our Š Eco-efficient product designs provide increased manufacturing processes. It also affects the amount of functionality (e.g., capacity, service, performance) per unit of transport space required to deliver our products and, as a energy consumed while occupying less physical space, result, the energy efficiency of product transportation. weighing less and using fewer types of raw materials. As an Alcatel-Lucent worked with a leading North American example, the latest release of the 7950 Extensible Routing customer to optimize the packaging and delivery of remote System (XRS) offered efficiency gains through its drastically radio head (RRH) kits to the customers’ locations. Pallet reduced resource footprint as well as its energy and containers that used a simple tray–tube configuration allow thermally efficient design. Despite its minimal footprint, the easier packing and unpacking, a higher stacking strength 7950 XRS-30 with 400 G slots can scale up to 16 terabits in that minimizes the need for protective materials, and more a standard rack. As network traffic continues to grow, this efficient loading into a standard trailer along with minimal type of scalability will be essential to providing extended shifting during transit. longevity in the network. Š Improved materials selection guidance supports optimal Product materials content materials selection during the design phase. For example, we In 2015, Alcatel-Lucent delivered 135,425 metric tons of developed a database and search tool to help designers equipment to market. We were committed to analyzing the know about and avoid using substances of concern in their composition of our products’ component materials and component and materials selection. This tool allowed recycled content to ensure our design process made the most designers to quickly look up information on thousands of efficient use of materials. 18 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Environment The following chart breaks down the materials content of some Š Polyvinyl chloride (PVC): We voluntarily reduced our use of of our finished products: PVC over the past several years in recognition of its associated environmental and human health risks. In 2015, we achieved our goal to eliminate PVC from our products where it was technically, economically and environmentally feasible. Š Heavy metals: Our products are fully compliant with the requirements for heavy metals as specified in RoHS and REACH. We adopted this EU-focused compliance globally — with all new network infrastructure products implemented since 2010 being lead-free soldered by design, well in advance of the expiration of the RoHS lead-in-solder exemption for network infrastructure equipment. Š Halogen: Our products were free of hexabromocyclododecane (HBCD), a brominated flame retardant, ahead of the ban by the Stockholm Convention that came into force in late 2014. We continued to investigate halogen-free printed wiring board materials for lead-free assembly in 2015, leading to the We also worked closely with our components and materials approval of several halogen-free materials for use in our suppliers to use a high percentage of recycled input materials in designs. Our radio frequency systems (RFS) product group raw materials processing and manufacturing. The following continued its development and deployment of the recently chart illustrates the percentage of recycled metals typically introduced HybriFlex and RadiaFlex RF cabling, with the end contained within our feedstock materials: result being a low-smoke, zero-halogen cable product family Percentage of recycled metals in product that can meet customers’ technical needs as well as the harsh Typical configuration environment of the sites where the cables are installed. 40 36% We invest in R&D, partnerships and externally-funded projects to identify and evaluate alternative materials with reduced 30 27% 28% environmental impact (whether through reduced toxicity or prolonged product life cycle). These included PVC alternatives, 21% halogenand lead-free materials, fluxes and corrosion 20 protection. Our history of leading-edge, lead-free R&D — both internally and via industry partnerships — was crucial in 10 establishing a critical understanding of lead-free assembly reliability, and addressing key risk areas such as device 0 attachment, surface finishes, solder alloys and tin whiskers. IP Routing IP Transport Wireless Access Wireline Access (7750 SR12) (1830 PSS4) (9234 BS) (7360 ISAM FX8) R&D projects in this area included collaboration with Tier 1 contract manufacturers, component and material suppliers, Restricted substances industry consortia (e.g., iNEMI, UNOVIS AREA, HDPUG) and universities. These collaborations ensure the broadest and Our EHS design policies outlines our global mandates, deepest possible technical perspectives are leveraged to help requirements and standards related to the use of hazardous drive industry progress and change in reducing the substances. We also maintain similar standards for our environmental impact of electronics products and materials. suppliers: our contracts included clauses mandating specific requirements for substances that are banned, restricted, to be avoided or reportable to us (See Section 8.2). Product energy efficiency We make eco-declarations for all new product introductions The rapid increase of broadband traffic, along with the available to our customers. These include information on skyrocketing number of connected consumers, end-user hazardous substances affected by regulations such as the devices and services, is putting pressure on the ICT sector to Restriction of Certain Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive introduce more power-efficient technologies. At Alcatel-Lucent, and the Restriction, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals increased energy efficiency is an ongoing objective that covers (REACH) Regulation. Each eco-declaration also states the our entire product portfolio. availability of relevant information on the treatment of pertinent parts at recycling facilities. Some recent examples of energy efficiency initiatives and achievements across our business lines include: We regularly update our hazardous substances requirements to include new requirements and voluntary targets. For example: Š Fixed networks: Over the past few years we were able to improve the energy efficiency of our gigabit passive optical Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 19 SUSTAINABILITY Environment network (GPON) line cards by more than 40% through the Š Wireless networks: We developed a holistic approach to development and deployment of our in-house applicationincreasing the energy efficiency of our radio access portfolio. specific integrated circuits (ASICs). In addition, passive At the site and system architecture levels, we promoted the optical LANs (POL) using GPON technology provide better implementation of distributed site architectures based on network performance than traditional copper-based LANs remote radio head and the deployment of heterogeneous while reducing deployment and operational costs. networks, leveraging features that can switch macro cell Specifically, POL with GPON consumes less energy by using carriers or small cells on or off depending on traffic load. At equipment that requires less power and cooling, cutting the product design level, our macro base station radio energy consumption by more than 50% compared to legacy modules can adjust power consumption based on traffic networks — making it the most cost-effective and ecoload. Energy efficiency also drove our small cell product sustainable option for deploying a LAN infrastructure. designs. We focused on identifying energy efficient hardware architectures, selecting components with low power Š IP routing: Environmental concerns were front of mind when consumption and providing increased functionality for similar we designed the 7950 XRS core router, with numerous power-consumption level. Our internal evaluation found that aspects of its cooling and power systems being industry the functional energy efficiency of our WCDMA radio access firsts. In addition to exceptional power efficiency resulting technology in 2015 had improved by 190% compared to a from its FP3 silicon building blocks, the 7950 XRS system 2008 baseline, significantly exceeding our target of 75%. design incorporates intelligent power-management capabilities. This allows operators to monitor the power consumption of individual components to assure power Impacts of our products on health and safety safety thresholds and manage power-up/down priorities in Alcatel-Lucent remained committed to meeting the needs of its the event of degraded power availability. Other key customers and ensuring the safety of its employees and the enhancements included clock-gating techniques that general public throughout 2015, continuing its program of dynamically reduce power to system components not in use assessing the health and safety impacts of all products at all as well as modular fans that adjust to provide appropriate stages of their life cycles. During the design phase, we worked cooling as needed. With these kinds of innovations, the 7950 with suppliers to avoid the use of hazardous materials. We also XRS helps network operators to reduce their environmental ensured that all materials were prepared for transportation impact while saving on total cost of ownership: a fully loaded according to nationally or internationally accepted regulations. 7950 XRS-20, for example, consumes only one watt per Our technical documentation provided specific guidance for the gigabit of traffic switched and occupies only 39 RU in a safe use of our products, and mandatory training for Alcatelstandard 19-inch rack. Lucent Services personnel covered a range of topics to ensure Š IP transport: Combining state-of-the-art routing and optical a safe workplace. transport technologies delivers significant cost and All Alcatel-Lucent products that emit radio frequency (RF) performance synergies for a more agile, dynamic and energy were required to comply with country-specific integrated network. Alcatel-Lucent expanded its 1830 regulations for human exposure to RF emissions during Photonic Service Switch (PSS) portfolio with cloud-optimized manufacturing and product use. Compliance was determined metro platforms — the next-generation1830 PSS-4 and either by analytical assessment or measurement of propagated PSS-16 along with the new 1830 PSS-8 — to meet RF energy. escalating video, cloud and data center traffic demands. These high-capacity transport platforms double the capacity Electronic waste was shipped only to processing facilities that of optical metro solutions available today, reducing their size had passed our EHS liability assessment. Unless otherwise by up to 50% and power consumption by up to 40%. The specified, all electronic waste was processed to recover as re-design of our 10 Gb/s and 40 Gb/s line cards with new much recyclable material as possible. ASICs resulted in energy efficiency improvements of up to 58% for some 1830 PSS platform configurations. Safety within the electromagnetic environment Significant improvements were also achieved in our We continued to closely follow all health and regulatory issues microwave transport solutions. The Alcatel-Lucent 9500 related to wireless communications, including those associated Microwave Packet Radio (MPR) was designed with packet with the electromagnetic environment. This effort has been technology at its foundation to provide the lowest total cost recognized by third parties such as the Dow Jones of ownership along with the smallest footprint — and can be, Sustainability Index (DJSI), which since 2006 has assigned for some long-haul configurations, up to 109% more energy Alcatel-Lucent the highest score achievable in the efficient than the previous 9600 Long-Haul System (LSY). electromagnetic fields category. We actively contributed to the international standardization bodies that develop exposure Š IP platforms: Our IP platforms leveraged the new generation assessment standards. Our entire product portfolio — including of ENERGY STAR® certified IT servers to deliver increased macro cells, small cells and Wi-Fi® — complied with all national processing capacity without an equivalent increase in power and international standards and regulations on RF exposure. consumption. With the 8620 SurePay, for example, the target with these new servers is to improve energy efficiency Our position regarding human exposure to RF transmissions by more than 50% compared to the previous server was based on the opinion of more than 150 expert committees generation. mandated by national and international authorities to assess the 20 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Environment advancement of scientific knowledge. All have concluded including hazardous waste and electronic scrap — were consistently that there is no established health effect from required to evaluate the possibility of reusing Alcatel-Lucentexposure to RF fields below the limits set by the International branded equipment for maintenance or resale purposes, and to Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP), the reduce waste and scrap generation by applying pollutioninternational commissions recognized by the World Health prevention and waste-minimization principles and mechanisms Organization (WHO) or similar recommendations from the at both the process and facility levels. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). Discharges, emissions and releases As described in the WHO’s Fact Sheet 304: “Considering the very low exposure levels and research results collected to date, In compliance with local laws and regulations, we maintained there is no convincing scientific evidence that the weak radio reporting processes for air emissions and water and soil frequency signals from base stations and wireless networks discharges that seriously harm the environment in the countries in cause adverse health effects.” This statement applies to all which we operate. No air emissions or water and soil discharges mobile and wireless network technologies implemented by above any legal reportable quantities took place in 2015. Alcatel-Lucent, including CDMA, GSM, WCDMA/UMTS, LTE and Wi-Fi. Noise Harmonizing RF exposure limits We monitored our operations and activities with regard to occupational noise and community noise regulations. In 2015, We tracked the evolution of the scientific knowledge on which no noise-related issues were reported or regulatory citations present exposure limits are based. Expert committees such as written regarding either community or occupational noise. Europe’s Scientific Committee on Emerging and Newly Identified Health Risks concluded that there is no established Takeback, remanufacturing and recycling health effect at exposure levels below the guidelines developed by ICNIRP. Alcatel-Lucent offered global product takeback, remanufacturing and recycling services for any type of telecom Contributing to international standardization products regardless of vendor. Members of our global network initiatives of approved recycling vendors collected and recycled products We supported the development of global standards for that have reached their end of life. Customers were provided exposure assessment through international standardization with an online request form to arrange equipment pick-up. bodies and industry associations such as the GSM Association. Where possible, we participated in public recovery systems. We contributed in particular to the International Electrotechnical In 2015, Alcatel-Lucent managed 4,579 metric tons of Commission (IEC), the International Telecommunication Union electronic waste. Of this, 95.4% was recycled or resold, 1.3% (ITU) and the European Committee for Electrotechnical was treated by incineration and 3.3% was disposed of via Standardization (CENELEC). secure landfill. Of the recycled or resold electronics, 294 metric tons of equipment and components were remanufactured and/ or resold, of which 84,721 circuit packs and 514 configured Pollution and waste management pieces of equipment were remanufactured internally at AlcatelLucent. Approved recycling partners recycled 4,077 metric Monitoring and reduction tons. Waste We also avoided producing more than 7,189 metric tons of We have reduced the amount of waste generated by 42% (i.e., CO2e by remanufacturing new equipment and components. In 7,167 metric tons) between 2013 and 2015. In 2012, we 2015, 6 new product families were added to our established an objective to reduce the amount of landfilled remanufacturing and resale operations. The overall number of waste to 15% by 2015 (down from 36% in 2009). (“Waste” Alcatel-Lucent product families under this remanufacturing/ refers to all hazardous and non-hazardous waste from our resale process grew from 45 in 2008 to 103 in 2015. operations, excluding electronic waste.) Telecommunication networks operated by our customers require significant amounts of batteries to maintain the backup Total estimated amount of landfilled hazardous and nonpower to run a stable network. Alcatel-Lucent operated a hazardous waste battery maintenance, installation, removal, transportation and 2013 24% recycling program across the United States to ensure the 2014 14% batteries in its equipment were properly managed and recycled. 2015 20% The goal was to prevent the potentially harmful chemicals in lead-acid batteries from entering the waste stream and instead Note: Waste data based on total extrapolated hazardous and non-hazardous waste make available for use in new batteries. Alcatel-Lucent recycled production, recycling and landfilling weights. 417.9 metric tons of lead-acid batteries from customers’ All Alcatel-Lucent and joint-venture facilities and operations that networks in 2015, resulting in the recovery of 292.5 metric tons generated or managed waste and waste byproducts — of lead for use in the manufacture of new batteries. Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 21 SUSTAINABILITY Environment 5.3 Green innovation Bell Labs compared with the original GWATT, including the modeling of applications’ traffic flows and network transformations (such as Network energy consumption is one of the major industrial software-defined networking and network functions challenges facing customers and the Information and virtualization). Communication Technology (ICT) industry at large. With exponential traffic growth predicted for communication networks — accompanied by increased energy costs — service GreenTouch™ consortium providers’ operational expenses will increase significantly without the development of more energy efficient technologies. Given that network energy consumption and carbon emissions A further concern is access to stable, reliable power, which affect the entire ICT industry, the Bell Labs vision of zero-power cannot be taken for granted in the case of off-grid or poor-grid networking is based on extensive collaboration with service deployments in developing countries and rural areas, or where providers, equipment manufacturers, research institutes and massive deployments of network equipment like small cells universities. This kind of collaboration was at the core of the present significant operational challenges and expenses. GreenTouch consortium founded under Bell Labs’ leadership in 2010 as a pre-competitive research initiative to improve The Network Energy Research program of Bell Labs, Alcatelnetwork energy efficiency by a factor 1,000 compared to a Lucent’s research arm, focused on optimizing network energy state-of-the-art 2010 reference network. utilization and on developing innovative solutions for AlcatelLucent products. The program’s research efforts spanned all GreenTouch’s five-year mission concluded at a public meeting in major areas of the network, including wireless and fixed access, June 2015 with the presentation of final results for all of its metro and core networks, and optical transmission. It research projects and a comprehensive roadmap of technologies investigated technologies, architectures and solutions aiming at: that will dramatically improve the energy efficiency of mobile access, fixed access and core networks. The proposed Š reducing required energy per bit (that is, increase energy architectures, technologies, algorithms and protocols — along efficiency) for data transmission, processing or storage; with the underlying modeling and evaluation methods developed by GreenTouch — will set the stage for a more sustainable ICT Š reducing power wastage from inefficiencies and overhead infrastructure that can support future applications, services and (for example, through more efficient thermal management traffic growth while consuming less overall energy than and cooling); and conventional networks today. Two interactive applications were Š enabling off-grid deployments through new energy also publicly launched to help industry stakeholders better harvesting solutions and high-density energy storage understand and build on the GreenTouch technologies. technologies. The results presented by GreenTouch show it is possible to This program also investigated innovative applications of ICT improve network energy efficiency by: a factor of 254 in fixed technologies such as connected and smart city applications access networks, a factor of 316 in core networks and a factor (e.g., smart grids, electric mobility, etc.). of 10,000 in mobile networks (compared to the 2010 reference networks). In practical terms, this means the net energy In January 2015, Bell Labs launched the second version of the consumption of communication networks can be cut by 98% — GWATT (Global “What if” Analyzer of NeTwork Energy equivalent to the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from ConsumpTion) application, which forecasts the impact future 5.8 million passenger vehicles, even accounting for the network traffic volume will have on ICT networks’ energy tremendous network traffic growth since 2010. consumption. GWATT aims to drive intelligent dialogue about the sustainability potential of new technologies and the relative The findings from the GreenTouch research projects are publicly importance of different architectures and technologies on endavailable at www.greentouch.org. to-end energy consumption. It is based on forecasts and They include: network modeling from: Š the GWATT interactive application for modeling ICT network Š Bell Labs; energy consumption; Š GreenTouch consortium; Š a power model tool for wireless base stations Š Cisco Visual Networking Index (VNI); and (www.imec.be/powermodel); Š Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI). Š a series of white papers and scientific papers; More than 28,000 users have accessed the second version of Š a series of project videos. GWATT since its launch. It offers several new features 22 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Environment 5.4 Reducing our carbon footprint and the environmental impact of our operations Tracking and reporting on carbon emissions We will continue to implement projects and invest in our facilities to achieve further energy reductions. Reporting on Scope 1, 2 and 3 sources Š Energy optimization projects: We made several major capital We continue to report emissions from all sources including investments in recent years to reduce energy consumption facilities, fleet operations, mobile sources of combustion and all and related emissions in our buildings. In 2015, a number of other Scope 1 and 2 sources resulting directly from our energy optimization projects were underway or completed in business operations. We also report Scope 3 emissions from our largest facilities, including projects related to efficient outsourced activities such as leased vehicles and vessels, illumination, occupancy sensors, time-of-day adjustments product logistics, company business travel, contract and alternative energy use. manufacturing, employee commuting, product use and purchased goods and services. Š Use of alternative energy: Approximately 22% of our utility provided electrical power came from renewable sources in In 2015, we consolidated facilities to utilize resources more 2015 In Belgium, Austria and Switzerland, 92% of the efficiently — this action along with our efforts to implement electricity purchased (based on total building area) came energy efficiency projects and conduct energy efficiency from hydroelectric sources. As availability and financial awareness programs for employees resulted in obtaining over a conditions warrant, we will expand our direct purchases of 9% reduction in CO2e emission levels from our facilities renewable energy. Electric utility sources that include compared to 2014. increases in renewable and nuclear resources resulted in a Alcatel-Lucent followed the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) worldwide average reduction of 4% tCO2e/MWh from 2014 to determine which elements to measure, reporting on 10 of the emission factors. 15 GHGP categories (four categories were not applicable to our Š Electricity usage for laboratory equipment: Based on recent business activities and with respect to Scope 3 category 2 energy studies at facilities that contain laboratory operations, “Capital Goods” is currently being evaluated for future addition). we have determined that over 80% of electricity usage is We committed to reduce our absolute carbon footprint (CO2e) attributable directly to laboratory equipment. We are working from Scope 1 and Scope 2 operations by 50% by 2020 with laboratory personnel in developing energy usage (compared to our 2008 baseline of 827 tCO2e). According to policies that will minimize this impact. This activity will result the 2015 operational data available at the time of filing this in a significant reduction of energy usage per building area report, the carbon footprint associated with our operations once more laboratories start reducing the operating period of showed an approximate 46% reduction from 2008 levels. equipments which do not have to be operating constantly throughout the year. Carbon Disclosure Project In 2015, Alcatel-Lucent participated in the Carbon Disclosure Water consumption Project (CDP) supply chain and investor questionnaires, scoring We have reduced our water consumption by 47% since 2007. 100 out of a possible 100 points on “disclosure” and being On a worldwide basis, consumed water has been reduced by assigned to the ‘A’ band on “performance.” Alcatel-Lucent was 5% since 2014. also classified in the CDP Supplier Climate A-List. Based on the determination that a more robust waterWe also continue to utilize an enterprise carbon accounting tool monitoring program was needed within our facilities, we that helps streamline and automate our GHG data-collection continued throughout 2015 to revise our internal guidelines and process, identify additional opportunities for reductions, and establish specific timelines for: reveal best practices for reducing the carbon footprint of our operations and supply chain partners. All of this helps maintain Š installing sub-meters within targeted facilities; and our leadership position in carbon footprint measurement and Š tracking water consumption by usage category (domestic, reporting. irrigation, process) and facility type (office, laboratory, warehouse, manufacturing). Reducing the environmental impact of our operations Biodiversity protection Energy consumption On the ground Electricity accounted for 81% of our worldwide operational Alcatel-Lucent continued to assess its real estate portfolio, carbon footprint. In 2015, we decreased our worldwide total creating natural habitat enhancements at its locations and for electricity consumption by 7%, with an associated 11% remediation/cleanup projects. reduction in CO2e from the previous year. Despite these noticeable reductions, our energy usage by building area increased by 6% (from 0.38 MWh/m2 to 0.41 MWh/m2). Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 23 SUSTAINABILITY Environment Under the sea necessary permits from authorities (including specific ecocertifications). Our cables are small — between 17 and 40 mm Anytime we laid submarine cable on the ocean floor, we in diameter — and have a 25-year design life. complied with specific environmental standards (including eliminating hazardous constituents in our cable) and obtained all 6 Our people 6.1 Employment Employees contractors is composed of employees of third parties performing work subcontracted by Alcatel-Lucent. Our total worldwide employee headcount at the end of 2015 was The number of temporary workers is, in general, composed of 50,047 in more than 100 countries worldwide. The figures take employees of third parties seconded to perform work at our into account all employees who worked for fully consolidated premises due, for example, to a short-term shortfall in our companies (including long-term absences/notice period) as well employees or in the availability of a certain expertise. as for companies in which we own 50% or more of the equity. Pursuing our commitment to create a diverse and highly skilled The numbers were restated for the last two years due to the global workforce, in 2015 we provided a stimulating work sale of our Enterprise activities on September 30, 2014. environment and continuous learning opportunities, fostering Enterprise headcount was 2,795 in 2013, and 463 in 2014. diversity and open dialogue by sharing knowledge and celebrating differences. Our goals last year were to continue to drive the transformation of human resources and the expansion Contractors and temporary workers of Alcatel-Lucent University, enhance the effectiveness of our leadership programs and further diversify our workforce to In 2015, the average number of contractors and temporary foster future growth. workers was 2,607 in the aggregate. The number of 6.2 Employee health and safety Our commitment to employee health and safety In 2015, we introduced a new EHS awareness course for our top 200 leaders. This course was designed to help them better We honored the commitments under our Environment, Health understand the hazards and risks associated with our business, and Safety (EHS) policy to operate in a way that protects the their own personal liability and the correct steps to avoid injuries environment and the health and safety of employees, and fatalities. contractors, customers and the communities where we did We also continued to focus on high-risk operations such as business in 2015 by: work performed at elevated heights or that involving electrical Š identifying EHS hazards and assessing the related risks; safety. Given that the majority of this work was performed by outsourced personnel, in 2014 we turned the spotlight onto our Š putting appropriate controls in place; subcontractor community, launching a global initiative to qualify and mentor subcontractors involved in this type of high-risk Š assigning competent, experienced and, if required, work. With a message of zero tolerance for non-compliance, appropriately certified employees to perform specific work the qualification process reinforces the fact that all activities; and subcontractors are held accountable to the same standards we Š harmonizing EHS requirements globally and establishing key apply internally. Our team then mentored those who needed performance indicators (KPIs) across the company. guidance to raise their level of safety awareness. To date, more than 500 subcontractors have been evaluated by the Global To ensure a healthy and safe work environment for employees, Procurement and local EHS teams to ensure they are qualified we placed high priority on training and guidance. In 2015, to meet our business needs. Alcatel-Lucent University delivered about 8764 training hours on EHS issues. (It should be noted that these training hours do not take into account other EHS awareness channels such as Absenteeism workplace ergonomic guidelines or the EHS topics covered by mandatory Code of Conduct training). Employee absenteeism was managed and tracked at the country level in accordance with all relevant local legal 24 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Our people requirements and regulations. This ensured the fastest, most Š illness, meaning any work-related health condition whether appropriate actions could be taken to respond to fluctuations acute (e.g., contact dermatitis) or chronic (e.g., chronic outside the norm for each respective country. At a global level, obstructive pulmonary disease) that develops through single we continued to publish the number of days of absence due to or multiple exposures (e.g., poison ivy, lead poisoning, work-related accidents (including occupational diseases) per asbestosis) or repetitive stress (e.g., carpal tunnel employee. syndrome). Our reporting requirements for serious incidents and Occupational accidents occupational accidents ensured all business groups provided the information to support effective trend analysis and rootcause identification and continuously improve our safety An occupational accident is any unexpected occurrence in the performance — in pursuit of zero lost workdays due to injury or course of or in relation to work that results in: illness. Š injury (e.g., cuts, fractures, sprains or amputations resulting from a single exposure to the work environment); or Frequency rate for work-related Number of days of absence due to accidents (including occupational work-related accidents (including diseases) occupational diseases) per employee 2012 1.21 0.07 2013 1.19 0.06 2014 1.14 0.04 2015 0.85 0.04 Evolution since 2012 associated with it. Improvements are made at the program level based on trends identified, irrespective of the number of lost The frequency rate for work-related accidents has decreased workdays. It has always been our approach to view the since 2012 due to our EHS programs as well as to the fact that potential of the occurred accident and what we can learn to contractors and/or subcontractors are increasingly performing prevent its further occurrence. high-risk operations. In 2015, the subcontracting of high risk activities in USA helped to further decrease the frequency rate. Fatalities and injuries Notes: The only acceptable number of work-related fatalities is zero. Employees, students, trainees, apprentices and directly We reinforced our zero-tolerance policy with all subcontractors supervised contractors make up the “workforce” considered for to foster a safety culture in 2015. This included collecting work-related accidents (including occupational diseases such subcontractor data on lost workday cases and near misses, as work-related stress). and using that information to continuously improve our safety Due to local regulatory frameworks and other specificities, not programs. all establishments use the same methodology to calculate days In 2015, we recorded zero subcontractor fatalities. In 2011, a of absence due to work-related accidents, including strategic Health and Safety Improvement Program was put into occupational diseases per employee. Our figures have been place and as a result there has been a consistent decrease in adjusted by each consolidating entity for countries reporting in fatalities each year and finally in 2015, we reached our ZERO calendar days instead of working days to ensure disclosed data fatalities goal. are homogeneous. While occupational accidents are typically connected to highrisk field activities, we also continued to promote proactive safe Integrating SA8000 assessments work procedures for office employees. For example, we revised our ergonomics guidelines to better suit today’s work Building on several year of strengthening our social environment (such as the increasing use of laptop versus accountability, in 2015 we introduced an SA8000 maturity level desktop computers). self-assessment in 11 locations in Brazil, Egypt, India, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia and Turkey. Consisting of a set of Because we did not use any heavy industrial manufacturing questions based on the SA8000 standard as well as our own processes, we were not required to calculate or follow an EHS requirements, this assessment allowed for the rapid indicator on the severity of these kinds of occupational analysis of our social accountability programs in three key accidents. Global occupational accident trends focus on an areas: human resources, EHS and purchasing. employee’s professional activity and the corresponding risks Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 25 SUSTAINABILITY Our people 6.3 Work organization and management Strategic workforce planning 3,203 critical talents were identified to support our talent needs moving forward. In 2015, we continued to execute The Shift Plan, our three-year Focused on preparing future leaders and bringing diversity to strategic plan launched in 2013. For workforce evolution this our top 200 leadership roles, the Leadership Pipeline relied on meant strengthening our capacity for shortand long-term three pillars: workforce planning across different business segments. With respect to our product portfolio and financial performance, it Š consistent identification of leadership talent; was strategically essential that we align our workforce by: Š movement of talent across geographical, functional or Š translating the strategy behind The Shift Plan into an business boundaries; and executable workforce plan; Š development of leaders using a broad variety of methods. Š adopting a bottom-up approach that took into account Human resources professionals, in partnership with their country-specific legal and social constraints as well as business leaders, ensured the execution of this strategy by business needs, leading to a realistic and feasible supporting managers and talent through each phase. implementation plan in the countries in which we operate; In 2015, 128 future leaders attended customized and dedicated Š controlling and monitoring the evolution of each country’s net development tracks focusing on the company’s business needs headcount (through recruitment, attrition, transfer, mobility as well as the individual’s leadership-development needs, etc.); and preparing them to take on bigger leadership roles. In addition, Š planning our future geographic distribution in a consistent emerging leaders in more than 10 countries were invited to way (and in line with our real estate plan) at the global, attend the newly developed Talent Awakening workshops, country and sites levels. which were designed to build self-awareness through a detailed personality profile combined with one-on-one debriefings from For further information on our strategic plan, please refer to certified human resources practitioners. More than 900 Section 6.1 “Overview of 2015” of the 2015 Annual Report on individual debriefings were completed by the end of 2015. Form 20-F. Performance management Internal mobility and recruitment The Alcatel-Lucent performance-management process, We executed a new global approach to recruitment in 2015. OurTalent Dialogue, focused on the importance of continuous, Our internal processes were standardized on a global scale and person-to-person dialogue between managers and employees our support structure was changed to a team concept with to support direction setting, goal clarity and performance multiple recruiters available to assist as needed. These changes feedback. This allowed employees to drive their own were focused on establishing more consistent ways of working performance and manage their career development in alignment across all our locations worldwide, improving the level of with the company’s business strategy. This approach also let responsiveness with the recruiting team and ensuring overall employees have continuing conversations with their managers stronger customer satisfaction. on developmental areas to ensure continued growth and to We also rebranded the Internal Job Opportunity Market (IJOM) manage their career development. to Build Your Future. Distributed across our internal social In 2015 we continued to implement a targeted learning media platform and throughout various recruitment materials, approach for managers to develop their skills in setting the new brand was designed to have our employees reflect on direction, coaching, motivating, managing performance and their own personal growth and development. In addition, our leading change. More than 120 workshops were held globally, internal job market newsletter expanded into additional regions involving some 3,500 managers for broader visibility. Compensation Leadership Pipeline Alcatel-Lucent continued its policy to pay all employees fairly Alcatel-Lucent continued to invest in the identification and regardless of gender, ethnic origin or disability. We remain development of leadership potential to support succession committed to provide a competitive compensation package in management. This included conducting business talent reviews line with other major companies in the technology sector and to identify future leaders and refresh our existing pipeline of place particular emphasis on ensuring employee development, high-potential talent (e.g., emerging leaders, high potentials and rewarding the skills that drive innovation and ensuring long-term future top leaders). In 2015, a total of 1,080 future leaders and employee engagement through appropriate policies, processes and recognition tools. 26 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Our people A new variable incentive plan (excluding the sales population) All learning hours are tracked through a formal learning was implemented in 2014. It included corporate, business unit management system that provides auditable learning volume and individual key performance indicators to enable employees reports. Alcatel-Lucent University leverages a personal, to have greater visibility into and influence over their community-based learning application called My Personal achievement and rewards. In 2015, our compensation strategy Learning Experience (or My PLE), which allows students to was aligned with The Shift Plan to strike a balance among the better drive and manage their own learning programs. Designed following elements: speed, simplicity, trust and accountability. around learning communities and the sharing of best practices, This included the implementation of common bonus plans, My PLE makes it easier for students to learn from their peers sales incentives and equity grants to ensure a consistent, global and from content experts — which, in turn, makes learning approach to compensation; the clear communication of more relevant to the job. performance achievement levels and policies; and having employees set and review yearly performance targets with their Achievements managers. In 2015, Alcatel-Lucent University delivered a total of 1.2 million The grants of long-term incentives (e.g., stock options and hours of training to approximately 80,000 students from 136 performance shares) are decided by our Board of Directors countries. Of these hours, 43% were delivered to external upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee. The learners (that is, customers and partners) and 57% were implementation of long-term incentives serves several delivered to internal learners (that is, employees and purposes, including: contractors). Š involving employees in Alcatel-Lucent’s results and in the In 2015, the University delivered an average of 11 hours of achievement of The Shift Plan; training per internal learner. About 74.3% of internal learning was delivered online in 2015, an increase of 1.3% compared Š encouraging and rewarding performance; and with the previous year. In addition, 373 employees received IP/ Š attracting and retaining talent in a highly competitive industry service routing certification and 399 received LTE certification. where quality and employee motivation are key factors for In June 2015, the University launched the Learning Store, success. making it easier for employees to find and access relevant Long-term incentives were typically subject to presence and/or training to foster their development. By the end of the year, the performance conditions. In the context of our combination with Learning Store had received 25,000 visitors. Nokia, the Board of Directors decided, in April 2015, to waive the presence and performance criteria under certain conditions. Teleworking This was subject to the success of Nokia’s public exchange offer. For further information, please refer to Section 8.1.8 Teleworking reduces commuting time and costs, real estate “Mechanisms put in place with respect to long-term costs, operating expenses and our overall environmental compensation instruments in the context of Nokia’s public impact. exchange offer” of the 2015 Annual Report on Form 20-F. To demonstrate our support for an agile workforce and a better Employee compensation evolution (that is, wages and salaries) work/life balance for our employees, teleworking policies over the past three years is set forth in Note 23 to our remained in place across all regions in Alcatel-Lucent. We had consolidated financial statements. worked with our main trade unions in Europe since 2008 to define collective agreements on teleworking. As a result, employees in France, Belgium, Spain, Italy and Germany, for Training: Alcatel-Lucent University example, could telework if an organizational analysis of the employee’s job activities was positive and there was mutual The mission of Alcatel-Lucent University is to improve the agreement between the employee, his/her manager and the HR performance of our employees, partners and customers and function. build the skills required for business success through: Since 2013, we extended the number of countries with Š learning and development initiatives aligned with Alcatelteleworking policies by defining agreements across the Middle Lucent’s strategic priorities; East, Africa and Asia-Pacific, including in China and India. Š state-of-the-art learning facilities and e-learning components; Building on our expanded teleworking deployments, a global teleworking policy was developed in 2013, respecting all local Š technical certifications for customers, partners and laws in this matter. employees that offer professional standing in key technologies; In 2015, a survey was sent to 20,317 employees around the world to learn more about the commuting habits of AlcatelŠ programs targeting key Alcatel-Lucent jobs; Lucent employees. With a response rate of 24%, the survey allowed us to estimate the carbon emissions associated with Š a learner-centric approach that enables individuals to achieve employee commuting. Based on this survey, 47% of our proficiency in areas relevant to their particular organization, job role and career interests. Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 27 SUSTAINABILITY Our people employees teleworked at least one day per week — and some sales, general and administration (SG&A) functions. Other countries had even higher rates, such as the Netherland (79%), actions were undertaken to reduce the company’s real estate the United States (75%), Belgium (67%), Argentina (66%), footprint and drive efficiencies in project delivery, back-office IT France (64%), Spain (63%), Australia (60%), the United systems, supply chain management, manufacturing and Kingdom (60%) and Mexico (58%). procurement. These actions led to a reduction of 13,626 jobs by the end of Restructuring: The Shift Plan 2015 (compared to a year-end 2013 baseline), with 2,618 The three-year aim of The Shift Plan was to refocus Alcatelstemming from the sale of our Enterprise activity. Lucent industrially, operationally and financially as a specialist in The Shift Plan also included a €2 billion reprofiling of the IP and cloud networking and ultra-broadband access — and to company’s debt between 2013 and 2015 by actively capitalizing deliver innovations that would shape the future of the industry on attractive international debt market opportunities. The Group’s and ensure profitable growth as follows: debt was reduced by €2.2 billion (from €0.8 billion net debt by end of Q2 2013, to €1.4 billion net cash by end of 2015). Industrial The Shift Plan reflected fast-changing trends in the Operational telecommunications industry, where service providers and A new operating model was put in place with full profit-and-loss large-scale Internet companies are handling ever-expanding (P&L) and cash accountability for businesses. volumes of data. Under The Shift Plan, Alcatel-Lucent adapted to the evolving market by placing its IP networking, cloud and At the end of 2015, Alcatel-Lucent had achieved the following ultra-broadband portfolio at the center of its operations. R&D targets as part of The Shift Plan: became concentrated on IP networking and ultra-broadband Š a workforce of 50,047 people, a decrease of 2,626 access, while our customer focus shifted to new products and compared to the previous year; platforms for our most profitable market segments (including Tier 2 to Tier 4 service providers) along with web-scale and Š repositioning as a specialist in IP and cloud networking and extra-large enterprise customers. ultra-broadband fixed and mobile access, with key wins and market share gains in these areas; Financial Š fixed costs savings of €356 million in 2015 and cumulatively Aiming to restore the Group’s profitability and competitiveness of €1031 million since 2013; in the marketplace, The Shift Plan included a reduction of Š a stronger balance sheet closing on a net cash position of Alcatel-Lucent’s fixed-cost base by €1 billion between 2013 and €1.4 billion; and 2015 through the adoption of direct-channel operations, a refocusing of R&D capacity, and the additional consolidation of Š completion of debt reprofiling. 6.4 Social relationships Union discussions Organizations for social dialogue involving relocation or the transfer of work to a new location, often required up to six months of discussions. We worked to foster an open dialogue with employees on any decisions that directly affected them. Discussions with Š European Committee: The European Committee for employee representatives concerning organizational changes Information and Dialogue (ECID) is a dialogue body where and workforce reductions were managed on a regional and/or senior management and European employee representatives country basis. During the launch of the Alcatel-Lucent can share their views. Composed of 30 members as well as Performance Program in 2012 and The Shift Plan in 2013, we a Coordinating Committee led by the ECID Secretary regularly engaged with our social partners on the impact of (France) and four other representatives (Germany, Italy, these initiatives in full compliance with local rules and Belgium and Romania), the European Committee meets at regulations. These discussions continued throughout 2014 and least twice a year. In 2015, it met on April 16 to discuss 2015 in conjunction with the ongoing implementation of The sustainable development, on April 17 to discuss the Shift Plan and the announcement of the merger of Alcatelannouncement of the Alcatel-Lucent/Nokia merger and The Lucent and Nokia. Shift Plan, and on October 14 for its final plenary meeting of the year dedicated to questions on The Shift Plan and the Š Dialogue with trade unions: We informed or consulted with Alcatel-Lucent/Nokia transaction. In addition to these union representatives before making any major change in the meeting with ECID, Alcatel-Lucent management and the organization. Matters affecting individuals, particularly those Coordinating Committee met twice (March 10 and 28 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Our people September 14) to prepare the plenary meetings and by Italy audioconference (November 12 and December 15) in Š Two agreements were signed to deliver employee training advance of the Nokia integration announcements. along with one agreement to deliver management training. Š French Committee: In France, a group-level committee An additional agreement was then signed to fund leadership representing unionized employees has been operating since training for women. 1981. Composed of 30 trade union representatives, the Š An agreement was signed in Milan for the outsourcing of 29 French Committee (Comité de Groupe France) meets at least employees to SESAnv (Madagascar Project). twice a year; in 2015, it met four times. Š An agreement signed in Rome with union and government Review of collective agreements representatives for restructuring procedures related to The Shift Plan (Mobilità, CIG in Deroga). Some of the major collective agreements signed in 2015 include the following. Š An agreement was signed in Rome with union and government representatives for the outsourcing to France Flextronics of manufacturing activities in Trieste. Š Accord Handicap is a three-year collective agreement Romania (2014–2016) covering not only the employment of people with disabilities but also their day-to-day life inside AlcatelŠ An agreement was signed to reflect changes to benefits Lucent. This agreement was signed on December 18, 2014 package and holidays. by all unions (CFDT, CFE-CGC, CGT). United States Š Accord Egalité Professionnelle is a two-year collective agreement (2014–2015) on gender diversity, helping women Š In February 2015, Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. entered into the break through the ‘glass ceiling’ while balancing their 2014 Installation Effects Agreement with the personal and professional lives. It was signed on July 3, Communications Workers of America (CWA). This 2014 by CFDT. agreement covers the handling of local union board members who were affected by the closing of their location Netherlands of employment. Š Two collective bargaining agreements were signed in 2015: Brazil Collective Bargaining Agreement on Employment Conditions (focusing on salary increases, salary ranges, vacation days, Š In November 2015, Alcatel-Lucent Brazil entered into a new retirement, and illness and disability) and the Social Plan collective bargaining agreement with the Sao Paolo (redundancy plan). Metalworkers’ Union for the period November 1, 2015 to October 31, 2017. This agreement covers salaries, benefits Belgium and other conditions of employment for employees represented by the union and includes an amendment for Š Two collective bargaining agreements were signed in salary increase each year. A similar agreement was also Belgium: one on April 17, 2015, regarding the collective signed with the Rio de Janeiro Metalworkers’ Union for the bonuses in application of the National Collective Bargaining period of November 1, 2015 to October 31, 2016. Agreement N°90, and another on April 27, 2015, regarding measurement for older (45+) employees. Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements in 2015 Sample of main countries where we operate Percentage of employees covered France 100% Italy 100% China 100% Belgium 100% Netherlands 100% Norway 100% Sweden 100% Finland 100% Spain 100% Germany 100% Romania 100% Poland 100% Slovakia 100% Czech Republic 100% Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 29 SUSTAINABILITY Our people Review of workplace health and safety agreements our intranet homepage, it features interviews with top 200 leaders to hear about their priorities and how things are going in Alcatel-Lucent in Germany implemented a stress-management his or her part of the business. We have now published nearly plan in 2015 based on a 20-month pilot project completed the 50 videos since the series launched, all of them visible through previous year. The plan included stress measurement and the Alcatel-Lucent video-sharing service. evaluation based on biofeedback analysis and heart rate variability, workshops with external partners on stress Developing our managers measurement and reduction strategies, and the installation of on-site equipment for stress relief and proactive health checkThe implementation of The Shift Plan required line managers to ups. play a larger role in supporting their teams through change, cultivating employee engagement and developing a culture of Internal communication and dialogue high performance. In 2014, we started a company-wide People Managers Essentials Program; this program was further Motivated, committed employees are critical to the success of developed throughout 2015, with the existing People Manager any business. Our high-performance, high-speed culture Essentials workshops complemented by new People Manager required us to provide regular, up-to-date information to our Advanced workshops designed specifically for senior leaders. workforce. We provided a variety of tools and programs to Approximately 2,500 managers have participated in one of the foster active, ongoing and targeted dialogue between 120 workshops that have been delivered in 26 countries since management and employees to ensure everyone understood Fall 2014. A People Manager Index (PMI) was also created to the company’s objectives and their role in achieving them. provide workshop participants with feedback on their leadership This past year was especially intense for employee effectiveness. The PMI shows how the manager’s team communications. On April 15, Nokia announced its intention to members see him or her living by the five essential roles: acquire Alcatel-Lucent. This news (and the integration work that direction setter, change leader, motivator, performance began almost immediately) changed much of the content of our manager and coach. internal communications and made communicating with The communication platform launched in 2014 also continued employees more important than ever before. to grow in 2015: the monthly information bulletin is now read by 65% of all managers, the digital ‘playbook’ describing Communicating about Nokia managers’ roles and responsibilities reached more than 12,000 Within a few days of the Offer announcement, we created a page views and the dedicated online community for managers mini-site on our corporate intranet homepage (EyeOn Alcatelnow numbers some 800 members. Lucent and Nokia) to publish and store documents (e.g., press releases, internal announcements, PowerPoint presentations) Communicating about The Shift Plan related to the deal and integration work. Starting in June, the Although news about the Alcatel-Lucent/Nokia combination newly formed Integration Management Office (IMO) began dominated 2015, it was also the final year of The Shift Plan publishing a monthly progress report on different aspects of the implementation. We continued to inform employees of progress deal and the combined work with Nokia (e.g., legal, through quarterly updates sent by push-mail and published on organizational, administrative, human resources). The newsletter the corporate intranet homepage. The Shift Plan was also was sent to all Alcatel-Lucent employees by push-mail and is regularly addressed by the CEO and CFO in their employee also published on the intranet mini-site. conference calls following each quarterly results announcement. Our executives also communicated with employees about the Nokia Offer and integration progress in person. Between Innovative communication platforms April 15 and December 4, different members of our leadership We continued to offer our Text-Me SMS service to push timely team made nearly 30 stops to our major sites around the world. information to subscribing employees on their mobile phones. In At these different locations — whether in Argentina, Russia, 2015, we sent roughly 25 SMS messages to 2,200 subscribers. Canada, China, India or France — our leaders, sometimes in We also continued our On the Air radio program. Now at its 40th pairs, held “all hands” meetings to give employees the latest episode — averaging roughly 1,700 listeners per installment — news and answer questions. the program highlights the latest company news, innovations, leadership interviews and questions from employees. On the Air Supporting strong leadership is available via Engage, our social networking platform, and as a In view of the Nokia Offer, we held our annual end-of-year top downloadable MP3 for mobile listening. We also launched a 200 leadership meeting in September in Paris — a little earlier new innovation-focused webTV program called InnoZap in than usual. The theme was “Proud of our Past, Inspired by our 2015. Episodes covered topics like real-time analytics, motion Future”. It included a highly informative keynote address and sensors and other Bell Labs inventions. Q&A session from Nokia CEO, Rajeev Suri. In addition to the A new addition to our intranet homepage this year was the Tip annual top 200 meeting, our CEO holds monthly one-hour of the Month series, where employees were asked to submit conference calls with our top 200 leaders. The first half of each tips through the Engage platform on how to save time, reduce call is devoted to hot topics and the second half to Q&A. We costs, improve the quality of our work and generally make work also continued our Leaders Portraits video series; published to 30 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Our people life easier. Six tips were spotlighted on our intranet homepage the most effective and personal communication channel on topics such as printing confidential documents with a remains face-to-face meetings. These can range from largepassword, recovering a deleted item in Outlook and how to scale events like the annual meeting for our top 200 leaders to display a virtual keyboard on your computer screen. This new multi-stop worldwide roadshows (like the one carried out by our initiative received positive feedback from readers who found the executive team in 2015). They also include smaller local events practical tips to be very useful. like the Coffee & Connect sessions held at our Murray Hill, New Jersey campus (with three sessions in 2015 attended by an While the Engage social networking platform is often used to average of 150 employees) or our monthly Rendez-vous de support internal communication initiatives, it is available to all Boulogne (nine sessions in 2015) held at our corporate employees for worldwide dialogue and information sharing. headquarters in Boulogne-Billancourt (near Paris), France. Engage’s membership now numbers more than 47,000 registered users and 2015 saw a 6.8% increase in interaction Employee engagement per piece of content. To increase employee engagement and shape our leadership In 2015, the Digital Workplace Infocenter, accessible from our culture, a Leadership Index (measuring leadership effectiveness intranet homepage, continued to be a resource to help based on 12 “dimensions”) was launched in 2014 and two employees select and optimize the way they use the many measurement cycles were completed in 2014 and 2015. More communication tools at their disposal. It helps employees than 170 senior level leaders were measured during this period collaborate, communicate and share information to better and were given the opportunity to be debriefed and coached by accomplish their business activities. their HR business partner. As part of our global employee recognition program, a new Since launch, the positive perception score (i.e., the percentage digital initiative called You Made My Day was launched mid-2015 of direct reports and one layer below who strongly agree or on our intranet homepage. This easy-to-use email template agree with the effectiveness of the top 200 leaders) increased provides a quick and fun way to say thank you to a colleague from 77% to 80% on average, with an average participation rate who offered a much-appreciated helping hand. Promoting this of 67%. Building on this success, a People Manager Index (PMI) initiative was also an opportunity to highlight the full-range of was launched in 2014 with 1,485 managers being measured on recognition tools available to managers and employees. similar leadership dimensions. The PMI had an average positive perception score of 83% and an average response rate of 76%. Face-to-face communications While much of our internal communications and dialogue takes place through digital tools, we never lose sight of the fact that 6.5 Promotion and enforcement of ILO core conventions Alcatel-Lucent Global Human Rights Policy Excerpt of the Alcatel-Lucent Global Human Rights Policy Our Global Human Rights Policy addresses the four primary roles we play in our business operations and ecosystem: It is the policy of Alcatel-Lucent to protect and enhance the employer, supplier of telecommunications infrastructure, human dignity of everyone who works for the company and business partner and corporate citizen. anyone who has dealings with it. We conduct business in many Following the 2012 update to this policy to ensure alignment countries and believe that our products, services and jobs with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights improve the quality of life in each of these countries. (the so-called “Ruggie Principles”), in 2015 we dedicated our Alcatel-Lucent supports and respects, within its sphere of efforts to implementing company measures according to the 10 influence, the principles of human rights as embodied in Guiding Principles of the Telecommunications Industry Dialogue internationally recognized principles and guidelines, including: on Human Rights, Freedom of Expression and Privacy. These the UN Declaration of Human Rights; the Ten Principles of the principles are designed to ensure proper treatment of our UN Global Compact; the UN Guiding Principles on Business workforce and external stakeholders around the world, and to and Human Rights; the International Labor Organizations (ILO) address our corporate role as a supplier of telecommunications Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work; and infrastructure which supports transparency on freedom of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises (which refer expression and privacy. In parallel, we continued to dialogue to the UN Principles). We also respect and comply with all with key industry stakeholders, including our customers as well human rights legislations, regulations or standards in the as civil society, on our common responsibilities to human rights countries in which we operate. around the world. Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 31 SUSTAINABILITY Our people As an employer, Alcatel-Lucent: – retaliation or other adverse actions against those who report, in good faith, suspected violation of the law or policy. Š prohibits discrimination against any employee or job applicant on the basis of age; disability; race; sex; color; Violations of this policy by employees may be reported using religion; creed; national origin; citizenship; sexual orientation; the appropriate compliance issue reporting mechanism, as gender identity, characteristics or expression; marital status; described on the Office of Business Integrity & Compliance covered veteran status; or any other protected class and will website. treat everyone with dignity and with full respect for their As a supplier of telecommunications infrastructure, we offer private lives; products and services in compliance with international Š helps ensure that employment with Alcatel-Lucent is by standards, and support transparency in the way freedom of choice; telecommunications technology is used by sovereign countries. Š upholds freedom of association and the right of any As a business partner we maintain the highest levels of individual to be fairly represented by a labor organization of business ethics, personal integrity and compliance with their choosing, pursuant to local laws; suppliers, subcontractors and business partners — and expect them to adhere to these in their practices as well. We ask Š offers employees remuneration packages that meet or suppliers and subcontractors to respect human rights by exceed the legally required minimum; complying with the Alcatel-Lucent Suppliers Code of Conduct Š complies with maximum hours of daily labor set by local laws (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct and complies with overtime pay legal requirements; Revision 3) and all applicable human rights laws and regulations, and ensure these are respected throughout the Š supports the effective elimination of all forms of compulsory supply chain. labor and child labor and will make this a criterion in the selection and management of our suppliers and contractors; As a corporate citizen, we respect and comply with all human and rights legislation, regulations and standards in the countries where we operate, and conduct business and sales activities in Š prohibits: strict compliance with international conventions regarding – actions that create an intimidating, hostile work environment, human rights. We respect indigenous rights and civil society in including corporal punishment, harassment, verbal, written, the countries where we operate, and act in full recognition of physical or psychological abuse, threats or intimidation, as our social and environmental responsibilities. We also play an these are inconsistent with a respect for human dignity; active role, via the Alcatel-Lucent Foundation, in charitable activities and support our commitment to social responsibility. – actions that threaten or insinuate that an employee’s or applicant’s submission to or rejection of sexual advances (The full version of the Alcatel-Lucent Global Human Rights will influence any personnel decision regarding that Policy is available on the company’s website) employee’s or applicant’s employment, wages, advancement, job assignment or any other condition of employment or career development; and 6.6 Diversity and equal opportunity As a global enterprise, we actively seek to ensure our In 2015, we continued to implement a global strategy and employees reflect the diversity of our business environment. Our action plan put in place in 2014 that assigned responsibility for Global Human Rights Policy confirms our responsibility to gender diversity at the organizational, corporate and country provide equal opportunities for all employees and to recognize levels, and identified actions to be carried out in two main focus and respect the diversity of people and ideas. Our commitment areas: to advancing equality and non-discrimination is also reflected in Š Awareness building: specific initiatives against harassment and discrimination. – For managers: In 2015 we continued our series of Global strategy for gender diversity interactive sessions on gender diversity, addressing around 250 managers and leaders to help them understand why Although women comprised 24% of our workforce in 2015 diversity is a business imperative for Alcatel-Lucent and to (+3% points since 2013), they did not have comparable build their awareness of workplace gender dynamics – all representation on our management teams. We make it a with the aim to better tap our existing talent and improve business imperative to nurture the skills and talents of women organizational performance. — and to build management teams that reflect the diversity of our Company. – For employees: We continued to support the worldwide StrongHer employee network in 2015. In addition, our employees could attend events organized at Alcatel-Lucent 32 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Our people and in collaboration with partner networks and institutions – Leadership Pipeline: As of December 2015, women such as UNESCO, the European Professional Women accounted for 23% of our Leadership Pipeline. Network in Madrid, Areva’s WE Network, HPE’s WoMen@Work, Women@HP, Printemps des Femmes BP Gender diversity initiatives Petrochemicals’ Women’s Network, and Sodexo : Diverse Women’s Empowerment Principles and Unis-vers networks. Alcatel-Lucent was a signatory to the United Nations CEO Š Leadership: Statement of Support for the Women’s Empowerment – Supporting female leaders: In 2015, we renewed the Principles (WEP): a worldwide initiative launched by the United TOP10 Women Program, which supports women’s career Nations, UNIFEM (now UN Women) and the UN Global development by offering to 10 participants in each region a Compact. Our gender initiatives were also included in the UN’s mix of business sponsorship, executive coaching, mentoring Companies Leading the Way: Putting the Principles into and networking over a one-year period. Participants were Practice, a publication that lists examples of actions and mentored in finance, strategy and business practices as well initiatives that companies are undertaking to empower and as personal branding, executive communications, leadership advance women. We were also an active participant in the WEP styles and organizational savviness. As a result of this Leadership Group, including participation in the 2015 WEP CEO coaching and mentoring, 40% of our 2014-2015 TOP10 Award Committee. Women Program participants have already grown in their professional careers. PRINCIPLE OUR ACTION Leadership promotes gender At the beginning of 2014, under the leadership of our CFO and Diversity Sponsor, we renewed our global equality commitment to, strategy and action plan for assigning gender diversity responsibility at the corporate and regional levels. We established a comprehensive global strategy focused on women’s leadership development and increased awareness of gender dynamics. In 2015, as we celebrated five years as a founding member and signatory of the WEP, our CEO Michel Combes renewed our commitment to gender diversity by signing the WEP CEO statement of support on June 11, 2015. Equal opportunity, inclusion As a global enterprise, we actively sought to ensure our employees reflect the diversity of our business environment. and non-discrimination Our Global Human Rights Policy confirmed our responsibility to ensure equal opportunities for employees and to recognize and respect the diversity of people and ideas. Health, safety and freedom As stated in our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy, we were committed to operating in a way that from violence protects the environment as well as the health and safety of our employees, contractors, customers and communities in which we conduct business. Education and training As part of our global strategy and action plan, in 2015 we continued our TOP10 Women Program. We also continued to provide dedicated training for managers and employees through our Global Day of Learning and promote employee-driven initiatives such as StrongHer. Enterprise development, Alcatel-Lucent worked to maintain a diverse supply chain and always had high expectations for performance in this supply chain and marketing area. For the eighth year in a row we were named among the Top Corporations by the Women’s Business practices Enterprise National Council (WBENC). Community leadership and The Alcatel-Lucent Foundation contributed to digital inclusion through philanthropy in the communities where our engagement employees and customers work and live. It developed and promoted programs and activities that prepare youth (with a focus on young women) to participate and innovate in the connected world. In 2015, the Foundation supported two global signature programs and 22 multi-year programs in 18 countries, with some 2,260 youth (48% girls) benefiting from our ConnectED training in Indonesia. Through our Campus in the Cloud program, the videos developed on the topic of women in the workplace received approximately 1,500 views. Transparency, measuring Our Annual Financial Report on Form 20-F reports the percentage of women on the Board of Directors and in our and reporting overall headcount, recruitment figures and Leadership Pipeline. These data are reproduced in the “Social indicators” section of this report. Each of these indicators is externally verified on an annual basis. StrongHer by employees and dedicated to employees, StrongHer offers networking, personal development and gender awareness A gender empowerment program launched in 2011, StrongHer support. helps female employees unleash their potential and amplify their contribution to business. StrongHer advocates for more Starting from just six women working for Alcatel-Lucent in balanced representation between women and men across all France, StrongHer has grown to include some 1,300 members organizational levels and job functions within the company. Led in 51 countries. In 2015, the program launched the StrongHer Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 33 SUSTAINABILITY Our people Manager Charter, which helps managers choose and commit to comply with this requirement, it is forced to make a contribution actions that enable gender balance within their own teams. to AGEFIPH, an organization that promotes the employment of disabled workers. The amount of this contribution depends on Commitment to non-discrimination the gap between the actual number of disabled employees and the 6% target. Mission Handicap includes several action plans Our commitment to advancing equality and non-discrimination focused on areas such as hiring activities, equipment was reflected in specific initiatives against harassment and adaptations, tool or facility accessibility, training of employees discrimination in several countries (in particular, France and the (including managers and colleagues), and communications and United States). awareness sessions for all employees. According to the 2015 In 2015, we continued to offer to our employees and managers operational data available at the time of filing this report, resources and best practices to support lesbian, gay, bisexual disabled employees made up 3.5% of the Alcatel-Lucent direct and transgender (LGBT) people in the workplace. For the and indirect workforce in France at year-end 2015. fourteenth consecutive year, Alcatel-Lucent was recognized by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation with a perfect score @talentEgal on the Corporate Equality Index, which rates American A non-profit association created by Alcatel-Lucent in France, workplaces on LGBT equality. @talentEgal helps post-graduate students with disabilities find employment by providing them with training, internships, Integration of disabled people into our workforce mentoring and other supports. In 2015, @talentEgal helped 29 We are committed to fostering the integration of people with disabled students. The program celebrated its fifth anniversary disabilities into our workforce and creating access solutions for in 2015, an occasion that saw us bring together most of the them. partners involved to share with them all the success of the past five years. Mission Handicap Support for disabled employees in Spain Designed in 2006 to better integrate disabled employees into the workplace, the primary purpose of Mission Handicap is to In 2015, Alcatel-Lucent continued its collaboration with Spain’s ensure Alcatel-Lucent meets the legal quota requiring disabled AMÁS group, which creates and promotes centers and people to make up at least 6% of a French company’s institutions that work toward the recovery and rehabilitation of employment ratio (direct and indirect). If a company does not those with mental illness. 7 Society and philanthropy 7.1 Our approach to digital inclusion We are committed to making global communications more partners (including our customers and industry peers), will innovative, sustainable and accessible for people, businesses help shape the future of the ICT industry by making and governments worldwide. We address digital inclusion communications more innovative, sustainable and through innovative products and solutions in ultra-broadband accessible. Specific technology areas of advancement access, IP networking and cloud — enabling global include ultra-broadband wireless and fixed access (e.g., connectivity. VDSL vectoring, small cells), IP routing, and transport and IP platforms. Digital inclusion is about giving people everywhere access to information, education and economic opportunities while Š Ultra-broadband access: In 2015, Alcatel-Lucent worked encouraging environmental sustainability and innovation. It with governments, public authorities and regulators remained a key pillar of our product and solution portfolio in worldwide — particularly in emerging countries — to 2015, reinforcing our commitment to making global promote the benefits of ultra-broadband access plans and to communications more innovative, sustainable and accessible support digital inclusion. We also worked with a number of for people, businesses and governments worldwide. Digital international organizations and institutions. inclusion was also a primary focus of the Alcatel-Lucent Š Education and promotion: In 2015, Alcatel-Lucent Foundation, dedicated to helping youth innovate in a digital maintained a very active role in the United Nations Broadband world. Commission, the International Telecommunications Union Our approach to digital inclusion focused on four key areas: (ITU) and the Affordable Internet Alliance to dialogue with public authorities and regulators in developing and emerging Š Technology and innovation: Our focus on IP networking, economies. cloud and ultra-broadband access under The Shift Plan, along with the innovation assets of Bell Labs and other 34 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Society and philanthropy Š Philanthropy: The Alcatel-Lucent Foundation continued to and innovate in a connected world. In 2015, it launched a execute on its mission to prepare youth from disadvantaged major innovation program to help youth innovate in key communities (with a focus on young women) to participate regions around the world. 7.2 Impact on communities A robust telecommunications infrastructure fosters equality by for example, assessing philanthropic initiatives based on the democratizing information and enabling the promotion of numbers of beneficiaries and volunteers, volunteer hours, fundamental human rights. Alcatel-Lucent had a positive effect improvements to quality of life, improvements in people’s in the communities in which it operates by following policies and technology-related skills and more. In 2015, on top of our procedures that emphasized hiring local personnel, evaluating partnerships with non-profit organizations in key regions around local suppliers, minimizing environmental impact and, through the world, we continued to promote Campus in the Cloud our digital inclusion strategy, developing actions that enhance (which helps youth learn about the world of work directly from people’s lives. ICT professionals) and extended the reach of our We Care portal to encourage more Alcatel-Lucent employees to We continued to measure the impact of our actions according volunteer in their communities. to a range of social, environmental and economic indicators — 7.3 Philanthropy Building a generation of digital innovators 2015 highlights The Alcatel-Lucent Foundation contributed to digital inclusion In 2015, the Alcatel-Lucent Foundation: through philanthropic efforts in our employees’ and customers’ communities. It developed programs that prepare youth Š provided USD $0.9 million to carefully selected charitable (especially young women) to participate and innovate in the programs around the world, touching the lives of 47,000 connected world. Pursuing two strategic priorities — digital beneficiaries; literacy and fostering innovative thinking among youth — the Foundation sought to ensure the next generation benefits from Š provided in-kind donations (such as refurbished computers, the opportunities of the digital economy. Leveraging Alcatelschool supplies, clothing and food donations) to selected Lucent’s technology, global presence and employee expertise charities; and skills, the Foundation’s contributions included employee Š launched a new program with UNESCO to help youth learn volunteerism, partnerships with non-profit organizations and into innovate with technology and create their own solutions kind donations to communities around the world. for improving education in key regions around the world; Š funded 34 grassroots programs (in line with The Shift Plan’s Governance strategy for guiding philanthropic activities), benefiting 40,700 children and young adults from disadvantaged The Alcatel-Lucent Foundation was organized under the laws of communities in 18 countries worldwide; the U.S. State of Delaware as a non-governmental, non-profit, Š facilitated the engagement of 2,500 employee volunteers, private organization. As of December 31, 2015, the Alcatelwho gave 10,400 hours volunteering; and Lucent Foundation Board of Trustees included a chairperson, 11 company executives, an executive director and an external Š continued the worldwide deployment of the We Care trustee: volunteering management web tool to better monitor and structure our reporting on volunteer activities company-wide. Š Chair: Philippe Keryer The Foundation also continued to support two global signature Š External trustee: William Reese (CEO of the International programs: Youth Foundation) Š ConnectEd was a digital education partnership between Š Alcatel-Lucent trustees: Barbara Landmann (Vice Chair), World Education and the Alcatel-Lucent Foundation to Richard Campbell (Treasurer), Alex Yip (Secretary and Legal provide educational and digital skills training opportunities for Counsel), Sandy Motley, Theodore Sizer, Radwa Hafez, youth in disadvantaged communities worldwide. Launched in Christine Diamente (ex officio), Frederic Chapelard, Marco April 2011, this program put a special focus on the use of Malfavon, Jeanmarie Grisi and Guiyang Lin technology to transform youth education, work and life. The Š Director: Elisabeth Eude program arrived to completion as planned in June 2015, providing training to 22,575 youth (58% of them girls) during its lifespan. Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 35 SUSTAINABILITY Society and philanthropy Š Campus in the Cloud was an Alcatel-Lucent employee inshared with the beneficiaries of Alcatel-Lucent Foundation kind initiative that aimed to bridge the knowledge gap for programs. A new version of the Campus in the Cloud those who have no or little access to education by leveraging website was launched in April 2015 and generated close to our in-house skills, talent and communications technology. 16,000 video views by the end of the year. Launched in 2013, this program encouraged employees to The Alcatel-Lucent Foundation measures results using the share their knowledge by creating short educational videos London Benchmarking Group (LBG) standards to assess the on their work, giving advice on career advancement and how overall impact of its philanthropic activities. to prepare for the world of work. These videos were then 8 Supply chain 8.1 About our supply chain Supply chain organization racks, cables and batteries, We also purchased finished IT and telecommunications equipment (including servers, middleware Comprising three global internal organizations — procurement, and software) from original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) to manufacturing and logistics — in 2015, our global supply chain complement our own products when delivering complete operation continued to: solutions to our customers. Last year we worked with roughly 1,300 OEMs around the world. Š develop the global demand and build plan for hardware equipment; To deploy our products and solutions in the field, we relied on a network of 4,500 local engineering and installation services Š manage all internal and contracted manufacturing platforms; suppliers. Š support product industrialization; and Š develop associated testing strategies. Manufacturing Our manufacturing strategy involved both external and internal Procurement production sources. When external manufacturing was required, the external manufacturer was the primary owner of Throughout 2015, Alcatel-Lucent continued to develop and inventory, standard manufacturing equipment and common test update strategies to identify primary technologies and supply equipment. In the vast majority of cases, however, we used our sources for purchased components, finished goods, services own custom-made test equipment at internal manufacturing and solutions. To the greatest extent possible, we multisourced locations, allowing us to change manufacturing locations more a large number of industry-standard components and materials, easily if necessary. The Alcatel-Lucent facilities used for product and used multiple predefined sources for a number of introduction, surface mount assembly, module assembly and components and finished goods families — allowing us to system integration were located in China (Shanghai, Qingdao), access additional inventories in case of a disruptive event or France (Eu), Italy (Trieste) and Poland (Bydgoszcz). increased end-customer demand. Key contract manufacturer sites were located in: We further sought to mitigate disruptions by concentrating Š Guadalajara, Mexico (Flextronics; Sanmina SCI) mostly on “preferred” suppliers for new products and volume production. These suppliers were deemed to meet our Š Timisoara, Romania (Flextronics) requirements and were subject to quality and performance monitoring as well as periodic business reviews and executive Š Wuzhong, China (Flextronics) management meetings. Our goal is to source components in a way that optimizes the total cost of ownership and delivers high quality to our customers. Our procurement organization Logistics leveraged a global network of approximately 2,000 suppliers to source the goods and services necessary to manufacture our Our logistics organization managed the delivery of our products products and meet customer demand. as timeand cost-efficiently as possible while reducing carbon emissions. Using direct order fulfillment, we shipped products With our finished products requiring a wide range of electronic, directly to customers from our manufacturing locations. We also electromechanical and radio-frequency components including appointed a lead logistics provider to move our products in a notably semiconductors, printed circuit boards, connectors, consolidated way. 36 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Supply chain 8.2 Responsible purchasing Our commitment We were committed to promoting sustainability throughout our supply chain and among the third-party suppliers providing us with components, products, software, support or services. The three pillars of our comprehensive approach to responsible purchasing were: Š Communicate clear sustainability requirements to suppliers through contractual purchasing requirements and product or service specifications; Š Evaluate suppliers’ sustainability performance through ratings and on-site audits; Š Push and support the improvement efforts of suppliers whose performance is not at the expected level. Requirements for suppliers and subcontractors measured levels of risk according to a supplier’s type of activity, location and other factors. If the overall risk level was excessive, As a mandatory element of all agreements, Alcatel-Lucent either the supplier was rejected or actions such as a formal requires suppliers to comply with clearly defined principles sustainability rating process were taken to ensure the supplier’s based on international and sector standards. Our key practices met our requirements. references are the United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles and the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition EcoVadis sustainability ratings (EICC) Code of Conduct. Specifically, all suppliers have to Supplier assessments were performed by EcoVadis, a company commit to the EICC Code of Conduct and to ensure that their specializing in sustainable supply chain management solutions. supply chains meet the associated requirements. All new Based on internationally recognized standards such as the suppliers are required to adhere to the Ten Principles of the Global Reporting Initiative, the UN Global Compact and UNGC. ISO 26000, the EcoVadis rating system focuses on suppliers’ We encourage suppliers to meet international standards for social, ethical, environmental, health and safety, and human environment, safety and sustainability including ISO 14001 and rights practices, and on how they manage their own supply OHSAS 18001. As part of our risk analysis and assessment chains. Ratings are determined by EcoVadis experts based on processes, we track supplier compliance with these standards. supplier questionnaire responses, supporting documentation, third-party information and risk factors mapped according to industrial sector and country. EcoVadis ratings gave AlcatelEnforcing anti-corruption among suppliers Lucent a clear, external and objective point of reference for assessing suppliers. Suppliers can decide to share their In 2013 and 2014, we established the following supplier-related assessment results with any EcoVadis platform member and anticorruption procedures: thereby capitalize on their sustainability rating. Š all requests to use new suppliers are channeled through a Health and safety qualification screening and audits screening process; In 2015, we consolidated the health and safety qualification Š there are two levels of screening depending on business process for the services of suppliers performing high-risk level and the corruption risk associated with the supplier activities (e.g., work at heights or on high-voltage devices) and location and activity; and improved the process with governance, sustainability and Š suppliers can be accepted, accepted with conditions, or consequence management provisions. rejected for reasons of corruption risk. In 2015, we screened 551 additional suppliers. To ensure requirements were implemented on the field, we also performed In April 2015, we embarked on a program to screen our entire 59 on-site EHS audits. No fatalities were reported among our existing supplier base. By the end of 2015 approximately subcontractors or Alcatel-Lucent staff in 2015. 20,000 suppliers had been screened to the extent of identifying potential issues. Alcatel-Lucent sustainability audits We continued to conduct two types of supplier audits: quality Assessment of supplier sustainability performance audits (which include sustainability criteria) and more comprehensive sustainability-dedicated audits covering Supplier risk assessments environment, labor, human rights, fair business practices and sustainable procurement. We performed risk assessments when evaluating new suppliers in 2015 and continued our annual reassessment of risk levels On-site sustainability audits were typically done for suppliers for our major suppliers on an annual basis. These assessments with unsatisfactory EcoVadis ratings and high sustainability risk Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 37 SUSTAINABILITY Supply chain profiles. Quality audits were a supplier selection element Establishing conflict minerals traceability performed by our Supplier Quality team. In 2015, we surveyed more than 360 suppliers on conflict minerals to determine the origin of the tin, tantalum, tungsten Improving suppliers’ sustainability performance and gold included in their components. By having our suppliers We continued to require suppliers with unsatisfactory EcoVadis trace and report on where they source their minerals, this ratings or audit results to draft and implement remedial plans program aimed to push our supply chain to use legitimate addressing the identified weaknesses. In support, we provided minerals sources and to address the human rights and recommendations and determined if the overall improvement environmental violations occurring in the mining and trading plans were sufficient. activities of Africa’s Great Lakes region. In 2015, we recommended that our suppliers be conflict-free for Tantalum, Both high-spend and high-risk suppliers were covered by strive to become “conflict free” for Tin, Tungsten and Gold, and assessments and pushed to improve. In 2015, we maintained improve their own supply chain’s conflict minerals due diligence our 2014 figure of 80% of active suppliers rated “satisfactory” or practices and requirements. We combined mineral smelters’ above on their assessment of sustainability by EcoVadis. This conflict-free audit status (provided by the Conflict-Free Sourcing number was up from 53% at the end of 2010. (“Active Initiative industry associations) with traceability information from suppliers” refers to key, preferred and other suppliers who may our suppliers to determine mineral origin status. We reported require assessments because of their risk level.) this program’s progress on our website. 38 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability data 9 Sustainability data 9.1 Environmental indicators Definitions and methodology for 100% of our employees, extrapolation procedures were applied based on calculated ratios per employee. Our 2015 energy and water consumption, carbon footprint assessment and waste-generation reporting perimeter included Š Hazardous waste production: 96 sites (accounting for 71% all sites owned or leased by Alcatel-Lucent as of December of our employees) provided information on hazardous waste 2015. production. To account for 100% of our employees, extrapolation procedures were applied based on calculated For the 2015 assessment, 196 facilities were directly ratios per employee. responsible for managing energy and water consumption along with the carbon footprint assessment at their particular site. Š Non-hazardous waste production: 71 sites (accounting for Sites with direct facility data input responsibility accounted for 67% of our employees) provided information on non87% of the total average annual real estate building area and hazardous waste production. To account for 100% of our 80% of the total average annual Alcatel-Lucent headcount. In employees, extrapolation procedures were applied based on order to have environmental indicators accounting for 100% of calculated ratios per employee. our employees, extrapolation procedures were applied based Š Waste electrical and electronic equipment production: 177 on calculated ratios per area. We continued to attempt to obtain sites (accounting for 79% of our employees) provided utility information from landlords in leased situations where the information on waste electrical and electronic equipment. To utility usage can be allocated accurately to our leased space (for account for 100% of our employees, extrapolation procedures example, via a separate electric meter). If such information were applied based on calculated ratios per employee. cannot be obtained, electricity and/or natural gas usage is estimated utilizing “energy intensity” factors as stipulated within The EHS Reporting Protocol is available upon request at: our EHS Program Reporting Plan. Larry.Bernson@nokia.com. For the 2015 assessment, 173 facilities were directly responsible for managing waste-generation reporting at their Evolution in 2015 particular site. Sites with direct facility waste data input responsibility accounted for 83% of the total Alcatel-Lucent All facilities that were able to obtain energy usage information, headcount. regardless of building area or employee headcount, were From this scope, the number of facilities that reported effectively required to use our internal web-based tool. As a result, more resulted in the following corresponding percentages of total actual facility operational data were obtained, requiring less Alcatel-Lucent employees: estimation to obtain the 100% world-wide assessment. Š Energy consumption and CO2e emissions: 196 sites Energy efficiency: In 2015, we consolidated facilities to utilize (accounting for 80% of our employees) provided actual resources more efficiently — this action along with our efforts to facility-specific energy consumption and CO2e emissions implement energy efficiency projects and conduct energy information. This included inputting utility billings, fuel efficiency awareness programs for employees resulted in purchases and emitted GHG chemical emissions data obtaining over a 9% reduction in CO2e emission levels from our directly entered into a web-based tool by facility personnel. facilities compared to 2014. To account for 100% of our employees, facility energy Waste management: In 2015, we increased the number of consumption usage and CO2e emissions estimation facilities providing waste data which resulted in greater algorithms were employed for sites that could not obtain accuracy in the data reported and less estimation in our such information. In addition, fuel usage data for marine assessment. The decrease reported for non-hazardous waste vessels, along with fuel and mileage data for leased production was the result of several factors: most notably automobiles were obtained to account for 100% of corporate restructuring and facility consolidation which resulted worldwide Alcatel-Lucent mobile source operations. in reductions in headcount and facility surface areas as well as Š Water consumption: 101 sites (accounting for 63% of our increase in virtual office headcount. employees) provided water usage information. To account Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 39 SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability data 2015 environmental indicators 2015 Units 2013 2014 2015 Perimeter Carbon footprint assessment: Worldwide operations (1) Scope 1 (18) Stationary source fuel combustion t CO2e(4) 44,816 34,948 34,846 100% Mobile source fuel combustion t CO2 e(4) 63,036 47,116 44,080 100% Facility and mobile source refrigerant losses t CO2e(4) 4,041 732 1,348 100% Direct emissions of GHGs from manufacturing, R&D and product development t CO2e(4) 76 111 530 100% Fire suppression system losses t CO2e(4) 1,190 1 42 100% Total 113,159 82,908 80,847 100% Scope 2 (18) Electricity usage t CO2e(4) 439,175 403,857 360,771 100% Purchased hot water/steam t CO2 e(4) 7,356 6,079 5,996 100% Purchased chilled water t CO2e(4) 47 36 0 100% Total 446,578 409,973 366,767 100% Scope 3 (2) Contracted manufacturing services (15, 16) t CO2e(4,15) 2,937,000 2,831,000 2,916,055 100% Contracted marine services t CO2 e(4) 76,765 61,881 68,943 100% Purchased paper (7) t CO2e(4) 854 575 422 100% Fueland energy-related activities not included in Scope 1 and 2 t CO2e(4) 29,208 30,637 27,596 100% Upstream transportation and distribution (8) t CO2e(4) 145,191 111,565 87,831 100% Waste generated in operations (9) t CO2 e(4) 792 817 922 Business travel t CO2e(4) 68,378 73,574 62,118 100% Employee commuting t CO2e(4) 130,173 115,741 75,519 100% Downstream transportation and distribution (8) t CO2 e(4) 3,966 3,106 2,542 100% Use of sold products (16) t CO2e(4) 26,436,000 25,483,000 25,103,473 100% End-of-life treatment of sold products (10, 16) t CO2 e(4) (294,000) (283,000) (291,606) 100% Total 29,534,328 28,428,896 28,053,817 100% TOTAL (Scope 1 + 2 + 3) t CO2e(4) 30,094,065 28,921,777 28,501,431 100% 40 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability data 2015 Units 2013 2014 2015 Perimeter Carbon footprint assessment: Facility operations only (1,5,18) Indirect emissions of CO2e, linked to consumed electricity kt CO2e(3) 439 404 361 100% Indirect emissions of CO2e per employee t CO2e(4) 7 6 6 100% Direct emissions of CO2e, linked to consumed fossil energy kt CO2e(3) 50 38 37 100% Direct emissions of CO2e per employee t CO2e(4) 1 1 1 100% Total emissions of CO2e kt CO2 e(3) 496 448 404 100% Total emissions of CO2e per employee t CO2 e(4) 7 7 7 100% Consumed energy: Facility operations only (1,5,18) Consumed electricity GWh 915 856 796 100% Consumed electricity by employee MWh 14 13 14 100% Consumed fossil energy GWh 261 201 198 100% Consumed fossil energy by employee MWh 4 3 3 100% Total consumed energy GWh 1,209 1,083 1,020 100% Total consumed energy by employee MWh 18 17 18 100% Carbon footprint assessment: Worldwide Scope 1 and Scope 2 (1,6,18) Indirect emissions of CO2e, worldwide Scope 2 operations kt CO2e(3) 447 410 367 100% Indirect emissions of CO2e per employee t CO2 e(4) 7 6 6 100% Direct emissions of CO2e, worldwide Scope 1 operations kt CO2e(3) 113 83 81 100% Direct emissions of CO2e per employee t CO2e(4) 2 1 1 100% Total emissions of CO2e kt CO2 e(3) 560 493 448 100% Total emissions of CO2e per employee t CO2 e(4) 8 8 8 100% Consumed energy: Worldwide Scope 1 and Scope 2 (1,6,18) Purchased electricity, worldwide Scope 2 operations GWh 915 856 796 100% Purchased electricity by employee MWh 14 13 14 100% Total purchased, worldwide Scope 2 operations GWh 948 883 823 100% Total consumed Scope 2 energy by employee MWh 14 14 14 100% Consumed fossil energy, worldwide Scope 1 operations GWh 427 369 357 100% Total consumed Scope 1 energy by employee MWh 6 6 6 100% Total consumed energy, worldwide Scope 1 and 2 operations GWh 1,375 1252 1,179 100% Total consumed energy by employee MWh 21 20 21 100% Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 41 SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability data 2015 Units 2013 2014 2015 Perimeter Water and wastes (17,19) Consumed water m3 2,123,851 1,923,667 1,836,149 100% Consumed water per employee m3 32 30 31 100% Production of hazardous waste t 1,024 677 465 100% Production of hazardous waste per employee kg 15 11 9 100% Percentage of hazardous waste recycled (11) % 74 74 74 100% Production of non-hazardous waste t 15,896 16,600 9,288 100% Production of non-hazardous waste per employee kg 239 260 177 100% Percentage of non-hazardous waste recycled (11) % 62 77 72 100% Production of Waste Electrical & Electronic Equipment (WEEE) (12) t 7,463 5,825 4,579 100% Percentage of WEEE recycled/reused % 97 96 95 100% Other emissions Solvents No significant quantities, indicator not relevant and not consolidated Halogenated hydrocarbon No significant quantities, indicator not relevant and not consolidated Discharge into water (heavy metals) No significant quantities, indicator not relevant and not consolidated Ozone-depleting substances No significant quantities, indicator not relevant and not consolidated NOx, SOx and other criteria air contaminants (13) tonnes 80 61 62 100% Miscellaneous Alcatel-Lucent headcount, ISO 14001 certified % 48.36 43.88 43.50 100% New products covered by ecodeclarations (14) % 100 100 100 100% (1) Emission factors based on initial values issued by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and kept constant for data consistency. (2) The presentation of our Scope 3 indicators follows the categories and guidance provided by the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting & Reporting Standard, published in November 2011. (3) kt CO2e: Metric kilotons of CO2 equivalency (includes the following GHGs: CO2, CH4, N2O, SF6, HFCs and PFCs). (4) t CO2e: Metric tons of CO2 equivalency (includes the following GHGs: CO2, CH4, N2O, SF6, HFCs and PFCs). (5) CO2e values include Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for facility operations only (includes facility mobile combustion). (6) Complete Scope 1 and 2 activities worldwide. (7) Purchased paper includes 100% of paper used in operations and purchased under corporate contract; does not include externally printed marketing collateral. (8) Product transport includes 100% of emissions from air and marine transport worldwide, as well as truck transport from available areas. (9) Energy usage at environmental remediation sites. (10) Recycled electronic equipment. (11) Recycled: not released in a landfill or not burned without energy recovery. (12) WEEE data includes electronic waste generated by Alcatel-Lucent operations and WEEE takeback. Not reported as production per employee since production includes takeback. (13) Products of combustion from facility stationary operations. (14) Associated with new products released during the cited year. (15) Contracted manufacturing services calculation procedure was revised in 2013 to include all production activities. (16) 2013 data are restated for the disposal of our Enterprise activities and for corrected equipment delivery to market. (17) To account for 100% of Alcatel-Lucent employees, extrapolation procedures were applied using a site-specific monthly headcount assessment. This calculation procedure results in a different overall headcount then the total headcount as of December 31 (disclosed in the Social indicators section of the present chapter). (18) To account for 100% of Alcatel-Lucent employees, extrapolation procedures were applied. Sites with direct input responsibility account for 87% of the total average annual real estate building area and 80% of the total average annual Alcatel-Lucent headcount. (19) To account for 100% of Alcatel-Lucent employees, extrapolation procedures were applied as follows: Š Water consumption: Sites with direct input responsibility account for 63% of our employees. Š Hazardous waste production: Sites with direct input responsibility account for 71% of our employees. Š Non-hazardous waste production: Sites with direct input responsibility account for 67% of our employees. Š Waste electrical and electronic equipment production: Sites with direct input responsibility account for 79% of our employees. 42 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability data Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Total direct energy consumption Amount Units tCO2e MWh By non-renewable primary energy sources Facility operations: Coal gas 77 MWh 12 77 Facility operations: Distillate fuel oil (#1, 2, 4 and diesel) 811,627 l 2,196 8,071 Facility operations: Natural Gas 179,553 MWh 32,592 179,553 Facility operations: Propane 30,361 l 46 198 Facility mobile sources: Diesel 470,166 l 1,280 4,676 Facility mobile sources: Gasoline 544,957 l 1,275 4,898 Facility mobile sources: Propane 50,278 l 77 328 TOTAL non-renewable primary energy sources 37,478 197,801 By renewable primary source 0 0 0 GRAND TOTAL 37,478 197,801 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Total Renewable Non-renewable Total indirect energy consumption MWh MWh MWh Purchased Electricity 796,072 184,680 611,393 Purchased Hot Water/Steam 26,464 6,131 20,333 TOTAL 822,536 190,811 631,725 Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 43 SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability data 9.2 Social indicators Global headcount The numbers below were restated for 2013 and 2014 due to the sale of our Enterprise activities on September 30, 2014. The tables below show the breakdown by business segment, Enterprise headcount was 2,795 in 2013 and 463 in 2014. geographic area, age and gender of our employees for 2013 to 2015. With the convergence of our HR information systems, data on all social indicators were collected and consolidated at the The figures take into account all employees who worked for fully corporate level. The only exception is health and safety data, consolidated companies (including long-term absences/notice which were issued from our sustainability reporting tool. The period) as well as companies in which we own 50% or more of 2015 health and safety survey covered 68 countries. the equity. 2015 2013 2014 2015 Perimeter 1. Headcount Excluding Enterprise, including non-operational headcount (long term absences/notice period) Headcount total, recruitments and reduction Total headcount as of December 31 59,516 52,673 50,047 100% Number of recruits 2,860 6,599 4,355 100% Headcount increase due to the full consolidation of previously non-fully consolidated companies 0 0 0 100% Headcount increase due to acquisitions and insourcing 2,943 37 159 100% Headcount reduction (15,759) (13,479) (7,140) 100% Headcount reduction due to businesses transferred or sold (7,913) (4,614) 0 100% Headcount reduction due to outsourcing and transfers (118) (2 195) (833) 100% Headcount reduction due to redundancies (3,542) (2,242) (2,845) 100% Headcount reduction due to normal departures (retirements, end of temporary work contracts, resignations, deaths) (4,186) (4,428) (3,462) 100% Breakdown of employees by business segment Data are restated for the disposal of our Enterprise activities Core 24,128 23,367 23,209 100% Access 33,156 28,048 25,575 100% Enterprise & LGS 684 0 0 100% Other (PNA included) 1,548 1,258 1,263 100% Total group 59,516 52,673 50,047 100% Breakdown of employees by geographic area Restated for the disposal of our Enterprise activities France 7,613 7,098 6,265 100% Other Western Europe 9,940 8,300 7,633 100% Rest of Europe 2,772 2,703 2,778 100% Asia-Pacific 19,306 16,967 16,694 100% North America 14,820 13,128 12,292 100% Rest of world 5,065 4,477 4,385 100% Total group 59,516 52,673 50,047 100% 44 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability data 2015 2013 2014 2015 PERIMETER Breakdown of employees by age Restated for the disposal of our Enterprise activities Europe, Middle East and Africa Below 30 6.6% 6.9% 6.8% 100% 30–50 68.8% 66.4% 64.3% 100% Above 50 24.7% 26.7% 28.8% 100% Americas Below 30 4.9% 4.9% 5.2% 100% 30–50 55% 53.3% 50.3% 100% Above 50 40% 41.8% 44.5% 100% Asia-Pacific Below 30 19.2% 18.9% 18.3% 100% 30–50 76.4% 76.8% 77.2% 100% Above 50 4.3% 4.3% 4.5% 100% Total group Below 30 10.2% 10.3% 10.3% 100% 30–50 67.3% 66.1% 64.7% 100% Above 50 22.5% 23.6% 25.0% 100% Breakdown of employees by gender Restated for the disposal of our Enterprise activities Europe, Middle East and Africa Female 19% 19% 19% 100% Male 81% 81% 81% 100% Americas Female 23% 23% 23% 100% Male 77% 77% 77% 100% Asia-Pacific Female 23% 31% 31% 100% Male 77% 69% 69% 100% Total group Female 21% 24% 24% 100% Male 79% 76% 76% 100% Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 45 SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability data 2015 2013 2014 2015 Perimeter 2. Diversity Percentage of women/headcount 21% 24% 24% 100% Percentage of men/headcount 79% 76% 76% 100% Percentage of women (Leadership Pipeline) 23% 22% 23% 100% Number of disabled employees 183 190 168 France(1) 3. Training Training budget (as a percentage of payroll) 1.00% 1.00% 1.03% 100% Average hours of training provided per internal learner (i.e. employees and contractors) 10 9.3 10.8 100% Total hours of training per employee NA 11 12 100% Percentage of training time via e-learning technologies 70% 73% 74.3% 100% 4. Mobility Number of expatriates worldwide 171 166 112 100% Expatriates by host region (Europe) 93 16 57 100% Expatriates by host region (North America) 13 7 12 100% Expatriates by host region (South America) 1 5 1 100% Expatriates by host region (Middle East, Africa and India) 29 86 20 100% Expatriates by host region (Asia-Pacific) 35 52 22 100% 5. Health and safety Number of days of absence due to work-related accidents (including occupational diseases) per employee 0.06 0.04 0.04 98% (2) Frequency rate for work-related accidents (including occupational diseases) (number of accidents per year, per one million hours worked) 1.19 1.14 0.85 98% (1) For Alcatel-Lucent International in France. (2) Based on country legislations. Additional notes Š The workforce considered for work-related accidents (including occupational diseases such as work-related In 2015, the number of days’ absence due to work-related stress) are employees, students, trainees and apprentices. accidents (including occupational diseases) per employee by The numbers of days of absence due to work-related region was 0.04 in Asia-Pacific, 0.05 in Europe, the Middle East accidents (including occupational diseases) per employee and Africa, and 0.05 in the Americas. are not all calculated with the same methodology because of Š In 2015, the distribution of frequency rate for work-related specificities or local regulatory frameworks. Adjustments accidents (including occupational diseases) for total have been made by the consolidating entity for countries employee headcount by region was 0.43 in Asia-Pacific, reporting in calendar days instead of working days to ensure 1.59 in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and 0.54 in the homogeneity of the disclosed data. Americas. 46 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Article 225 of France’s Grenelle II Law (July 10, 2010) 10 Article 225 of France’s Grenelle II Law (July 10, 2010) (ARTICLE R. 225-105 OF THE CODE DE COMMERCE) Grenelle II requires France-based companies to include implements article 225 of law No. 2010-788 of July 12, 2010, information in their annual report on the environmental, social known as “Grenelle II,” which requires companies to publish and societal impacts of their business activities, and on their social, environmental and governance information in the annual commitments to sustainable development. It also requires an report of their Board of Governors or Management Board independent third party to verify that information. pursuant to law No. 2001-420 of May 15, 2001 relating to France’s so-called “NRE” (New Economic Regulations Act) and The data presented here summarize the social, environmental article 12 of law No. 2012-387 of 22 March 2012 relating to the and societal aspects of Alcatel-Lucent’s business activities in simplification and easing of legal and administrative procedures, accordance with French decree No. 2012-557 of April 24, which modified article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial 2012, which requires companies to report on the social and Code.) environmental impacts of their businesses. (That decree Grenelle II correspondence table AREA TOPIC REQUIRED INFORMATION REFERENCE Company organization to take into account 2.6 Environment, health and safety (EHS) Environment Overall environmental policy environmental issues (including policy, management assessment approach or certification) Employee awareness training and 5.1 Overall environmental policy / Employee Environment Overall environmental policy communication activities on environmental eco-awareness protection Allocation of resources to prevent Environment Overall environmental policy 2.7 Environmental risks environmental risks and pollution Amount of provisions and guarantees to address environmental risks, provided such 2.7 Environmental risks / Provisions and Environment Overall environmental policy information is not likely to cause serious guarantees for environmental risks harm to society in an ongoing dispute 2.7 Environmental risks / Provisions and Prevention, reduction or compensation guarantees for environmental risks measures for air emissions or water and soil Environment Pollution and waste management 4.5.2 Developing networks with sustainable discharges that seriously affect the use of resources / Pollution and waste environment management 5.2 Developing networks with sustainable Actions taken to support prevention, use of resources / Pollution and waste Environment Pollution and waste management recycling and waste disposal management 9.1 Environmental indicators Inclusion of noise pollution and any other 5.2 Developing networks with sustainable Environment Pollution and waste management form of pollution specific to the activity in use of resources / Pollution and waste question management 5.4 Reducing our carbon footprint and the Water consumption and water supply based environmental impact of our operations / Environment Sustainable use of resources on local conditions Water consumption 9.1 Environmental indicators 5.2 Developing networks with sustainable Consumption of raw materials and use of resources / Measures to improve Environment Sustainable use of resources measures taken to improve the efficiency of efficiency of raw materials use their use 5.2 Developing networks with sustainable use of resources / Product materials content Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 47 SUSTAINABILITY Article 225 of France’s Grenelle II Law (July 10, 2010) AREA TOPIC REQUIRED INFORMATION REFERENCE 5.2 Developing networks with sustainable use of resources / Product energy efficiency Energy consumption, measures taken to 5.4 Reducing our carbon footprint and the Environment Sustainable use of resources improve energy efficiency and renewable environmental impact of our operations / energy use Energy consumption 9.1 Environmental indicators 5.4 Reducing our carbon footprint and the Environment Sustainable use of resources Soil use environmental impact of our operations / Biodiversity protection 5.4 Reducing our carbon footprint and the environmental impact of our operations / Environment Climate change Greenhouse gas emissions Tracking and reporting on carbon emissions 9.1 Environmental indicators 5.1 Overall environmental policy Environment Climate change Adaptation to the impact of climate change 5.3 Green innovation 5.4 Reducing our carbon footprint and the Measures taken to protect or develop Environment Biodiversity protection environmental impact of our operations / biodiversity Biodiversity protection Total number and breakdown of employees Social Employment 9.2 Social indicators by gender, age and geography Social Employment Hirings and dismissals 9.2 Social indicators 6.3 Work organization and management / Social Employment Compensation and evolution Compensation Social Work organization Work time organization 6.3 Work organization and management 6.2 Employee health and safety / Social Work organization Absenteeism Absenteeism 9.2 Social indicators Organization of social dialogue, including Social Social relationships procedures for consultation and negotiation 6.4 Social relationships / Union discussions with staff 6.4 Social relationships / Review of collective Social Social relationships Review of collective agreements agreements Social Health and safety Health and safety work conditions 6.2 Employee health and safety Review of agreements signed with trade 6.4 Social relationships / Review of Social Health and safety unions or staff representatives on workplace workplace health and safety agreements health and safety Occupational accidents (including frequency 6.2 Employee health and safety / Social Health and safety and severity rates) and occupational Occupational accidents diseases 9.2 Social indicators 6.3 Work organization and management / Social Training Training policies Training 6.3 Work organization and management / Social Training Total number of hours trained Training 9.2 Social indicators Measures in favor of equality between Social Equal opportunity 6.6 Diversity and equal opportunity women and men Measures for employment and integration of Social Equal opportunity 6.6 Diversity and equal opportunity disabled people Social Equal opportunity Policies against discrimination 6.6 Diversity and equal opportunity 48 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Article 225 of France’s Grenelle II Law (July 10, 2010) AREA TOPIC REQUIRED INFORMATION REFERENCE Promotion and enforcement of Freedom of association and collective 6.5 Promotion and enforcement of ILO core Social ILO core conventions bargaining rights conventions Measures toward the elimination of Promotion and enforcement of 6.5 Promotion and enforcement of ILO core Social discriminatory treatment in employment and ILO core conventions conventions occupation 6.5 Promotion and enforcement of ILO core Promotion and enforcement of Measures toward the elimination of forced or Social conventions ILO core conventions compulsory work 8.2 Responsible purchasing Promotion and enforcement of Measures toward the effective abolition of 6.5 Promotion and enforcement of ILO core Social ILO core conventions child labor conventions Territorial, economic and social Societal On employment and regional development 7 Society and philanthropy impact of the company: Territorial, economic and social Societal On local population 7.2 Impact on communities impact of the company: Relationships with persons or Dialogue conditions with those persons or Societal organizations interested in the 3 Our engagement with stakeholders organizations company’s business, including: Relationships with persons or Societal organizations interested in the Actions of partnership or philanthropy 7.3 Philanthropy company’s business, including: Consideration of social and environmental Societal Subcontractors and suppliers 8.2 Responsible purchasing issues in the company’s procurement policy Importance of subcontracting and the social Societal Subcontractors and suppliers and environmental responsibility of suppliers 8.2 Responsible purchasing and subcontractors Societal Fair practices Actions taken to prevent corruption 4.6 Actions taken to prevent corruption 5.2 Developing networks with sustainable Measures taken for consumer health and Societal Fair practices use of resources / Impacts of our products safety on health and safety 4.8 Telecoms Industry Dialogue on freedom of expression and privacy Societal Human rights Actions taken to support human rights 6.5 Promotion and enforcement of ILO core conventions Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 49 SUSTAINABILITY United Nations Global Compact 11 United Nations Global Compact A longstanding signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), Alcatel-Lucent remained committed to integrating the UNGC’s 10 principles into its activities in 2015. UNGC correspondence table PRINCIPLE # DESCRIPTION REFERENCE 6.5 Promotion and enforcement of ILO core conventions To support and respect the protection of internationally Human rights 1 4.8 Telecoms Industry Dialogue on freedom of expression proclaimed human rights. and privacy 6.5 Promotion and enforcement of ILO core conventions To make sure that we are not complicit in human rights Human rights 2 4.8 Telecoms Industry Dialogue on freedom of expression abuses. and privacy To uphold the freedom of association and the effective Labor 3 6.4 Social relationships recognition of the right to collective bargaining. To support the elimination of all forms of forced and 6.5 Promotion and enforcement of ILO core conventions Labor 4 compulsory labor. 8.2 Responsible purchasing 6.5 Promotion and enforcement of ILO core conventions Labor 5 To support the effective abolition of child labor. 8.2 Responsible purchasing To support the elimination of discrimination in respect to Labor 6 6.6 Diversity and equal opportunity employment and occupation. To support a precautionary approach to environmental Environment 7 5 Environment challenges. To undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment 8 5 Environment responsibility. To encourage the development and diffusion of Environment 9 5 Environment environmentally friendly technologies. 4 Ethical Business To work against corruption in all its forms, including Anti-corruption 10 4.6 Actions taken to prevent corruption extortion and bribery. 8.2 Responsible purchasing 50 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Independent verification 12 Independent verification Alcatel-Lucent S.A. Year ended the 31st December 2015 Independent verifier’s report on consolidated social, environmental and societal information presented in the management report This is a free translation into English of the original report issued in the French language and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. To the shareholders, In our quality as an independent verifier accredited by the COFRAC1, under the number n° 3-1050, and as a member of the network of one of the statutory auditors of the company Alcatel-Lucent S.A., we present our report on the consolidated social, environmental and societal information established for the year ended on the 31st December 2015, presented in chapter 9 of the 2015 annual report of the 20-F and chapter 4 of the 2015 20-F additional information, hereafter referred to as the “CSR Information,” pursuant to the provisions of the article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). Responsibility of the company It is the responsibility of the Managing Director to establish a management report including CSR Information referred to in the article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), in accordance with the protocols used by the company including protocols for Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) and Human Resources (HR) in their versions dated respectively on February 2016 and August 2009 (hereafter referred to as the “Criteria”), available on request at the company’s headquarters. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by regulatory requirements, the Code of Ethics of our profession as well as the provisions in the article L. 822-11 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). In addition, we have implemented a quality control system, including documented policies and procedures to ensure compliance with ethical standards, professional standards and applicable laws and regulations. Responsibility of the independent verifier It is our role, based on our work: Š to attest whether the required CSR Information is present in the management report or, in the case of its omission, that an appropriate explanation has been provided, in accordance with the third paragraph of R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) (Attestation of presence of CSR Information); Š to express a limited assurance conclusion, that the CSR Information, overall, is fairly presented, in all material aspects, in accordance with the Criteria; Š To express, at the request of the company, a limited assurance conclusion that the information selected by the company and identified in chapter 9 of the 2015 annual report on form 20-F and chapter 4 of the 2015 20-F additional information, has been established, in all material aspects, in accordance with the Criteria. Our verification work was undertaken by a team of five people between October 2015 and February 2016 for an estimated duration of seventeen weeks. We conducted the work described below in accordance with the professional standards applicable in France and the Order of 13 May 2013 determining the conditions under which an independent third-party verifier conducts its mission, and in relation to the opinion of fairness and the reasonable assurance report, in accordance with the international standard ISAE 30002. 1 Scope available at www.cofrac.fr 2 ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical information Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 51 SUSTAINABILITY Independent verification 1. Attestation of presence of CSR Information We obtained an understanding of the company’s CSR issues, based on interviews with the heads of relevant departments, a presentation of the company’s strategy on sustainable development based on the social and environmental consequences linked to the activities of the company and its societal commitments, as well as, where appropriate, resulting actions or programmes. We have compared the information presented in the management report with the list as provided for in the Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). In the absence of certain consolidated information, we have verified that the explanations were provided in accordance with the provisions in Article R. 225-105-1, paragraph 3, of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). Based on this work, we confirm the presence in the management report of the required CSR information. 2. Limited assurance on CSR Information Nature and scope of the work We undertook about twelve interviews with the people responsible for the preparation of the CSR Information in the different departments including Responsible purchasing, Human Resources, Foundation, EHS, Privacy and data protection, Global compliance, CTO & Bell Labs, Green Research, in charge of the data collection process and, if applicable, the people responsible for internal control processes and risk management, in order to: Š Assess the suitability of the Criteria for reporting, in relation to their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality, and understandability, taking into consideration, if relevant, industry standards; Š Verify the implementation of the process for the collection, compilation, processing and control for completeness and consistency of the CSR Information and identify the procedures for internal control and risk management related to the preparation of the CSR Information. We determined the nature and extent of our tests and inspections based on the nature and importance of the CSR Information, in relation to the characteristics of the Company, its social and environmental issues, its strategy in relation to sustainable development and industry best practices. For the CSR Information we considered the most important3: – At the level of the consolidated entity, we consulted documentary sources and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (organisation, policies, actions, etc.), we implemented analytical procedures on the quantitative information and verified, on a test basis, the calculations and the compilation of the information, and also verified their coherence and consistency with the other information presented in the management report; – At the level of the representative sample of entities we selected4, based on their activity, their contribution to the consolidated indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we undertook interviews to verify the correct application of the procedures and undertook detailed tests on the basis of samples, consisting in verifying the calculations made and linking them with supporting documentation. The sample selected therefore represented on average 28% of the total workforce and 20% of the carbon footprint (scope 1 and scope 2). For the other consolidated CSR information, we assessed their consistency in relation to our knowledge of the company. Finally, we assessed the relevance of the explanations provided, if appropriate, in the partial or total absence of certain information. We consider that the sample methods and sizes of the samples that we considered by exercising our professional judgment allow us to express a limited assurance conclusion; an assurance of a higher level would have required more extensive verification work. Due to the necessary use of sampling techniques and other limitations inherent in the functioning of any information and internal control system, the risk of non-detection of a significant anomaly in the CSR Information cannot be entirely eliminated. 3 Environmental and societal information: sustainable use of resources and climate change (energy consumption, measures undertaken to improve energy efficiency and to promote the use of renewable energy, raw material consumption and measures undertaken to enhance resource efficiency) ;, relation with stakeholders (conditions for dialogue, partnership or sponsorship), importance of subcontracting and the consideration of environmental and social issues in purchasing policies and relations with suppliers and subcontractors, business ethics (actions undertaken to prevent bribery and corruption), actions undertaken to promote and guarantee Human Rights. Social information: employment (total headcount and breakdown, hiring and terminations), work accidents, notably their frequency and their severity, as well as occupational diseases, training policies, number of days of training, diversity and equality of treatment and opportunities (measures undertaken for gender equality), promotion and respect of the ILO core conventions. 4 Tokyo (Japan), Ning Quiao Rd (China), Villarceaux (France), Timisoara (Romania), Mountain View (USA), Ottawa (Canada) 52 2015 Sustainability Report ‰ Alcatel Lucent SUSTAINABILITY Independent verification Conclusion Based on our work, we have not identified any significant misstatement that causes us to believe that the CSR Information, taken as a whole, has not been fairly presented, in compliance with the Criteria. Paris-La Défense, April 4th, 2016 French original signed by: Independent Verifier ERNST & YOUNG et Associés Partner, Sustainable Development Partner Eric Mugnier Bruno Perrin Alcatel Lucent ‰ 2015 Sustainability Report 53 ALCATEL LUCENT 148-152, route de la Reine 92100 Boulogne-Billancourt France Tel.: +33 1 55 14 10 10 www.alcatel-lucent.com
