United Nation Glo obal Comp pact (UNGC C)Commu unication on Progresss Novem mber 30, 20116 LETTE ER OF COMMITME ENT FROM M MANAGIING DIRE ECTOR New Liink Marketting Limiteed embarks on the 3rd year y journeyy, and 2nd yeear of comm mitment to the United U Natioons Global Compact C (U UNGC). With the succeessful and laandmark traansition l to demoocracy and large scale legal l p and reegulatory reforms in thee pipeline, particularly in the financiaal services sector, s Neww Link Marketing Lim mited reaffirrms our suppport to the T Ten Principples of the United U Natiions Globaal Compact. Since addopting the United Nattions Globaal Compact (UNGC) prrinciples, Neew Link Maarketing w Limitedd has been working connsistently to o raise the governance standards s innternally so as to becomee a role moddel for the reest of the inndustry. In working w tow wards our gooal to be a leading l Companny in our inndustry, we adhere to annd embed thhe UNGC principles p innto our practices, policiess and operattions. Yours SSincerely Thida Thant T Managiing Directorr New Liink Marketing Limited HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and goals New Link Marketing Limited is committed to develop an organizational culture which supports internationally recognized human rights and avoid any involvement in the abuse of human rights. We provide an environment which supports and promotes equal opportunities, dignity and mutual respect. This is clearly stated in our Human Rights & Sustainability Policy in our own employee handbook. Implementation New Link Marketing Limited is committed to creating a culture in which employees respect the dignity and worth of individuals. New Link Marketing Limited strives to foster respect for human rights while providing an environment that encourages employees to understand and realize importance of human rights. Equal Employment Opportunity and Respect for Human Rights New Link Marketing Limited strives to provide equal employment opportunities. New Link Marketing Limited is committed to treat our employees with no illegal discrimination based on race, religion, gender, social status, physical or mental disability, and sexual orientation. New Link Marketing Limited announces all our vacancies publicly and does not discriminate in employment based on gender and/or race. According to Myanmar Labor Law, employees are allowed to retire after 60. In Myanmar, as a developing country, elderly people have desire to work on after their retirement because of finance, working environment and spirit of sharing experience. In this respect, New Link Marketing Limited has under its workforce, a number of staff aged over 60. New Link Marketing Limited recruits staff from the age of 18. Thus, we have staff that who stopped education after high school and are still attending university. Indirectly, New Link Marketing Limited takes part in reducing human trafficking. Compliance with Employment Laws and Regulations New Link Marketing Limited adheres to the applicable laws and regulations which it operates in treating our employees. Measurement of Outcomes We believe that as a result of these measures, there was no employees regarding any violation of Human Rights. We monitor and evaluate performance through our yearly employee survey. From this survey we measure the temperature of how the employees regard working in New Link Marketing Limited We conduct yearly performance appraisals with every employee on a one to one basis to ensure that everyone is heard. Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance is made known to the staff. New Link Marketing Limited conducts Human Rights awareness program for the staff. The staff got awareness of HIV/AIDS, HUMAN TRAFFICKING, BIRTH SPACING AND SEXUAL HEALTHCARE, CHILD RIGHT and HUMAN RIGHT. LABOR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Business should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and goals We respect the rights of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining. An open door policy has been established where employees can report grievances to their upper management and the Human Resources Manager. We do not employ any form of forced labor because we consider that as fundamental violation of human rights. Also, we are totally against the practice of child labor. All job applications are subject to detailed screening by our Human Resources Personnel. All employees in New Link marketing Limited are given equal opportunities; hiring and promotion of employees are based on criteria like academic qualifications, skills and track record. Implementation New Link Marketing Limited has always been supportive of the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Prior to employment, it is our policy to be transparent about the working terms and conditions. New Link Marketing Limited employee’s policies are specified within employment contracts. These contracts clearly state the actual working conditions and their rights. So, all employees are aware of its existence and must agree upon it before signing. New Link Marketing Limited strives to achieve and maintain a healthy and safe work environment that motivates its employees. New Link Marketing Limited has effective communication system in place for Complaints/Suggestions to allow for communication between the Top Management and the Staff. A professional HR counselor has been appointed to reduce work and personal stress, and overall wellbeing of all staff. Measurement of outcomes The organization structure is flat and there is an effective line of communication between top management and staff who can directly submit ideas and suggestions without barriers. Our staff feel encouraged to express their stress and feelings, and thereby allowing a healthier working environment. No complaints were reported during this reporting period. It treats all its employees with dignity and respect, and not uses corporal punishment or threats of violence or other physical or mental abuse. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environment responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and goals We are, however, motivated and highly committed to protecting and making a positive impact on the local environment, while conducting our daily business activities. New Link Marketing Limited respects and fully supports the principles underlying Environment. Our management team is fully aware of the importance of environmental risks as well as its threats to current and future environment. New Link Marketing Limited is aware of the effects of environmental issues and it enforces the use of internet, emails and internal network among staff which reduces the wastage of paper. By increasing the deployment of ICT throughout society, New Link Marketing Limited will expand our contributions to solving environmental challenges together with customers and society Implementation New Link Marketing Limited started to reduce paper consumption and encourage its employees to use alternative products such as recycle paper and avoid unnecessary expenses. New Link Marketing Limited encouraged the staff to correspond and communicate via electronic mail to minimize paper usage. Employees are made aware of global warming and environmental issues. This is carried out in practice during employees’ annual trips where they have a good practice of collecting and getting rid of non-recyclable rubbish at the places of visit as a company’s social activity. Another environmental a companywide practice is providing staff training in public parks by collecting and properly getting rid of rubbish in the areas after the training. New Link Marketing Limited is implementing the centralized electronic communication system through intranet, emails and shared network drives to reduce paper usage. Our offices are installed with energy saving lights to promote clean energy in the environment. New Link Marketing Ltd as a distribution organization deals with Suppliers who takes environmental responsibilities. (E.g. Kimberly Clark) Measurement of outcomes Monitoring the environmental footprint of company is done through the monthly electricity bill, water bill, gasoline bills, and purchase of papers, warehousing and usage of resources. Assessment and review on supply chain activities are done monthly so that resources can be lowered to reduce our environmental footprint. Regularly educating the managers, supervisors and employees are done to be responsible in protecting the environment and supporting company’s policy. Middle management level has to share to their teams to be responsible by organizing knowledge-sharing activities among the employees to understand and improve methods to reduce waste and protect the environment. Our Development team monitors expenditures on paper usage, petro usage and electric usage. New Link Marketing Limited is therefore saving energy in office rooms and promoting clean energy in the environment. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and goals New Link Marketing Limited considers transparency among customers, employees and other companies and organizations as essential in having genuine relationship and clean dealings. Staff integrity is a must in the way New Link Marketing Limited approaches every issue. The company is against all forms of bribery: not only among staff but also with outside companies and organizations. Implementation New Link Marketing Limited creates a corporate culture based on honesty and openness. Policies are communicated to employees via standard internal communication tools. New Link Marketing Limited is against all forms of corruption and will work actively to ensure that this does not occur in the group's business activities. Over the past years, internal and external check and balance system over transactions were audited by internal audits, external audits, Finance, Administration and HR department. Staff training on company rules and policies includes policies related to gift acceptance and overall upgrading of moral. Measurement of outcomes Corruption is kept to the minimum at New Link Marketing Limited. Each and every employee is fully aware of all forms of corruption and practices of anti-corruption/ antibribery measures. We assess and evaluate the incidents reported and record the severity of the situation. Internal audits within each department are conducted yearly by top management, to ensure that they all adhere to the anti-corruption policies. In addition, we are also aware and in support of the SDG goals of UN by contributing in the areas which are accessible; particularly, in the following CSR events where we have supported 7 SDG goals this year. SDG Goal #1: No Poverty ; Goal #2: Zero Hunger • Provide short period loan without interest to lower position staff in the company from the staff fund. • Provide free lunch to staff stationed in the office. SDG Goal #3: Good Health & Well-being • Provides counseling sessions to parents whose children suffered from cancer in Children Hospital. SDG Goal #4: Quality Education • Serves as a panelist/judge for the discussion forum during Global Entrepreneurship Week. • Serves as a panelist for young business in Mawlamyine, lower part of Myanmar, during Global Entrepreneurship Week. • Serves as a judge in the recycle product competition in Hpa An, lower part of Myanmar, during Global Entrepreneurship Week. • A monthly donation of USD 100 for Education and General Development Of the Children at an impoverished outskirt area of Yangon. (Monastic Education School) SDG Goal #5: Gender Equality; Goal #8: Decent Work and Economic growth • Serves as a panelist for Women Business Leader Program for Tech Age Girl. • Serves as a speaker for gathering event related to women’s voices on health and development arranged by 3MDG and Triangle Women’s Support … SDG Goal #17: Partnerships for the goals • Conducts training for government officials from SME Development Department Section Head under Ministry of Industry in Nay Pyi Daw. (Strengthening Capacity Building Training of Staffs, Who Serve for SMEs Development) In conclusion, New Link Marketing is proud to embrace the 10 UNGC Principles and working towards the fulfillment of SDG goals set forth by the UN.
