2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Corporate Social Responsibility report 2015 ABOUT THE REPORT As part of Nordic Semiconductor’s participation in the UN Global Compact, this report is intended as our official Communication on Progress (COP), covering the period from January 1st 2015 to December 31st 2015, unless otherwise stated. This is the third Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report published by Nordic Semiconductor, and is published together with Nordic Semiconductor’s annual financial report for 2015. The reports are published on www.nordicsemi.com. This Corporate Social Responsibility report has been prepared in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) initiative, and describes Nordic Semiconductor’s policies, goals and implementation, as well as the outcome of its work with humanand labor rights, the environment and anti-corruption. CONTENTS: 1 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT | 3 2 ABOUT NORDIC SEMICONDUCTOR | 5 3 OUR STAKEHOLDERS | 8 4 HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR RIGHTS | 10 5 ENVIRONMENT | 13 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION | 17 7 HEALTH AND SAFETY | 19 8 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT | 21 Page 2 of 22 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2015 1 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Earlier this year Nordic Semiconductor became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact initiative, and committed to support the related ten principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. These are topics Nordic Semiconductor has worked on for years, and joining the UN Global Compact is a way to clearly demonstrate and communicate our efforts for sustainable operations and ethical business conduct to our stakeholders and the general public. Nordic Semiconductor recognizes that profitable growth goes hand in hand with social responsibility, environment and climate considerations. We will continue to support the UN Global Compact as a governing principle for our sustainability efforts. This report constitutes our Communication on Progress on our sustainability efforts, where we provide a summary of our activities in relation to our ongoing commitment to the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles. Svenn-Tore Larsen CEO, Nordic Semiconductor Page 3 of 22 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2015 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 4 of 22 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2015 2 ABOUT NORDIC SEMICONDUCTOR A global leader in Bluetooth Smart wireless solutions Nordic Semiconductor designs, sells and delivers integrated electronic circuits and related intellectual property for use in wireless communications applications. The company specializes in ultralow power solutions, primarily based on its proprietary 2.4 GHz RF and Bluetooth Smart technology, in which it remains a pioneer and market leader. Nordic Semiconductor is headquartered in Trondheim, Norway with offices in US, China, Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Poland, Finland and the Philippines. At the end of 2015, Nordic Semiconductor counted 454 employees worldwide. OUR BUSINESS MODEL Nordic Semiconductor’s business model is centered on developing, selling and delivering integrated circuits and related intellectual property, by defining our own products and standardized solutions, driven by market demands and opportunities. Innovation and ideas from highly competent workers are central to our business, and a key to our success in creating market leading products. Nordic Semiconductor has recruited engineering talents from all around the world, to retain the right competence and expertise for product innovation and meeting market demands. Nordic Semiconductor is a «fabless producer», meaning that we outsource capital intensive production and testing to manufacturing partners. The fabless structure allows Nordic Semiconductor to be flexible in choosing manufacturing partners based on capacity, expertise and production processes required to meet market demands. Our products are produced using world class manufacturing subcontractors such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Advanced Semiconductor Engineering and Amkor, with whom we been working for years and have strong relationships. Page 5 of 22 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2015 Products are sold world-wide through highly skilled distribution partners, specifically to manufacturers of high volume consumer applications. Nordic Semiconductor’s customers include leading brands in each of our target market segments such as PC and tablet accessories, Sports/Health monitors, Mobile phone accessories, Media remote controls, Gaming controllers, Toys, RFID solutions, Home and Industrial Automation. Standardized product solutions with high quality and performance are key to maintain a large and satisfied customer base. Nordic Semiconductor’s management system is based on the standards ISO 9001 Quality management systems, ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems, as well as the EICC Code of Conduct’s provisions for management systems. Through our management system, topics related to Corporate Social Responsibility are incorporated in our everyday routines where relevant, and ensures continuous and structured improvement. OUR PRODUCTS A leading vendor of wireless connectivity and embedded processing solutions for internet connected things. The company’s primary focus is ultra-low power wireless solutions, based on proprietary 2.4 GHz RF and Bluetooth® Smart technologies (also known as Bluetooth low energy). Effective power management and increasing energy efficiency is at the core of the consumer electronics market. Nordic Semiconductor’s 0.18μm CMOS technology node products have proved very successful, culminating in its nRF51 series single chip Bluetooth Smart solution which is still one of the most energy-efficient connectivity solutions available to the consumer market. In 2015 Nordic Semiconductor released the nRF52 Series of ultra-low power RF System on Chips. The selection of the TSMC 55nm ultra-low power platform for this family of devices will further improve our product portfolio’s power consumption, processing power and memory options. This process is a key enabler for us to push the envelope on power consumption, performance and integration of the nRF52 Series to meet the future requirements of Wearable and Internet of Things (IoT) applications. Page 6 of 22 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2015 OUR VISION AND VALUES Nordic Semiconductor’s vision for sustainability is to integrate responsible practices into our operations and actions. As a UN Global Compact signatory, Nordic Semiconductor is committed to the Ten Principles of the UNGC and to report on human rights, workers’ rights, the environment and anti-corruption. Nordic Semiconductor’s approach to CSR issues is incorporated into our management system, based on the following policy: Nordic Semiconductor’s Policy on Corporate Social Responsibility Nordic Semiconductor’s operating practices, decisions and management systems shall be guided by, and in a transparent way reflect that: Nordic Semiconductor is accountable for its impact on the society and the environment Nordic Semiconductor respects its stakeholder's interests. Nordic Semiconductor behaves ethically and respects human rights at all times, and will not tolerate any form of forced labor or child labor in our supply chain Nordic Semiconductor respects the rule of law and international norms of behavior Nordic Semiconductor prohibits any retaliatory action for reporting or inquiring about alleged improper or wrongful activity Specifically, Nordic Semiconductor and its tier one suppliers shall comply with the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct. Nordic Semiconductor shall actively encourage tier 1 suppliers to require the same from their suppliers. EICC Code of Conduct Founded in 2004 by a group of leading electronics companies, the EICC is a non-profit coalition of electronics companies committed to supporting the rights and wellbeing of workers and communities worldwide affected by the global electronics supply chain. The EICC Code of Conduct is a set of standards on social, environmental and ethical issues in the electronics industry supply chain. The provisions set out in the Code of Conduct are in alignment with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and derived from key international human rights standards including the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Nordic Semiconductor supports the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct and actively pursues conformance to the code and its standards on Labor, Health and Safety, Environment, Ethics and Management Systems. For more information on the EICC and its work, please see www.eiccoalition.org. 2007 2010 2014 2016 2013 Adopted EICC Con flict Min erals ISO 14001 UN Global OHSAS 18001 certification 2004 Cod e of Con duct statement certification Compact 2015 First RoHS 2012 Water compliant p roduct Carbon accoun ting managemen t 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2004 2017 Figure 1: Timeline illustrating Nordic Semiconductor’s CSR work and milestones. Page 7 of 22 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2015 3 OUR STAKEHOLDERS With a global business model and a quickly growing business, Nordic Semiconductor faces multiple stakeholders with different needs and requirements. Communication with stakeholders is important for continuous improvement on our CSR performance. Our objectives are to understand stakeholders’ concerns and continue to improve CSR-related performance, obtain stakeholders’ trust and respect for Nordic Semiconductor, and report on Nordic Semiconductor’s efforts and performance to maintain and enhance our reputation. Stakeholders are internal or external persons or organizations which have influence on Nordic Semiconductor, or can be influenced by Nordic Semiconductor. The most relevant stakeholders are identified as owners and investors, customers and distributors, employees, manufacturing partners, authorities and the community /general public. Based on this, Nordic Semiconductor has analyzed identified CSR topics systematically to assess their materiality. The assessment is performed by evaluating the topics’ importance to our stakeholders and to Nordic Semiconductor in terms of impact on revenue, reputation and compliance. The outcome of the materiality assessment is illustrated in Figure 1 below. Table 1 on next page shows the identified main topics of interest for each stakeholder, as well as references to how Nordic Semiconductor work with these topics and stakeholder communication channels. MATERIALITY Product Compliance and Transparency 1. Product Compliance 2. Resource efficiency 3. Sustainable Sourcing High Energy Efficiency 4. Energy Efficient operations 5. Energy Efficient products Importance to stakeholders 6. GHG emissions Environmental Management 7. Water management 8. Waste treatment Ethical Behaviour Medium 9. Human Rights compliance 10. Workers’ Rights compliance 11. Anti-corruption 12. Diversity 13. Data Privacy 14. Ethical Behavior 15. Community Engagement Working conditions 16. Health and Safety Low 17. Payment and Wages 18. Working environment 19. Competence Low Medium High Importance to Nordic Figure 1: Materiality assessment of CSR topics Page 8 of 22 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2015 Stakeholder dialogue Main areas of How we work with these Page Stakeholders examples interest (CSR) issues, activities 2015 ref. Owners and Quarterly financial reporting Ethical behavior EICC Code of Conduct, 7 investors Annual Financial report UN Global Compact Annual CSR report Environmental management ISO 14001 certification 14 Carbon Disclosure Project Energy efficient operations, CDP Climate Change Program Face-to-face meetings 15 GHG emissions reporting Annual general meeting Water management CDP Water program reporting 15 Customers and Face-to-face meetings and Product compliance Hazardous substances management 14 distributors direct contact Resource efficiency Ultra-low power products 6 Nordic webpage Sustainable sourcing Conflict minerals program 11 Nordic Developer Zone Customer satisfaction survey Carbon footprint CDP Climate Change program 15 Customer surveys Water risk assessment CDP Water program 15 Participation on exhibitions Human rights and labor EICC Code of Conduct, UN Global and seminars 10 compliance Compact Employees Daily contact Training and education Performance reviews 12 Performance reviews Business ethics EICC Code of Conduct 7 Employee satisfaction survey Health and Safety OHSAS 18001 certification 19 Nordic intranet Quarterly financial meetings Working conditions Working Environment Committee 19 Internal training Non-retaliation Whistleblower program 18 Employee unions and Non-discrimination Non-discrimination policy, representatives 10 diversity program Subcontractors Quarterly operations reviews Product compliance Hazardous substances management 14 Supplier audits Sustainable sourcing Conflict minerals program 11 Yield improvement and waste Human rights and labor EICC Code of Conduct reduction projects 10 compliance Environmental management Carbon accounting, water 14 accounting, waste measurement Authorities Legislative requirements Product compliance Hazardous substances management 14 Audits Waste management ISO 14001 certification 14 Authorities advisory functions Anti-corruption Anti-corruption policy, Newsletter monitoring 17 whistleblower program Working environment OHSAS 18001 certification 19 Community and Press releases Ethical behavior CSR reporting, UN Global Compact 7 general public Newsletter monitoring Community Engagement Charitable contributions 21 Business presentations at Education and training ‘Make it Digital’ educational institutions 22 Student program and master thesis Table 1: Stakeholders dialogue, main areas of interest related to corporate social responsibility, and Nordic Semiconductor response. Page ref. indicates reference to where in this report the work on these topics are described. Page 9 of 22 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2015 4 HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR RIGHTS Employees shall have rights to organize and collective bargaining. ASSESSMENT Nordic Semiconductor is a growing business It is our goal to have no form of human rights with offices and employees in many parts of abuse or labor issue in any stage related to the world. We aim to secure a diverse production of our products. Closer follow-up environment and ensure equal employment of new suppliers and increased knowledge of opportunities. Fair recruitment and nonour upstream supply chain are specific discrimination is important to attract and targets for the coming year. retain qualified personnel. Nordic Semiconductors policy Based on risk assessment, specifically on Non-Discrimination the issues of Conflict Minerals and forced labor in the value chain have been identified All Nordic Semiconductor employees as relevant topics pertaining the Human shall be treated equally and with dignity, Rights and Labor principles. The electronics courtesy and respect. Nordic industry supply chain unfortunately sees Semiconductor prohibits any form of incidences of trafficked and/or forced discrimination against and/or (bonded) labor or child labor, particularly harassment of employees or applicants in Asia and particularly via means of debt for employment due to race, color, bondage and document seizure, and it is nationality or ethnical origin, age, important for Nordic Semiconductor to religion, disability, political opinions, ensure we are not complicit in this in gender or sexual orientation, as any way. described by ILO conventions. Nordic Semiconductor’s organizational culture shall be characterized by POLICIES, COMMITMENTS openness and good internal AND GOALS communication so that any misconduct Nordic Semiconductor’s CSR policy and the or problems can be addressed, EICC Code of Conduct commits to respecting discussed and resolved in a timely and supporting Human Rights and Workers’ manner. Nordic Semiconductor’s rights. Nordic Semiconductor shall uphold employees are encouraged to report any and protect internationally proclaimed incident of discrimination to their human rights and workers’ rights, and to nearest leader or through the applicable treat workers with dignity and respect as whistle-blower channels. understood by the international community. Nordic Semiconductor adheres to the Under Norwegian law, employees are principle that all employment shall be freely granted the right to organize in labor unions. chosen and that workers shall be free to Nordic Semiconductor respects and supports leave their employment with reasonable this important right. notice. Child labor must not be used at any stage of manufacturing. Working hours and wages shall comply with applicable local laws or EICC Code of Conduct paragraphs (whichever is stricter). Page 10 of 22 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2015 IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS contact is handled through our subcontractors. As such Nordic As a fabless producer, engagement with our Semiconductor needs to rely on 3rd party supply chain is important. Nordic auditing such as CFSI’s audit program. Semiconductor requires all tier 1 subcontractors to follow the EICC Code of Conduct, and that they should require the Since 2015 Nordic Semiconductor has same from their suppliers. required suppliers to source only from conflict free smelters, i.e. smelters that are verified as CFSI compliant by CFSI’s audit All our major suppliers have their own scheme. To date, no incidents of minerals documented corporate social responsibility supporting armed conflicts have been policy including adherence to EICC Code of discovered, and currently 100% of reported Conduct, with commitment to communicate smelters in the value chain are CFSI this to next tier supplier. compliant. Raising awareness of employees on Human For 2016 we expect Conflict Minerals to Rights and Labor principles and relevant remain the most relevant issue related to issues are regularly done by internal training Human Rights, and that attention on this will and as part of introduction program for new increase with the implementation of EU employees. requirements on this topic. Nordic Semiconductor will continue to engage our Supplier audits are used to raise subjects suppliers to precisely identify the origin of all from the EICC Code of Conduct, such as material used in Nordic Semiconductor’s tracing of information for conflict mineral products. reports and Human Rights and Labor performance. Modern slavery Measurements and results are reviewed Forced labor takes different forms, including annually by the management team in the debt bondage, trafficking and other forms of Management Review. modern slavery. The California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 and The UK To date, Nordic Semiconductor has never Modern Slavery Act of 2015 require certain experienced an incident of Human Rights businesses to disclose their efforts to abuse or Labor violation. address the issues of slavery and human trafficking in their supply chains. Conflict Minerals Based on risk assessment and data from the Nordic Semiconductor has worked with the Global Slavery Index, specifically operations issue of Conflict Minerals since 2010, and in China have been identified as having engages regularly with our suppliers to potential incidents of forced labor in the provide accurate and transparent electronics industry, particularly in relation information on the origin of minerals to to product assembly. concerned stakeholders. Our Conflict Minerals policy is stated on our website, and Nordic, does not tolerate forced labor has been communicated to all relevant practices to be used in any of our operations, suppliers. As Nordic Semiconductor’s as stated in our policy (on page 7). We have products contain 3TG (Tin, Tungsten, required all suppliers to sign an agreement Tantalum and Gold), due diligence is of adherence to EICC, and to promote these conducted based on OECD guidelines to principles to the next tier suppliers. The EICC ensure no direct or indirect financing of Code of Conduct explicitly bans trafficked ongoing conflicts in the DRC-region or and forced labor, as well as any form of child elsewhere. labor. The topic has also been addressed in supplier audits. Country of origin is investigated based on the reporting scheme set out by the ConflictTo date there has been no known incidents of Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI), an initiative by forced or trafficked labor in Nordic EICC and the Global e-Sustainability Initiative Semiconductor’s Supply Chain. (GeSI). Nordic Semiconductor is far away from the smelters/refiners in the value chain, and we have no direct contact with smelters or provider of material. All such Page 11 of 22 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2015 Diversity program and training For foreign employees working in Norway, Nordic Semiconductor’s business is based where most employees and foreign on highly specialized and skilled employees, employees are working, a third party and their level of competence and ideas are integration service has been used to provide very important to us. To ensure that all training and seminars to reduce cultural employees have equal onboarding training, barriers, as well as social events and all new employees undergo an introduction language courses. program, and have a designated mentor for their start-up period. Open feedback is at the As Nordic Semiconductor have grown very core of our business culture, and substantially in the last few years, employees employees have annual performance have been recruited from all around the evaluations one-to-one with their nearest world. Currently more than 40 nationalities leader, where additional training and are represented, whereof more than 35 education is discussed and planned for. working in Norway, which is a good indicator of the diversity and inclusiveness in the Managers are responsible for fair recruiting company. and fostering a diverse and inclusive culture based on Nordic Semiconductor’s Nondiscrimination policy (10). MEASUREMENTS Measurement 2016 target 2015 2014 2013 Human rights and Labor Number of smelters identified in value chain 122 80 88 Percentage smelters verified as CFSI compliant 100% 100% 95% 28% Number of incidents of Human Rights abuse 0 0 0 0 Number of incidents of Labor principles violation 0 0 0 0 Suppliers documented EICC Code of Conduct policy 100% 100% 100% 100% Suppliers communicating EICC Code of conduct to next tier 100% 100% 100% 80% Human capital and diversity Number of employees 454 273 211 Percentage female employees 11 % 13,5 % 14 % Turnover rate (%) <5.0% 3.8% 4.0% 3.0% Training and education Number of students/interns from universities 43 21 8 Table 2: Measurements related to Human Rights and Labor principles. Page 12 of 22 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2015 5 ENVIRONMENT ASSESSMENT Nordic Semiconductor recognizes that POLICIES, COMMITMENTS environmental responsibility and AND GOALS sustainability is integral to producing world Nordic Semiconductor’s class products and long term business environmental policy: strategies. Product compliance is required to Being a preferred partner to sell Nordic Semiconductor’s products environmentally conscious stakeholders, worldwide, meeting international legislation Nordic Semiconductor shall incur no as well as customer-specific requirements loss of business or profitability due to to contents and production. Furthermore, incidents or issues related to Nordic Semiconductor’s business strategy is disturbance to health or environment. to design and develop «ultra-low power» products, enabling energy efficient end Nordic Semiconductor is committed to products for the consumer. comply to legal requirements and As a fabless producer, monitoring and regulations, and protect the engaging with our manufacturing partners is environment through sound important to our environmental impact management practices and decisions reduction program, and minimizing the use of natural resources and waste generated in protect the natural environment by our operations. minimizing waste generation, pollution and GHG emissions, Nordic Semiconductor has implemented resourceand water consumption, guidelines and procedures into its and the use of hazardous materials management system to supplement legal in our products, as well as develop requirements and integrate them in daily and use environmentally friendly working routines. The basic principle for the technologies procedures is Reduce-Reuse-Recycle. promote environmental Specific goals for the coming year is to responsibility and ensure that our reduce the carbon footprint related to our suppliers live up to Nordic direct operations. See separate section on Semiconductor’s environmental Carbon emissions. standards establish and evaluate achievable environmental performance goals to ensure continual improvement of our environmental management system regularly monitor and report on environmental performance, and to consult with relevant stakeholders on environmental issues Page 13 of 22 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2015 IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS Product compliance, use of hazardous substances, and ozone-depleting chemicals, Nordic Semiconductor is certified to the are regularly addressed with Nordic standard ISO 14001: Environmental Semiconductor’s manufacturing partners, Management Systems. All Nordic and communicated by Nordic Semiconductor’s main suppliers are Semiconductor’s Hazardous Substances required to be certified to and comply with Specification for Suppliers. this standard, as well as EICC Code of Conduct and its provisions on environmental topics. To verify product content, 3rd party testing for hazardous substances is performed. To ensure transparency, reports for Hazardous Raising awareness amongst employees on Substances and Material Composition for all Environmental issues relevant for Nordic products are published on Nordic Semiconductor’s organization and processes Semiconductor website. is regularly done by internal training and as part of the mandatory introduction program for new employees. All Nordic Semiconductor's products meet the requirements of RoHS and REACH regulations. In addition, Nordic Monitoring data in relation to environmental Semiconductor has introduced green topics and engaging with suppliers are package technology, to ensure that Nordic relevant parts of decision-making and risk Semiconductor’s products are also halogen analysis. Data from Nordic Semiconductor’s free. Nordic Semiconductor’s own manufacturing partners are periodically RoHS/REACH Statement, declaring non-use analyzed, and supplier audits are used of the hazardous substances included on the specifically to control subcontractors’ initial SVHC (Substances of Very High routines with respect to environmental Concern) candidate list, is published on our issues such as waste handling and water website. Nordic Semiconductor has management. Results and measurements implemented systems that allow us to be from the environmental program are updated with relevant environmental reviewed annually in Management review. requirements (e.g. recent updates in RoHS and REACH regulations) and we continue our There were no environmental incidents or efforts to ensure our compliance with these non-conformities in 2015. Any incidents will updates. be handled through Nordic Semiconductor’s non-conformity procedures, with root cause 2015 showed no non-conformities or findings analysis, corrective and preventive actions. of prohibited substances above limitations in any Nordic Semiconductor products. Eco Design and Product compliance Targets for the products’ energy efficiency Waste management are defined in the design specification phase, Nordic Semiconductor works systematically with the goal to achieve improved energy to monitor, reduce and eliminate waste and efficiency, while introducing additional its impact on the environment. We work functionality and use cases. continuously with our suppliers to maximize our yields, and thus minimizing the Scarcity of natural resources and generation of devices that need to be conservation of raw materials are considered disposed of. Scrapped electronic important from both an environmental and components from production are sorted and financial perspective. By identifying recycled according to EE-regulations. substitute alternatives, such as copper for Supplier audits have been performed at our gold in almost all products, we have been manufacturing partners to verify that waste able to reduce costs and environmental management is performed according to impact without sacrificing quality and Nordic Semiconductor’s standards. performance. Nordic Semiconductor has implemented Product content is managed in the design routines for sorting and disposing material phase by internal procedures at specific from offices and warehouse in a responsible milestones to prevent hazardous material manner by use of certified waste handling from being included, based on applicable and recycling companies. Main focus is on regulations, customer requirements and EE-waste, chemical components from Nordic Semiconductor’s commitments. laboratories and paper and packing material. Page 14 of 22 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2015 Recycling of EE-waste allows for re-use of taxations or legislative requirements could metals, such as copper, from waste or impact our manufacturing partners’ damaged products. production cost or capacity. To reduce waste and use of resources, Carbon accounting is performed according to Nordic Semiconductor encourages re-use of GHG Protocol standards, with differentiation material where applicable. Usable ITbetween Scope 1 (direct GHG emissions), equipment and furniture are donated to Scope 2 (GHG emissions from purchased schools or volunteer organizations rather electricity) and Scope 3 (all other indirect than being scrapped. Internal auctions are GHG emissions, including our supply chain). held to let interested employees purchase outdated lab equipment. Scope 3 GHG emissions is closely related to our production volume, and our Water and wastewater management subcontractors’ capacity utilization in Water management is considered to production, and will fluctuate beyond our represent a low risk for Nordic control. Semiconductor directly, but water scarcity is relevant for some of our subcontractors. Target set for 2016 is to reduce GHG Specifically, the risk of limited production emissions related to our direct operations capacity due to drought or failure to comply (sum of Scope 1 and Scope 2), as these are with legislative requirements is considered. the emissions where we have the strongest Subcontractors’ water usage is monitored influence. We also target to achieve regularly, and a consolidated risk analysis is increased level of verification in the GHG presented as part of the Management accounting. Review. Since 2015, Nordic Semiconductor has reported to the CDP Water Program Green procurement (www.cdp.net). Compliance to environmental requirements is considered when choosing manufacturers. Focused supplier audits have been By practice, this is included in initial supplier performed at our subcontractors to verify assessment and related audits that water and wastewater management are performed according to Nordic In addition to the closely monitored Semiconductor’s standards. production process and engagement with our manufacturing partners, Nordic Carbon emissions Semiconductor has implemented Nordic Semiconductor has monitored annual procurement guidelines for purchases of carbon emission since 2011, and it reports products and services not directly related to annually to the Carbon Disclosure Project the production of our products. This includes (www.cdp.net). Greenhouse gas emissions for instance evaluating and choosing represent a low risk for Nordic suppliers of office material, based on their Semiconductor, however monitoring of these ethical and environmental profile. emissions and assessment of potential climate change risks and opportunities is important as potential future carbon Page 15 of 22 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2015 MEASUREMENTS Measurement 2016 target 2015 2014 2013 Environmental management system Number of environmental incidents 0 0 0 0 Suppliers with documented environmental policy 100% 100% 100% 100% Energy efficiency Nordic offices energy use (MWh) n/a 944.7 870.8 Nordic offices energy use per area (MWh/m2) n/a 0.156 0.152 EE-waste (tons) n/a 1.8 1.0 Greenhouse gas emissions GHG emission per wafer (kg CO2e/8” wafer) n/a 396 336 GHG emission per assembly (g CO2e/8” EA) n/a 18.9 14.6 GHG emission per unit produced (g CO2e/unit produced) n/a 101.2 101.1 Total Scope 1+2 emissions (tons CO2e) < 2015 result n/a 392.0 305.6 Scope 1+2 emissions per full time employee (tons < 2015 result n/a 1.420 1.455 CO2e/FTE) Total Scope 3 emissions (tons CO2e) n/a 34 393 24 797 Percentage total emissions verified > 2015 result n/a 77% 69% CDP disclosure score 94 91 76 CDP performance score C C D Water management Water withdrawal Nordic offices (m3/year) n/a 1 417 1 378 Water withdrawal production (m3/year) n/a 143 910 179 432 Water consumption per unit produced (l/unit) n/a 0.14 0.17 Table 3: Measurements related to Environmental performance. 2015 data for energy, GHG and water measurements are not ready until 2016-Q2, and will be reported in CDP. CDP disclosure and performance score will change for 2016 reporting, hence no target is set compared to previous years. Page 16 of 22 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2015 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION ASSESSMENT IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS To meet social responsibilities and achieve Anti-corruption routines are included in success in the marketplace, Nordic Nordic Semiconductor’s management Semiconductor and its employees shall system. The issue of anti-corruption is uphold the highest standards of ethics. regularly addressed by internal training and Incidents of corruption imposes both legal, as part of mandatory introduction program as well as reputational and financial risks, for new employees. All Nordic and ultimately impacts trust and confidence Semiconductor employees are required to in the company by our stakeholders. read and sign both «Insider trading regulations form» and «Non-corruption Nordic Semiconductor has adopted a zero acknowledgment form». tolerance policy on corruption and bribery – as clearly stated in the EICC Code of Nordic Semiconductor requires all Conduct. subcontractors to follow the EICC Code of Conduct. Subcontractors are followed up with supplier audits to raise subjects from POLICIES, COMMITMENTS the EICC Code of Conduct. AND GOALS Registered incidents and results are Nordic Semiconductor and its employees reviewed annually by management team in shall respect the rule of law and Management Review. international norms of behavior. Nordic Semiconductor prohibits any and all forms of To date, Nordic Semiconductor has not had bribery, corruption, extortion and any incident of corruption, bribery or embezzlement. Nordic Semiconductor unethical business behavior. employees may be held liable for bribery or any other corrupt acts, based on the laws of Norway or any applicable region. Business courtesies (gifts, hospitality, or favors to or from persons or firms with which Nordic Semiconductor may do business) of modest value, conforming to normal social customs and not intended for influence, are not considered bribes or unlawful payments. All business courtesies exceeding the value of 200 USD shall be reported to Nordic Semiconductor’s administration. Employees shall not accept a business gift for personal use that exceeds the value of 200 USD on annual basis. Page 17 of 22 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2015 Whistle-blower program Any reported concerns shall be investigated To ensure recording of potential incidents for root-cause and corrective and preventive relating to business ethics, Nordic actions, while preserving reporter Semiconductor has introduced a whistleconfidentiality. blower program. Employees and other stakeholders are obligated to report about As defined in Nordic Semiconductor’s Social any misconduct related to Nordic responsibility policy (on page 7), Nordic Semiconductor’s business by use of whistleSemiconductor does not tolerate any blower channels as published on intranet unfavorable treatment of or retaliation and Nordic Semiconductor’s website. against the person who reports the Reporting through a third party service can misconduct. be made if complete confidentiality is required, and such reports will be addressed No reports were made through available to Nordic Semiconductor’s HR department. whistle-blower channels in 2015. MEASUREMENTS Measurement 2016 target 2015 2014 2013 Anti-corruption Number of corruption, bribery 0 0 0 0 or unethical business behavior incidents Numbers of reports made 0 0 0 through whistle-blowing channels Table 4: Measurements related to Anti-corruption performance. Page 18 of 22 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2015 7 HEALTH AND SAFETY ASSESSMENT Operational targets: Nordic Semiconductor recognize that in addition to minimizing work-related injuries Work related incidents = 0 and illness, a safe and healthy work Short time sick leave < half of environment enhances quality of products national average in Norway for and services, consistency of production and each country of operation worker retention and morale. Employee turnover < 5% annual As a fabless producer, the risk of injury or incidents in relation to direct operations is As Nordic Semiconductor has been growing considered low. There is no use of heavy significantly the last few years, target has machinery and equipment, operating of been to maintain the low level of sick-leave vehicles or handling of hazardous chemicals and high employee satisfaction from that can cause notable damage or injuries. previous years. Nordic Semiconductor’s OHS (Occupational Health and Safety) risk assessment has highlighted ergonomic injuries and negative IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS stress in the working situations as the main To ensure a positive and continuously focus areas for improvements. improved working environment, Nordic Semiconductor has implemented an Occupational Health and Safety management POLICIES, COMMITMENTS AND system, certified to the standard OHSAS GOALS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System by DNV GL. Nordic Semiconductor is committed to ensuring a safe and stable working environment, and adheres to the standards Working Environment Committee in EICC Code of Conduct. One of the focus areas in 2015 has been on proactive preparedness, and developing emergency action plans in order to effectively handle accidents or other Nordic Semiconductor Occupational emergency situations, either at work or Health and Safety Policy outside work, should they occur. The Low level of employee absence, a stable emergency plan emphasizes the importance competent workforce and no work of following up the affected parties to prevent related incidents in order to achieve high sick leave and/or other unwanted productivity and quality, by ensuring: consequences on short and long term. In line with this, first aid courses, including heart a working environment that gives defibrillator training, were organized for employees complete security against employees. physical and mental harm The annual employment satisfaction survey safe employment and meaningful and the medical health reports display that work for the individual employee employees in Nordic Semiconductor are very our suppliers live up to Nordic’s satisfied. OH&S standards In addition to the objectives set in the annual compliance with legal requirements health and safety program, Nordic Semiconductor will focus on the action plan continuous improvements for the «Inclusive work life». Page 19 of 22 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2015 Agreement on Inclusive Working Life Employees are very satisfied with the Nordic Semiconductor signed a cooperation working environment and working agreement on «Inclusive working life» with community. Norwegian Labor and Welfare Service, Low sick leave September 2015. The program aims to improve the working environment, prevent Good focus on ergonomic review as and reduce sick leave and prevent exclusion preventive actions and withdrawal from working life. Good leaders and well managed system An action plan for 2016 has been defined, for follow-up focusing specifically on communication of Autonomous employees with great sick leave procedures, continuing to engage influence in planning their own workdays. people with reduced functional abilities and to establish a life phase policy. Based on the above results, Nordic Semiconductor focused in 2015 on improving Occupational Health Service ergonomic working conditions and invested Occupation health controls are conducted in adjustable desks and other ergonomic every year by a third party Health Service. facilitation where needed. Health examinations in 2015 showed Nordic Semiconductor’s Working musculoskeletal disorders as the most Environment Committee will continue to common health problem in the company. The follow up on the recommendations from examination was also used to benchmark Occupational Health Services. It is expected Nordic Semiconductor’s working that stress preventive actions and focus on environment compared to similar physical activity will improve the working businesses. The results from Nordic conditions and employee health. Semiconductor was on par or better compared with the reference companies. Supplier Management All Nordic Semiconductor subcontractors Other results from Occupational Health are certified to OHSAS 18001, and this is a Service in 2015: prerequisite to become a Nordic Semiconductor manufacturing partner. Subcontractors are also required to follow the EICC Code of Conduct. MEASUREMENTS Measurement 2016 target 2015 2014 2013 Health and safety Work related incidents N/A 0 0 0 Short time sick leave < half of national 2,1% 1.9% 1.6% average in Norway Turnover rate (%) <5.0% 3.8% 4.0% 3.0% Table 5: Measurements related to Health and Safety performance. Page 20 of 22 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2015 8 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT EDUCATIONAL PARTNERSHIPS ‘Make it Digital’ In 2015, Nordic Semiconductor became official partner of BBC’s flagship ‘Make it Digital’ initiative. Make it Digital is a major UK-wide initiative that strives to get people truly excited about digital creativity and inspire a new generation to get creative with coding, programming and digital technology. The initiative aims to inspire a new generation with digital technology and helping younger audiences discover their creative potential and take their first steps. The program will give every year-7 school child (11-12 years old) in the UK a programmable hardware coding device, the BBC micro:bit. The micro:bit is a small, standalone, entry-level device that can be programmed in a variety of ways with a choice of software editors. The board has a processor which can be programed via a USB link to a computer, a LED display, and a Nordic Semiconductor Bluetooth radio chip. The boards are designed to provide a hands-on learning experience for younger children to start to learn the concepts involved in basic coding. Helping young people to fulfil their potential is a worthy and inspiring cause; and the opportunity to inspire tomorrow’s generation of developers makes this initiative very exciting. The micro:bit will be in the hands of both teachers and school kids in 2016. For more information on the ‘Make it Digital’, see www.bbc.co.uk/makeitdigital. Page 21 of 22 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2015 CHARITABLE DONATION SAFI KIBERA Based on suggestions from Nordic Semiconductor employees, the company sponsored in 2015 Safi International’s Kibera project in Nairobi, Kenya. The project aims to benefit the very weakest, women and children, in the poorest parts of Africa. These groups are easily forgotten in the refugee crisis that occupies media interest, and do not have a voice that can be heard above the noise from conflicts much closer to us. The Kibera project aims to deploy thousands of Safi Cookers to Kibera residents. Safi International is a Norwegian initiative that develop, manufacture, sell and distribute efficient, clean and safe cooking stoves, the Safi Cooker, for the African market. The Safi Cookers run on denatured bioethanol, which is a renewable energy produced from agricultural feedstock. The burner blends the ethanol gas with air to reach an optimal and efficient burning of the fuel, leaving no soot emissions. Cooking over fire-wood or charcoal is one of the main causes for people suffering from respiratory illness. World Health Organization (WHO) estimates indoor air pollution was linked to 4.3 million deaths in 2012 in households cooking over coal, wood and biomass stoves. More than 70% of African households use firewood and charcoal when cooking their meals, resulting in an estimated 600.000 deaths each year in Africa alone. Nordic Semiconductor recognizes how this project addresses multiple aspect in terms of reduced deforestation, improved health and safety (especially for women and children) and increased local economy. By Safi International’s estimates, the support by Nordic Semiconductor greatly improves the life of 1000 women and children, saves 2000 acres of African forest, gives women and children 347 000 less hours of work, and increases economic activity by 422 000 USD in the local society For more information on the Safi Kibera project, please see www.safi-international.com. Page 22 of 22
