COMUNICATION ON PROGRESS January 2015 to December 2015 Blvd. Interamerican 316, Pque. Ind. FINSA Monterrey, Apodaca, NL, 66600 Apodaca, NL. January 2016 MESSAGE FROM THE PRINCIPAL Techno Steel Processing de Mexico SA de CV (TSP) has adopted the Global Compact Initiative, which involves carrying out our business operation and our relationships with employees, suppliers, costumers, community and environment, respectfully, aware and committed, in order to be self-sustainable, by dedication, team work, and top management involvement. In TSP we believe that the 10 principles match our vision and policies to conduct business and respect our environment and community. For TSP, joining to the Global Compact has meant a great opportunity to ensure a guide line to keep a self-sustainable company committed to our Employees and Society, allowing our customers to rely on a trustable company that directs its effort to preserve the environment as all the companies listed at the Global Compact Project. We present our Communication on Progress, and reaffirm our commitment to the Global Compact Initiative since 2011. Kenji Yamanaka General Manager 2 ABOUT US TSP is a steel service center specialized on trading and processing Electrical, Stainless and Coated Steel. We have been present in the Mexican market for over 13 years, establishing bases for a solid company committed to the growth and customer satisfaction thru an offer of products that can meet or exceed the customer expectations. TSP has been a successful and responsible company with continues growing and improvements, adopting policies and practices that allow us to be better with our community and our customers. Our employees consider us as a reliable company committed to their safety, environmental friendly and worried on their welfare and their families. 3 OUR PHILOSOPHY Living and prospering together with people, society, and the Earth, we aim to be a valuegenerating company that contributes to the creation of the prosperous society. OUR VISION Every member of TSP will pursue “breakthrough” and “co-creation”, as we focus on growing businesses and generating synergies in the three key fields of Mobility, Life & Community, and Earth & Resources. Through these efforts, we aim to realize a balanced business portfolio. BEHAVIORAL GUIDELINES As a good corporate citizen, we will:  Implement open and fair corporate activities  Fulfill our social responsibilities and conserve the global environment  Offer creativity and provide added value  Respect people and create an active working environment filled with job satisfaction 4 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Assessment TSP is fully committed to respect human rights and equal opportunity among all the workers and applicants. Implementation TSP has an employee´s manual given to every worker at the moment of joining the company where is stated the equal opportunity and no discrimination policy. Also establish the working time that meets the national laws recognized by National Commission on Human Rights Mexico. Measurement of Outcome Top management is always worried on complying with respecting and protecting human rights, therefore they maintain a policy of open doors in order to receive any complain or suggestion regarding any violation or transgression of this rights. On 13 years we have not got any formal or informal complain of violation or not respecting the human rights. Our goal is to keep this clean record of “0” (Zero) complains. 5 Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment All TSP is aware of the importance of human rights, therefore we do not accept any kind of discrimination nor any kind of behavior that might become a transgression to theirs rights. Implementation TSP implemented a yearly survey where collects the comments and suggestions from all the employees. This survey has a space where the worker can express any concern with safety, environment and human rights. Measurement of outcome TSP has a report on work environment which is reviewed and analyzed at the management review once a year. Our goal is to keep at least 87.5% of satisfaction on our workers. Our score at this moment is 82.28% of satisfaction, we are working with our HR department in order to detect and improve the satisfaction of our members. 6 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Assessment TSP is fully committed to respect local laws, therefore we accept our workers to join to any trade union of their choice, without any harassment from management. Implementation TSP publishes and updates their compensations on the employee´s manual. This manual is given to every worker when they join the company or when it is updated. This manual is reviewed on a yearly basis by top management considering all the suggestion and requests from workers. Also TSP is committed with the development of workers, once a year during management review are presented the applications for scholarships for workers that are interested on learn or improve their skills. TSP keeps a safety program with a training schedule that is strictly follow and reviewed by top management; also we hold two safety meetings per month involving workers and management plus a short weekly meeting where workers are remained of the internal safety regulations. Measurement Our goal is ZERO accidents. We have implemented a reward system by teams where we stimulate the awareness of safety not only on ourselves but also caring on the safety of our coworkers. During this 2015, 1% of our people apply for a scholarship for training on different fields, from quality to maintenance and electronics, all those scholarships were approved. We encourage our employees to increase their skill inviting the local government to offer additional scholarships every 4 months. 7 Principle 4 Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Assessment TSP is committed to respect local regulations and international standards so our working hours meets the established by federal law in Mexico. Implementation Our working hours are published at the worker´s manual delivered to every worker at the moment they join our company. When there is need of additional time, workers are asked who is willing to attend this extra hours. This time is paid also accordingly with what is stated at the federal law in Mexico. Measurement Top management receive a weekly report of the working hour of every worker, during this 2015 TSP has been managing to keep the overtime on less than 1hour per person (average) for second year. 8 Principle 5 Business should uphold the effective abolition of children labour Assessment TSP is aware and respects federal labour law, also we are aware of the Minimum Age for Admission to Employment or Work agreed at the ILO conventions (Minimum Age Convention No. 138 and the Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention No. 182) which we follow. Implementation All workers hire at TSP are properly register under the Mexican Social Security Institute (IMSS), this give us certainty that the information provided by the worker is truthful and comply with the minimum age required to perform a work on our company. Measurement There is an external company which preform an annual audit to TSP, and one of the items subject to review is that all employees are properly registered in the IMSS (Social Security Institute in Mexico). So far there has been zero discrepancy on our records. 9 Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment TSP believes on equal opportunity, therefore we do have a no discrimination policy. Our staff is conformed of people of different background, age, religion and sex with no prejudgment on the activities that they can perform, giving every one of them the opportunity to do their work and then to be evaluated. Implementation TSP has a document where states the position´s profile and a skill evaluation and approval program. Those documents are reviewed and performed by Top Management, Human resource and Leaders assuring that the evaluations are done impartially. Measurement Position´s profile and skill evaluation and approval program are part of our ISO 9001:2008 quality system. We perform at least one internal audit per year. Also we are audited at least once a year by an external company under ISO quality system standard. We are very proud that we have Zero non conformances regarding those subjects. 10 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Assessment TSP is committed to preserve our environment as is stated at our Vision, Philosophy and also at our Behavioral guide line. Implementation Although TSP has not a specific department dedicated to environmental issues, we comply with all federal and local regulations. All the wastes product of our daily operations goes to authorized deposits. We hire companies that comply with all federal and local regulations including proper permits to transport and deposit regular wastes and also hazardous wastes. We have a temporal deposit to handle hazardous material where we keep a restricted access and a diary were we keep the record of what is the material held there and when it was disposed and who was the responsible to carried out of the company. We submit an annual report to the federal government where we establish the destination of our wastes. Measurements We have been complying whit our reports on time, complying with all the regulations required resulting on Zero fines or no compliances from the government. 11 Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Assessment TPS is committed to promote among their people to create a better mind and responsibility toward environmental issues. Implementation We have a Kaizen Program dedicated not only to improve production but to any aspect that can be improved including environmental issues. There is a committee that reviews those Kaizen´s ideas where the best idea is voted and rewarded every month. Also to reduce the waste of paper, the 95% paper that our accounting and treasure department is recycled paper, and 70% of our ink cartridge for our printers are sent back to the manufacturer to be refurnished. Measurement As a result of this program we have implemented the use of paper on both sides to reduce the use of paper, also to copy most of our documents on both sides of the paper, including accounting and treasuring departments. We are reusing big portion of our paper, reducing the purchasing of paper, also we implemented a program that twice a year a recycling company comes for all our old files and takes them to a recycling facility instead of sending out with our regular wastes. 12 Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment TSP believes on procure to their customers products that are continuously improved. Implementation Kaizen ideas has giving us the opportunity to implement small improvements every time, allowing us to improve our production and helping us to discover new ways to do our daily work. Measurement This year we implemented to eliminate usage of paper from monthly reports. This represents to use 18,000 sheets of paper less per year. 13 TRANSPARENCY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment TSP does not tolerate any type of corruption among their workers, suppliers or customers. At our employee´s manual we established our basic behavior guide line to deal with customers and suppliers, mentioning also that we have open doors to receive any report from any one that try to corrupt our company. Implementation TSP publish and deliver its employee´s manual at every worker at the moment that joins our company or at any moment there is an update, this manual give a basic understanding but not limit the behavior that we have to follow always within the law and moral. We have a yearly audit from an external company which audit all the income and expenses of TSP keeping and tracking the destination of all the payments from or to the company, allowing us to keep a clean record. Measurement TSP has a principle of trust on their workers, during this 2015 no cases of corruption were reported, and the company is proudly to say that has not given any bribery or facilitation money to any government office or any other entity. We have a box where any of our members can report any behavior that is out of the law, moral or common practice. No report was issued during this 2015. End of report 14
