HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2015/16 DRIVING CSR, DRIVING SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Reporting Purpose Hankook Tire’s CSR Report 2015/16 aims to disclose its achievements in fulfilling Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in 2015, including its endeavors to create economic, social and environmental values while elaborating on its action plans and commitments for 2016. Furthermore, this report, as a communication channel with wide-ranging stakeholders of Hankook Tire, intends to provide transparent information and gather stakeholder feedback. Reporting Guidelines and Principles This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines to abide by global standards and enhance its usability by international readers, as well as satisfy Hankook Tire’s internal reporting and disclosure standards. In addition, we ensure the reliability, appropriateness, and completeness of the report content, the transparency and integrity of the reporting process and the originality and uniqueness of the report itself. These principles apply to all our disclosure documents as well as this report. This is our seventh CSR Report and we plan to publish such reports annually. Reporting Period This report spans the period between January 1, 2015 and December 31, 2015. To offer more reliable information through the time-series comparison of our CSR-related track records, major sections of this report span the period from 2012 to April of 2016. In addition, this report details our 2016 action plans for each key managerial issue to help our stakeholders better understand future improvements to be made against our 2015 achievements. Reporting Scope This report focuses on the accomplishments and plans of Hankook Tire Worldwide (holding company) and Hankook Tire that operates the tire business. Concerning Hankook Tire, this report covers its Korean business sites at the Head Office in Seoul, plants in Daejeon and Geumsan, and the R&D Center, as well as information and data on its overseas worksites in Hungary, China and Indonesia. We will continue to extend the scope of our reporting to ensure that our endeavors and achievements in undertaking global CSR initiatives at our overseas sites are fully and comprehensively presented in our CSR reports. Data on Hankook Tire affiliates are described in the Company Profile section. Independent Assurance Statement To ensure the reliability of reporting contents, this report was assured by EY, an independent external assurance provider who conducted a Moderate, Type 2 assurance engagement of this report in accordance with the AA1000 standards. The assurance findings are summarized and organized at the end of this report in the Independent Assurance Statement section. Target Audience This report is intended for our key stakeholders (customers, employees, suppliers, local communities, and shareholders & investors) and general stakeholders (civil organizations, students, central and local governments, competitors and media). 02 CEO Message 04 Company Profile 06 Sustainable Value Chain 08 IC Integrated CSR Management System Integrated CSR Management System 10 Interview with Stakeholders 16 Materiality Analysis 18 Constant Monitoring Areas CG Responsible Corporate Governance 22 IR Integrated Risk Management 24 CSR Focus Areas CS FOCUS 01 Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management 30 HS FOCUS 02 Employee Health & Safety Management 38 EV FOCUS 03 Employee Value Creation 42 EM FOCUS 04 Environmental Management 48 BE FOCUS 05 Business Ethics & Transparency 58 SS FOCUS 06 Stakeholder Satisfaction Management 62 Appendix 72 CEO Message Dear Valued Stakeholders I deeply appreciate your unwavering support for Hankook Tire in our pursuit of sustainable growth. The year 2015 saw the tire industry posting a sluggish growth due to intensifying competition arising from tough challenges such as the sustained low growth and low prices, China risk, and so on. Despite such unfavorable business conditions, Hankook Tire has continued to enhance its global competitiveness based on stakeholders’ supports, recording KRW 6.4282 trillion in sales and KRW 885 billion in operating profit. Hankook Tire completed production facilities expansion in Hungary, Indonesia, and Chongqing, China, further strengthening the foothold for sustainable growth. Moreover, we supplied OE tires for Porsche Macan and BMW’s flagship 7-series sedans, which proved our state-of-the-art technology and took our brand awareness as a premium tire manufacturer to the next level once again. Not just this, our vision for future driving and design capability has been recognized by the most prestigious design festival ‘Red Dot Award: Design Concept 2015’ when our future-oriented concept tires won Red Dot: Luminary. We have also made a concerted effort to create social and environmental values. For example, following the CSR activities in Korea, Hankook Tire has launched localized CSR programs in China, Europe, and the ASEAN-India region. In particular, as part of our efforts to closely engage with local stakeholders in China, Hankook Tire officially published the Chinese version of CSR Report, which presented our CSR initiatives and their outcomes in China, in 2015. On the social responsibility management front, the Company established the ‘Hankook Donggeurami Partners’, a subsidiary company whose mission is to generate jobs for the disabled. Hankook Tire is committed to contributing to sustainable growth of our society by abiding by the 10 principles suggested by the UN Global Compact, and supporting and fulfilling UN SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals). As we present the 7th CSR Report this year, Hankook Tire hopes to share our commitments to sustainability management, milestones we have reached and the path we will take on our journey toward a sustainable future with you in a transparent manner. In preparation for this report, we expanded survey targets for more active communication and also conducted group interviews. The feedbacks collected from those channels are reflected on Hankook Tire’s management strategies and operations. All Hankook Tire employees will make a concerted effort for daring innovation in all areas to enhance quality competitiveness and our brand value while pursuing balanced growth with all stakeholders. By doing so, we will advance to realize the vision of becoming a ‘Leading Global Tire Company that Provides Customers with Value and Pleasure’. Hankook Tire pledges to continue sustainable and substantial growth with your trust and support. Your lasting interest and encouragement would be greatly appreciated. Thank you. Vice Chairman & CEO Seung Hwa Suh 04 We are committed to becoming a ‘Leading Global Tire Company that Provides Customers with Value and Pleasure’ by pursuing balanced growth with all stakeholders. Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 05 Company Profile Company Overview Since its establishment in 1941, Hankook Tire has evolved Company Name Hankook Tire Co., Ltd. to become the world’s 7th largest tire company that boasts Global Sales KRW 6.4282 trillion competitive edge in quality and brand value, exercising its Operating Income KRW 885.0 billion leadership in technology to deliver the best-possible drivOperating Margin 13.8% ing experience to customers in more than 180 countries Total Assets KRW 9.4961 trillion around the world. Total Equity KRW 5.1407 trillion Date of Establishment September 3, 2012* IPO (Initial Public October 4, 2012* In the challenging year of 2015, we continued to invest in R&D and technological prowess so as to grow into a ‘Leading Offering) CEO Seung Hwa Suh Global Tire Company that Provides Customers with Value and Type of Business Manufacturing, reproducing, processing and selling Pleasure’. Based on such a firm commitment, we were able to automobile tires, tubes and components Headquarters 133, Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea post KRW 6.4282 trillion in sales and KRW 885.0 billion in op(Yeoksam-dong) erating income. Furthermore, we faithfully fulfill our responTelephone 82-2-2222-1000 sibility as a corporate citizen to usher in a sustainable society * ‌Established as a result of the spin-off of the tire operation of former Hankook Tire as where people can live with harmony and contentment. of September 1, 2012, and listed on the stock market on October 4, 2012 Global Network We are committed to providing customers with differentigies, which ensures balanced growth both in advanced and ated value and convenience based on our business portfolio emerging automobile markets. We supply products tailored that creates customer satisfaction through foremost interto the needs and characteristics of local customers through action with them. vast sales network in each region. The OE Office, a communication channel for OE tire, established in Korea, China, GerOur global business is operated in five segmented regions many, U.S., Japan and Indonesia helps us keep close cooperKorea, China, Europe, the Americas and the Middle East ation with global leading car makers. & Africa/Asia-Pacific and driven by fully localized strateEUROPE CHINA AMERICA KOREA AFRICA MIDDLE EAST & EUROPE CHINA KOREA AMERICA AFRICA/ASIA1 Headquarters / 1 Headquarters / 1 Headquarters / 1 Headquarters / PACIFIC 1 Plant / 3 Plants / 2 Plants / 3 Subsidiaries / 3 Sales 1 Plant / 5 Subsidiaries 12 Subsidiaries / 12 Sales Offices / 21 Sales Offices / Offices / 7 Regional / 4 Sales Offices / Japan Europe Technical Center China Technical Center Main R&D Center / Offices in the U.S. / Technical Office (JTO) (ETC) (CTC) Academy House America Technical Center (ATC) 06 Mission & Vision Mission Frame Vision Frame Mission Vision Contribute to Advancement in Driving Leading Global Tire Company that Provides Customers with Value and Pleasure. Business Principle Goal Placing customers first Moving Forward 2020 Recognizing talent and potential 1st in Performance & Quality Promoting innovation at work 1st in Productivity Respecting our environment 1st Tier Premium Brand Creating lasting value and profitability for our shareholder Global Sales Market Share: 5% EBITDA: At Least 2 Billion USD Core Value Strategic Direction We are bound together by Proactive Leadership. Premium Brand Elevation We are passionate. We have a goal. Market Winning Products We are innovative. We create possibilities. Growth Acceleration We are collaborative. We build trust. Innovation DNA We are global. We share an open mind. Brand & Product Hankook represents all Hankook Tire brands both in Korea and overseas. We offer wide-ranging sub-category brands to match the segmentation of vehicle models and products that reach out to diverse customers across the globe. As a trend-setter that always stays ahead of the times, we Ultra-high performance tires Economical tires for the and racing tires domestic market launched Kinergy (Kinetic + Energy) as our eco-friendly tire brand for the global market, as well as enfren eco, which became Korea’s 1st to gain Grade 1 in rolling resistance under the tire energy consumption efficiency rating scheme. Such Eco-friendly tires for the global VAN tires accomplishments demonstrate our continued commitment market to developing products that reflect the latest trends. Korea’s 1 st eco-friendly tires Winter tires (Studless) Laufenn was created in an aim to deliver a practical and SUV tires Winter tires (Stud) economical driving experience to drivers and was designed to meet the needs of consumers who pursue a simple yet sophisticated lifestyle. Laufenn has wide-ranging product brands of S, G, X, and I Fit. Aurora, which means ‘tires that know the road well’, is better known among our overseas clients and carries the product brand name ‘Route Master’. Kingstar means ‘tires that best fit the road conditions’, and carries the product brand name ‘Road Fit’. Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 07 Sustainable Value Chain Hankook Tire efficiently distributes its economic, social and environmental values generated from the value chain comprised of R&D, material sourcing, manufacturing, sale, use, recycling and disposal, ensuring sustainable growth with all stakeholders. Materials R&D Manufacturing (Sourcing & Transport) • ‌R&D investment: • ‌Purchasing • ‌Training expense: KRW 149.0 billion (goods & services): KRW 1.9 billion* KRW 3,339.2 billion • ‌Wages, welfare & benefits: KRW 851.5 billion • ‌1,878 patents granted in Korea and abroad • ‌69.3% of the purchases made • ‌Developing products with for community development • ‌Job creation (3,368 new hires) improved durability, safety • ‌Establishing a culture of • ‌Average length of service: and comfort shared growth and win-win 12.7 years (In Korea) partnerships • ‌Strengthening workplace safety • ‌Strengthening purchasing and employee health care ethics • ‌Mutually-beneficial labor • ‌Promoting and expanding CSR • ‌21.6% of the products relations with suppliers • ‌Support for the growth of conducted product life cycle employees • ‌Family-friendly management assessment (LCA) • ‌Expanding green purchasing • ‌Expansion of eco-friendly worksites • ‌0.2% y-o-y increase in energy intensity • ‌1.2% y-o-y increase in GHG intensity • ‌3.5% y-o-y decrease in treated water intensity • ‌77.0% in waste recycling 08 Sales KRW 6,428.2 billion Marketing & Sales Use Recycling & Disposal • ‌Packaging & transport: • ‌Corporate tax, other taxes & • ‌Contributions made to KRW 476.4 billion dues: KRW 210.5 billion recycling in accordance with • Advertising: KRW 197.2 billion • ‌Donation to local communities: the Extended Producer • ‌O ther expenses: KRW 3.8 billion* Responsibility scheme: KRW 50.9 billion • ‌Financial and other expenses: KRW 2.2 billion KRW 41.8 billion • ‌Dividends to shareholders: KRW 49.5 billion • ‌Depreciation costs: • 27,913 retread tires sold • ‌Approximately 4,300 KRW 447.2 billion • ‌73.5% of the waste tires • ‌Retained earnings: worldwide stores in the retail collected and disposed • ‌Expanding the retread tire network • ‌Establishing a culture of KRW 607.0 billion shared growth and win-win business partnerships • ‌Providing accurate product information • ‌Improving customer • ‌Establishing a culture of satisfaction traffic safety • ‌Enhancing shareholder value • Growth of local communities • Legal compliance • ‌Percentage of eco-friendly products: 47.1% * ‌As these figures were based on consolidated financial statements in the Company’s business report, real training expense and corporate philanthropy related expense were partially reflected. Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 09 IC Integrated CSR Management System INTEGRATED CSR IC MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Hankook Tire aims to embed CSR in its corporate culture and the daily operations of its employees. Our integrated CSR management is committed to delivering the best value to diverse stakeholders and contributing to sustainable development of the mobility industry. Declaration Our company-wide CSR initiatives are undertaken through the integrated CSR management system, which is supervised by the CSR Team in the Business Infra Division. The CSR Steering Committee, consisting of eight Management committees, assists relevant teams in sharing CSR goals and achievements Responsibility through communication with the CSR Team and in further advancing our and GoverCSR operations. nance Our CSR Committee consists of the CSR Strategy Committee, the CSR Steering Committee and the CSR Meeting. The CSR Steering Committee is responsible for undertaking company-wide CSR initiatives while the CSR CSR Strategy Committee reports outcomes to the top management and Committee discusses future improvements. CSR Strategy Committee CSR Steering Committee CEO of Hankook Tire Worldwide Environmental Product Environment Committee Management CSFO (Chief Corporate Strategy & Finance Officer) CMO (Chief Marketing Officer) EHS Committee CCMO (Chief Corporate Management Officer) Climate Change Energy & GHG Committee CEO COO of Research & Development Staff Office COO of the Korea Headquarters Employees Employee Committee COO of the Europe Headquarters COO of the China Headquarters Ethics Management Ethics Management Committee COO of the America Headquarters Risk Management Compliance Committee* CSR Meeting Corporate Corporate Philanthropy Committee Philanthropy Stakeholders ** Supplier Committee Assistant CSR administrators CSR Team Meeting in each * ‌Comprehensive risk management is implemented by the Corporate Strategy Team and the results are regularly reported to the Sustainability Committee under the BOD. Thus, the committee former Risk Management Committee that had managed compliance risks was renamed to the Compliance Committee. ** ‌The Customer Committee was dissolved in 2016 with the transfer of its existing practices to each team. Going forward, the Corporate Philanthropy Committee will be in charge of planning and operating customer communication programs through its role for providing and supporting CSR consultation services. IC-1 agenda like ‘business and trust’, and ‘brand-linked corporate philanthropic activities’ were further explored to set the future course for Hankook Tire’s CSR activities. Operation of the CSR Committee and Monitoring Monthly Operation Results of the CSR Committee Time Results Supervised by CSR Team Committees To ensure that our CSR initiatives are performed in an inJanuary Request CSR Committee coordination ● tegrated manner on a company-wide level, our CSR and activity guides Strategy Committee and eight CSR Steering Committees Notify coordination made by the CSR ● Committee and request committees are operated under our CEO’s leadership. Through reguto initiate their activity ● lar reports and reviews, we strive to align our CSR February Notify selected CSR tasks achievements with plans. (from each supervising team in the committee to CSR Team) Consult on the details of CSR tasks and ● ● schedule plans The CSR Committees aim to seamlessly incorporate CSR initiatives into the daily operations of our employees. Every JanuAfter the Summarize and notify the outcomes of ● end of each CSR task activities (from each supervising ary, each relevant team is notified of adjustments made by the quarter team in the committee to CSR Team) committee, and requested to initiate their committee operaOctober Distribute CSR strategic guides ● tion. In February, CSR tasks for each committee are selected Set plans for the following year on the ● basis of CSR strategic guides out of the pool of key managerial issues in consultation with November Host CSR Strategy Meetings (CEO’s ● ● the CSR Team, and action plans are established as a way to approval of annual achievements and improve the efficiency of CSR Committees. Each committee plans for the following year) convenes on a quarterly basis to allow relevant departments to share outcomes on key managerial issues and the progress details of CSR tasks. These meetings also allow us to discuss CSR Strategy Meeting in 2015 newly identified issues as well as targets and directions for the • Date: November 5, 2015 • Participants: ‌‌Members of the CSR Strategy Committee, Chairpersons of following year. The CSR Team attends every committee meeting to review the progress made and offer advice when needthe CSR Committee, and Directors of related departments (quality, marketing, corporate communications, etc.) ed based on material issues that are identified through sur• Agenda veys of internal/external stakeholders, evaluation outcomes Item Issues and Follow-up Actions · ‌Review the application of UN SDGs made by external professional organizations, and benchmark1. CSR trend check ing of industry leaders. As such, all matters discussed at the (Sustainable Development Goals) committee meetings are reported to the CEO and the CSR 2. ‌2015 performances · ‌Share external evaluation results by and 2016 plans by committee and make decisions on Strategy Committee at the CSR Strategy Committee meeting committee improvement plans held in November to determine future ways to move forward. 3. ‌Discussion of CSR · Business and trust (ex. Volkswagen scandal) In November 2015, the meeting was held to approve annual issues · ‌Brand-linked corporate philanthropic activities · ‌Activate in-company communication channels achievements and plans for the following year. Not just this, Annual Operation of the CSR Committee and Monitoring Process Monthly & Quarterly 2nd Half Daily Review CSR activities and Review annual CSR outcomes while Main Objective Undertake CSR improvement accomplishments by committee finalizing and sharing the following initiatives in line with action plans and respond to CSR issues year’s operational plans • Engage relevant employees • Review progress and strategy Report progress and identify issues Monitoring CSR Improvement CSR Steering CSR Strategy Meeting Process Initiatives Committee Review progress and resolve issues • Report key issues • ‌Report year-end outcomes and plans for the following year • ‌Undertake team-specific CSR • ‌Review CSR initiatives and • ‌Review CSR guidelines and mid to improvement initiatives in outcomes by committee and long-term strategies consideration of action plans: provide feedback • ‌Review annual CSR outcomes and • ‌Share CSR issues and discuss Details Promote improvement tasks and short-term strategies enhance KPIs possible solutions • ‌Share and review key CSR issues • ‌Report to the CEO semi-annually Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 11 IC Integrated CSR Management System IC-1.1 tions, and the benchmarking of advanced businesses. To better communicate and share information with local stakeholders, the China Headquarters published an independent CSR Report that dealt with its CSR achievements, Operation of the Chinese CSR reflections and future plans with the support of the Korean Committee CSR Team in 2015. Prior to compiling the report, internal CSR reports had been created in 2013 and 2014 during the preparation period. In September 2015, an improved version Hankook Tire operates the Chinese CSR Committee unof the CSR Report officially came out in China, fortified with der the China Headquarters. The COO supervises the the benchmarking of other businesses and in accordance CSR Strategy Meeting to disseminate and establish CSR with the international guidelines. Reviewed by the Chinese in the Chinese market. Academy of Social Sciences on standards regarding publication process, reporting structure and corporate philanthropic Our China Headquarters set up its own CSR Committee in activities, the China CSR Report was highly recognized for March 2012 to identify and respond to key issues in considcredibility by obtaining 4 points out of the full 5. eration of local political, economic, social and environmental conditions. Four committees and one team for general tasks manage a total of five CSR areas – Environment, SafeOperational Organization ty & Fire-fighting, Employees, Corporate Philanthropy, Ethics Management and Risk Management. Semiannual Daily In 2015, the Chinese CSR Committee hosted meetings unImprovement Report der the supervision of the CHN) Corporate Strategy Team. At the end of the year, the Chinese CSR Strategy Meeting was Environment, Safety and Fire-fighting held to share and discuss committee-specific achievements. Employees Its 2016 plans were drawn up by referring to the Chinese COO of the Chinese strategic guides distributed by the Korean CSR Team. These China HeadCSR Corporate Philanthropy quarters Committee strategic guides were prepared in order of materiality and Ethics Management priorities on the basis of internal/external stakeholder surveys, evaluation outcomes of external professional organizaRisk Management Operational Status CSR Category Supervised by Participating Teams Performances in 2015 Plans for 2016 Environment, Environment & JP) HP) CP) Environment ㆍStandardized wastewater emissions control ㆍStrengthen waste emissions control Safety and Safety Team & Safety Team, ㆍAdopted criteria on cleanliness in danger areas ㆍImprove and invest in fire-fighting equipment Fire-fighting JP) HP) CP) Facility ㆍConducted diverse fire drills ㆍContinue fire drills Committee Maintenance Team, CTC) Material Development Team Employees CHN) Human JP) HP) Human Resource ㆍActivated internal communication ㆍ‌Enhance competency enhancement education Committee Resource Team ㆍAdopted preemptive business methods by job Management & CP) Corporate ㆍ‌Operated competency enhancement system by job ㆍ‌Offer expertise enhancement education to Education Team Management Team ㆍImproved the LMS system salespersons ㆍ‌Completed leadership and basic competency systems ㆍEmbed preemptive corporate culture ㆍ‌Raised employees’ awareness of health management ㆍActivate employee welfare benefit policies Corporate CHN) Human CHN) Corporate Strategy ㆍEncouraged employees’ participation ㆍ‌Efficiently manage expenses for philanthropic Philanthropy Resource Team, ㆍ‌Invigorated regular volunteer activities for welfare activities Committee Management & CHN) Marketing Strategy and nursing facilities ㆍEncourage employees’ participation Education Team Team, ㆍ‌Continuously managed educational supports (tuition) ㆍ‌Develop activities related to automobile JP) HP) CP) Environment ㆍ‌Supported communications with local communities industry & Safety Team ㆍ‌Enhanced the effectiveness of ‘Neighborhood Heroes’ activity ㆍSupported tires Ethics CHN) Corporate JP) HP) Human Resource ㆍ‌Built a database of education contents through the ㆍOperate the RMS system Management Management Team intranet ㆍLaunch the Ethics Management Help Desk Committee Team CP) Corporate ㆍ‌Localized the e-learning flash contents about HQ’s ㆍReinforce education materials for operators Management Team ethics management ㆍPost ethics management cases ㆍReinforced education materials for operators ㆍ‌Updated PR materials for ethics management and re-launch ㆍPosted ethics management cases ㆍ‌Provide education about ethics management to new office staff Risk Management CHN) Corporate ㆍStrengthened risk area management ㆍBuild an organization system for risk control Committee Strategy Team ㆍUpdated risk manuals ㆍMaterialize risk management process ㆍ‌Expand the scope of risks and enhance risk management * JP: Jiaxing Plant, HP: Jiangsu Plant, CP: Chongqing Plant, CTC: China Technical Center 12 IC-1.2 to the strategic guidelines prepared on the basis of internal/external stakeholder surveys, evaluation outcomes of external professional organizations, and the benchmarking of advanced businesses. The team also reviewed progress Operation of the CSR through quarterly monitoring and discussed issues. Such Committee in Europe commitment resulted in an effective CSR operation that reflected both our global common CSR strategy and the local conditions of Hungary. In 2015, corporate philanthropy of Our Europe Headquarters established its own CSR operathe Europe Headquarters Marketing & Sales as well as the tion system which encompasses the Hungary Plant and Hungary Plant was included in the scope of management Marketing & Sales operations in Europe, while undertakareas for more systematic CSR operations. Starting from ing diverse CSR initiatives in six areas in consideration of 2016, the plan drawn up at the end of 2015 will be acted local conditions and situations. upon in a systematic manner. The CSR operation system of our Europe Headquarters was Operational Organization Started in 2014 Started in 2015 established in November 2013 to advance its CSR management in an integrated manner. It consists of the six areas of Every Quarterly Daily EHS, Energy & GHG, Employees, Ethics Management, Corpo2nd Half Report Improvement rate Philanthropy and Risk Management. CSR initiatives are managed on a team level for each work area for their effiEHS Energy & GHG Hungary cient operation, and CSR outcomes are reported quarterly to Plant Employees Ethics Management the Hungary Plant Managing Director. Furthermore, annual COO Managing Director CSR achievements and plans for the following year are reof the Corporate Philanthropy Risk Management Europe ported each year to the COO of the Europe Headquarters, Headwho then approves the directions to undertake future CSR quarters Marketing initiatives. In 2015, the CSR Team at the Korean Head Office & Sales Corporate Philanthropy Department assisted our Hungary Plant in setting CSR plans by referring Director Operational Status CSR Category Supervised by Performances in 2015 Plans for 2016 EHS MP) Human Resource ㆍOperated the Safety Committee ㆍOperate the Safety Committee Management & Education ㆍ‌Conducted improvement initiatives on the basis of ㆍ‌C  onduct improvement initiatives on the basis of internal Team internal diagnosis results diagnosis results ㆍPrepared the adoption of OHSAS18001 ㆍCheck the Concentrator & Flameless Regenerative ㆍInvested in fire drills and fire prevention Thermal Oxidizer (CFRTO) ㆍCleaned up fire prone areas ㆍObtain the OHSAS18001 ㆍInvest in fire drills and fire prevention ㆍ‌M  onitor working environment (noise, fine dust, etc,) in the plant Energy & GHG MP) Human Resource ㆍChecked energy consumption every day ㆍReduce LNG consumption Management & Education Team ㆍInvested in reducing LNG consumption ㆍReduce electricity consumption (by adopting LEDs) Employees MP) Human Resource ㆍ‌Built and operated the Grievance Handling Committee ㆍOperate the Grievance Handling Committee Management & Education Team rules ㆍ‌C  ultivate staff responsible for human rights and educate ㆍAnalyzed job fitness for hiring the disabled employees ㆍOperated mentoring and theme project programs ㆍManage HR diversity related indices ㆍOperate mentoring and theme project programs ㆍHold recreational camp for families of employees Ethics MP) Human Resource ㆍ‌Completed and announced the amendment of the Code ㆍEducate employees about ethics management Management Management & Education Team of Ethics ㆍSend out ethics management letters ㆍTrained all employees about ethics management ㆍActivate tip-off system ㆍReceived written pledge to practice ethics management ㆍImplement self-diagnosis of ethics management Corporate MP) Corporate ㆍExpanded employee volunteer group ㆍExpand employee volunteer group Philanthropy Management Team ㆍDonated tires ㆍDonate tires ㆍConducted training about safe driving and maintenance ㆍConduct training about safe driving and maintenance ㆍ‌Participated and supported English Camp and local ㆍ‌P  articipate and support English Camp and local campaigns campaigns ㆍSupported children with disabilities ㆍSupport children with disabilities ㆍSupport disaster areas Risk Management MP) Corporate ㆍ‌Implemented SWOT analysis of the plant and risk ㆍEstablish and operate risk management regulations Management Team assessment ㆍDeveloped stakeholder map by risk ㆍAnalyzed relevant policies and safety regulations Corporate EUR) Corporate ㆍSupported children with cancer ㆍSupport children with cancer Philanthropy Communications Team ㆍ‌Trained road safety and sponsored community child ㆍTrain road safety and sponsor community child centers centers ㆍCarry out environmental protection campaign ㆍCarried out environmental protection campaign ㆍ‌S  upport experiential activities for low-income family children (UEL Flag Carrier, invite to DTM, etc.) * MP: Magyar Plant in Hungary Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 13 IC Integrated CSR Management System IC-1.3 IC-2 Activation of CSR Operation Reinforcement of Companyat Indonesia Plant and wide Employee Training and ASEAN-INDIA Communication Our global CSR operation system was broadened to inDiverse CSR trainings were offered to all employees to clude the Indonesia Plant and ASEAN-INDIA Marketing & embed CSR into their daily life. We plan to reach compaSales operations to ensure that our CSR initiatives are ny-wide consensus on CSR and build more robust CSR undertaken systematically in consideration of local conexecution capabilities. ditions and situations. We provided CSR training to all our employees to ensure that To disseminate and establish our global CSR operation systhey are on the same page in understanding and undertaktem, we developed the CSR operation systems in Indonesia ing CSR. Also, our new and experienced recruits received CSR and the ASEAN-Indian region in 2014, following Korea, China, training so that they could learn the basics on the meaning of and Europe. As a result of reflecting local conditions and staCSR and our CSR initiatives at Hankook Tire. Furthermore, adtus, our Indonesia Plant covers the four areas of EHS, Corpovanced training content was delivered in each CSR area as part rate Philanthropy, Employees, and Ethics Management while of the job courses intended for new recruits. Such training was the ASEAN-India Marketing & Sales operations address the also offered to volunteer leaders of the ‘Donggeurami Voluntwo areas of Corporate Philanthropy and Ethics Management. teering Team’, a group of Hankook Tire employee volunteers, We carried out diversified CSR activities to establish a CSR opto help them better understand volunteer work and feel emeration system at the Indonesia Plant. The activities in 2016 powered from these activities. As the human rights managewill expand to cover the ASEAN-India Marketing & Sales. ment system is established at Hankook Tire in 2015, all of the managers at domestic operations received education on defiOperational Organization Started in 2014 Started in 2016 nition of human rights management and raised their awareness of the human rights management system. Such diverse Every Quarterly Daily training programs have resulted in deepening employees’ un2nd Half Report Improvement derstanding of CSR while building a company-wide consensus. Production Indonesia EHS Corporate Philanthropy & EngineerPlant ing Division Managing Company-wide CSR Training Director Director Employees Ethics Management Training Details Target Trainees Times Hours Course ㆍ‌C SR at Hankook Tire Chief AI Marketing Corporate Ethics Meaning New 96 2 Sessions 4 Marketing & Sales ExecPhilanthropy Management and Underemployees persons (Jan. Aug.) Officer utives standing New career 22 3 Sessions 6 of CSR employees persons (Jan. Apr., Operational Status Jul.) Career 4 1 Session 1 CSR SuperPerformances in 2015 Plans for 2016 executives persons (May) ㆍCSR planning Category vised by IP) Corpoㆍ‌M ade trainings of forklift ㆍ‌Conduct emergency drills Meaning New 28 1 Session 4 EHS and Underㆍ‌S takeholder humanities persons (Feb.) rate Mandrivers and their license against three major environstanding communication employees agement acquisition mandatory mental accidents (oil spill, ㆍ‌H ealth and safety ㆍObtained the ‘Green of CSR Team hazardous substances leakage (Advanced ㆍ‌U nderstanding Level’ at the corporate and wastewater leakage) environmental manageㆍDistribute handbook for Course) of integrated environmental ment evaluation environmental management management ㆍ‌U nderstanding of (government, local people, schools, Korean-Indonesian DongVolunteer 29 2 Sessions 4 geurami volunteer activities leaders at the persons (Mar. Aug.) Volunteerㆍ‌G uide to the operation Association, etc.) ㆍSupported free medical ㆍ‌Educate local people about Head Office, Corporate ing Team of volunteering team sales offices, Philanservices to children road safety Volunteer ㆍ‌R  ole of volunteer ㆍProvided living water to ㆍSupport clothes, foods, and regional thropy Leader leaders and volunteer headquarters low-income families school supplies to needy ㆍRepaired local school Training activities plans and logistics children ㆍRepair local school toilets centers buildings (excluding EmployIP) ㆍ‌S trengthened employee ㆍ‌Expand the scope of HR index reappointed ees Human communication channels management (education exleaders in Resource pense, education hours, etc.) 2014) Ethics Team ㆍ‌P ublished and distributed ㆍ‌Expand education on business Training ㆍ‌Introduction of human Managers 129 6 Sessions 12 Managecards for ethics manageethics (targets and hours) on Human right and related manpersons (Mar.~Oct.) ment ment Right agement cases ㆍEducated about ethics ㆍ‌H uman right manmanagement and awardagement system at ed excellent employees Hankook Tire * IP: Indonesia Plant, AI: Asean-India 14 IC-3 Stakeholder Model NGOs·Civil Stakeholder Communication Media Organizations and Engagement Customers Shareholders· Employees To clearly define our stakeholders, we have categorizing Investors standards depending on their impact on management Students· activities. We strive to generate sustainable values by Competitors Future sharing key issues identified via a variety of channels Generations among employees and reflecting inputs from stakeholdNature· Ecology· Suppliers ers in our management activities. Climate Local Communities Hankook Tire categorizes stakeholders into core group (those who are most closely related to our business conduct Local Central Governments Government and directly interact with us) and general group (those who interact indirectly with potential impact), clearly defining CSR issues through the analysis of various stakeholders and Core Stakeholders General Stakeholders external/internal business environments. Furthermore, we are dedicated to sharing our CSR accomplishments and plans with our stakeholders and to operating multiple communication channels to gather their candid and honest feedback. Open here Annual Stakeholder Dialogue Process Governance Implementation Review Selection Compiling PerforConstrucAdoption Alignment Analysis of of Targets StakeholdPresentation Application mance Compiling tion and to Policies with ImStakeholdby Stakeers’ Expecof CSR Comand ExecuManageStakeholder Scheduling and Future provement ers holder tations and mitments tion ment and Feedback of Dialogue Strategies Activities Group Needs Reporting Core Stakeholder Communication Channel Details of Communication Pages Customers ㆍDiscussion meetings with agencies ㆍEnhance product quality and secure safety 30~37 (General customers & ㆍCustomer satisfaction surveys ㆍ‌Extend product responsibility and conduct responsible dealers, car makers) ㆍTechnology exchanges marketing ㆍExhibitions ㆍSecure consumer safety and health in using products ㆍSustainability assessment, etc. ㆍ‌Carry out proactive communication with customers and adopt their opinions ㆍ‌Respond to sustainability assessment (society, environment, supply chain, etc.) Employees ㆍLabor-management consultative meetings ㆍ‌Recognize diversity and enhance prohibition on 38~47 ㆍDiscussion meetings discrimination ㆍIn-house IR ㆍ‌Strengthen training that supports employee ㆍHANA website development ㆍIn-house idea proposal system ㆍEnsure pleasant workplace ㆍVision 2020 Concert ㆍ‌Facilitate internal communication and enhance laborㆍProactive Conference (R&D communication), etc. management relations ㆍImprove safety and working environment at sites Suppliers ㆍTraining about quality and CSR ㆍ‌Operate programs to enhance suppliers’ competitiveness 62~65 ㆍRegular supplier assessment (training, technological support, etc.) ㆍHANKOOK PARTNER’s day ㆍFair trade and win-win partnerships ㆍHankook Tire’s e-Procurement System (HePS) ㆍ‌Enhance proactive communication and information sharing Local Communities ㆍMeetings with local people ㆍInvigorate local economy 48~57, 66~71 ㆍMeetings with local government agencies and NGOs ㆍ‌Provide educational and livelihood supports to the ㆍ‌C  ollection of civil complaints and needs of local marginalized in local communities communities ㆍ‌Carry out corporate philanthropic activities as a way of making social investments Shareholders & Investors ㆍBoard of Directors ㆍ‌Maximize operating performances and shareholder value 22~29, 58~61 ㆍGeneral shareholders’ meeting ㆍManage organizational transparency and sustainability ㆍOverseas conferences ㆍ‌Sustain transparent and ethics management, and ㆍIR activities, etc. integrated risk management Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 15 IC Integrated CSR Management System We sat down with key stakeholders to explore sustainability Interview with Stakeholders issues that matter to them. The stakeholder groups’ needs identified through the person-to-person interviews will be adopted to our management strategies and business operations. A1 As a local environmental expert, I work for local communities in calling for comprehensive What should Hankook Tire do to achieve environmental measures. Q1 sustainable development? Sun Tae Kim, Nature/Ecology/Climate DaeJeon University Professor A1 ‌If production used to the top priority for Hankook Tire, the company today pursues diverse environmental initiatives in a preemptive manner. In fact, a lot of concerns were raised over plant environment or worksite safety during the early project in 2003. The odor treatment system was inadequate either. Local Community We do volunteer work for the welfare for our However, Hankook Tire has invested around KRW 50 billion in environmencommunity, communicating with the staff at Daejeon Plant over the surrounding tal improvement while developing in-house technology to reduce odor. As environment. the technology has been introduced in plants in China and Hungary, these A2 efforts appear to have reached an important milestone. It is time to take a Chair Director Yeon Ok Lee, step further. Managing Director Jong Seo Park, Moksang-dong Community Welfare Committee A2 ‌We watched Hankook Tire for the past 20 years and we know that the company’s environmental activities have made progress in many fronts. We are grateful to Hankook Tire for delivering on its environmental improvement A3 plans and keeping promises. It is thanks to such efforts that residents in We evaluate the ESG of listed companies and provide consultancy services to social responsibility investors. Moksang-dong turn favorable to Hankook Tire. We also thank the company for vehicles it provided on the picnic of senior citizen centers, support for nursery center, and the supplies for the District Day held every year. However, the philanthropic activities have yet to grow in size and most of them Young Jae Ryu, are coordinated exclusively by the company or end up as a one-time event Shareholder & Investor CEO of Sustinvest at the request from beneficiaries. I hope that the activities are better aligned with mutual needs. A4 A3 ‌For responsible corporate governance, the independence and expertise of I work with employees for local marketing activities mainly in Spain, Italy, and France. non-executive directors should be guaranteed. Those non-executive directors who can speak out from an objective viewpoint with no interest with Hankook Tire should be appointed to represent shareholders. Hankook Tire currently has in place the declaration on safety policy for in-house suppliers Ji Yoon Park, on industrial accident but has yet to disclose specific management activities. Employee Assistant Manager, Global Marketing Team A4 ‌Our employees do not appear to be well aware of the diverse CSR activities Hankook Tire carries out. I hope that the in-house promotion is reinforced so that employees become better familiar with the CSR activities. Furthermore, A5 We supply carbon black used for rubber reinforcement. we should expand the employment of female workers and disabled people for the sake of diversity. A5 ‌I believe Hankook Tire puts stress on future-oriented mutual communication Young Ho Choi, Manager, Sales Team of in relationship with suppliers and considers us as a partner for sustainable Supplier Orion Engineered Carbons Co., Ltd. growth beyond just the relationship as a consumer and a supplier. Meanwhile, there is still a lack of opportunities for each supplier to exchange opinions at regular meetings and many suppliers look forward to further sharing information on technology, management system, and market changes. A6 I have been running Hankook Tire franchise shop, T’station in Seoknamdong, Seogu, Incheon since June A6 ‌When I learned that Hankook Tire gained OE fitment from BMW 7 series and 2013. Mercedes-Benz S-Class, I felt proud as a dealer of Hankook Tire products that the company has been recognized as a premium brand not just in Korea but globally. But, in general, customers do not seem to know very well about Hey Gyung Park, the CSR activities Hankook Tire carries out. So, as much as the improved Customer President of T’station Incheon Seogu Shop brand awareness, I hope that the company reinforces CSR activities that can consistently impress customers. 16 What do you think is the Please share with us if you Q2 solution to the issue you pointed out? Q3 have anything to add. Hankook Tire will implement the initiatives as follows: Each of our seven plants is carrying out activA1 ‌ maximize the outcome from voluntary inTo A1 ‌ Hankook Tire, investment in environment For ities to reach the longand short-term goals vestment, Hankook Tire has to continue to is no longer cost. The company has reached a established based on the global environmendevelop on the internal outcome managepoint where it needs to pursue balance between tal goals in 2015. In addition, we will continue ment model. In addition, Hankook Tire needs environment and development. Hankook Tire to strive to improve the environment of local to realize ‘Smart Factory’. Having overcome a recognizes that environmental issues should be communities by setting up a midto long-term significant environmental challenge, the comtaken seriously even as it strives to boost profit. environmental investment plan on the basis of pany now should establish a greater frame However, integration that goes beyond balance the evaluation results from the expiration of encompassing production and environmental is what global corporations endeavor to attain voluntary agreement on stench reduction with response. because that is an ideal and sustainable goal. Daejeon Metropolitan City and self-investigaIf a company is to achieve sustainability, it is tion of stench conditions. A2 ‌Rather than entirely managed by the compaexpected to fulfill corporate responsibility as a ny, the impact of philanthropic activities will member of the community. Of course, that will The Company launched the ‘Donggeurami be greater if local residents are allowed to inresult in an increase in production cost, but a Co-prosperity Council’ consisting of local resvolve in setting up plans according to budget. respected company should accept this to grow idents, experts, city councilors, and environThe annual transfer rate for Moksang-dong is and prosper. I am certain that if Hankook Tire mental groups. The council engages in creating around 30%. We have worked hard to improve engages with local community in solving envienvironmental value (reduction of stench emisenvironment in the area for the past 20 years ronmental issues and delivering positive values, sions), sharing activities, and supporting needy but there is still a lot to do. If Hankook Tire it will grow into a lasting corporation respected people. We will continue to develop diverse needs cooperation and understanding from us by stakeholders. philanthropic contents and form a consensus for a long-term environmental improvement, I with local people for shared growth with local ask for friendly relationship and interest in the A2 ‌Seeing people in Moksang-dong genuinely worcommunities. welfare for the residents. rying about Hankook Tire during the 2014 fire at Daejeon Plant, I could realize that we had Existing Management Committee under the A3 The independence of the Non-executive di‌ turned favorable to the company and we are BOD renamed into the Sustainability Commitrector Nomination Committee should be reready to seek co-existence. I hope that Hankook tee, which enabled the BOD to discuss ESG risks inforced. To do so, appointment of executive Tire, on its part, strives to boost chances for and make decisions on its own. We will pursue directors has to be kept to the lowest possible shared growth, for example, by introducing changes to build transparent and responsible level. Besides, the safety management system prior employment for local talents or welfare corporate governance. Hankook Tire observes of in-house suppliers should be on a par with programs for local communities. the same safety standards on the employees that for employees at Hankook Tire. from suppliers working in Hankook Tire as A3 ‌CSR report is not a promotional literature. It those applied to our employees. Detailed conA4 ‌ CSR should be one of the top priorities embedshould be concise but honest and disclose even tents are included in this report. ded in the company’s strategy. Please make a single fault while describing its corrective acsure that sustainable management is integrated tion. I also hope that Hankook Tire considers an We will add corporate philanthropy category into the corporate strategy that all employees integrated report which incorporates financial to our global intranet to be open this year, to can relate to. I also hope that there are polices outcomes with non-financial performance. create a channel for employees to share ideas to reinforce diversity, for example, increasing on sustainability management. A subsidiary the employment of female workers and disA4 ‌The length of service of many local employees for the disabled was established last year to abled people and hiring foreign talents at the at overseas offices is usually shorter than those enhance diversity as we continue to hire more headquarters in Korea. in Korea. We need to build an infrastructure to disabled workers. Recently, we are exploring deliver the vision, values, HR philosophy, and edways to nurture female employees and plan to A5 ‌More investments in joint R&D with suppliers ucation of the HQ in Korea to overseas regional develop institutional programs. will be a great help to their technological prooffices. In addition, as we grow into a global corgress. Hankook Tire holds one-on-one meetings poration, it is time for us to think about how to We hold HANKOOK PARTNER’s Day to share with suppliers as well as a regular conference to better accommodate local cultures. our management strategies and vision and host share global market information and its annual one-on-one meeting to offer tailored supports business plans every year. If these events exA5 ‌The rapidly changing market environment reto suppliers through the Partner’s Performance pand and mutual communication continues to quires for both Hankook Tire and suppliers Review (PPR). Not only one-on-one meeting but be invigorated, not only Hankook Tire but also to closely communicate with each other and joint R&D projects will be further enhanced to suppliers will enjoy stable and valuable growth activate technological exchange. I believe the reinvigorate mutual communication and create in the future. growth of suppliers will ensure the growth of opportunities for shared growth. Hankook Tire, thereby looking forward to workA6 ‌Rather than common CSR programs, it’s imporing together to maintain a good relationship. Hankook Tire operates three major Mobility tant that Hankook Tire performs differentiatprojects – Car Sharing, Tire Sharing, and Tuied activities. Besides, one major philanthropic A6 ‌Hankook Tire has to listen to customers’ voices if eum Bus – by focusing on our core competence. event is more likely to generate a greater imit is to become a sustainable company. After all, a In 2016, we will prepare corporate philanthropy pact on customers compared to a number of complaint may spark inspiration for product imprograms to be promoted more sustainably and smaller charity activities. I hope that Hankook provement which, in turn, brings about increase expand volunteering services for local commuTire undertakes an enterprising and bold investin customer satisfaction. Maintaining a relationnities. ment that is commensurate to its heightened ship for shared growth with franchise shops will status to deliver positive values to society. also contribute to Hankook Tire’s sustainability. 17 IC Integrated CSR Management System We identified issues that were material to our stakeMateriality Analysis holders and businesses to be intensively managed in 2016. Those issues which are recognized to be relatively more important are strictly managed through the form of CSR Steering Wheel. Materiality Analysis Process [Phase 1] Compile Relevant Issues A pool consisting of 36 issues in 9 categories was created Survey Targets (Unit: persons) through the application of the economic, social and environmental aspects suggested by the GRI G4 Guidelines, a global Hankook Tire employees 51.4%(371) framework of social responsibility management, media reBusiness partners 8.2%(59) (suppliers, dealers) 5.1%(37) search, review of CSR issues in the industry, and identifica8.0%(58) CSR experts tion of Hankook Tire’s core CSR issues. 722 Customers Total (car makers, individuals) [Phase 2] Identify the Level of Interest and Significance NGOs 13.4%(97) Shareholders, investors, persons We investigated the level of stakeholder interest and busimedia, academia, 13.9%(100) ness significance about 36 identified issues. Surveys were government, and public institutions conducted to check the level of stakeholder interest. We also reviewed our internal corporate policies and norms & regula* Survey period: From Feb. 24 to Mar. 11, 2016 (targets: 722 persons) tions while analyzing media articles and benchmarking global standards and industry peers to identify the level of business significance. [Phase 3] Prioritize Identified Issues We prioritized the above issues in line with stakeholder interest and business significance. This report aims to provide a more detailed and transparent disclosure of top issues. Most material issue: Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management Development of products to foster customer safety and health Why this issue is important to Hankook Tire. from normal tires, and creates a new segment of high-perforAs the quality and performance of the tire are directly related mance RFT in Korean tire industry. Currently, the 3rd-generation to safe driving, Hankook Tire has been putting quality and safeRFT ‘Ventus S1 evo2 Run Flat’ is equipped on Mercedes Benz C ty at the forefront in R&D. With the recent interest in safe drivClass and BMW MINI for the first time in Korean tire industry. ing, tires featuring advanced technologies have been developed to ensure safe driving in emergency situations. These include 2. ‌Developing Technologies to Maximize Brake Performance run flat tires, which are capable of being driven a certain disand Fuel Efficiency tance even when a tire blows out, and seal guard tires, which It is very difficult to enhance the brake performance and fuel its sealant materials applied inside goes out and immediately efficiency simultaneously as they have trade-off relationships. block punctures in a tire, ensuring vehicle safety. Hankook Tire operates the Innovation Braking Technology (IBT) Project TFT in charge of research on technologies related to Business Strategies friction, brake, traction, and materials in order to develop new To supply safe and healthy products to customers, Hankook tires that ensure excellence in both brake performance and fuel Tire focuses on the following three strategies: continuing the efficiency by capitalizing on our own technologies. In addition development of runflat tire technology, developing technolto this, we also preemptively respond to the labelling system ogies to enhance brake performance and fuel efficiency, and related with rolling resistance and wet grip performance. securing 1st-tier-level quality. All of these are aligned with the evaluation and compensation of executives in charge of R&D, 3. Securing 1st-tier-level Quality materials, product, and quality divisions. Hankook Tire implements strategic quality policies in the aspects of manufacturing and market. From a manufacturing per1. Continuing the Development of Runflat Tire Technology spective, we established quality standards in 2010 to attain the Our 1st-generation runflat tire (RFT) with just basic runflat funcgoal of ‘One Quality’ and has strived to strengthen processing tion had been far behind general tires in riding comfort and capability of both semi-manufactured and finished products. fuel efficiency. However, the 2nd-generation RFT was developed We also conduct diverse strategic tasks such as finding causes with the focus on reducing weight, and the latest third-generaof performance issue and applying improvements to worksites, tion RFT achieved greater rolling resistance and fuel efficiency and expanding quality indices to upgrade the uniformity of while maintaining existing performances. Particularly, Hankook product quality. From a market perspective, we comprehenTire operates the RFT Project TFT to spur the development of sively analyze customer needs and proactively adopt those to cutting-edge RFT technologies. Our 3rd-generation RFT is highour new products. ly recognized for its riding comfort, which is indistinguishable 18 High Medium Low High 1 2 3 13 14 4 17 5 15 16 19 8 Stakeholder Interest 25 23 24 11 6 22 9 31 7 32 18 27 10 33 12 28 26 30 21 34 20 29 35 36 Business Significance High Category Matrix No. & Materiality Issue Page Leadership & Responsible 8 Risk and crisis management 28~29 Corporate Governance 11 Responsible corporate governance 22~23 17 Vision and executive leadership 4~7 23 Communication with stakeholders 16~17 Creation and Distribution of 2 Direct economic performances (sales, operating income, etc.) 6, 76 Economic Value 5 Indirect economic performances 76~78 (creation of jobs in local communities, contribution to expanding tax revenues, etc.) 13 Distribution of created values 8~9 Customer Satisfaction and 1 Development of products to foster customer safety and health 7, 18, 33, 51~52 Quality Management 3 Communication with customers 34~37 14 Provision of accurate product information (Discouragement of exaggerated advertising, 7, 33, 51~52 environmental information, etc.) 19 Personal information protection 27 Employee Value 7 Win-win labor-management relations through open communication 44 Creation 6 Employee health and safety management 38~41 9 HR system to offer equal opportunities 45~47 16 Great workplace and work-Life balance 18 Educational systems to support the development of employees Environmental 10 Minimization of environmental impact throughout the entire product life cycle 51~52 Management (collection/transport of resources, manufacturing, use, recycling, disposal) 12 Eco-friendly products 20 Conservation of energy and reduction of GHG emissions 54~57 21 Conservation and protection of resources (raw materials, water, etc.) 48~53 36 Biodiversity management and protection of endangered species Business Ethics and 4 Elimination of all kinds of corruption and bribery 58~61 Transparency 15 Reception and resolution of complaints regarding unethical behavior 24 Prohibition of anti-competitive and monopolistic/oligopolistic practices 25 Education and dissemination of ethics management Respect for and 22 Prohibition of discrimination on religion, gender, etc. and respect for diversity 42~47 Protection of 26 Guarantee of freedom of association and rights to collective bargaining Human Rights 27 Prohibition of forced and child labor, guarantee of minimum wage, and compliance with work hour regulations 33 Prevention of (sexual) harassment 26 Win-Win Supply Chain 28 Support for suppliers in evaluating and improving CSR practices 62~65 Partnership 31 Win-win partnership programs 32 Preferred consideration of local suppliers Community Involvement & 29 Support for the growth of local communities (enhancement of self-dependency and 66~71 Development competency, employment of local talents, protection of the rights of indigenous people, etc.) 30 Corporate philanthropic activities linked with core competencies 34 Establishment of the corporate philanthropic system 35 Facilitation of employee engagement in corporate philanthropic activities Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 19 IC Integrated CSR Management System Based on the integrated CSR management system, CSR Hankook Tire set up customer satisfaction and qualiSteering Wheel ty management, employee health and safety management, employee value creation, environmental 2015/16 management, business ethics & transparency, and stakeholder satisfaction management as the six major CSR Focus Areas. AREAS O RI N G N IT FO T MO CU S0 AN 1 N ST CO IR CS Customer Satisfaction & CG Integrated Risk Management Quality Management Responsible Corporate OE Governance Car Makers RE General Customers and Dealers FOC US 0 CI Community HS 2 Employee Health & FOCUS 06 Involvement & SS Development Safety Management Stakeholder CSR Satisfaction Steering Wheel Management 2015/16 SC Win-Win Supply Chain Partnership EV Employee Value Creation FO C IE US BE CC Integrated Environmental 03 Climate Change & Management Business Ethics & GHG Management Transparency FO EM CU Environmental S Management 05 04 FOCUS 20 Constant Monitoring Areas CSR Focus Areas Constant Monitoring Areas Code Key Managerial Issues Pages CG Responsible Corporate Governance 1. ‌Develop an advanced decision-making system through proactively 22~23 collecting stakeholder feedback 2. Operate the professional BOD and enhance its responsibility and role IR Integrated Risk Management 1. Implement risk management activities by detailed issue 24~29 2. Operate crisis management system Focus Areas Code Key Managerial Issues Pages CS OE FOCUS 01 30~33 1. Continuous communication Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management 2. Reinforcement of product competency 1. Car Makers RE 2. General Customers and Dealers 1. Co-prosperity with customers 34~37 2. Impressive customer experience 3. Communication with customers HS FOCUS 02 1. Establishment of voluntary safety management system 38~41 Employee Health & 2. Enhancement of employee health management Safety Management 3. Development of fire safety system EV FOCUS 03 1. Open communication 42~47 Employee Value Creation 2. HR system to offer fair opportunities 3. Growth-fostering Training Systems 4. Work-life balance EM IE FOCUS 04 1. Management of environmental production infrastructure 48~53 Environmental Management 2. Resource management 1. ‌Integrated Environmental Management 3. Product environment CC 2. ‌Climate Change & 1. Energy & GHG management 54~57 GHG Management 2. Reduction of energy consumption and GHG emissions 3. Introduction of new technologies BE FOCUS 05 1. Training and communication on ethics management 58~61 Business Ethics & Transparency 2. Regular monitoring and evaluation 3. Dissemination of ethics management to affiliates SS SC FOCUS 06 1. Supplier management and supplier relations policies 62~65 Stakeholder Satisfaction Management 2. Establishment of ethics in purchasing 1. Win-Win Supply Chain Partnership 3. Improvement of suppliers’ ESG CI 2. ‌Community Involvement & 1. Expansion of company-wide promotion 66~71 Development 2. Employees’ engagement 3. Concentration on core capabilities 4. Supports for the growth of local communities Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 21 CG Responsible Corporate Governance RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CG GOVERNANCE Hankook Tire has set a great example in separating the ownership and management by adopting the Chief Executive Officer system in early stage. We are also committed to maintaining responsible corporate governance and ensuring reasonable and transparent business conduct. Declaration Major Shareholders The following table indicates the status of major shareholders and their ownership as of December 31, 2015. (Unit: shares, %) Major Shareholders No. of Shares Ownership Hankook Tire Worldwide Co., Ltd. 31,174,527 25.16 Yang Rai Cho 13,007,897 10.50 Hyun Bum Cho 2,561,241 2.07 Hyun Shick Cho 799,241 0.65 Others 76,332,163 61.62 Total 123,875,069 100.00 BOD Composition Our Board of Directors (BOD) consists of five directors: two executive directors and three non-executive directors. Board of Directors Name Position Relationship with the Largest Shareholder Remark Executive director Seung Hwa Suh Vice Chairman Executive at an affiliate BOD Chairman Executive director Hyun Bum Cho President Executive at an affiliate Non-executive director Kun Ho Cho Audit Committee member N/A Non-executive director Choong Hwan Cho Audit Committee member N/A Non-executive director Seong Phil Hong Audit Committee member N/A BOD Evaluation and Remuneration Our directors and auditors are compensated according to in-company rules within the annual limit of KRW 7 billion which was approved at the general shareholders’ meeting. Their bonus is determined by management performances measured in accordance with economic, social and environmental indicators. Their average annual remuneration is approximately 5.6 times the average wage of our employees. The annual salary levels of all our employees including the BOD are finalized in view of market levels surveyed by an external consulting firm biannually and the internal rate of pay increase. Remuneration of the BOD Members and Auditors (Unit: persons, KRW in millions) Board of Directors No. of Persons Total Remuneration Average Remuneration per Person Executive director 2 1,696 848 Non-executive director (Audit Committee member) 3 126 42 Total 5 1,822 364 22 Operation of the Professional BOD and Enhancement of Its Responsibility and Role Hankook Tire appoints exemplary figures who have worked at government agencies or companies for a long time and greatly contributed to the community as its non-executive directors. Non-executive directors hold a majority of the BOD and their appointment follows transparent and fair procedures through the Non-executive Director (NED) Nomination Committee under the BOD. By capitalizing on rich experiences and knowledge in the areas of management, legal affairs and related businesses, they assist the CEO in making accurate decisions through advice and consultation as well as check and supervise top management. Top Management’s Decision-making Process The BOD is at the core of our decision-making structure at Hankook Tire. We strive to fully gather stakeholder feedbacks and align them to actual outcomes by identifying necessary tasks at various meetings. We also continue to build a corporate culture where stakeholder feedbacks are reflected in the top management’s decision-making through active communication. Support, Reporting check BOD CEO Appointing Monitoring/checking/ deliberating major agenda Reporting Gathering General Various Gathering stakeholder shareholders’ meetings stakeholder feedbacks meeting feedbacks Reporting Audit Committee Reporting Appointing management Discuss and information Monitoring/checking/ decide on major deliberating major agenda company-wide Auditing issues BOD Meetings In 2015, four regular and seven ad-hoc BOD meetings were held. BOD Meetings for the Past Four Years (Unit: times, %) FY Regular Meeting Ad-hoc Meeting Attendance Rate of Non-executive directors 2012 1 3 100 2013 4 7 93.9 2014 4 6 93.3 2015 4 7 78.8 Operation of Committees under the BOD in 2015 We operate four committees under the BOD: Audit Committee, Sustainability Committee, Non-executive Director Nomination Committee and the Internal Transactions Committee. These committees meet both on a regular and ad-hoc basis. Board Committees Composition Key Function Operation Audit Committee 3 non-executive directors Audit accounting and business operations 4 regular and Investigate corporate financial assets 2 ad-hoc meetings ‌Handle matters stipulated in government regulations and the articles of incorporation as well as matters commissioned by the BOD Request directors to report business operations Request the appointment of non-executive directors Sustainability Committee* 2 executive directors Deliberate and decide on general management matters 28 meetings Deliberate and decide on financial matters Non-executive Director 2 executive and Recommend non-executive director candidates 2 meetings Nomination Committee 3 non-executive directors Internal Transactions Committee 3 non-executive directors Approve large-scale internal transactions 2 meetings * ‌With the aim of preventing risks in overall management activities and ensuring our sustainability, the Management Committee was changed to the Sustainability Committee in 2016. The roles of the Sustainability Committee include not only handling administrative and financial matters but also deliberating and deciding on internal and external risk factors and sustainability issues in order to preemptively figure out and prevent risks against our sustainability. Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 23 IR Integrated Risk Management INTEGRATED IR RISK MANAGEMENT It’s critical to preemptively identify and systematically manage internal and external risks incidental to business activities in the aspect of corporate sustainability. Background of this issue Expanding the scale and scope of our activities in manufacturing, distributing and selling products, we are exposed to diverse risks whether those are large or small. However, those risks and uncertainties in management can be minimized by systematic control and responses. Risks & Opportunities We at Hankook Tire will define risks to be preferentially managed and then, carry out enterprise-wide integrated risk management activities that encompass preemptive management measures and follow-up response guidelines from the compliance perspective, turning potential risks into Declaration opportunities for another takeoff. Compliance Committee · Chaired by: Corporate Strategy Planning Division Director · Supervised by: Legal Team Management · ‌Members: Audit Team, Purchasing Planning Team, Responsibility Corporate Management Team 1, Proactive University, and GoverAMC) Technical Service Team, CSR Team nance Key Managerial Issues Anti-Dumping Fair Trade Prevention of Labor-Management Sexual Harassment Culture Protection Disputes over IP Product Affiliates of Customer (Intellectual Property) Liability (PL) Management Key Achievements Information & Trademark Rights Conducted training about sexual Checked the status of Amended the regulatory guidebook harassment prevention at overseas trademark rights registration to comply with US labor regulations headquarters and published English version Once a year in the US, Europe, Hungary and Indonesia Total 9,297 items Future Plans and Our commitment lies in preemptively responding to risks through sustained and systematized Outlook risk management activities. To this end, we will continue to define new risks to be managed in addition to eight key risks in 2016. Ultimately, we will establish an integrated company-wide risk management system to effectively identify, analyze and flexibly respond to the company’s internal and external risks. Achievements in 2015 ● Completed ◐ Partially Completed ◦ Not Completed Code Key Managerial Issues Goals Achievements Completion Page IR1 Anti-Dumping ㆍ‌Simulate the Chinese domestic/ ㆍ‌C alculated and analyzed dumping margin of tires ● 26 Risk EU-export prices of our products manufactured in China by key export countries Manmanufactured in China and verify ageanti-dumping risks ㆍ‌Inspect and improve compliance ㆍ‌Inspected conditions and status of payment to ● ment Fair Trade 26 by with Subcontracting Act subcontractors related to the Fair Transactions in DeSubcontracting Act tailed Issue Sexual Harassment ㆍ‌Regularize prevention trainings ㆍ‌C onducted trainings at worksites (HQs in Korea, ● 26 Prevention conducted at overseas headquarUS and Europe, and their affiliates) once a year ters in 2014 ㆍ‌E xpanded trainings to Hungary and Indonesia Plants ㆍ‌Implement prevention trainings at and several affiliates of the Europe headquarters Hungary and Indonesia Plants Labor-Management ㆍ‌Revise the TP Employment· ㆍ‌D istributed English version of the ‘TP Employment· ● 26 Culture Labor Law Compliance Guideline Labor Law Compliance Guideline’ ㆍ‌R evised the ‘TP Employment·Labor Law Compliance Guideline’ (focus on references in practices and add precedents) Customer Information ㆍ‌Diagnose our compliance concernㆍ‌E  xamined and supplemented the personal information ● 27 Protection ing the collection of personal inforcollection and utilization system mation and provide legal opinion Disputes over IP ㆍ‌Register trademark rights and ㆍ‌M anaged the application and registration of trade● 27 (Intellectual Property) & manage relevant disputes mark rights in each country and took legal actions to Trademark Rights ㆍ‌E stablish a trademark rights infringement of trademark rights asset management system (306 applications and 181 registrations) (regular asset management methㆍ‌R  egistered a new trademark and took legal actions to ods, etc.) disputes (Laufenn) Product Liability (PL) ㆍ‌Manage PL risks regarding ㆍ‌S et up R&R for responses to PL lawsuits in the US ● 27 Tennessee Plant (TP) ㆍ‌A nalyzed and managed the PL insurance conditions in establishment North America Affiliates ㆍ‌Manage the governance structure ㆍ‌S  upported compliance activities with regard to ● 27 Management Risk of affiliates expanding the equity of emFrontier owned by Hankook Tire Worldwide Plans for 2016 Code Key Managerial Issues Commitments Key Index Deadline Team in Charge IR1 Anti-Dumping ㆍ‌M anage the issue at the Review the Chinese Oct. Legal Team Risk ‘Chinese Antitrust Laws Risk’ level Antitrust Laws ㆍ‌Build a company-wide fair trade ManFair Trade Systematize trainings about fair Oct. Legal Team ageeducation system trade at the company level ment by Prevention of Sexual ㆍ‌Check regulations of each country with Conduct trainings about sexual Oct. Legal Team DeHarassment regard to sexual harassment prevention harassment prevention and tailed and adopt the results to trainings make diagnostic reports Issue ㆍ‌Diagnose the status of sexual harassment prevention trainings at overseas headquarters Labor-Management ㆍ‌Complete and distribute the guideline Complete and distribute the Oct. Legal Team Culture version 2.0 and support compliance with guideline version 2.0 labor laws at TP Protection of Customer ㆍ‌Comply with mandatory certification for Obtain the certification Oct. Legal Team Information the information protection management on information protection system in accordance with the management system amendment of the Information & Communication Network Act (expected enforcement on Jun. 2, 2016) Disputes over IP ㆍ‌Improve monitoring of the same or similar Monitor the application of similar Oct. Legal Team (Intellectual Property) & trademarks trademarks Trademark Rights Product Liability (PL) ㆍ‌M anage PL risks in relation to products Respond to PL risks in relation to Oct. Legal Team manufactured in China products manufactured in China Affiliates ㆍ‌M aterialize affiliates’ fair trade risks Prevent affiliates’ fare trade risks Oct. Legal Team Management Risk Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 25 IR Integrated Risk Management IR-1 Sexual Harassment Prevention Risk Management Regularize Sexual Harassment Prevention Trainings at Overseas Headquarters • We started to offer the training on Risk Management by a regular basis in our Head Office in Korea and the overseas regional headquarters in America and Europe from 2015. Detailed Issue Also, we extended the scope of this training to include our Indonesia and Hungary Plants. In 2016, Hankook Tire plans to We selected eight key risks that require company-wide review local statues regarding sexual harassment and reflect management and are undertaking preemptive responses them on our curriculum while conducting trainees’ satisfacin each of these areas. This enables us to move beyond tion survey to improve the quality of the training. merely managing these risks to actually turning them into new opportunities. Sexual Harassment Prevention Trainings at Overseas Headquarters in 2015 Anti-dumping Risk Management Training Area Training Date Training Details America Headquarters 5/26~5/29 1. ‌Introduce the Simulate the Chinese Domestic/EU-export Prices of Our necessity of Europe Netherlands 7/17, 8/6 Products Manufactured in China and Verify Anti-dumping Headquarters Sales Subsidiary sexual harassment Risks • In 2013 and 2014, Hankook Tire investigated anprevention in Italy Sales 7/31 workplace and Subsidiary ti-dumping regulations and trends in two of our key marrelevant regulations Spain Sales 9/25 2. ‌Instruct the definition, kets, the US and the EU. In 2015, we chose to diagnose the Subsidiary examples and legal anti-dumping risks on locally produced goods in the major Indonesia Plant 4/14~4/29, 5/4 restrictions of sexual harassment in the regulatory country, China. Looking into more details, we diHungary Plant 4/23~4/24 workplace vided goods produced in China were into PCR (Passenger Car 3. ‌Introduce Hankook Radial), LTR (Light Truck Radial), and TBR (Truck Bus Radial) Tire’s relevant policies based on the existing standards and calculated the estimated dumping margin by each major exporting destinations. For markets such as the US and Brazil where the estimated dumping margin was relatively high, we reviewed the necessity for further research in consideration of anti-dumping regulation trends. However, we decided not to take further measures in countries where countermeasures were already in place. As such decisions were notified to relevant departments, anti-dumping risk management activities ended in 2015 except for the trend monitoring of each market. Starting from 2016, the anti-trust risk management in China will substitute for the anti-dumping risk management. Fair Trade Risk Management Sexual Harassment Prevention Training at the Italy Sales Subsidiary Inspect and Improve Compliance with Subcontracting Act • In accordance with the「Fair Transactions in Subcontracting Act」(hereinafter「Subcontracting Act」), Hankook Tire has Labor-Management Culture Risk Management observed separate payment criteria on our suppliers which Revise the TP Employment·Labor Law Compliance Guidefell into the category of manufacturing subcontractor. In line • In the run-up to the completion of a plant in Tennes2015, as prescribed by the amended「Subcontracting Act」 see, the U.S., scheduled for the end of 2016, we developed (enforced on Jan. 25, 2016), we confirmed the changes of compliance guidelines on employment & labor issues of the subcontracting suppliers while investigating the payment criU.S. Labor Laws in 2015. The guideline comes with added teria and payment history for existing and new suppliers. In content that compares practical issues of labor laws between 2016, Hankook Tire plans to offer regular fair trade educathe US and Korea and includes the US court rulings on action for employees in a diversified manner in order to mantual labor cases. The guidelines are also available in English age risks involving fair trade. version at the Tennessee Plant covering the preparation and post-operation of the plant. In 2016, the second edition of the guidelines will be published in cooperation with the Tennessee Plant. 26 Customer Information Protection Risk Management iaries in the U.S. in 2015 to ensure swift measures are taken Diagnose Our Compliance Concerning the Collection of locally. Hankook Tire also completed a close examination of Personal Information and Receive Legal Advices • In 2014, PL insurance terms as, unlike general liability insurance, PL Hankook Tire checked the database for customer informainsurance provides protection against disputes over PL in adtion in the HQ in Korea and overseas regional headquarters dition to insurable risk. As such, we looked into whether the and evaluated their management risks. In 2015, we identikey terms including limit of liability of existing PL insurance fied and improved the status of customer information collecare efficiently aligned with our PL litigation defense system, tion and management system. For example, we revised the taking improvement measures. Our plan for 2016 is to carry information consent form to be more specific. The required out risk management activities on goods produced in China personal information was minimized as date of birth in the Plant. consent form was replaced with year of birth only. Furthermore, the company limited employees’ access to customer Affiliates Risk Management DB to ensure that only those with authority can refer to the Manage the Governance Structure of Affiliates • As of minimum information provided that their purpose meets the the end of 2015, Hankook Tire has 12 affiliates except for intended use. Pursuant to the Article 49 (2) 3 of the「EnHankook Tire Worldwide, the holding company as prescribed forcement Decree of the Act on Promotion of Information by the「Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act」(hereinafand Communications Network Utilization and Information ter「Fair Trade Act」), and consistently engage in activities Protection, etc.」, notified for legislation by the Ministry of to comply with relevant laws and regulations. 2015 marks Science, ICT & future Planning and scheduled to enter into the second anniversary since Hankook Tire Worldwide’s force on June 2nd, 2016, Hankook Tire will conduct tasks to transition into a holding company. As the ‘grace period for acquire the certification on information protection managerestrictions on activities by holding companies’ pursuant to ment system. the Article 8-2 (2) 2 (a) of the「Fair Trace Act」has expired, we adjusted the ratio of share owned by affiliates. The key Dispute over IP (Intellectual Property)·Trademark Right issue of 2016 is expected to be the ‘fair trade management Risk Management risk on affiliates’. Establish System to Register Trademark Rights and Manage Disputes over IP and Asset • Our patent rights on tire structures, ingredients and production facilities, utility model rights and design rights, as well as trademark rights on Hankook Tire brands & sub-products brands, are registered in countries worldwide, including in Korea. In 2015, we endeavored to manage IP rights as we continued to monitor similar trademarks, taking legal actions to the infringement of trademarks rights arising from this process. We recognize IP rights as intangible corporate assets and manage it in an IT system. We have divided our asset data into trademark registration status and investment history and input them into the IT system, improving the efficiency of the IP management. This data will enable us to manage trademarks electronically going forward. Our goal for 2016 is to monitor and take legal actions to identical or similar trademarks and take preemptive counteractions on any attempt to violate our trademark rights. Product Liability (PL) Risk Management Manage PL Risks in Regard to TP Establishment • We anticipate that the initiation of our Tennessee Plant operations will strengthen the awareness of our brand in the US. But, at the same time, it will likely expose us to the danger of increase in lawsuits. To enhance PL risk response system which so far the HQ in Korea handled for the most part, we reorganized the roles of relevant departments of the subsidHankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 27 IR Integrated Risk Management Establishment of a Company-wide Crisis Management System CASE STUDY A number of accidents occurring in Korea and abroad has alerted us to the need of company-wide crisis management. As such, we established the Crisis Management Headquarters in 2014 and set forth operational principles. In 2015, we took action to match up with the established improvement plans to elevate the overall level of risk management, emergency response and crisis management and to operate our company-wide crisis management system in a substantial and integrated manner 1. Overview of the Crisis Management System * Risk Management: We defined the key components of any crisis management ‌Risks refer to uncertain future events that may impact the attainment of an organization’s strategic, operational or financial goals. From a broader persystem as: risk management, emergency response and crisis spective, risks can be threats to corporate sustainability. management. Then we categorized them in line with time ‌Risk management is to identify and assess these risks and to lower their posflow and the extent of damage. Ordinarily, we monitor dansibility while devising countermeasures through monitoring. ger factors through continued risk management. When ac* Emergency Response: cidents or events do occur, immediate emergency response Emergency responses refer to immediate response activities, including resmeasures are undertaken to minimize their damage. When cuing lives, preventing accidents from worsening, along with other basic-level recovery measures that are undertaken in the case of accidents or precarious such measures start to take effect and bring gradual recovevents until long-term or permanent solutions take hold. ery, we resume to our default risk management phase. If it * Crisis Management: is impossible to repair the damage and the extent of it conWhen the impact and damage from such crises are not expected to decrease tinues to escalate, the Crisis Management Headquarters may in spite of emergency response, action must be taken to normalize business declare an crisis and initiate crisis management to focus on conduct so that an appropriate company-wide response can overcome them. repairing the damage and normalizing business conduct. In * Crisis Management System: the case where it is determined that normal business conThe risk management system was created to effectively manage the risks and crises that a company could face through the organic alignment of risk manduct resumes with the passage of time, the head of the Crisis agement, emergency response and crisis management Management Headquarters lifts the crisis and our operations go back to normal. Crisis Management System Size of Damage Risk Management Emergency Crisis Risk Management (normal times) Response Management (normal times) Event occurrence Crisis declaration Lifting Crisis Passage of Time 2. Crisis Management System Improvement Activities ❶ Risk Management We set up a separate TFT organization in 2015 to improve our crisis management system. Such improvement activities are Management Risk identification Risk classification direction guide undertaken for each of the crisis management system areas: risk management by the Corporate Strategy Team, emergency response by the Machinery Engineering Team 3 and GenWe selected responsible teams and staff for each job funceral Affairs Team, and crisis management by the CSR Team. tion who surveyed all risks that may pose threat to management. As a result, a total of 90 potential risks have been idenProject Leader tified. These risks identified were classified into four groups (Business Infra Division Director) Operation Committee as follows with risk management direction for each group ‌Production Technology Div. Director shared among responsible teams. ‌Corporate Strategy & Finance Div. Director TFT Leader ‌Corporate Communications Staff (CSR Team Manager) Emergency Response Risk Management (Machinery Crisis Management (Corporate Strategy Engineering Team 3, (CSR Team) Team) General Affairs Team) 28 Risk Classification Major Risks Management Direction Fire, safety accident, typhoon & heavy rain, earthquake, heavy snow, accidents Emergency response Group 1 (19 risks) in business trip, terror, IT system failure, blackout, infectious disease & food by each site poisoning, and additional nine risks Anti-dumping, product liability, customer information protection, disputes Manage by the Compliance Group 2 (8 risks) over IP & trademark rights, fair trade, employment & labor law, sexual Committee harassment, affiliate management risk Quality issue, information leakage, customer complaints, lack of Handle the risks as Group 3 (31 risks) GHG emissions allowances, exchange risk, strike, inadequate waste treatment, integral agenda at existing expired raw materials, and additional 23 risks committees or meetings Occurrence of inadequacy of raw materials, loss on real estate evaluation, errors in import clearance, illegal transactions, manufacturing Daily management Group 4 (32 risks) facilities failure, violation of human rights, occurrence of negative press by superintending team release, and additional 25 risks ❷ Emergency Response ❸ Crisis Management Selection of events Arrangement of Establishment of Drills and Selection of major to be essentially emergency crisis management Setup of BCMS inspections crisis situations responded response processes manuals Based on the conditions of operations, we selected essential We selected the eight key assets regarded most integral to response events– 13 events for plant and 6 for office while the company’s sales activities, specifying the subject to be organizing emergency response scenarios for each event in protected with priority in case of emergency. Of the 90 risks line with on-site conditions. This allowed us to set up scenaridentified, seven risks were designated as key emergencies ios for all events in seven global operations based on standwhich require emergency management. We also identified ardized format. For offices, the ‘Safety Guide for Office’ was key assets which are likely to be affected by emergencies created and applied in the HQ with priority. For plants, in and their relevant functions, and responsible teams and set the meantime, drills for existing scenarios were conducted, up a 3-step response: first, risk identification; second, emerwhich complemented our emergency response scenarios. gency and crisis stage, and third, normalization. We already We plan to continue to develop emergency response scenarihave the response manual in place for fire, infectious disease, os to take swift actions in case of unexpected events. and IT system failure. For the remaining 4 cases, we will create manuals one at a time. Hankook Tire plans to adopt the ISO22301 (BCMS*) to domestic plants based on its crisis management system in 2016 and phase it in all plants to elevate company-wide crisis management capabilities. * BCMS: Business Continuity Management System Plant (13 items) Office (6 items) Crisis situations Core resources ① Fire ① Fire Fire Employee ② Safety accident ② Earthquake ③ ‌Leakage of hazardous ③ Typhoon & heavy rain Infectious disease Facility chemical substances ④ ‌Infectious disease & food ④ ‌Leakage of danger poisoning IT system failure Building substances ⑤ ‌Occurrence of emergency ⑤ Inflow of wastewater patient Serious accidents Product ⑥ Oil spill ⑥ Terror & demonstration ⑦ ‌Explosion of boiler Strike Raw materials ⑧ Earthquake ⑨ Typhoon & heavy rain Quality issue IT system ⑩ Heavy snow ⑪ Leakage of nitrogen gas Information leakage Technology information ⑫ ‌Infectious disease & food poisoning Reputation ⑬ Blackout Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 29 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Value Creation FOCUS CUSTOMER SATISFACTION & OE QUALITY MANAGEMENT 1. ‌Car Makers Global car makers demand that their suppliers conduct business responsibly in addition to fulfilling existing essential requirements such as quality, pricing, delivery and philanthropy as part of their global cooperative relationships. Background of this issue Hankook Tire meets car makers’ requirements through continuous technology development and amicable communication. To broaden business opportunities and enhance relationship with car makers, we are willing to satisfy even more stringent CSR requirements. Risks & Opportunities As a business partner of global car makers, Hankook Tire is dedicated to maintaining a sustainable business relationship by developing technologies that meet their requirements and by securing competitive edge in eco-friendliness and quality, based on well-managed systems that satisfy Declaration global standards. · Chaired by: Global OE Division Director · Supervised by: Global OE Planning Team, Global OE Technical Team · ‌Cooperated with: Global OE Sales Department, Management Global OE Sales Team 1 & 2, OE Teams in Europe, America, Responsibility China and Japan, PC Development Team, TB Development Team, and GoverGlobal OE Quality Team, Technical Centers in Europe, America, nance Japan and China Key Managerial Issues Continuous communication Reinforcement of product competency Key Achievements Communication with car makers Securing new technologies Trainings for enhancing and quality competitiveness mindset toward quality 2,823 Participation in auto shows such as Auto Continuous development and mass China and IAA production of future-oriented tires Total persons * ‌IAA (International Automobile Ausstellung) : World-class auto show held in Germany Future Plans and Hankook Tire will develop and supply products in time that satisfy the optimal performance and Outlook quality requirements requested by car makers through exhibitions, exchanges with customers, and other multi-faceted communication channels. In addition, we will proactively respond to the sustainability evaluations of car makers and take follow-up measures to build sustainable business relationships with them. FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 FOCUS 06 Environmental Management Business Ethics & Transparency Stakeholder Satisfaction Achievements in 2015 ● Completed ◐ Partially Completed ◦ Not Completed Code Key Managerial Issues Goals Achievements Completion Page OE1 Continuous Increase mutual trust through ㆍConducted 7 major PRM activities such as attendance in ● 32 communication facilitating communication with a charity event for the Childhood Diabetes Foundation, car makers invitation to DTM race, and collaboration for developing concept tires by joining hands with 10 car makers ㆍWon the 2015 GM Supplier Quality Excellence Award ● 32 ㆍ‌P R activities through news release of 10 new vehicles ● 32 equipped with our tires and execution of the Hankook Tire Experience Day ㆍ‌H eld media events and showcased OE tires at Auto China ● 32 and IAA Satisfy the requirements of ㆍ‌T ook follow-up measures with regard to sustainability ● 32 car makers evaluation results OE2 Reinforcement of Promptly develop products ㆍ‌S upplied state-of-the-art SEALGUARD® tire to ● 33 product competency meeting advanced performance Volkswagen’s Touran and Passat ㆍ‌N ewly supplied tires to Toyota Tacoma, Ford F-650/750, ● requirements 33 Mercedes-Benz Truck Actros, and many others Respond to audit on quality ㆍ‌R esponded to audit request on plants and working ● 33 requested by global car makers conditions made by Hyundai Motor Company, BMW, Fiat, Ford, and Toyota Develop a flawless quality ㆍ‌L aunched a TFT to respond to requests on quality of ● 33 assurance system premium OE tires manufactured in China Elevate all employees’ mindset ㆍ‌Implemented trainings for elevating mindset toward ● 33 toward quality quality at home and abroad Plans for 2016 Code Key Managerial Issues Commitments Key Index Deadline Team in Charge OE1 Continuous Increase mutual trust through ㆍNo. of targets for CRM and practices Dec. Global OE Sales Team, communication facilitating communication with Global OE Technical Team ㆍStrategic advertising and PR activities car makers Dec. G.OE Planning Team ㆍ‌M arketing communication performed Dec. G.OE Planning Team through attending more than two major exhibitions Satisfy the requirements ㆍ‌F ollow-up measures with regard to Dec. CSR Team from car makers sustainability evaluation results OE2 Reinforcement of Promptly develop products ㆍ‌S upply expansion of OE tires for Dec. Global OE Sales Team, product competency meeting advanced performance future-oriented eco-friendly vehicles Global OE Technical Team, requirements made by Development Team critical car makers Develop a flawless quality ㆍ‌P roduct development process Dec. Global Quality Planning assurance system innovation in the angle of quality Team, Global OE Quality Team, QA Elevate all employees’ mindset ㆍElevation of mindset toward quality Dec. Global Quality Planning toward quality Team, Global OE Quality Team, QA Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 31 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Value Creation OE-1 Satisfy the Requirements of Car Makers Car makers regularly assess our sustainability management as a supplier. In 2015, we responded to the CSR performance Continuous Communication evaluations conducted by Peugeot, BMW, Nissan, and other car makers in such fields as social, human rights, labor, safety, environment, suppliers, supplier diversity management, We undertake strategic marketing communication to emergency response and more. For items that showed room form mutually-beneficial relationships with global car for improvement, we used the CSR Strategic Guide distributmakers while attending international exhibitions to reined in October 2015 to set improvement directions for each force such relationships. relevant team and to help take improvement measures accordingly. In May 2015, Ford conducted an on-site evaluation at our Increase Mutual Trust through Facilitating Geumsan Plant on such fields as working conditions, enviCommunication with Car Makers ronment, health, safety, wage, working hours, human rights, Hankook Tire has won excellent supplier awards from MAN and ethics management. Evaluation outcomes revealed truck, Honda, and other new car makers in 2013 and 2014, that our performance was positive in general. However, we and the Suppliers Quality Excellence Award from GM in 2015. submitted corrective action plans as demanded by Ford on We are maintaining close communication with customers by periodic assess program and management review with rehosting business meetings in response to their specific degard to human rights management and ethics management. mand. Hankook Tire embarked on human rights management in 2014. On the foundation anniversary in May 2015, Hankook Communication through PRM • In 2015, we performed sevTire announced human rights declaration and human rights en types of Partner Relationship Management (PRM) activimanagement. Our plan for 2016 is to introduced a practical ties by joining hands with 10 car makers. As part of our social and comprehensive process in promoting human rights and philanthropic activities, we participated in a charity event for management review. We also plan to overhaul our system the Childhood Diabetes Foundation hosted by Ford while for ethics management to live up to the demands from car inviting European car makers to the DTM*, which we also makers. attended. We joined Opel’s concept car project in developing concept tires to be displayed in an exhibition. * ‌DTM: The Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters car racing Communication through Exhibition and Event • We have diversified our portfolio as we started to supply tires for 10 car models including Porsche Macan, Mercedes-Benz C-class hybrid, MAN trucks, and Ford trucks. In addition, we carried out strategic PR activities on local and global newspapers, while attending exhibitions organized by Auto China and IAA. We also hosted Hankook Tire Experience Day* on two occasions, sharing our supply achievements and offering test driving in efforts to strengthen relationships with car makers. * ‌An event to invite media outlet announcing new tire supply records and offering test driving Opel’s Concept Tire Auto China IAA Exhibition 32 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 FOCUS 06 Environmental Management Business Ethics & Transparency Stakeholder Satisfaction OE-2 in the total OE sales to Japanese car makers due to a market slowdown in China, we expanded the supplying portfolio by concluding new fitment contract for Toyota Tacoma, Honda Civic, and Nissan Frontier. Specifically, in TBR OE business, Reinforcement of Product new fitments were initiated for Ford F-650/750, MercedesCompetency Benz Truck Atego and Actros, which allowed us to exceed our initial sales target for overseas TBR OE by 33%. It is through the development of next-generation tech* OE (Original Equipment): Tire for new car ** PCR (Passenger Car Radial): Tire for passenger car nology and ceaseless endeavors for better quality that *** TBR (Truck Bus Radial) Tire: Tires for trucks and buses we expediently supply the optimal products required by car makers. In so doing, we further solidify our cooperaSophisticate Our Premium OE Quality Management tion with car makers as their strategic partner and conSystem tribute to the development of the automobile industry. Respond to Audit on Quality Requested by Global Car Makers • In 2015, we responded to the audits on plants and working conditions undertaken by Hyundai Motor Company, Promptly Develop Products Meeting Advanced Fiat, Ford, and Toyota. We obtained ‘Pass’ in the two audits Performance Requirements carried out by Chinese OE on BMW China Plant. We will strive Develop and Supply SEALGUARD® Tire • Hankook Tire has to attain the quality that meets the global level in the coming independently developed Prime2 SEALGUARD® tires, the years. first in Korea to adopt sealant. Hankook Tire was selected as the OE supplier to the Volkswagen Group’s Touran and PasDevelop a Flawless Quality Assurance System • Hankook sat having built the capacity to manufacture and supply such Tire launched a TFT in charge of quality in Jiaxing Plant to tires. In 2014, we supplied runflat tires to Mercedes-Benz efficiently respond to the increase in supply of tires manuand BMW, followed by the supply contract of the state-offactured in China to premium brands such as Mercedes-Benz the-art SEALGUARD® tire in 2015. We will remain committed and Audi. We attended training to meet the demands of car to solidifying our technology leadership to increase the supmakers and organized networking events. We also secured a ply of special high-performance tires. process to meet increasing demands for premium OE products to effectively manage production and quality. Expand OE* Business and Diversify the Supply Portfolio • The year 2015 witnessed a remarkable growth thanks to coElevate all Employees’ Mindset Toward Quality • Hankook operations with Japanese car makers and expansion of OE Tire offers quality mindset training, which is expanded every tire supply. Our tire supply portfolio for new cars and business year. In 2015, we organized quality innovation conference, channels have been greatly diversified as we started supplywhere we offered general education aimed at enhancing the ing PCR** to car makers in the US and Europe, following the quality mindset of 1,177 operators at local plants and 1,646 TBR*** OE business expansion. Despite the temporary drop operators in Jiangsu, China. List of New OE Tire Supply in 2015 Brand Vehicle Model Size Product Features Porsche Macan Ventus S1 evo2 SUV High-performance tire to deliver the highest-possible performance for SUVs Mercedes-Benz C-Class Plug in Hybrid Ventus S1 evo2 High-performance tire to deliver the highest-possible Audi A4 Ventus S1 evo2 performance Volkswagen Touran Ventus Prime2 High-end, high-performance tire Toyota Tacoma Dynapro HT Premium all-season tire specially designed for light trucks, vans and SUVs Lincoln MKX Ventus S1 noble2 High-quality premium tire to deliver the highest-possible Ford Mustang Ventus S1 noble2 silence and comfort F-650 / F-750 AH11, AH22, DH07, DH15 Tire designed for trucks that run middle distances Mercedes-Benz Truck Actros AH15, AH31, AH82, AL10, AL10+, Tire designed for trucks that run midto long distances AM06, AM06D, AM15, DM03 Tire designed for trucks that run off-road DH31, DH33+, DH81+, DL10, DL10+ Tire designed for rear-wheel-drive trucks Atego AH11, AH22+, DH05+, DH05W Tire designed for trucks that run middle distances and muddy and snowy roads Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 33 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Value Creation FOCUS CUSTOMER SATISFACTION & RE QUALITY MANAGEMENT 2. ers ‌General Custom& Dealers There is a growing interest in the quality of tires which is directly connected to vehicle safety and drivers’ requirements for performance and design are diversified. Customers are impressed when their satisfaction exceeds their expectations, and they consequently become recurring customers. Background of this issue A company cannot achieve business success with just excellent products. Impressive management to deliver value and pleasure to customers is essential today. It can be realized when proactively listening to customers’ voices by diversifying VOC channels and then, adopting those to management activities. Fulfilling this comRisks & mitment will ensure both quantitative and qualitative growth at the same time. Opportunities Hankook Tire will be proactive in meeting customer expectations and requirements through conducting differentiated marketing and communication activities. By doing so, we will provide customers with true satisfaction and maximize customer value. Declaration Customer Committee · Chaired by: KOR) Marketing & Sales Department Director · Supervised by: KOR) TBR Marketing Team Management · Members: Global Sales Training Center, KOR) Retail Marketing Team Responsibility and Governance Key Managerial Issues Co-prosperity with Impressive customer Communication with customers experience customers Key Achievements MOU for industry-academy Doubled the coverage of tire Distributed posters to inform cooperation safety insurance scheme tips for tire management Hired 4 persons from schools that signed the MOU 8,000km for 6 month (2014) 16,000km for 12 months (2015) 6,396 dealers nationwide Future Plans and Hankook Tire conducts systematic trainings for dealers to help them provide customers with the Outlook value of safe driving. From 2016, we will focus our efforts on further increasing service quality with the aim of redoubling customer satisfaction and benchmarking best service practices at home and abroad, through which we will deliver premium services exceeding customer expectations. FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 FOCUS 06 Environmental Management Business Ethics & Transparency Stakeholder Satisfaction Achievements in 2015 ● Completed ◐ Partially Completed ◦ Not Completed Code Key Managerial Issues Goals Achievements Completion Page RE1 Co-prosperity with Adopt a retail manpower pool ㆍ‌4 employees hired from partner universities in 2015 ● 36 customers are working at company-owned shops ㆍ‌V isited 47 retail franchise shops to offer onsite trainings twice at each shop ㆍ‌P rovided retail franchise shop workers with the sales management course to enhance their job competency (total 127 workers) RE2 Impressive customer Undertake three strategic SMART ㆍUpgraded the design of 10 major safety check sheet ● 36 experience CARE tasks (10 major safety checks, ㆍLaunched real-name maintenance program real-name maintenance program, ㆍ‌D oubled the coverage of tire safety insurance scheme tire safety insurance scheme) (156% increase in admission rate year-on-year) RE3 Communication with Launch the Drive Safely campaign ㆍ‌Implemented a campaign to prevent driving while ● 37 customers drowsy (Apr. to May) Offered ‌ canned coffees and anti-sleeping patches to 2,400 drivers Offered ‌ anti-sleeping patches to drivers of 17 direct customers ㆍCarried out trainings about safe driving (Jul.) 67 social workers at welfare facilities for Car Sharing ㆍInformed tips for tire management (Aug. to Sep.) Distributed ‌ leaflets to 1,500 customers who visited retail franchise shops Delivered posters to 6,396 dealers nationwide Undertake outbound call system ㆍ‌C onducted outbound surveys of initial quality survey ● 37 targeting 265 customers who bought one of 3 new products launched in 2015 Plans for 2016 Code Key Managerial Issues Commitments Key Index Deadline Team in Charge RE1 Co-prosperity with ㆍ‌Offer training courses to help dealers ㆍOperation of training courses Dec. G.STC customers better manage their shops ㆍImplement on-site trainings by visiting RE2 Impressive customer ㆍContinue SMART CARE campaign ㆍImplementation of the campaign Dec. KOR) Retail Marketing experience Planning Team RE3 Communication with ㆍ‌Carry out the safety inspection camㆍImplementation of the campaign Dec. KOR) TBR Marketing customers paign at expressway service areas ㆍConduct of free care service Team ㆍFree care service by visiting Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 35 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Value Creation RE-1 RE-3 Co-prosperity with Customers Communication with We strive to solve youth unemployment by concluding inCustomers dustry-academia MOUs and hosting career programs for college graduates. We also offered systemic training Hankook Tire carried out the three major safety driving course through Hankook Tire’s educational infrastruccampaigns to promote safety driving culture, followed ture to improve job capabilities of retail store staff. by an out-bound survey to reflect customers’ opinions on product development. Adopt a Retail Manpower Pool T’Station Customer Satisfaction Survey The survey on the retail workforce pool of 522 retail stores in Hankook Tire conducts customer satisfaction surveys to 2014 showed that they were suffering from a severe workidentify the competitiveness of T’Stations, our retail franforce shortage. Hankook Tire seeks to conclude industry-acachise stores. The survey consists of Employee Hospitality, demia agreement with technical high school and community Facility & Equipment, and Service. In the 2015 survey, Emcolleges, contributing to easing youth unemployment. We ployee Hospitality, Facility & Equipment, and Service rose by held job offerings and tire expertise classes at the Busan In2.8 points, 1.3 points, and 3.0 points, respectively, recordstitute of Science and Technology and two other industrial ing a 2.2-point increase on average from the previous year. high schools, raising positive awareness of tire service jobs. The survey result will serve as a basis to examine customer As a result, we newly hired 4 students of the schools and they satisfaction level and hospitality of T’Station and to identify are working at our franchise stores. Furthermore, we organimprovement tasks on future sales and service strategy. ized on-site education sessions at 47 underperforming retail stores to help improve job capabilities of staff while inviting Customer Satisfaction 127 retail store staff to education on sales management. (Unit: points) 86.9 89.7 86.4 87.7 86.0 84.8 2013 RE-2 2014 2015 Impressive Customer Experience Employee hospitality Facility & equipment 89.3 Hankook Tire introduced real-name maintenance pro88.8 gram and expanded the coverage of safe insurance 85.0 86.3 85.3 86.6 scheme to strengthen customer trust. Undertake Three Strategic SMART CARE Tasks (10 Major Safety Checks, Real-name Maintenance Program, Tire Safe Insurance Scheme) Hankook Tire has posted the manual for 10 major safety checks on the POS bulletin board for retail stores while distribService Total uting the safety check-list sheet with an improved visibility to T’Stations across the nation in October 2015. The manual for 10 major safety checks describes guidelines on actions from the point customers enter the store to when they leave. The manual also clarifies how to explain each items in the check list to customers to ensure T’Stations provide standardized services. The real-name maintenance program requires engineers to enter their real name on the sheet’s bottom. Besides, the coverage of safe insurance scheme has doubled from the existing 8,000km for 6 months to 16,000km for 12 months. We also replaced resident registration number with date of birth on the customer information form. 36 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 FOCUS 06 Environmental Management Business Ethics & Transparency Stakeholder Satisfaction Launch the Drive Safely Campaign Undertake Outbound Call System Hankook Tire carried out the three Drive Safely campaigns Hankook Tire’s Initial Quality Survey (IQS) aims to ensure on prevention of driving while drowsy, safe driving education, quality stabilization for new products. In April and June 2015, and tire management tips from April 2015 to September. we conducted the IQS on three new products (H452D, H308, H449). Besides, we carried out on-site quality surveys on the Campaign to Prevent Driving while Drowsy • Hankook Tire 26 selected retail stores which were highly cooperative in implemented campaigns to prevent driving while drowsy both IQS and the initial test drive, securing the reliability of in connection with the regular highway campaigns to stop the survey. Customer satisfaction call center, on its part, imdrowsy driving caused by spring fever. The campaign ran plemented the IQS on 265 customers out of the 625 people for two days at seven service areas, respectively, from April who actually bought our products. In 2016, we added subjec2015 to May, giving out canned coffees and anti-sleeping tive questions to the questionnaire, enhancing the survey’s driving patch to around 2,400 drivers. Banners were put up effectiveness to identify customer response. We share the to give tips on sleeping driving prevention to customers who results of the IQS with marketing and quality teams in order came for car maintenance. We also visited our 17 directly-afto ensure an early establishment for new products in marfiliated bus operators and distributed anti-drowsy sleeping kets. patches to bus drivers. Trainings about Safe Driving • Hankook Tire offered safety driving education to 67 social welfare workers from 40 welfare centers selected as part of our Donggeurami car sharing project in July 2015. The two-hour course, intended for female and beginning drivers, consisted of introduction and practice for self-diagnosis of car and tire and safety driving tips on highway. We plan to continue to provide safety driving training as the education satisfaction survey recorded as high as 4.8 points out of the full 5. Tips for Tire Management • We carried out the summer highway campaign for four days from July 31 to August 3, 2015, during which Hankook Tire distributed 1,500 leaflets on tire management tips to visitors. We also put up banners explaining how to check wear indicator and air pressure of tire. In September 2015, we distributed 6,396 posters on checking wear indicator developed by the three local tire manufacturers and the Korea Tire Manufacturers Association to franchise retail stores across the nation. A Campaign to Prevent Driving While Drowsy Safe Driving Education Tire Management Poster Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 37 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Value Creation FOCUS EMPLOYEE HEALTH & HS SAFETY MANAGEMENT A series of recent safety, health and disaster related accidents have sparked social attention to health and safety of employees. This means that it is even more critical to remain focused and do our utmost to protect the health of our employees and prevent them from being involved in any accident. Background of this issue Failure to ensure safety in workplace may seriously jeopardize human resources, the greatest asset to any company. Therefore, it is essential to build a corporate culture where employee health and safety comes first and to make continuous improvements to prevent accidents, which will Risks & ensure safe workplace and productivity enhancement. Opportunities Hankook Tire stands behind the belief that the health and safety of its employees is a key CSR component and the fundamental driving force behind its sustainable growth. Thus, we are committed to creating a safe and enjoyable workplace for all employees based on our management philosophy Declaration that places employee health and safety before anything else. EHS Committee · Chaired by: Daejeon Plant Managing Director · Supervised by: DP) Environment & Safety Team Management · ‌Members: KP) Environment & Safety Team, Machinery Engineering Responsibility Team 3, DP) KP) Facility Maintenance Team, Material Research Team 2, and GoverR&D Corporate Management Team, CSR Team nance Key Managerial Issues Establishment of Enhancement of Development of fire voluntary safety employee health safety system management system management Key Achievements Accident & Illness Rate Severity Rate Smoking Rate 1.10 0.45 20.9% 0.79 0.71 0.61 13.9% 11.4% 0.19 10.6% 0.15 0.15 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 * ‌Accident & Illness Rate: An incidence rate of accidents and * Severity Rate: Lost working days caused by injuries per * Based on our Daejeon, Geumsan Plants, illnesses per 100 employees (No. of accidents and illnesses/ 1,000 work hours (Lost working days/work hours) x 1,000 Production & Engineering Division, and R&D No. of employees) x 100 * 2014 average in the manufacturing industry: 1.87, Center * 2014 average in the manufacturing industry: 0.64, 2014 average in the rubber product manufacturing industry: * 2014 average smoking rate of Korean 2014 average in the rubber product manufacturing industry: 2.14 (Source: Ministry of Employment and Labor) adults: 24.4% (Source: Ministry of Health and 0.83 (Source: Ministry of Employment and Labor) * Company-wide data including our Chongqing and Indonesia Welfare, Korea Centers for Disease Control * Company-wide data including our Chongqing and Indonesia Plants from 2014 (These two plants were excluded in and Prevention) Plants from 2014 (These two plants were excluded in total as they were still in the facility testing phase, without * 2014 figure was adjusted due to the change total as they were still in the facility testing phase, without manufacturing tires before 2014.) of data gathering criteria manufacturing tires before 2014.) * Historical data were slightly changed due to recalculation * Historical data were slightly changed due to recalculation Future Plans and We will be proactive in improving working environment and removing risk factors with a sense of Outlook responsibility for creating a safe and enjoyable workplace for all our employees. We will also run diverse programs to raise employees’ awareness of safety and build a voluntary safety and health management mechanism. FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 FOCUS 06 Environmental Management Business Ethics & Transparency Stakeholder Satisfaction Achievements in 2015 ● Completed ◐ Partially Completed ◦ Not Completed Code Key Managerial Issues Goals Achievements Completion Page HS1 Establishment of Develop survey questionnaires ㆍInterviewed employees joined since 2010 ● 40 Voluntary Safety on safety awareness and ㆍOffered trainings for safety awareness enhancement to Management System perform surveys employees joined since 2010 Operate the quantitative assessㆍEvaluated the levels of safety and health ● 40 ment system for safety accident prevention activities HS2 Enhancement of Establish musculoskeletal ㆍOperated musculoskeletal system rehabilitation programs ● 40 Employee Health disease prevention programs ㆍLaunched a TFT for mitigating musculoskeletal impacts ㆍOperated programs to address health hazard factors ● Management Operate programs to address 40~41 health hazard factors related to related to night work night work (gastroenteric disorㆍPromoted interviews with occupational safety and health ders, sleep disorders, obesity) professionals and evaluated job suitability Reduce potential health hazards ㆍImproved local ventilation systems ● 41 in workplace (PM (Particle MatㆍInstalled diesel particulate filters on forklifts ter)-10, rubber fume) HS3 Development of Adopt the global standards ㆍ‌Adopted fire safety management standards ● 41 Fire Safety System on fire safety and management (14 items) Improve fire-fighting facilities ㆍ‌Invested in improving fire-fighting facilities ◐* 41 (invest KRW 16.1 billion) (KRW 5 billion) Nurture fire-fighting experts ㆍHired 8 new employees for disaster prevention ● 41 (hire 8 new employees for ㆍConducted trainings on fire safety management disaster prevention and conduct trainings for all members) * Plan for continuous investments in improving fire-fighting facilities in 2016 Plans for 2016 Code Key Managerial Issues Commitments Key Index Deadline Team in Charge HS1 Establishment of Build a system to regularly monitor the Safety awareness level Dec. DP) KP) Environment & Voluntary Safety compliance activities Safety Team Management System Promote the acquisition of emergency Acquisition rate Dec. DP) KP) Environment & medical technician certificate Safety Team Revise emergency response scenarios Operation of such system Dec. DP) KP) Environment & and expand the scope of trainings Safety Team HS2 Enhancement of Revamp facilities that put strain on Establishment of such system Dec. DP) KP) Environment & Employee Health musculoskeletal system Safety Team Management Operate health improvement programs Operation of such system Nov. DP) KP) Environment & to manage metabolic syndrome Safety Team Improve working environment Improvement rate Oct. DP) KP) Environment & (local ventilation facilities, noise Safety Team generation process) HS3 Development of Fire Continuously invest in the Execution rate Dec. Machinery Engineering Safety System advancement of fire safety system Team 3 Enact global fire safety regulations Consultation on enactment Jul. Machinery Engineering Team 3 Diagnose fire safety system at the Diagnosis report Oct. Machinery Engineering global level and enhance technical Team 3 support systems HS4 Establishment of Business Establish ISO22301 system at Daejeon Acquisition of the certification Oct. DP) KP) Production Continuity Management and Geumsan Plant and acquire the Management Team, Systems (BCMS) certification CSR Team Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 39 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Value Creation HS-1 HS-2 Establishment of Voluntary Enhancement of Employee Safety Management System Health Management We established a more systematic company-wide health We have in place musculoskeletal disease prevention & safety management system by strengthening employprograms and PM (Particle Matter)-10 improvement acee’s safety awareness and performing regular assesstivities to protect employees from potential health hazment with an aim to manage safety and to prevent maards at work. We also continue to invest in our facilities jor accidents. and improve our work environment to ensure that our employees can count on safe and enjoyable working conditions. Develop Survey Questionnaires on Safety Awareness and Perform Surveys To raise safety awareness, 665 employees hired since 2010 Establish Musculoskeletal at our Geumsan Plant had person-to-person safety and Disease Prevention Programs health interview and completed safety training. For the trainTo relieve employees of work involving repeated jobs and ing, safety officials sat down with on-site operators discussheavy lift in proportion to their length of service, we run ing risk factors and improvement measures. The interview musculoskeletal disease prevention programs. This program helped us identify potential risks factors at plants while excomes largely in two parts medical management and facility amining the status of employees’ safety awareness. We also improvement. invited an outside expert to offer lectures on eight occasions on safety tips necessary not just at home but also in the comMedical Management • We surveyed and selected employmunity. Our goal is to offer diversified programs designed to ees with musculoskeletal pains to engage them in muscureinforce employees’ awareness of safety and to address risk loskeletal disease rehabilitation programs which included factors. consultation with health manager, physical strength evaluation by sports curer, and diagnosis by occupational medicine Operate the Quantitative Assessment specialists. The rehabilitation program also came with inSystem for Safety Accident Prevention Activities house herbal treatment, physical therapy, exercise therapy, We conducted monthly health & safety ‘level’ assessments psychology consultation, treatment at outside rehabilitation to establish work standards and enhance safety awareness clinic, and surgical treatment. Occupational medicine specialat our domestic plants. Team-specific quantitative assessists in the rehabilitation program conducted Assessments of ments were made on a total of 9 items that included disasFitness for Work. ter indicator, committee activities, and risk assessment. We made sure that improvement was made on these identified Plans for TFT to Improve Facilities • We conducted team-speissues. Furthermore, we introduced recognition program for cific survey for status of the work-related musculoskeletal teams who perform excellently in assessment to boost emdisorders by cooperating with the Institute for Occupational ployee engagement in safety activities. We will follow up with Health of Yonsei University College of Medicine. This program diverse assessments and initiatives so we can develop a culhas resulted in drawing up facility improvement measures ture where employees practice self-directed safety manageand long-term improvement plan, laying the groundwork to ment with fully embedded safety awareness, and ultimately address risks involving musculoskeletal disease. reduce the accident rate by 0.33 by 2020. Operate Programs to Address Health Hazard Factors Related to Night Work (Gastroenteric Disorders, Safety and Health Level Assessment* Sleep Disorders, Obesity) Assessment Inspection Items Score 1 Accident Indicators 10 All employees doing shiftwork take special check-up. For example, in-house medical institutes – clinic, herbal clinic, Accident rate 2 Smoking rate management Smoking rate 10 3 Safety & Health Committee Activities of the committee 20 physical consultation office, and health promotion center – 4 Voluntary safety and health Safety training and stretching before 10 undertake individual health management. activities work 5 10 Gastroenteric Disorders • All employees take gastrointestiCheck of facility safety devices 6 Check of safety standards Activities to upgrade standards 10 7 Check of facility safety devices Review of check sheets 10 nal endoscopic examination on a yearly basis and endoscopic 8 Plan for safety and health Promotion plans and performances 10 promotion examination every two years. As such, employees with gas9 Emergency response drill Implementation of education and 10 troenteric disorders can benefit from follow-up care includtraining ing treatment and prescription by health managers. Total 100 * ‌Level assessment: In order to establish a voluntary safety management system and increase the level of safety and health management, we developed our own 9 inspection items. Those are used for evaluating and awarding the level of safety and health for manufacturing related departments on a monthly basis. 40 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 FOCUS 06 Environmental Management Business Ethics & Transparency Stakeholder Satisfaction Sleep Disorders Management • Employees who experience sleep disorder have consultations with psychological counHS-3 selors on finding the cause, and then receive psychology consultation, stress relaxation therapy and educations to overcome sleep disorder. Development of Fire Obesity Management • We provided consultation for obese Safety System employees including dietary therapy by health manager, We continue to invest in our facility and conduct interweight control, and exercise. The employees also had access nal/external fire-fighting diagnoses so as to build our to the in-house health promotion center where sports curers own fire safety system. Furthermore, we nurture fire assisted them in voluntary health management. Their health staff to help our employees strengthen their fire safety status is monitored through the blood test conducted on a response capacity. quarterly basis. Reduce Potential Health Hazards in Workplace Adopt the Corporate Standards on (PM (Particle Matter)-10, Rubber Fume) Fire Safety and Management We installed emissions reduction devices on indoor diesel We adopted the corporate standards on fire safety and manforklifts operated for the mixing process to address PM (Paragement on a total of 14 items including fire pump, sprinkler, ticle Matter)-10, one of the potential health hazards at Daeauto fire detector and others. The unified standards comjeon Plants. In addition, we strive to fundamentally reduce pany-wide has enhanced the efficiency of fire safety manfumes generated in operation as we buy electricity-powered agement while improving the fire facilities inspection and forklifts which emit less fumes. We also installed additionmaintenance capability. In 2016, we promise to build up fire al clean wet scrubbers to remove PM (Particle Matter)-10 safety capability by adding more standard items. (Fume) generated in extruding / calendaring process and improved local ventilation system*, raising the removal efImprove the Fire-fighting Facilities ficiency of Fume in workplaces. We promise to commit to It is based on the outcomes of the fire-fighting system diprotecting our employees from potential health hazards by agnosis in 2014 that we are following up on the investment continuing to improve working environment. into the 7 plants in Korea and abroad. The initial schedule of * ‌Local ventilation system: A system that captures PM (Particle Matter)-10 2015 to invest about KRW 16.1 billion in fire-fighting project (Fume), gas, evaporation, and other pollutants at the location they are was partially modified based on ‘investment priority’. As a generated and releases them outdoors to ensure they are not spread indoors. result, we spent about KRW 5 billion on fire-fighting facilities improvement in 2015 and an additional KRW 25 billion Manage Health and Safety of In-house Suppliers will be invested in 2016. We promise to remain committed Hankook Tire manages safety and health of suppliers’ emto enhancing fire response and fire-fighting system through ployees residing in the plants as well as its employees. We continued investment in fire facilities, diagnosis, and drills. make regular patrols to prevent their safety accidents, figure out risk factors in advance and revamp facilities if necessary, Nurture Fire-fighting Experts and hold the ‘Supplier Safety & Health Improvement Council’ We hired and trained additional fire-fighting staff in 2015. to listen to diverse opinions about safety, health, and workThe additional eight employees to head fire and safety have ing conditions. We also set up plans to improve safety and reinforced the company’s capability to prevent human and health of suppliers through the ‘Co-existence Cooperation property damage. All the fire-fighting staff attended external Program’* hosted by the Korea Occupational Safety and training on fire facility investigation, sharpening their job-reHealth Agency, and then offer technological and financial lated expertise. Going forward, we promise to continue to supports. Other activities include the operations of in-house train highly-competent fire-fighting staff capable of performhospitals and oriental medicine clinics, psychology consultaing professional fire and safety duties. tion programs, smoking clinics, fitness centers, and so on. * ‌Contractor-led safety and health cooperation system aimed at supporting accident prevention of suppliers with a lack of investment in and information on safety and health Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 41 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Value Creation FOCUS EMPLOYEE VALUE EV CREATION It is the fundamental element to respect the rights and diversity of employees and support them with capacity building for the company growth as well as its employees. In various areas, especially in human resource management, it is required to pursue strategies that focus on value creation to foster Background and retain global talent. of this issue Failures to continuously absorbing employees in their works due to a lack of communication may bring about the outflow of talents, a key factor in corporate business, as well as negative impacts on corporate reputation. Thus, fair HR systems and capacity-building programs designed to nurture Risks & and retain excellent personnel serve to fuel a company’s growth. Opportunities Hankook Tire shares its vision through open communication and provides its employees with fair opportunities. This commitment ensures shared growth between the organization and individual and healthy and pleasant workplace. Declaration Employee Committee · Chaired by: Human Resource Management Department Director · Supervised by: HRM Team Management · ‌Members: CSR Team, Proactive University, Corporate Communications Responsibility Team, DP) KP) Human Resource Team, KOR) Culture Planning Team, DP) and GoverKP) Labor Relations Team, KOR) Culture Communications Team, R&D HR nance Team, Production & Engineering Corporate Management Team, Global Production Innovation Education Team Key Managerial Issues Open communication HR system to offer fair opportunities Growth-fostering Training Systems Work-life Balance Key Achievements Publication of the Global Trainings on human rights Average annual training Test operation of the flexible CEO Letter management hours per person working hour system Quarterly 129 team managers 34.3 hours Future Plans and We will increase the employment of the disabled in the short term to improve the diversity of our Outlook workforce and to advance our diversity management system in the long term. In addition, we will focus on protecting human rights of our employees through the establishment of human rights management system. FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 FOCUS 06 Environmental Management Business Ethics & Transparency Stakeholder Satisfaction Achievements in 2015 ● Completed ◐ Partially Completed ◦ Not Completed Code Key Managerial Issues Goals Achievements Completion Page EV1 Open communication Enhance global communication contents ㆍ‌Completed the digital workplace (DWP) ● 44 development plan ㆍPublished the Global CEO Letter every quarter ㆍPublished the Executives’ Insight every month Publish mobile corporate magazine ㆍPublished mobile corporate magazine (from Jun.) ● 44 Establish a labor-management culture ㆍ‌Hosted the Communication Day event and ● 44 pursuing trust and co-prosperity through discussion meetings diverse communication channels ㆍ‌Installed mini boxes for compliment and suggestion EV2 HR system to offer fair Establish the global HK human rights ㆍ‌Established the human rights management system ● 45 opportunities management system guided by the and registered it as a standard ‘UN “Protect, Respect and Remedy” ㆍDeclared the human rights management Framework for Business and Human Rights’ ㆍTrained team managers on human rights Continue to manage the global diversity of ㆍ‌Established a subsidiary company for the disable◐ 45 workforce (hire more female and disabled dand increased disabled recruitment employees and offer training on diversity) EV3 Growth-fostering Training Develop CDP for employee competency ㆍ‌Designed and arranged the CDP for new R&D ◐ Systems enhancement (reinforce the CDP of R&D employees workforce and design the CDP of engineers) ㆍSelected target employees for job rotation Cultivate experts with production technology ㆍCompleted the construction of GTR room (GEC) ● 46 (strengthen educations on machinery and ㆍ‌Trained about the craftsman plant maintenance, electricity through operating GTR) hydraulic control and PLC Expand common training courses offered in ㆍ‌Cultivated in-house instructors in the core value ◐ 46 Korea to global business sites (promote the internalization course capacity-building of locally-hired staff) ㆍ‌Conducted the Proactive Leadership (PL) course for operators at Korea and Indonesia Plants EV4 Work-life balance Enhance family-friendly management ㆍ‌Operated a family experience program ● 47 (‘Daddy, Where Are We going?’: 204 participants) ㆍInvited families to plant tour (214 participants) Launch the flexible working hour system ㆍ‌Test operation of the flexible working hour system ◐ 47 (mainly for female staff) Plans for 2016 Code Key Managerial Issues Commitments Key Index Deadline Team in Charge EV1 Open communication Enhance global ㆍ‌Enhance communication channels linked with DWP Dec. Corporate communication contents ㆍ‌Upgrade visuals and create new contents Communication Team Improve mobile corporate ㆍExpand visual contents such as films Dec. Corporate magazine ㆍ‌Add communication function to mobile Communication corporate magazine Team Create ‘Fun & Smart’ working ㆍ‌Increase employee satisfaction by creating great Dec. Production & environment workplace (GWP campaign, etc.) Engineering ㆍ‌Build creative office infrastructure to increase Corporate concentration (Smart Mail, Green Desk, etc.) Management ㆍ‌Listen to opinions of Indonesia and Tennessee Plants, Team respond to complaints, and share GWP best practices EV2 HR system to offer fair Settle the global HK human ㆍ‌Settle the global HK human rights management Dec. Human Resource opportunities rights management system system by enhancing competency of staff in charge of Management Team and reinforce human rights human rights and training employees promotion ㆍ‌Improve human rights assessment tools and adopt zero tolerance for effective human rights management Establishment of diversity manㆍSubdivide management indices Dec. Human Resource agement system ㆍRegular monitoring Management Team EV3 Growth-fostering Training Expand the Proactive ㆍ‌Nurture in-house instructors among local operators and Dec. Proactive Systems Leadership (PL) course implement PL course University throughout the company ㆍ‌Develop locally tailored education materials Develop capabilities to ㆍ‌Secure infrastructure for practical trainings and develop Dec. Global Production cultivate experts with curricula to sharpen competitiveness of global plants Innovation production technology Education Team EV4 Work-life balance Expand the flexible working ㆍ‌Expand the flexible working hour system Dec. R&D HR Team hour system and support (OE division in 2015 → female employees and infant and senior citizen care development & test department staff in 2016) Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 43 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Value Creation EV-1 the ‘Digital Board’, helping understand team’s roles and functions. Heads of division and employees hold meetings on a regular basis to reinforce communication channels at individual level. The monthly meeting discussed priority tasks to Open Communication improve employees’ engagement in work, exploring ideas to improve work-family balance, interpersonal communication, Hankook Tire’s greatest competitive edge lies in its work engagement, and challenge. Our plan is to establish the trust-based labor relations. We are building on this relaculture of open communication company-wide through a vationship further by taking a joint journey to discover and riety of activities. communicate diverse improvements to be made to maximize employee value. The 1 st Labor Union Organization Chart (As of the end of 2015) Enhance Global Communication Contents Head Office Geumsan Branch 6 members 4 members Completed the Digital Workplace (DWP) Development Plan • As we expand our presence across the world, Hankook Chairman Tire is developing an integrated global intranet, the Digital Workplace (DWP), to facilitate the seamless communication Vice Chairman Branch among employees in different countries and their work ef(2 persons) Director ficiency. the DWP whose development plan was completed in 2015, will contribute to creating a workplace where emExecutive Executive Executive Executive Executive Executive Director Director ployees can fully engage in work in a convenient and pleasDirector of of General Director of of General Director of Director of Secretariat Planning Organizing Planning ant manner. Among others, the DWP is expected to: first, Affairs Affairs promote communication among employees globally to solidify the identity of ‘Hankook Tire people’; second, enhance Members of the 1st Labor Union operational efficiency and productivity by streamlining docLabor Unions Worksite No. of union Percentage(%) ument work and offering social network service on intranet; members third, expedite knowledge sharing as the searching system Labor Union at the Head Office (including 94 2.2 is integrated into the in-house system to make it easier to Head Office sales and logistics) find information; and lastly, establish the ‘Proactive Culture’ R&D Center 242 5.6 (including production & company-wide by encouraging networking activities such as engineering) company clubs and volunteering activities which are accessiDaejeon Plant 2,198 50.7 ble via mobile devices. Geumsan Branch Geumsan Plant 1,803 41.6 Total 4,337 100.0 Published the Global Mobile Company Newsletter, ‘Hankook Tire Magazine’ • Hankook Tire launched the global mobile newsletter, ‘Hankook Tire Magazine’ in June 2015, a redeOutcomes of Grievance Committee Activities signed version of its former printed magazine ‘Donggeurami No. of Meetings Held 17 World.’ Published to deliver messages from the top man(Unit: times) 11 agement and to share news among employees at our global plants, Hankook Tire Magazine’ comes in five languages 10 – Korean, English, Chinese, Hungarian, and Indonesian. The ‘Hankook Tire Magazine’ will serve as the open communica4 tion channel accessible to all employees. Establish a Labor-Management Culture Pursuing Trust and Co-prosperity through Diverse Communication 2012 2013 2014 2015 Channels No. of Grievances Handled 42 To establish the culture of mutual prosperity and communica(Unit: cases) tion and boost employee’s work engagement, we diversified 32 the communication channels for the production & engineering division. We introduced three channels into the communication channel in the division organization, team, and in19 dividual – with strategic action plans set for each category. 16 For the Organization category, key issues and event schedule were shared among employees including ‘Plant Competitiveness Improvement Committee’, ‘Production & Engineering Division Technology Exchange’, and ‘Facilities Maintenance 2012 2013 2014 2015 Innovation Forum’. The Team channel introduces teams and members at the Production & Engineering Division by using 44 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 FOCUS 06 Environmental Management Business Ethics & Transparency Stakeholder Satisfaction EV-2 for 2016 is to develop company-wide human rights education content and promote the activities of the Grievance Committee at overseas regional headquarters and plants. HR System to Offer Fair Continue to Manage the Diversity of Workforce Opportunities To facilitate the employment of disabled employees, Hankook Tire has cooperated with the Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled on establishing a subsidiary company since 2014. As a result, ‘Hankook Donggeurami Partners’ Our growth is driven by the talent and capacity of our employees, which stems from our fair and transparent HR policies. Specifically, our HR system is taking a firm was founded on March 2, 2015 and it was certified as the root to provide fair opportunities (according to internastandard site for disabled employees on April 19, 2016. In tional standards), strengthening employee human rights creating this type of business site, we can indirectly recruit and increasing the employment of the disabled. people with disabilities through our subsidiary to provide stable employment to those with severe disabilities. This also ensures that we satisfy the mandatory ratio of disabled employees and fulfill our social responsibility. The ‘Hankook Establish the Global HK Human Rights Management System Guided by the UN “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Donggeurami Partners’ hired 9 disabled persons in 2015 and plans to give additional 59 disabled persons jobs in 2016. Framework for Business and Human Rights Hankook Tire promises to remain committed to generating We strive to fulfill the social responsibility requested upon us jobs for people with disability. in the field of human rights management and comply with international human rights standards. In 2015, we conducted the human rights assessment in all of our operations to come up with improvement tasks, laying the foundation to establish our own human rights management system. On the following anniversary of our foundation, we introduced human rights management principles initiated by the CEO’s human rights management declaration, while offering human rights education to 129 team managers on the meaning and significance of human rights management. Furthermore, the Grievance Committees which were set up in certain operations has been expanded following the finalization of the regulations for the Grievance Committee at the HQ. These activities were carried out as part of our commitment to esT’cafe operated by the Hankook Donggeurami Partners tablishing the human rights management system. Our plan Hankook Tire Human Rights Policy Hankook Tire recognizes the significance of human rights as a universal value of humankind. Moreover, we acknowledge that value can be realized through business activities. With such acknowledgement, Hankook Tire will respect and protect the rights of its own employees and stakeholders associated with its operations, products and services. In order to fulfill the responsibility to respect human rights, Hankook Tire shall support and endeavor to observe the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Global Compact and the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Hankook Tire shall also support the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and implement human rights management system which includes assessments, taking appropriate action and tracking responses, internal and external communications and operation of grievance mechanisms and remediation procedures. Hankook Tire, as an enterprise that is dedicated to fulfilling its social responsibilities and pursuing the happiness of all employees and stakeholders, shall comply with the laws of each country where it operates under all circumstances and by protecting and respecting human rights, it will contribute to the healthy development of society. Seung Hwa Suh Vice Chairman & CEO, Hankook Tire May 2015 Signature Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 45 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Value Creation EV-3 Expand Common Training Courses Offered in Korea to Global Business Sites (Promote the Capacity-building of Locally-hired Staff) Growth-fostering Training To enhance employee’s engagement in work and stay abreast of the fast changing business environment, Hankook Tire has Systems redefined the mission and vision system established back in 2009, conducting a wide array of activities aimed at clarifying and internalizing the renewed core values. In 2013, we To assist our employees, the key component of our competitive edge, in building capacity and engaging in their developed the Proactive Leadership course consisting of inwork, we offer basic leadership training and job training house cases, offering the course to office staff Korea. Then that are based on capacity requirements. In addition, we in 2015, the Proactive Leadership course was expanded as are building our global HRD network to promote the a total of 4,283 operators in Korea completed the training. growth of our employees on a global level. In the meantime, we trained in-house instructors to promote the roll-out of common training courses to global business sites while developing teaching plan customized for overseas Cultivate Experts with Production Technology regional headquarters. Based on the teaching plan, we of(Strengthen Educations on Machinery and fered locally programmed training to 533 team managers Electricity through Operating GTR) and heads of divisions in China in 2014 and 978 operators To improve working-level capacity of our employees, at Indonesia Plant in 2015. Our plan for 2016 is to improve Hankook Tire operates the GTR (Global Training Room) educational content and cases to offer advanced courses for where employees can acquire skills on electric hydraulics, office staff in Korea while organizing the Proactive Leaderelectro pneumatics, and PLC (Programmable Logic Controlship for operators at China HQ and Hungary Plant. ler) by using the latest training equipment through diverse educational courses. In 2015, 19 out of the 24 operators who participated in the 2-session license course on CraftsAverage Annual Training Hours per Person man Plant Maintenance obtained the license. These training Hankook Tire provides employees with opportunities to upgrade their courses will be expanded continually so that we can foster job competency through collective and online trainings. And leadership more working-level experts. trainings for each position leader deliver core values and proactive leadership. Going forward, we will continue to expand training session for employees through our global HRD network and learning contract program, offering 50 training hours per employee by 2020. 41.8 Korea (Unit: hours) 40.1 2014 2015 Operation of the Global Training Room Overseas 31.4 29.3 (Unit: hours) 2014 2015 34.3 Company-wide 33.3 (Unit: hours) 2014 2015 * ‌‌The figure of 2014 differs from that of the previous report due to the extension of data gathering criteria to office staff and operators. 46 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 FOCUS 06 Environmental Management Business Ethics & Transparency Stakeholder Satisfaction EV-4 Launch the Flexible Working Hour System To help researchers engage in their work and support the work-life balance, we launched a new flexible working hour Work-life Balance initiative in 2015. This program was designed to allow our employees to choose working hours while working 8 hours a day if they inevitably need to adjust the hour to come to and We strive to create a workplace where all our employees leave office. This serves as an institutional tool that prevents attain a fair work-life balance to lead healthy and happy accumulation of fatigue and enables our researchers to enlives and make progress both at home and in the workgage in their work. The flexible working hour system, partialplace. We believe that such endeavors will be translated ly adopted as a pilot program in 2015, will be expanded for into enhanced trust and engagement with the company, all female workers and researchers in 2016. as well as improved health and reduced job stress. Enhance Family-friendly Management We hosted diverse events to help our employees and their families better understand the company and our work environment. ‘Daddy, Where Are We Going?’ is an experience-based trip program for employees and their children. It was joined by 204 participants from 81 families. And the ‘Plant Tour for Employee Families’ program attended by 214 employees and their families allowed them to better understand our work environment. We also offered diverse programs such as cultural lecture for employee’s wife and cooking class. 1 2 5 3 4 6 1 , 2 ‘Daddy! Where Are We Going?’ Program 5 Culture Lectures for Employees’ Wives 3 , 4 Plant Tour for Employee Families 6 Cooking Class Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 47 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Value Creation FOCUS ENVIRONMENTAL 1. ‌Integrated Environmental IE MANAGEMENT Management It is a fundamental responsibility of a company to minimize the environmental impact caused by business activities. Therefore, the environmental issue is recognized as a risk at many companies in spite of their sustained Background efforts for improvement. of this issue Legal standards for environmental issues such as air pollutants, wastewater, and waste in manufacturing business are being tightened and stakeholders’ interest in environment is also growing. They also require considerable efforts to reduce environmental impacts in whole product Risks & lifecycle ranging from manufacturing to disposal. We are committed to Opportunities fulfilling our responsibility through clean manufacturing and development of eco-friendly products. Being fully aware of environmental impacts generated throughout its entire product life cycle encompassing the acquisition of raw materials, production, use, recycling and disposal, Hankook Tire is committed to minimizing them at every stage of product life cycle. Hankook Tire will focus Declaration on developing eco-friendly products to help customers enjoy eco-friendly consumption and lifestyle. EHS Committee Product Environment Committee ㆍ‌Chaired by: Daejeon Plant ManagㆍChaired by: R&D Planning Departing Director ment Director Management ㆍ‌Supervised by: DP) Environment & ㆍ ‌Supervised by: R&D Planning Responsibility Safety Team Team ㆍ‌Members: KP) Environment & Safety ㆍMembers: PC Development and GoverTeam, Machinery Engineering Team Team 3, TB Development Team 2, nance 3, DP)KP) Facility Maintenance Team, Research Team 3, CSR Team R&D Corporate Management Team, Material Research Team 2, CSR Team Key Managerial Issues Management of environmental Resource Product production infrastructure management environment Key Achievements Ratio of recycling treated water Ratio of eco-friendly products Ratio of recycling waste 32.5 % 47.1 % (as of sales) 77.0 % Future Plans and Recently tightening environmental regulations may usher in the technical barriers to trade in the Outlook world. Hankook Tire will be proactive in responding to environmental regulations to create new markets and business opportunities. In addition, we will upgrade our environmental management system to world-class level and beef up our image as an eco-friendly company through active communication with local communities. FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 FOCUS 06 Environmental Management Business Ethics & Transparency Stakeholder Satisfaction Achievements in 2015 ● Completed ◐ Partially Completed ◦ Not Completed Code Key Managerial Issues Goals Achievements Completion Page IE1 Management of enviSterengthen response ㆍ‌Investigated the status of odor emissions at Daejeon ● 50 ronmental production capability to deal with tightening Plant infrastructure environmental regulations ㆍ‌Improved the efficiency of odor prevention facilities for mixing and curing process at Daejeon Plant ㆍ‌Installed weather system and adopted atmospheric diffusion modeling to Geumsan Plant ㆍRenewed the ISO14001 certification Prevent environmental ㆍAdopted new chemicals to treat wastewater ● 50 accidents Expand activities for ㆍIndemnified for fire accident ● 50 co-prosperity with local ㆍ‌Expanded communication with local communities communities (‘Green Environment Class’) ㆍ‌S upported small local companies for environmental management IE2 Resource management Lay the foundation for installation ㆍHeld 11 public hearings and 48 meetings with relevant ● tire derived SRF(solid refuse fuels) institutions for installing facilities that use solid fuels pyrolysis facilities IE3 Product environment Reduce tire rolling ㆍExpanded tire lineups with high-rated labeling ● 51 resistance PCR: 58% with B/B & C/A ratings and over TBR: 27% with B/B rating and over Develop eco-friendly ㆍResearched EV tire development technology ● 51~52 products Developed preceding products of narrow & tall tires Ensured ‌ 99% performance of comparison targets (rolling resistance: 115%, Cα*: 93%) ㆍDeveloped a new definition of eco-friendly products ㆍRenewed the carbon footprint labeling of enfren eco Develop safety-driven ㆍ‌Secured technology for the development of ● 52 products eco-friendly runflat tire** 106% ‌ in weight and 95% in driving comfort compared with tires below 45 Series * Cα (cornering stiffness): Stability in handling ** Runflat tire is designed to resist the effects of deflation when punctured and to enable the vehicle to be driven at reduced speeds for limited distances to ensure the safety of drivers. Plans for 2016 Code Key Managerial Issues Commitments Key Index Deadline Team in Charge IE1 Management of Strengthen response capability ㆍFollow-up on results from the study of Dec. DP) KP) Environment & environmental to deal with tightening odor emissions status Safety Team, Machinery production environmental regulations ㆍApply the technology for Engineering Team 3 infrastructure removing oil in inflow air of odor prevention facilities. ㆍ‌R  eplacement of old wastewater treatment facilities at Geumsan Plant Prevent environmental accidents ㆍ‌Introduction of free tester raw Dec. R&D Corporate materials use process for research Management Team Expand activities for co-prosperity ㆍ‌O  peration of the Donggeurami Dec. DP) KP) Environment & with local communities Co-prosperity Council Safety Team IE2 Resource management Build facilities that use solid fuels ㆍ‌E  fforts for acquiring licenses and Dec. DP) KP) Environment & stabilization of facility operation Safety Team IE3 Product environment Develop eco-friendly ㆍ‌E  xpansion of tire lineups with Dec. PC Development Team 3, products high-rated labeling TB Development Team 2 ㆍDevelopment of lightweight tires Dec. PC Development Team 2&3 Develop eco-friendly ㆍ‌D  evelopement of natural resources Dec. Anti-Abrasion raw materials and application technologies Performance Enhancement Project Develop runflat tires ㆍDevelopment of runflat tires Dec. RFT Project H462 ‌ model for domestic sales (6 sizes) Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 49 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Value Creation IE-1 Install Weather System and Adopt Atmospheric Diffusion Modeling to Daejeon and Geumsan Plant • We set up meteorological observation facilities and atmospheric diffusion modeling program at the Daejeon Plant in 2011 to assess Management of the environmental impact on the surrounding area. These Environmental Production facilities were also installed in Guemsan Plant in September 2015. The data on wind direction, wind velocity, temperaInfrastructure ture, humidity, atmospheric pressure, and solar radiation obtained from the meteorological observation facilities at the We aim to minimize any possible environmental impact two plants are used for atmospheric diffusion modeling. resulting from our production activities by investing in and improving environmental facilities. We also strive to Establish Global Environmental Goals • Since 2012, we have introduce new technology to reach pollutant reduction been monitoring the selected global EHS indicators quartergoals and carry out environment protection activities. ly. In 2015, we set a global EHS goal by creating indicators and the base year to be applied to all business sites, and then established mid to long-term goals of each site. We plan to monitor the implementation activities for the realization of Strengthen Response Capability to deal the goals. with Environmental Regulations Investigate the Status of Odor Emissions at Daejeon Plant • Prevent Environmental Accidents Following the designation of the Daejeon Plant as odor Adopted New Chemicals to Treat Wastewater • Daejeon control area in 2008, we have been working to meet odor and Geumsan Plants have used sodium hydroxide, classified reduction target by concluding the voluntary agreement as toxic substances, as pH-regulating agents when treating with the Daedeok-gu (where the plant is located) to rewater. To protect operators who work with sodium hydroxsolve odor-related complaints since 2009. From late 2014 ide and prevent environmental accidents, we developed and on, we have hosted consultations with relevant agenand tested alternate substances for three months. The test cies and experts to establish a rigorous set of odor release results showed that our new substance was as effective in standards in odor control area in Daejeon. As a result, we treating water as sodium hydroxide, thus we completely reagreed to enhance monitoring of odor-releasing company placed sodium hydroxide with the new substance. We also and, at the same time, proceed intensive odor investigations. obtained the approval from the Geumgang River Basin EnviIn compliance with the agreement, Hankook Tire’s Daejeion ronmental Office to exclude sodium hydroxide from permisPlant commissioned a survey of odor release quantity and sion to toxic use. odor impact on surrounding area to the odor VOC center at Woosong University from September 2015 to March 2016. Expand Partnerships for Prosperity with Local Communities Improve the Efficiency of Odor Prevention Facilities for Expand Communication with Local Communities • We inMixing and Curing Process at Daejeon Plant • Our Daejeon vited local resisdents by hosting ‘Green Environment Class’. Plant had first installed two CRCOs*, the high-efficiency LNG They had a chance to take a glimpse into our tire manufaccombustion facilities, in 2009 in order to control the odor turing process and our achievements in environmental imgenerated in the mixing process. We later set up two addiprovement. In addition, we organized Donggeurami Concert, tional CFRTOs** in the mixing and curing lines. In 2015, we Donggeurami Festival, One Stream for One Company (16 replaced the second CRCO concentrator in the mixing line occasions), in-house medical service (520 people), odor evaland CFRTO heat storage materials in the curing line to mainuation (2 occasions), and Geumgang LOHAS Park cleaning tain the efficiency of odor reduction facilities. Our plan for activities (12 occasions). Daejeon Plant and the Geumgang 2016 is to replace the first CRCO concentrator. Given the River Basin Environmental Office visited seven SMEs, and characteristic of tire manufacturing process, the air coming provided on legal requirements regarding atmosphere, wainto the odor reduction facilities is likely to contain oil compoter quality, and wastes and facilities maintenance, laying the nent. Our Daejeon Plant plans to test pre-treatment technolgroundwork for a win-win growth with local businesses. ogy to prevent such component in air from affecting facility efficiency and the lifecycle of component. * CRCO (Concentrator & Regenerative Catalytic Oxidizer): Odor-containing air is absorbed by the zeolite concentrator, and then the concentrated odor substances are desorbed. Then the catalytic oxidizer is used to oxidize the odors at low temperatures (near 400°C) before releasing them into the air ** CFRTO (Concentrator & Flameless Regenerative Thermal Oxidizer): Odor containing air is absorbed by the zeolite concentrator. The thermally desorbed odors are burnt at high temperatures (near 800°C) through RTO (regenerative thermal oxidizer) and then released into the air. 50 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 FOCUS 06 Environmental Management Business Ethics & Transparency Stakeholder Satisfaction IE-2 increase fuel efficiency may degrade braking, handling and wear performance, we continue to research compounds for the optimized balance between tire-surface contact pressure and performance, in addition to product eco-friendliness. Resource Management * PCR (Passenger Car Radial) Tire: Comparison of ‘Ventus prime 3’ against ‘Ventus prime 2’ (specifications: 215/55R16V) We are committed to the efficient use of resources and ** ‌T BR (Truck Bus Radial) Tire: Comparison of ‘TL10+’ against ‘TL10’ (specifications: 385/65R22.5) the expansion of recycling to prevent the depletion of *** ‌Ratings of wet grip and rolling resistance under the tire energy consumption limited resources efficiency rating scheme Develop Eco-friendly Products Comply with the Mandatory Tire Recycling Ratio Research on Tire Technology for EV • We are committed to In compliance with the Extended Producer Responsibildeveloping EV tires to respond to an increasingly growing ity (EPR), we fulfill our recycling responsibility through the demand for eco-friendly vehicles. EV tires demand unique Korea Tire Manufacturers Association (KOTMA), and make requirements such as heavy load support for vehicle battery contributions to the fund required for recycling. The KOTMA and wear-resistant against frequent braking. Our sustained spends the contributions to collect and process waste tires R&D allowed us to develop lightweight materials with low and undertake accompanying recycling projects. As of 2014, rolling resistance and high-strength. As a result, compared to most of waste tires are processed via thermal consumption products from 2014, our new EV tires are 7% more resistant (74%) and material recycling (24%). We work together with to rolling while maintaining the same load-carrying capacity. the KOTMA to increase the ratio of material recycling in a more environmentally-friendly manner. New Definition of Eco-friendly Products • We had set the ratio of eco-friendly products based upon the standards established back in 2010. Meanwhile, as the existing ones specified no more than the European labeling criteria, we IE-3 added the labeling criteria of Korea and Japan in 2015. The use of Low PAH* oil and silica, which are widely used now, was deleted. In the meantime, such items as improved wear resistance, improved recyclability, and adoption of new eco-friendly technology were added to the existing standProduct and Environment ards on eco-friendly products. The revenue of eco-friendly products in 2015 after the redefined standards rose by 6.8% from 2014. Hankook Tire endeavors to develop eco-friendly tires * PAH: Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons across the entire life cycle of our products, from procurement of raw materials, manufacturing and use to disposal. We aim to increase the ratio of eco-friendly products by 65% by 2020. Aspects of Eco-friendly Product (when satisfying any of the following aspects) Prevention of Contribution to improving fuel efficiency global warming Reduce Tire Rolling Resistance To improve fuel efficiency by reducing rolling resistance, we Improvement of wear resistance Long-term use by enhanced durability continue to research platform technology on tire structure, performance raw materials, ingredients and production. Such research Replacement of raw materials with Minimization of resource depletion outcomes enabled us to improve our rolling resistance natural resources performance by 12%* in PCR and 11%** in TBR. For PCR Improvement of Easy retread and regrooving (TBR) products, we increased the ratio of B/Band C/A-rated*** recyclability products to 58% through rate improvement of existing products and new product development. We expect to draw upon Reduction of Low noise noise the research outcomes to develop new product which will replace our European flagship eco-friendly product ‘Kinergy Application of new eco-friendly techNon-pneumatic tire, etc. Eco’ in 2016. For TBR, meanwhile, we newly developed prodnologies ucts which are rated B/B or higher in 2015, achieving the User safety* Satisfaction of tire’s basic function market share of 27%. We expect the market share to continue to increase. Since simply reducing rolling resistance to * User safety must be satisfied under any circumstances. Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 51 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Value Creation Renew the Carbon Footprint Labeling of Enfren Eco • We COD Emissions had obtained the carbon labeling certification on ‘enfren eco’ COD emissions in 2015 decreased 8% from the previous year due to the products in the process of lifecycle assessment at our Gereduction of treated water emissions. umsan Plant in 2012 from the Korea Environmental Industry (Unit: COD emissions (g)/product (tons)) & Technology Institute, and renewed it 2015. Our efforts at developing lightweight tires and improving manufacturing environment have resulted in us reducing GHG emissions 108.72 (1.15kgCO2-eq) compared to 2012. 73.85 63.49 58.49 Carbon Labeling Certification (Unit: CO2 emissions (Kg)) Product Certified Total Before manManufacname in emissions ufacturing turing enfren eco 2012 25.75 17.86 7.89 (195/65R15H) 2015 24.60 17.22 7.39 Develop Safe Products Sites 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Unit: tons) Runflat tire is designed to enable the vehicle to be driven Daejeon Plant 4.00 3.25 3.11 3.96 at a certain speed despite the effects of deflation when Geumsan Plant 3.03 3.88 4.84 3.58 punctured due to the road surface conditions or wear. With Jiangsu Plant 10.30 9.32 6.12 10.96 runflat tires fitted, the weight of a car is reduced without Jiaxing Plant 97.75 61.53 55.11 43.61 having to carry spare tires, hence raising the fuel efficienChongqing Plant 4.21 1.33 3.13 cy. It is thanks to those benefits that 60% of premium cars Hungary Plant 3.14 2.89 3.31 3.29 come with runflat tires. Recognizing this trend, Hankook Tire has developed new products whose weight and comfort are Indonesia Plant 1.48 0.21 0.08 106% and 95%, respectively, compared to general tires* of Total 118.21 86.56 74.04 68.62 45 series or below through researches on lightweight models * ‌Figures in 2014 in the table below are a little different from those of the previous report due to errors in calculating the amount of treated water with high durability. emissions at Daejeon and Geumsan Plant. * Pattern and specification: K117B 245/45R18W Waste Treated The intensity of waste treated increased 1% compared with 2014. We plan to achieve a 5% decrease in the intensity compared with 2014 by 2020. (Unit: waste treated (kg)/product (tons)) 42.28 42.33 38.90 39.72 Treatment 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Unit: tons) Consigned recycling 31,258 35,855 38,576 38,245 Consigned 6,061 5,603 4,777 6,146 incineration Consigned landfill 4,977 5,096 5,945 5,270 Total 42,296 46,554 49,298 49,661 * ‌The intensity and recycling ratio in 2014 in the table below are a little different from those of the previous report due to errors in calculating the amount of waste emissions at Daejeon Plant. 52 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 FOCUS 06 Environmental Management Business Ethics & Transparency Stakeholder Satisfaction Water Intake Recycling Rate of Treated Water The intensity of water intake in 2015 decreased 7% from the previous The recycling rate of treated water in 2015 decreased 10% from the year due to the reduction of water intake at Jiangsu Plant and Jiaxing previous year due to a drop in treated water recycling at Daejeon, Plant. We aim to decrease the intensity by 10% compared with 2014 Geumsan, and Jiangsu Plant. Our goal is to increase the recycling rate of by 2020. treated water up to 40% by 2020. (Unit: water intake (m3)/product (tons)) (Unit: %) 6.53 6.31 6.36 36.12 5.91 32.52 26.17 21.73 Sites 2012 2013 2014 2015 Sites 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Unit: m3) (Unit: %) Daejeon Plant 1,666,929 1,768,189 1,587,821 1,584,524 Daejeon Plant 48.34 51.69 55.46 51.50 Geumsan Plant 1,674,990 1,627,982 1,662,331 1,542,081 Geumsan Plant 43.44 39.04 34.57 31.47 Jiangsu Plant 1,401,553 1,458,024 1,740,099 1,358,341 Jiangsu Plant 0 0 57.23 34.57 Jiaxing Plant 1,979,275 1,593,809 1,491,204 1,149,976 Jiaxing Plant 0 0 0 0 Chongqing Plant 256,774 321,351 493,872 Chongqing Plant 16.86 24.40 24.66 Hungary Plant 358,793 324,965 342,075 342,075 Hungary Plant 0 0 0 0 Indonesia Plant 372,524 275,483 463,776 Indonesia Plant 66.75 95.89 98.73 Total 7,081,540 7,402,267 7,420,364 6,934,645 Total 21.73 26.17 36.12 32.52 * ‌The intensity data in 2014 in the table below are a little different from those of the previous report due to errors in calculating the amount of water intake at Daejeon Plant. Discharge of Treated Water Use of Major Raw Materials The intensity of treated water discharge in 2015 fell by 3% from the Tires are primarily made from rubber, carbon black, steel cords, textile previous year backed by a decrease of water intake and an increase of cords and bead wires. Use of those materials in 2015 rose compared recycled wastewater at Chongqing Plant. with the previous year due to a slight increase of production volume. (Unit: discharge of treated water (m3)/product (tons)) (Unit: use of raw materials (tons)/product (tons)) 1.95 0.86 0.86 0.86 1.85 0.83 1.72 1.66 Sites 2012 2013 2014 2015 Raw Materials 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Unit: m3) (Unit: tons) Daejeon Plant 328,644 295,399 253,185 268,262 Natural Rubber 284,169 312,692 297,994 306,394 Geumsan Plant 365,421 446,286 569,614 455,443 Synthetic Rubber 225,448 238,875 230,526 251,255 Jiangsu Plant 228,800 227,200 154,930 211,267 Carbon Black 253,852 268,791 259,115 265,971 Jiaxing Plant 1,090,919 869,131 742,769 608,292 Textile-Cord 38,459 41,011 42,155 45,590 Chongqing Plant 167,620 168,140 224,299 Steel-Cord 85,930 95,898 93,312 98,158 Hungary Plant 104,511 96,260 110,359 178,000 Bead Wire 43,366 47,297 47,253 46,482 Indonesia Plant 65,936 11,102 3,342 Total 931,224 1,004,564 970,355 1,013,850 Total 2,118,295 2,167,832 2,010,099 1,948,905 Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 53 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Value Creation FOCUS ENVIRONMENTAL 2. ‌Climate Change & CC MANAGEMENT GHG Management Increasing GHG emissions cause global-level risks such as ecosystem disruptions and rising sea levels. In response, the whole world signed the Paris Agreement, a new climate system, at the COP21 held in December 2015. The agreement emphasizes corporate role and responsibility for limiting the rise of world Background temperatures to no more than two degrees centigrade compared to preindustrial level. of this issue Our business scale has been growing backed by the expansion of global production facilities. This trend inevitably exposes us to environmental risks such as emission trading scheme and energy resource depletion. However, increasing energy efficiency through new technologies and committing to reducing Risks & GHG emissions will bring such positive benefits as production cost savings Opportunities Hankook Tire is fully aware that endeavors and initiatives to address climate change on the global, regional and national level constitute critical prerequisites for a sustainable future. Thus, Hankook Tire is ever committed to minimizing any impact from climate change. Declaration Energy & GHG Committee ㆍChaired by: Production & Engineering Division Director ㆍSupervised by: Machinery Engineering Team 3 Management ㆍ‌Members: CSR Team, Global Facility Maintenance Operations Team, Responsibility DP) KP) Facility Maintenance Team, R&D Corporate Management Team and Governance Key Managerial Issues Energy & GHG Reduction of energy consumption Introduction of management and GHG emissions new technologies Key Achievements Reduction of GHG emissions Reduction of energy costs Exceeded the energy intensity goal 6,514 tCO2-eq (domestic sites) KRW 1.79 billion (domestic sites) 1.65 % Future Plans and The Paris Agreement, a new climate system, will require companies more obligations and regulaOutlook tions on climate change & GHG management. Moreover, dwindling energy resources and accompanying cost increase may become obstacles to business activities. In response, Hankook Tire is committed to improving energy efficiency and developing alternative energy sources to ensure our sustainability and proactively join the efforts to prevent global warming. FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 FOCUS 06 Environmental Management Business Ethics & Transparency Stakeholder Satisfaction Achievements in 2015 ● Completed ◐ Partially Completed ◦ Not Completed Code Key Managerial Issues Goals Achievements Completion Page CC1 Energy & GHG Win the Carbon Management Won the Carbon Management Sector Winners in ● 56 management Sector Winners at the CDP Korea Consumer Discretionary Sector for 2 years in a row Awards 2015 Establish the e-Saver (energy Completed the e-Saver (Phase II for steam, N2 gas, and ● 56 management system) Phase II compressed air) project at the domestic plants Set up criteria to estimate Set criteria to estimate GHG reductions and apply ● 56 the cost benefits from the internal price of carbon GHG emissions reduction within the investment process CC2 Reduction of energy Implement the 4Re initiatives ㆍ‌Renovation consumption and GHG (Phase II) (adoption of high energy-efficiency equipment) ● emissions Improved main pipelines for compressed air supply 56 Replaced with high efficiency LED lights ● 56 Replaces old chillers ● 56 Improved curing pump control ◐* ㆍReuse (maximization of energy recovery) Spread ‌ the booster of recovered and reused steam ◐** from curing waste heat Installed white smoke removal devices ● 56 Replaced old condensate water recovery devices ● 56 ㆍRecycling (recreation of value from waste) Installed a low-temperature pyrolysis system ◐*** 56 ㆍReplace (review of alternative energy sources) Reviewed ‌ the economic feasibility of solar power ● 56 generation system for the domestic plants CC3 Introduction of new Develop and review the technology Reviewed the economic feasibility of devices to convert ● 57 technologies to convert waste heat to steam waste heat to steam * Extend the period to 2016 due to precise diagnosis and additional design for better effectiveness ** Extend the period to 2016 due to precise diagnosis and additional design for better effectiveness *** Under test due to design modification and additional requirements to complete in 2016 Plans for 2016 Code Key Managerial Issues Commitments Key Index Deadline Team in Charge CC1 Energy & GHG Establish the e-Saver (energy management Energy management system Oct. G. Facility Maintenance management system) in Indonesia Plant Operations Team CC2 Reduction of energy Adjust time for Platen & Jacket Reduction of GHG emissions Dec. DP)KP) Facility consumption and Drain in curing process and energy consumption Maintenance Team GHG emissions Replace with high efficiency LED lights Sep. DP) Facility Maintenance Team Improve curing pump control through Aug. Machinery high efficiency of facilities Engineering Team 3 Improve the curing waste heat reuse Sep. G. Facility Maintenance system (installation of steam compressor) Operations Team, DP)KP) Facility Maintenance Team Install decompressed energy reuse 2017 Machinery facilities (decompressed turbine generator) Engineering Team 3 CC3 Introduction of Implement the feasibility study of installing Review of new technologies Oct. Machinery new technologies photovoltaic power generation facilities Engineering Team 3 Review the economic feasibility of Oct. Machinery installing ESS (Energy Storage System) Engineering Team 3 Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 55 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Value Creation CC-1 CC-2 Energy & GHG Management Reduction of Energy To manage our energy consumption more systematically Consumption and GHG and lay the basis for energy & GHG management, we esEmissions tablished the plant energy management system and integrated the standards of greenhouse gas emissions into In an aim to minimize energy consumption and GHG our investment process. In recognition of such efforts, emissions from the product manufacturing process, we we won the Winners Award in the carbon management implement diverse initiatives to improve facility efficiensector at the CDP Korea Awards 2015. cy and to recover and reuse energy. Won the Carbon Management Sector Winners Implement the 4Re Initiatives (Phase II) at the CDP Korea Awards 2015 Renovation (Adoption of High Energy-efficiency EquipSince 2010 when we joined the global climate change initiament) • The installation of storage facilities of compressed tive of CDP (the former Carbon Disclosure Project), Hankook air between air dryer and air pressure allowed us to remove Tire has continued transparent disclosure of information on moisture from compressed air, hence reducing electricity its climate change responses. In recognition of its transparpower consumption while shortening the operating hours of ent and proactive response to climate change, Hankook Tire air dryer. We have replaced old chillers with high-performwas honored with the Carbon Management Sector Winners ing facilities, minimizing energy consumption required for by CDP Korea Awards for two consecutive years in 2014 and facility operation. Since 2014, we have been phasing in high2015. ly-efficient LED lights in our plants. By undertaking process improvement and enhancing power consumption efficiency, Establish the e-Saver (Energy Management System) we were able to reduce approximately 2,185tCO2-eq in GHG Phase II emissions and save KRW 531 million in energy costs in 2015. In 2015, we further upgraded our e-Saver (energy management system) to constantly monitor energy consumption by Reuse (Maximization of Energy Recovery) • To reduce enprocess unit and facility at the Daejeon and Geumsan Plants. ergy consumption, we installed white smoke removers to Following the completion of Phase 1 (fuel, electricity, water) reuse waste heat released into air to warm water. Also, the in 2014, Phase 2 (steam, N2 gas, compressed air) was finreplacement of aging condensate water recovery devices let ished in 2015. Tracking and managing energy consumption us reuse a large volume of heat energy. Such diverse initiallowed us to save a considerable amount of energy use. In atives implemented in 2015 to recover energy enabled us 2016, our Indonesia Plant will be our first overseas plant to to reduce approximately 4,326tCO2-eq in GHG emissions and adopt this system. We will continue to establish energy savsave KRW 1.261 billion in energy costs. ing infrastructure in a sustainable and systematic manner by expanding e-Saver to our entire plants. Recycling (Recreation of Value from Waste) • We are currently installing a new low-temperature pyrolysis system to Set up Criteria to Estimate the Cost Benefits turn waste tires into solid fuel. The carbon, oil and gas genfrom GHG Emissions Reduction within erated through such pyrolysis facilities will be used to heat the Investment Process boilers so as to replace fossil fuels, and the substances genWith the implementation of emissions trading scheme in Koerated through the pyrolysis process will be sold and supplied rea, Hankook Tire, as a business entity eligible for allocation to other industries as raw materials. The facility, scheduled of emissions allowances, is expected to make a thorough reto be completed in 2016, is under test as pilot facilities folview of cost benefits from greenhouse emission reduction lowing the design changes. Replace (Review of Alternative Energy Sources) • We are before undertaking facilities investment. As such, we began to apply the internal standards established in 2015 on the estimation of GHG reductions and the internal price of carbon proactively reviewing the Installation of new & renewable starting from 2016. energy sources in order to contribute to the Government’s climate change policies and reduce GHG emissions. In 2015, we conducted an economic feasibility review of the photovoltaic power generation facilities in Daejeon and Geumsan Plants. In 2016, we plan to carry out its feasibility study of installation based on the result. 56 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 FOCUS 06 Environmental Management Business Ethics & Transparency Stakeholder Satisfaction CC-3 GHG Emissions and Energy Consumption between 2013~2015 GHG emissions and energy consumption was compiled from two domestic and five overseas production sites. Our Daejoen and Geumsan Introduction of New Plants build a reliable data through annual 3rd-party verification. We recalculated the 2013~2014 energy consumption based on lower heating value instead of higher heating value. Technologies GHG Emissions We are reviewing the development and adoption of new (Unit: tCO2-eq/product (tons)) 1.029 technology to drastically reduce GHG emissions. 1.013 1.025 Develop and Review the Technology to Convert Waste Heat to Steam We have completed the economic feasibility review of the technology to convert waste heat to steam. Once introduced in the curving process of domestic plants, the technology is anticipated to save us about KRW 100 million in energy cost by reusing waste heat. We plan to undertake the introduction of the technology once a sufficient volume of hot water Sites 2013 2014 2015 is secured for operation in plants. (Unit: tCO2-eq) Scope1 Scope2 Scope1 Scope2 Scope1 Scope2 Daejeon Plant 100,546 149,198 95,036 146,151 84,161 143,065 Geumsan 82,325 191,953 80,433 188,916 76,051 189,141 Reduction of GHG Emissions and Plant 8,852 219,101 8,647 197,733 9,188 198,473 Energy Consumption between 2013~2015 (Domestic Sites) Jiangsu Plant Our Daejoen and Geumsan Plants are active in developing and investing Jiaxing Plant 2,740 255,511 2,335 258,185 2,075 231,503 in GHG emissions and energy consumption reduction projects every Chongqing 8,974 44,827 8,180 38,169 11,319 48,480 year, achieving tangible results since 2013. The plants reduced GHG Plant 33,688 42,147 36,626 47,912 45,493 61,635 emissions of 6,514tCO2-eq and saved KRW 1.79 billion through energy Hungary Plant consumption reduction in 2015. Indonesia 16,278 49,714 16,642 56,086 22,551 79,101 Plant 6,514 253,403 952,451 247,899 933,152 250,838 951,398 Reduction of GHG Emissions 6,075 Total (Unit: tCO2-eq) 2,121 Energy Consumption 10.11 10.10 (Unit: GJ/product (tons)) 10.08 Sites 2013 2014 2015 Daejeon Plant 974 1,931 3,896 Geumsan Plant 1,147 4,144 2,618 Total 2,121 6,075 6,514 1,792 Annual Savings (Unit: KRW in millions) 1,180 642 Sites 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 (Unit: GJ) 2,884,249 2,822,958 2,604,220 Sites 361 577 1,096 Daejeon Plant 2,938,769 2,885,363 2,810,085 Daejeon Plant 281 603 696 Geumsan Plant 1,903,075 1,804,304 1,781,512 Geumsan Plant 642 1,180 1,792 Jiangsu Plant 2,149,917 2,144,818 1,928,908 Total Jiaxing Plant Chongqing Plant 367,232 322,363 428,545 Investments 1,082,671 1,200,848 1,513,518 3,207 Hungary Plant (Unit: KRW in millions) Indonesia Plant 524,289 568,606 778,031 1,353 1,119 Total 11,850,202 11,749,260 11,844,819 Sites 2013 2014 2015 Daejeon Plant 432 1,178 840 Geumsan Plant 921 2,029 279 Total 1,353 3,207 1,119 Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 57 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Value Creation FOCUS BUSINESS ETHICS & BE TRANSPARENCY Business ethics, built on the basis of transparency, serves as the bedrock for establishing relationships with diverse stakeholders. In particular, increasing social interest in corporate responsibility requires higher stanBackground dards for business ethics and transparency. of this issue Rapidly-changing business environments bring about a host of global ethical risks. Therefore, continuous commitment to ethics management and a sound organizational culture will be the impetus to the enhancement of stakeholder trust and global competitiveness. Risks & Opportunities Hankook Tire’s ethics management aims to assist employees in developing and practicing ethics awareness to gain greater credibility with stakeholders. To this end, we make a concerted effort to build a transparent and sound corporate culture on the basis of our mission and vision frame. Declaration Ethics Management Committee ㆍChaired by: Audit Department Director ㆍSupervised by: Audit Team Management ㆍ‌Members: Global Marketing Planning Team, Corporate Management Responsibility Team 1, Purchasing Planning Team, R&D Planning Team, and GoverGlobal Quality Assurance Team nance Key Managerial Issues Training and Regular Monitoring Dissemination of Ethics Communication on and Evaluation Management to Affiliates Ethics Management Key Achievements Established a whistleblower Conducted trainings on ethics Disseminated ethics management protection system management to affiliates 69.2 % increase in no. of reports compared with 2014 Approximately 2,400 persons 1,422 persons from 4 affiliates Future Plans and We will develop the ethics management system where business ethics are come into action in line Outlook with the PDCA (Plan, Do, Check and Act) cycle. Other plans include making ethics trainings compulsory, expanding ethics trainings to overseas subsidiaries, and launching the Help Desk to activate internal communication. These efforts will consolidate our employees’ commitment to business ethics. FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 FOCUS 06 Environmental Management Business Ethics & Transparency Stakeholder Satisfaction Achievements in 2015 ● Completed ◐ Partially Completed ◦ Not Completed Code Key Managerial Issues Goals Achievements Completion Page BE1 Training and Build a whistleblower protection ㆍ‌Set up policies for protection of whistleblowers and ● 60 communication on system compensations Offer regular ethics management ㆍ‌Offered online ethics management training to ● ethics management 60 training office staff (including expatriates) Disseminate ethics management ㆍ‌Implemented ethics management training in China ◐ training to overseas subsidiaries (Trainings for other overseas headquarters are planned in 2016.) Update the Ethics Guidebook ㆍ‌Plan to update after enacting ethics management ○ rules in 2016 Send the E-ethics Letter (monthly) ㆍSent the E-ethics Letter (six times) ◐ 60 Launch the ‘No Holiday Gift’ ㆍ‌Conducted the ‘No Holiday Gift’ campaign on the New ● 61 campaign Year and Korean Thanksgiving holidays BE2 Regular monitoring and Operate the RMS in Korea and ㆍOperated the RMS in Korea and China ● 61 evaluation China Perform self-diagnosis on ethics ㆍPerformed self-diagnosis on ethics management ● 61 management BE3 Dissemination of Launch the ‘No Holiday Gift’ ㆍ‌Conducted the ‘No Holiday Gift’ campaign on the ● 61 ethics management campaign New Year and Korean Thanksgiving holidays ㆍ‌Offered online ethics management training to ● to affiliates Offer ethics management 61 programs for affiliates office staff and operators Perform self-diagnosis on ㆍ‌Not implemented self-diagnosis on ethics management ○ ethics management for affiliates (biennial plan) Plans for 2016 Code Key Managerial Issues Commitments Key Index Deadline Team in Charge BE1 Training and Set up ethics management Ethics management regulations Jun. Audit Team communication on framework ethics management Update the Ethics Guidebook Guidebook Aug. Audit Team Offer regular ethics management No. of trainees and training Apr. Audit Team, Proactive University, training hours DP) KP) Human Resource Team, R&D HR Team Disseminate ethics management Training contents Aug. Audit Team training to overseas headquarters Launch the Help Desk for Help Desk Feb. Audit Team business ethics Send the E-ethics Letter Details of letter delivery Year-round Audit Team Launch the ‘No Holiday Gift’ Notice Feb., Sep. Audit Team campaign BE2 Regular monitoring and Operate the RMS in Korea and Report Monthly Audit Team, CHN) Corporate evaluation China Management Team Perform self-diagnosis on ethics Diagnosis result report Oct. Audit Team management BE3 Dissemination of Launch the ‘No Holiday Gift’ Notice Feb., Sep. Audit Team, Ethics Management ethics management campaign Team at each affiliate to affiliates Offer ethics management training No. of trainees and Oct. Audit Team, Ethics Management to affiliates training hours Team at each affiliate Perform self-diagnosis on ethics Diagnosis result report Oct. Audit Team, Ethics Management management for affiliates Team at each affiliate Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 59 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Value Creation BE-1 Reports Submitted for 4 Years (Unit: No. of reports) 44 25 26 Training and Communication 17 on Ethics Management 2012 2013 2014 2015 We reestablished our Whistleblowing System to ensure that not just our employees but a third party can freely Reports Submitted in 2015 by Type 15 report violations and shared the fact throughout the (Unit: No. of reports) company. We also offered regular business ethics train13 ing sessions to help them raise the awareness of busiCorruptive & unethical practices ness ethics. Complaints from external stakeholders 11 Customer complaints Complaints from internal stakeholders Build a Whistleblower Protection System 5 We revised our Whistleblowing System to ensure that our employees, affiliates and a third party can freely report violations and to completely protect whistleblowers’ identity. The ‘operation guide on the Whistleblowing System’ has been Offer Regular Ethics Management Training organized so that employees are familiar with obligation to We developed an online ethics management training system whistleblowing, whistleblowing process, and whistleblower within our intranet to offer regular training to all office staff protection and reward. In particular, exemption provisions who have access to PCs (including overseas expatriates). have been defined to encourage voluntary report. The purCovering topics on business ethics theory, actual exampose of the system is to prevent property damage caused by ples, implementation methods, and global ethical business, irregularities or unreasonable business practices. The revised the regular training system aims to prevent irregularities in system was publicized to our employees, affiliates and subadvance by raising employees’ awareness of job ethics. In sidiaries on the pop-up window of intranet and on posters. 2015, online ethics management training was attended by The Cyber Audit menu on Hankook Tire’s global website has approximately 2,400 office staff. In addition, around 230 embeen redesigned to be more accessible to whistleblowers. ployees received such training in diverse group training forPost-mails, e-mails, a call center and other diverse channels mats: mandatory job-specific training; training for overseas are available for anyone to report to, by either declaring their expatriates on management; training for those assigned for identity or choosing to remain anonymous. Reports such as overseas expatriate positions; introductory training for new complaints over quality or service are handled separately, for hires; and training for purchasing operations that require a example, at the customer satisfaction call center. particularly high level of ethics awareness. Send the E-ethics Letter Information Framework Our E-ethics Letter, launched in 2011, reinforced its function as a communication tool to enhance ethics management. The bi-monthly ‘E-ethics Letters’ are sent to all our employEstablishment Enhancement of Enhancement Setup of of whistleblowthe obligation to of whistleblower whistleblower ing process whistleblowing protection reward system ees (including the CEO), to highlight business ethics trends (stronger anti-corruption initiatives, increased use of social media, etc.). Once delivered, these letters were also posted on the ‘Business Ethics’ section of our intranet so that our employees could access them anytime they wanted. This section was also directly linked to the reporting channel to enhance its accessibility and to help employees report on relevant issues immediately. E-ethics Letter List No. Major Contents 2015-1st ‘No Holiday Gift’ campaign 2015-2nd Ethical consumers are coming. 2015-3rd Necessity of report (whistle-blowing) and requisites for success 2015-4th Hankook Tire’s report system 2015-5th Report cases inside and outside Korea 2015-6th Corporate reputation risk management Cyber Audit Office on Hankook Tire Website 60 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 FOCUS 06 Environmental Management Business Ethics & Transparency Stakeholder Satisfaction Launch the ‘No Holiday Gift’ Campaign We strive to avoid any type of unfair transaction with interBE-3 nal/external stakeholders, and to prevent diverse ethical risks to establish mutually fair and transparent business relationships. We encouraged all our employees to join the ‘No Dissemination of Ethics Holiday Gift’ campaign by posting it on our intranet. In parManagement to Affiliates ticular, we made it easy for our suppliers to report any issue by posting the campaign on our HePS (Hankook Tire e-ProTo ensure we grow hand-in-hand with our affiliates curement System) with a direct link to a reporting channel both qualitatively and quantitatively we operate just as and we made it clear that the reporting channel was run inmany business ethics programs for our affiliates. dependently from our purchasing operation. Launch the ‘No Holiday Gift’ Campaign and Offer Ethics Management Programs for Affiliates BE-2 All our five affiliates launched the ‘No Holiday Gift’ campaign during the New Year and Korean Thanksgiving holidays. In 2015, all our affiliate employees (including office staff and operators) participated in the business ethics programs by using the online business ethics training content that we proRegular Monitoring and duced last year. We also publicized our new reporting poliEvaluation cies to raise the awareness of ethics management among affiliates. We prevent ethical risks by regularly monitoring our regulations and work processes. We also conduct self-initiated ethics management surveys each year. Operate the RMS (Risk Monitoring System) in Korea and China As our organizational segmentation and integration accelerated, our risk exposure increased accordingly. This prompted us to develop an RMS as an early warning program to conduct year-round monitoring. Our Korean RMS, since its development in 2011, has been monitoring indicators in the five areas of HR, sales, accounting, expenditure and purchase. As of 2015, logistics was added to broaden the scope of monitoring to six areas. Our Chinese RMS (established in 2012), was initially operated by the Corporate Management Team 2 at the Korean Head Office for its stabilization, advancement and monitoring. In 2014, its supervision was transferred to the Chinese Corporate Management Team. Our RMS in Korea and China aims to analyze risks monthly to provide information necessary to improve operation. Perform Self-diagnosis on Ethics Management In 2015, we conducted annual surveys to independently assess our level of ethics management based on the improved evaluation indicators which were renewed back in 2014. In spite of our diverse systems and programs, the 2015 evaluation outcomes revealed the existence of some vulnerable areas. These outcomes, paired with the fact that not all of PR Poster about ‘the Whistleblower Protection System’ the sectors were uniform in their levels of execution and performance, showed us that the overall ethics management system needs to be institutionalized. The survey outcome was identical to the previous year as the employee sector was diagnosed as the most urgent area for improvement, followed by the customer sector. We will share the outcomes with relevant teams to further raise the bar on our business ethics standards. Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 61 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Value Creation FOCUS STAKEHOLDER SATISFACTION SC MANAGEMENT 1. Partnership ‌Win-Win Supply Chain Good products and services begin with high-quality raw materials and parts. Therefore, the quality of our suppliers has a decisive effect on our competitiveness. Background of this issue We are clearly aware that our product competitiveness can be strengthened when suppliers are committed to sustainability management. Ensuring transparent and fair transactions and making efforts for improving competitiveness mutually will drive the shared growth and development of Risks & both Hankook Tire and our suppliers. Opportunities Hankook Tire pursues co-prosperity with its suppliers on the basis of transparent and fair relationships. Declaration Supplier Committee ㆍChaired by: Purchasing Department Director ㆍSupervised by: Purchasing Planning Team Management ㆍMembers: Purchasing Team 1 & 2, Raw Material Development Team, Responsibility Global Quality Assurance Team, Engineering-related Teams and Governance Key Managerial Issues Supplier management Establishment Improvement of and supplier relations of ethics in suppliers’ ESG policies purchasing Key Achievements Held the PARTNER’s Day for natural Figured out how many suppliers Expanded evaluation on rubber suppliers have the code of ethics CSR for suppliers 63 persons from 32 suppliers 155 suppliers 159 in 2014 suppliers 322 suppliers in 2015 Future Plans and We intend to build a follow-up process after the evaluation on suppliers’ CSR and promote Outlook systematic management and monitoring system beyond just feedbacks in order to increase their performances in ESG (Environment, Social and Governance). Benchmarks of best practices will also be carried out to set up eco-friendly purchasing policies and action plans. FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 FOCUS 06 Environmental Management Business Ethics & Transparency Stakeholder Satisfaction Achievements in 2015 ● Completed ◐ Partially Completed ◦ Not Completed Code Key Managerial Issues Goals Achievements Completion Page SC1 Supplier management Set up purchasing policies for the ㆍ‌M anaged the percentage of purchasing from regions ● 64 and relations policy development of local communities where production sites are located Promote co-prosperity through ㆍ‌H eld the PARTNER’s Day for natural rubber suppliers ● 64 communication with suppliers (new) SC2 Establishment of ethics Disseminate ethics management to ㆍ‌F  igured out how many suppliers have the code ● 64 in purchasing suppliers of ethics SC3 Improvement of Review the evaluation methods for ㆍ‌A dopted the CSR evaluation results in selecting ● 65 suppliers’ ESG selecting new suppliers suppliers ㆍ‌E nacted and amended regulations for selecting suppliers Expand the scope of suppliers ㆍ‌E xpanded the scope of suppliers subject to ● 65 subject to CSR evaluation and CSR evaluation review additional evaluation items ㆍ‌A dded CSR evaluation items Establish a feedback process ㆍ‌P rovided suppliers with feedbacks on ◐ 65 following supplier CSR evaluations CSR evaluation results through GHePS and monitor improvements Plans for 2016 Code Key Managerial Issues Commitments Key Index Deadline Team in Charge SC1 Supplier management and Grasp the current situation to build Benchmark of best practices Sep. Purchasing supplier relations policies green sourcing policies Planning Team SC2 Establishment of ethics in Disseminate ethics management to Dissemination of the Apr. Purchasing purchasing suppliers code of ethics Planning Team SC3 Improvement of suppliers’ Enhance supports for suppliers’ Expansion of evaluation targets Jul. Purchasing ESG sustainability management Planning Team Enhance corrective action and Monitoring of improvements Year-round Purchasing Planning follow-up process after the evaluation Team, Purchasing on suppliers’ CSR Team 1 & 2 Request the setup of BCP (Business Establishment of plans by step Oct. Purchasing Continuity Planning) to critical suppliers Planning Team Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 63 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Value Creation SC-1 Supplier Management and Relations Policy We are analyzing and monitoring our ratio of purchasing in each region to ensure a shared growth with our suppliers. Furthermore, we communicate with our suppliers with diverse channels and strive to create more opportunities to pursue a mutual growth. Set up Purchasing Policies for the Development of Local Communities We operate seven production facilities in Korea, China, Hungary and Indonesia, and we grow hand-in-hand with our suppliers based on these locations. We continue to analyze the purchasing practices at our local business sites, and in so doing, we are monitoring our contribution to the revitalization of the local economy. Such analyses revealed that we engage in transactions with more than 86% of local suppliers where our operations are based, which represents about 70% of 2015 NR PARTNER’s Day* our purchase. Furthermore, we trade with over 38% of sup* Event for natural rubber suppliers (held first in 2012, triennially) pliers in OECD member countries who in total take up about 45% of our total purchase. We will continue to maintain and evolve our local purchasing policy. Breakdown of Local Purchasing in 2015 Countries Local (Unit: %) Suppliers* SC-2 Purchasing 37.3 38.0 OECD members Asia Korea Others 3.7 1.7 Establishment of Ethics in 2.5 14.8 Europe Hungary Others 9.5 6.2 Purchasing North America 2.2 1.0 Subtotal 55.2 61.6 19.4 26.4 Hankook Tire examined the status of Code of Ethics of Non-OECD Asia China members Indonesia 10.1 7.2 our major suppliers. For those without a set of ethics Others 15.3 4.8 regulations, we encourage the establishment of ethics Subtotal 44.8 38.4 code after confirming the reason while offering support Total (OECD : NonHankook Tire 55:45 62:38 for relevant activities. OECD) * T he location of suppliers is based on the location of production facilities. Disseminate Ethics Management to Suppliers Promote Co-prosperity through Communication Hankook Tire has surveyed the status of Code of Ethics of with Suppliers the top 155 suppliers in terms of the annual purchase volThe ‘NR PARTNER’s Day’ is held every three years under the ume. The results showed that 77 suppliers, or 52%, of the supervision of our top management, serving as a chance to 149, excluding 6 which did not respond to the survey, had invite our natural rubber suppliers. The event was held from Code of Ethics. 72 suppliers, or 49%, did not have business October 19 to 20, 2015 and was attended by a total of 63 ethics established, most of which turned out to be smallparticipants from 32 suppliers in Thailand, Indonesia, Singasized suppliers. Our plan is to disseminate the Code of Ethpore, and Korea. They took a tour of our domestic plants and ics based on our own to those who are without such ethical the central R&D center, making themselves familiarized with norms. Hankook Tire will continue to support our suppliers to our management strategy and vision. Hankook Tire’s top ensure that they are aligned with our ethics standards. management and the suppliers of natural rubber, the main material of tire, reinforced their cooperative ties through this event, reaffirming the win-win partnership rooted in active mutual communication. 64 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 FOCUS 06 Environmental Management Business Ethics & Transparency Stakeholder Satisfaction SC-3 10 suppliers of raw/subsidiary materials, has been expanded every year to local suppliers and facility maintenance partners in 2013, and then to indirect suppliers in 2014. In 2015, the first CSR evaluation was carried out on 9 overImprovement of seas suppliers with the number of local suppliers evaluated Suppliers’ ESG increasing nearly two times from the previous year. We will continue to expand the scope of CSR evaluation to all of our suppliers to manage their ESG status. Furthermore, we made Hankook Tire’s ESG evaluation system continues to improvements in the evaluation sheet of CSR items. Such evolve. We evaluate ESG not only of local suppliers but criteria as the standard working hours, minimum wage, emalso of those overseas based on improved evaluation ployment contract, prohibition of physical and verbal abuse, sheet. We also manage ESG status in accordance with and corporate philanthropic activities have been newly introthe revised provisions so that the CSR evaluation results duced. serve as basis to select suppliers. 9 Suppliers Subject to CSR Evaluation (Unit: No. of suppliers) Review the Evaluation Methods for 313 Selecting New Suppliers Overseas Hankook Tire takes CSR performance into consideration Domestic 159 from the phase of selecting new suppliers. Our suppliers are evaluated on raw/subsidiary materials, facilities, quality, price, service, transaction history, as well the CSR practices 88 (human rights, ethics management, safety, and environ50 ment). To that end, we revised the relevant provisions for respective items and integrated them into the purchasing regulations and guidelines. Suppliers of raw/subsidiary ma2012 2013 2014 2015 terials are classified into those subject to the「Registration and evaluation, etc. of Chemical Substances」and the others subject to the standards of the use and management of conEstablish a Feedback Process Following Supplier flict materials. Furthermore, we manage our suppliers’ CSR CSR Evaluations and Monitor Improvements performances as we reflect the CSR evaluation result in the We conduct CSR evaluations of our suppliers on a yearly bageneral evaluation of suppliers conducted every year. sis and share the feedbacks on the results. Suppliers have access to GHePS, our electronic purchasing system, to check Expand the Scope of Suppliers Subject to the result themselves. The ‘Suppliers Status’ menu was upCSR Evaluations and Review Additional Evaluation Items graded so that suppliers can refer to the results of general Hankook Tire has conducted the CSR evaluations of our evaluation, credit assessment, and CSR evaluation. Going suppliers so that we can assist them in improving their ESG forward, we plan to develop the tools and supporting sys(Environment, Social, and Governance). List of the suppliers tem to provide feedbacks on evaluation results by individual subject to the CSR evaluation, formerly conducted on key items including human rights, ethics management, and environment. CSR Evaluation Items Human Rights / Human Rights ㆍAccept and guarantee freedom of association and the right for collective bargaining Labor / Prohibition of Labor ㆍChild labor ㆍForced labor ㆍWorking hours and minimum wage (new) Discrimination ㆍHotline & follow-up ㆍEmployment contract (new) Prohibition of Discrimination and ㆍProhibition of discrimination ㆍPrevention of sexual harassment Sexual Harassment ㆍProhibition of violence Ethics Ethics Management System and ㆍEstablishment of the code of ethics ㆍElimination of corruption and bribery Practices ㆍEthical trainings ㆍPhilanthropic activities (new) Monitoring & Follow-up on Ethics ㆍRegular audit on ethics management Management ㆍFollow-up in case of violation Information Protection ㆍProtection of client or customer information Safety / Health Safety ㆍSafety inspection ㆍSafety and Health Committee ㆍPersonal protective equipment ㆍSafety management of suppliers Fire Prevention ㆍFire prevention management Health ㆍMeasurement and improvement of working environment ㆍTreatment of chemical substances Environment / Environment ㆍGeneral management ㆍWaste management Greenhouse Gas ㆍPrevention of soil pollution Greenhouse Gas ㆍEnergy and greenhouse gas management Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 65 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Value Creation FOCUS STAKEHOLDER SATISFACTION CI MANAGEMENT 2. Development ‌Community Involvement & Companies are required to conduct diverse value-oriented activities for coexistence with local communities as well as profit generation. Thus, it is increasingly critical to amicably and continuously communicate with local Background communities and support their sustainable growth. of this issue If a company is negligent in developing and involving in its local communities, it may lose its source of social support. Proactive involvement in resolving social issues, as a global corporate citizen, beyond merely fulfilling its economic responsibility will give a chance not only to contribute to the Risks & development of local communities but also to enhance corporate value. Opportunities Hankook Tire is committed to taking the lead in addressing local issues through consistent communication with local communities as well as directly and indirectly contributing to national economic growth through its businesses. We will also fulfill our role and responsibility as a corporate citizen and create social value by Declaration being proactive in distributing economic value generated from our businesses. Corporate Philanthropy Committee ㆍChaired by: Business Infra Division Director ㆍSupervised by: CSR Team Management ㆍ‌Members: Corporate Communications Team, KOR) Culture CommuniResponsibility cations Team, DP) Environment & Safety Team, KP) Human Resource and GoverTeam, Hankook Tire Welfare Foundation nance Key Managerial Issues Company-wide Participation Focusing on Core Fostering Local Expansion of Social of Employees Competence Community’s Contribution Sustainability Key Achievements Total investments in No. of vehicles provided to Volunteer hours philanthropic activities social welfare facilities per employee KRW 7.34 billion 307 units (2008~2015) 2.7 hours (Korea, Hungary) Future Plans and To reach our mid/long-term goal of ‘contributing to the growth of local communities and enhanceOutlook ment of corporate brand value’, we will undertake social-giving initiatives on the basis of ‘four strategic directions’: company-wide expansion of social contribution, participation of employees, focusing on core competence, and fostering local community's sustainability. Specifically in 2016, we will focus on establishing a communication system to create philanthropy programs centered on developing local communities, which will allow us to exactly understand their needs and forge closer and more truthful relations. FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 FOCUS 06 Environmental Management Business Ethics & Transparency Stakeholder Satisfaction Achievements in 2015 ● Completed ◐ Partially Completed ◦ Not Completed Code Key Managerial Issues Goals Achievements Completion Page CI1 Company-wide expansion of Monitor and report corporate ㆍMonitored performance indicators and reported them to the Corporate ● 68 social contribution philanthropic performance Philanthropy Committee indicators Reorganize expenditure structure for ㆍIntegrated expense accounts regarding domestic philanthropic activities ● 68 philanthropic activities (donations and non-donation expenditure) CI2 Participation of employees Motivate employees to participate in ㆍEstablished an IT system for philanthropic activities ○* volunteering more actively Expand the scope of target volunㆍImplemented volunteer activities by employee families five times ● 69 teers (twice in Seoul and thrice in Daejeon) Participants: 27 families (70 persons in total) Volunteer hours: 420 hours (6 hours per person) CI3 Focusing on core Develop children’s traffic safety ㆍRegion: Seoul, Gyeonggi-do, Incheon, Daejeon, Chungnam ● 69 competence maps Participants: 3,000 students from 20 primary schools Cooperated with: SAFIA Undertake three major Mobility ㆍCar Sharing: Donated 40 units to social welfare facilities (accumulative 307 units) ● 69~70 projects (Car Sharing, Tire Sharing, ㆍTire Sharing: Supported 2,192 units to social welfare facilities Tuieum Bus) (accumulative 11,754 units) ㆍTuieum Bus: Operated 463 units (accumulative 1,300 units) CI4 Fostering Local Support for strengthening compeㆍSupported marginalized women to get driver’s license (including self-sufficiency) ● 70 Community’s Sustainability tence and foundation for economic Targets: 86 women independence Obtainment of driver’s license: 57 women (12 test-takers / 17 quitters) ‌Type of license: Class 1 Large (2 women) / Class 1 Common (12 women) / Class 2 Common (43 women) Support the protection of youths at ㆍProtection: Group home ‘Wild Flower Youth World’ ● 70 ㆍSelf-sufficiency: Cafe to support youths ‘The 1 Coffee Zoo’ st risk and their self-sufficiency Set up manuals to respond to ㆍSet up manuals ● 70 disasters on a corporate philanthropic level * ‌We had planned to build a platform to encourage employees’ participation in 2015. However, the plan was shelved due to the incompletion of detailed action plans with regard to system operation. Plans for 2016 Code Key Managerial Issues Commitments Key Index Deadline Team in Charge CI1 Company-wide expansion of Establish a communication ㆍUnderstanding of community needs by materialize targets, period, Dec. CSR Team social contribution system to create philanthropy and methods programs centered on developing Identification of stakeholders in local communities local communities Confirmation of stakeholders’ requirements Setup of solutions of requirements Practice and management Conduct philanthropic ㆍMajor philanthropic programs at overseas sites Dec. CSR Team, CHN) activities at overseas sites ‌China: Supports for libraries in small cities, scholarships to low-income Corporate Strategy university students Team, EUR) Corporate ‌Europe: Sponsorship to traffic improvement in Africa (UK), support for child Communications cancer (Germany) Team, MP) Corporate ‌Hungary Plant: Tire supports, volunteering team Management Team, ‌Indonesia Plant: Material supports to local people, free medical service, IP) Corporate Mandelivery of drinking water, school rebuilding, environmental cleanup agement Team, AMC) ‌US: Support to DAV Marketing Strategy ㆍ70 philanthropic activities in the world (budget: KRW 1.06 billion) Team CI2 Participation of employees Build a platform to encourage ㆍEstablishment of an IT system for philanthropic activities Oct. CSR Team employees’ participation Launch volunteering team at ㆍLaunch of volunteering team at Indonesia Plant Dec. CSR Team overseas sites Participate in global volunteer ㆍ‌Joint volunteer activities conducted by domestic volunteering teams and Dec. CSR Team activities overseas sites Expand volunteer activities ㆍ‌Activities: Family volunteers (Seoul, Daejeon), family camp (Seoul, Daejeon), Dec. CSR Team, KOR) by employees’ families couple volunteers, Donggeurami Daycare Center (Seoul, Daejeon, Geumsan), Culture Communicaregular service (Seoul, Daejeon) tions Team, Volunteer No. of services: 21 times (80 hours) related Teams Participants: 560 persons from 160 families CI3 Focusing on core Develop children’s traffic ㆍRegion: Seoul, Gyeonggi-do, Incheon, Daejeon, Chungnam Dec. CSR Team competence safety maps Participants: 3,000 students from 20 primary schools Cooperated with: SAFIA Undertake three major Mobility ㆍCar Sharing: Plan to donate 40 units to social welfare facilities Dec. CSR Team, projects (Car Sharing, ㆍTire Sharing: Plan to support 2,120 units to social welfare facilities Hankook Tire Tire Sharing, Tuieum Bus) ㆍTuieum Bus: Plan to operate 420 units Welfare Foundation CI4 Fostering Local Support for strengthening ㆍUpgrade of the project to support marginalized women to get driver’s license Dec. CSR Team Community's Sustainability competence and foundation for economic independence Support the protection of ㆍProtection: Social Fam. ‘Wonderland’ Dec. CSR Team, ㆍSelf-sufficiency: Cafe to support youths ‘The 2 Coffee Zoo’ nd youths at risk and their Hankook Tire self-sufficiency ㆍEducation: Humanities for youths Welfare Foundation Donggeurami House ㆍ‌Leasing-type Housing Supply for Residence Stability of Youths at Risk Dec. CSR Team, Goal: Supply of about 20 houses (33~46.2m2) Hankook Tire ‌Method: Reinvestment in SH’s or LH’s purchased rental housing projects Welfare Foundation ‌Feature: Sustainable operation without budget exhaustion as a cyclical philanthropic program Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 67 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Value Creation CI-1 Expenditure for Global Corporate Philanthropy Company-wide (domestic & overseas) 7,339 (Unit: KRW in millions) Company-wide Expansion of 4,835 4,166 Social Contribution 3,036 In 2015, the Corporate Philanthropy Committee at Hankook Tire monitored performance indicators of the com2012 2013 2014 2015 pany-wide social contribution activities and evaluated the achievement level. Moreover, we unified budget accounts which were used for philanthropic activities of Compared with Sales 0.11 the domestic and overseas subsidiaries to ensure an effi(Unit: %) cient and accurate expenditure. 0.07 0.06 Monitor and Report Corporate Philanthropic Performance Indicators 0.04 Hankook Tire embarked on the development of corporate philanthropic performance indicators in 2013 and identified plans to utilize these indicators in 2014. In 2015, we carried 2012 2013 2014 2015 out performance monitoring based on the finalized indicators. The monitoring in accordance with the performance indicators is two-pronged ‘organization’ and ‘business’. CI-2 The organizational performance indicators consist of social philanthropic cost, education hours, ratio of net philanthropy, ratio of investment for local communities, and ratio of social philanthropic expenditure against sales revenue while business indicators include hours of employees’ participation in volunteer activities, net ratio of participation in volunteer Participation of Employees activities, and hours of volunteer activities per person. In 2015, Hankook Tire expanded social philanthropic ef18 times OrganizaNo. of in-house trainings about forts to make employees’ family engage in social contribution programs. 0.54 hour tional Perphilanthropy (Korea) formance Average in-house training hours Indicator Operate the Online Donation Website ‘Dreamfull’ KRW7.34 billion per person (Korea) Total investments ‘Dreamfull’ is an online donation website that we jointly 0.11 % in philanthropy Philanthropy expenditure operate with the Corporation Leftovers Love Sharing Com78.7 % to sales munity, a private non-profit organization, to help with the Percentage of charitable healthy growth of children and teens from low-income fam19.2 % donations Percentage of investments in ilies. The website allows diverse stakeholders (employees, 27,353 hours local communities customers and other businesses) to conveniently make Business Total volunteer activities hours donations. As joint donation initiatives, we undertake the ‘Going to School with Excitement’ campaign every May and 2.7 hours Perfor(Korea and Hungary) the ‘Matching Grant’ donation campaign at the end of every mance Volunteer activities hours per Indicator 33.4 % person (Korea and Hungary) Attendance rate in volunteer year on ‘Dreamfull’. In the 5th ‘Going to School with Exciteactivities (Korea) ment’ campaign in 2015, 55 bikes were donated for children from low-income families to help them commute to school. Through the ‘Matching Grant’ campaign hosted between NoReorganize Expenditure Structure for vember and December each year, Hankook Tire matches the Philanthropic Activities donations raised by employees and the general public. In the In 2015, Hankook Tire integrated the diverse channels to ex2015 Matching Grant campaign, launched under the slogan ecute social philanthropic expenditure in order to systematiof ‘Salary, Please Hear My Wish’, employees donated a cercally manage its company-wide social contribution activities. tain proportion of their salary to help children in need making We categorized budget items into donation and non-donadreams come true. We donated a total of KRW 400 million tion expenditure, requiring donation receipt only. This has for children in 2015: KRW 200 million donated through the allowed to raise the efficiency in spending company-wide campaign, KRW 200 million donated by Hankook Tire. social philanthropic budget. 68 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 FOCUS 06 Environmental Management Business Ethics & Transparency Stakeholder Satisfaction Expand the Scope of Target Volunteers and Programs The scope of participants of volunteer activities has been CI-3 expanded to employees and their family to promote our social philanthropic activities. Employees’ children in Seoul and Daejeon participated in voluntary activities during the Focusing on Core summer vacation (July and August) including outdoor activCompetence ities and pizza cheese making experience with handicapped children. From 2016, the temporary volunteer activities parHankook Tire created children’s traffic safety maps and ticipated by employees’ family in summer months of 2015 undertook three major Mobility projects that reflect the are expected to be running throughout the year. Furtherinherent features of the tire industry. more, we plan to collect opinions on the volunteer activities participated by employee’s family to diversify the scope of activities to volunteer camp, volunteer activities in our inhouse daycare center, club volunteer activities, and regular Align with Business Characteristics volunteer activities. Develop Children’s Traffic Safety Maps • We undertook the ‘Safe Driving, Safe Children’ project with the ‘Korean Association of Safe Communities’ to develop traffic safety maps Activities of Donggeurami Volunteering Team for children, helping elementary school students (high-risk Hankook Tire, in 2013, launched the Deonggeurami Volunteering Team group prone to traffic accidents) improve their capacity to consisting of employees working at Hungary Plant and domestic plants cope with risky situations while creating a community safe and the team has implemented a variety of volunteering services. Our from such accidents. For 10 months since August 2015, we Indonesia Plant also plans to launch an independent volunteering team in 2016. We aim to expand the volunteering hours per capita up to 4.5 developed such maps with primary school students in upper hours by 2020 through continuously encouraging volunteering activities. grades (4~6 grade) in 5 regions (Seoul, Gyeonggi, Incheon, Deajeon, and Chungnam). In addition, we suggested the improvement of regional traffic environment to public offices Korea and police stations. Our efforts resulted in revamping traffic 2013 2014 2015 lanes and crosswalks, installing reflectors and traffic lights, Total volunteer hours 20,054 27,103 25,312 and tightening parking enforcement. Our social-giving initiTotal volunteers (persons) 5,316 7,493 6,051 ative related to children’s traffic safety will continue in the Net participants (persons) 2,671 3,020 2,416 upcoming years. No. of volunteer activities 345 396 356 Undertake Three Major Mobility Projects Hungary Plant 1) Donggeurami Car Sharing: We have provided vehicles 2013 2014 2015 (compact cars) to social welfare centers since 2008 to help Total volunteer hours 1,600 2,227 2,041 improve the mobility convenience for their users. Introduced Total volunteers (persons) 66 104 314 to help enhance the efficiency of social welfare service, car Net participants (persons) 58 93 106 sharing is one of our key social philanthropic activities related No. of volunteer activities 10 18 23 to the Mobility area. In 2015, 40 vehicles have been donated through this project. As a result, social welfare centers across the nation currently operate a total of 307 vehicles. Also we Korea and Hungary Plants compile operational report in cooperation with participating 2013 2014 2015 centers every year to add to the impact of the project. Our Total volunteer hours 21,654 29,330 27,353 analyses of the operational reports discovered such benefits Total volunteers (persons) 5,382 7,597 6,365 as reduced operational expenses, and increased mobility No. of volunteer activities 355 414 379 in residential areas. These benefits significantly increased Volunteer hours per employee (hours) 2.3 3.0 2.7 the operational capacity of these centers. The operational Children’s Traffic Safety Maps Donggeurami Car Sharing Donggeurami Tuieum Bus Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 69 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Value Creation CI-4 reports serve as basis to identify needs to add convenient interior functionalities and safety options on car, enhancing the effect of vehicle operations through incentives (support for vehicle maintenance), and support for social welfare programs that use these vehicles. Fostering Local Community’s 2) Donggeurami Tire Sharing: Our tire sharing initiative is a Sustainability common global corporate philanthropic program undertaken in Korea, China and Hungary. In Korea, we replace old tires Hankook Tire developed diverse new programs to supand offered wheel alignment services for compact cars with port the sustainable growth of local communities. Hankook tires as well as vans owned by social welfare centers for business purposes. In Korea, 2,192 tires were offered to 548 vehicles in 2015. These activities are undertaken in Upgrade Programs to Support the Sustainable Growth of China and Hungary. In China, 674 tires were offered to the Local Communities and Launch New Projects One Foundation Rescue Union for one year from September Support Marginalized Women to Get Driver’s License (in2014. In Hungary, where such tire support began in 2012, cluding Self-sufficiency) • Hankook Tire undertook the ‘pro2,770 tires were provided in 2015 to public and small charity jects to support underprivileged women in obtaining drivorganizations. In so doing, we assist social welfare centers in ers’ license’ in 2014 in consideration of our Mobility project using our tires to operate vehicles safely and improve their and the increasing number of female drivers. To that end, mobility in Korea, China and Hungary. we have joined hands with the Human Rights Commission of Korea to select underprivileged women from across the 3) Donggeurami Tuieum Bus: Our Tuieum Bus project began nation to help them obtain driver’s license while carrying out in 2013 to provide large-size buses to social welfare centers other activities to support their self-sufficiency. In 2015, we that face mobility challenges to help the underprivileged supported 86 women from 5 regions (Seoul and Gyeonggi, enjoy diverse experiences in culture, history, ecology and Gangwon, Chungcheong, Jeolla, and Gyeongsang) in getting education. The pilot project named ‘Donggeurami Bus’ was driver’s license. Our plan is to expand the project to provide undertaken in 2012 and the highly positive response from follow-up support to ensure that the beneficiaries become participants inspired us to officially launch this project under fully independent. the name of ‘Tuieum Bus’ in June 2013. We broadened the scope of this project from merely offering vehicles to supSupport the Protection of Youths at Risk and Their Self-sufporting annual theme-based programs. We also provide speficiency • Hankook Tire has developed an integrated program cial buses equipped with lifts near the beach camping sites to support teenagers at risk of running away from home, open to the disabled free-of-charge in Yangyang, Gangwon dropping out of school, or committing crimes due to ecoto enable these mobility-challenged individuals to enjoy their nomic or social circumstances to ensure that they establish holiday. In 2014, we signed an MOU with Seoul City to use themselves as a proud member of our society. The Hankook Tuieum Buses in sending volunteers to disaster-stricken arTire Welfare Foundation has been carrying out programs to eas to help with swift on-site emergency response. In 2015, support at-risk teenagers’ protection, self-sufficiency, and we offered 463 buses in support of experience mobility and education since 2015. We plan to secure more partners on the number of Tuieum Buses supported for 4 years since this program going forward according to project evaluation. 2012 amounted to 1,300 units. We will expand our Tuieum Bus support to provide the freedom of mobility to even more Set up Manuals to Respond to Disasters on a Corporate Philpeople. anthropic Level • We experience major and small disasters each year. Hankook Tire has established a disaster response manual so that the local communities can cope with emergency by taking swift countermeasures. Referring to manuals developed by the Ministry of Public Safety and Security and other relief rescue agencies, Hankook Tire’s disaster response manual was specifically built around local communities as it defines supporting level and process depending on the types, region, and damage scale of disasters. We plan to observe the manual should a disaster at the national or global level ever break out. 70 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 FOCUS 06 Environmental Management Business Ethics & Transparency Stakeholder Satisfaction Hankook Tire Welfare Foundation CASE STUDY We established the Hankook Tire Welfare Foundation in December 1990 with a mission to reciprocate the value created through our business conduct and to fulfill our social responsibility. Over the past 25 years, the foundation has been consistently endeavoring to bring about a positive change in our society by pursuing sharing initiatives. Our social philanthropic activities, aimed at delivering values and happiness to the communities and the lives of children and teenagers, are centered on our core capability, the Mobility projects, as well as activities to support the communities and neighbors. The Hankook Tire Welfare Foundation pledges to commit itself to delivering sustainable social values as we keep ‘driving’ towards a better tomorrow. Mobility Project Support for Children and Teens Three Major Mobility Project • ‘Donggeurami Car Sharing’, Dream With • Hankook Tire offers ‘Dream With’, a project ‘Donggeurami Tire Sharing’, and ‘Donggeurami Tuieum Bus’ that brings together businesses, broadcasting systems, and are the three major Mobility projects undertaken in conjunccollege students to instill positive values in the minds of tion with Hankook Tire in reflection of its inherent characterchildren from local children’s centers while supporting the istics as a tire company. shared growth between them. The ‘Dream With’, which ran * For more details, please refer to CI-3 from March 2015 through November, saw 347 college students from volunteering teams visit a total of 21 regional Community Engagement children’s centers spending time with 350 kids in science, Support for Free Hospitals • Hankook Tire provides freemovie, marathon, humanities, and musical programs. Dream With has emerged as an exemplary collaboration model beof-charge treatment, surgeries and prescriptions to socially tween business, broadcasters, and NGOs. marginalized groups who are not protected within the instiSupport for At-risk Teenagers • This project aims to establish tutional medical welfare boundary. We have been operating free charity hospitals operated purely on donations, void an integrated program to support teenagers at risk of runof any assistance from the Government for 25 years since ning away from home, dropping out of school, or committing 1991. In 2015, we supported a total of five such hospitals crimes due to economic or social circumstances, ensuring that (Seongga Bokji Hospital, Joseph Clinic, Raphael Clinic, Clinic they establish themselves as a proud member of our society. for Immigrant Workers at the Sharing Love in the Global Vil* For more details, please refer to CI-4 lage and Daegu Seongshim Hospital) to help such individuals lead healthy life. Support for Children and Teens from Low-income Families • We continue to support children and teens who, due to ecoSupport for Social Welfare Centers • We have supported sonomic and environmental factors, have difficulties in affordcial welfare centers to help improve the living conditions and ing education or finding a career path. We provide livelihood the quality of life for the disabled, the elderly, children and assistance and mentor-matching service so that they can lead many other underprivileged individuals in our society since a happy life both emotionally and physically. In 2015, we prothe establishment of the foundation. Our activities in 2015 vided monthly living expenses to 30 children and teens from include family camp for leukemia children, support for teenlow-income families. age runaway centers, and learning support for North Korean Scholarship Support • Since our foundation in 1990, we have refugee teenagers. Establishment of Free Hospitals in Third World Countries • been offering scholarships to high school and college students who face hardships in continuing their education due to finanSince our establishment in 2007, we have supported the cial challenges. In 2015, we granted quarterly tuition subsidies construction of free hospitals in third-world countries. We to 19 students in 14 high schools and semester scholarships to have built such hospitals in East Timor, two countries in Afri3 college students. Moving beyond financial support, we also ca, and Paraguay. Following the completion of a free hospital ran emotional support programs through scholarship group in Indonesia in 2014 after four years of support, this project activities. The Foundation promises to expand its supporting was finished with a follow-up program in 2015. activities for teenagers so that they unleash their full potential. Achievements in 2015 and Plans for 2016 (Unit: KRW in thousands) Projects Project Details Achievements in 2015 Plans for 2016 Mobility Project Three major Mobility projects* 1,119,259 1,300,000 Engagement in Local Support for free hospitals 110,000 120,000 Communities Support for social welfare centers 40,000 40,000 Construction of free hospitals in third-world countries 30,000 Support for Children and ‘Dream With’ 250,000 250,000 Youths Support for youths at risk* 234,700 300,000 Donggeurami House* 3,050,000 Support for children and youths from low-income families 65,347 46,000 Scholarship 46,333 60,000 Total 1,895,639 5,166,000 * Our three major Mobility projects, supports for youths at risk, and Donggeurami House program are sourced from Hankook Tire’s budget. Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 71 Appendix CSR Principle 73 UN Sustainable Development Goals 74 UN Global Compact 74 Awards and Certifications 75 Membership 75 Performance Summary 76 Government-led R&D Projects and Government Investments 78 GRI G4 Guideline Index 79 Independent Assurance Statement 82 CSR Principle CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLE Regular CSR Diagnosis and Monitoring With our in-house CSR self-evaluation model covering relevant global standards and local regulations, we perform diagnoses and Purpose and Intent evaluations every year while the CSR Team works with the Steering The CSR Principles are fundamental guidelines to redefine our Committee to constantly monitor progress and outstanding issues. corporate social responsibility and build CSR into our company culture that serves as the bedrock of our business operations. Company-Wide CSR Training and Consensus Building These principles are the essence of our endeavors for providing To propagate CSR policies and build consensus among employees, the best-possible value to our stakeholders and in fulfilling our we set up and carry out annual enterprise-wide CSR training plans. roles and responsibilities as a corporate citizen in leading sustainable development and growth beyond the tire industry. Dialogue with Stakeholders and Information Disclosure Our definition of core stakeholders includes customers, emRegular Review and Report ployees, suppliers, local communities, nature/ecology/climate, Our CSR Strategy Committee annually reviews the CSR Principles and shareholders, and investors. We provide regular and official venmodifies or updates detailed operational guidelines if deemed necesues for stakeholder dialogue by building permanent communicasary through materiality analyses including stakeholder dialogue. tion channels and annual communication plans. Such activities are utilized successfully in setting future business and CSR initiaIntegrated CSR Management tives. In addition, our CSR and business achievements and plans To propel our CSR activities forward more systematically on a are disclosed in a transparent and thorough manner through our companywide level, we established the integrated CSR manageannual CSR Reports, corporate website, and diverse communicament system in the following way. First, our CSR Strategy Comtion channels customized for different stakeholder associations. mittee functions as the top CSR decision-making body attended by the board of directors and top management. Second, our CSR Integrated Risk Management Steering Committee is operated under an integrated management We ensure systemic management of and appropriate response to system as a working-level association comprised of executives and nonfinancial risks (e.g. SEE, which stands for Social, Environmenemployees in charge of respective CSR issues. Third, our dedicated tal, and Ethical risk) as well as consistent management of financial CSR Team defines CSR roles and responsibilities such as comparisks. In particular, we define all CSR Focus Areas as risk issues ny-wide CSR planning, operations, and CSR report publication. and encourage companywide response measures under the integrated management system of the CSR Steering Committee. Stipulation of CSR Policy Our CSR policies, systems and issue-specific action plans must be clearly stipulated and disseminated both internally and externally so that they are executed across the board. Environmental Policy Social Contribution Charter Our environmental guidelines aim to deliver proactive environOur Statements ment management practices across the entire spectrum of our 1. ‌We continuously propagate our social and environmental values business activities from production to sales and services in line through economic and business activities and contribute to lowith our management philosophy and vision, thereby making sigcal economies. nificant contributions towards a cleaner environment. To this end, 2. ‌We promote superior product quality and client safety through we are determined to follow these policies. customer-oriented management practices. 3. ‌We do our utmost to minimize our environmental footprint 1. ‌We recognize the environment as a critical factor in managethroughout the entire business sector and in the communities ment strategy. we operate in. 2. ‌With sustained investments, process improvements and appro4. ‌We fully commit ourselves to supporting socially vulnerable and priate technology, we fundamentally minimize emissions of enunderprivileged populations by bestowing to society the values vironmental pollutants and promote recycling. we generate. 3. ‌We apply in-house environmental regulations, rules, and stand5. ‌We are pioneers in making our society healthier through proards that are more stringent than what is required by law from moting the welfare of our employees and providing local comproduct manufacturing to sales and services to disposal. munities with medical support based on our human-focused 4. ‌Our environmental goals and detailed targets are fixed and management philosophy. performed based on the pre-evaluation of our environmental impact, which enables sustained improvements. Characteristics and Direction 5. ‌We train and educate all employees on environmental issues in 1. ‌We ensure that our social charity activities stand congruent the confidence that they will come to recognize the impact of with our core business practices so that our corporate action their respective responsibilities. may promote social benefit. 6. ‌To ensure transparency in our environmental management, our 2. ‌We focus our company-wide capacities on our main philanthropguidelines are made available to stakeholders. Moreover, we ic programs to ensure that our social contribution activities are encourage our affiliated companies to conduct business with a executed with clear purpose. more eco-friendly approach. 3. ‌Our philanthropic activities are performed practically in ways that can resolve concerns and problems in local communities. Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 73 UN Sustainable Development Goals Hankook Tire is committed to joining and fulfilling the UN Sustainable Development Goals. In particular, we will further focus on the following major four goals: achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls; promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and decent work for all; reduce inequality within and among countries; and take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. No. Sustainable Activities of Hankook Tire Development Goals 5 Achieve gender equality and ㆍElimination of gender discrimination through sexual harassment prevention trainings and monitoring by the Compliance Committee empower all women and girls ㆍEnsure gender equality and empower women and girls by establishing the human rights management system based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights 8 Promote inclusive and ㆍContribution to economic development by investing KRW 990,177 million in 2015 sustainable economic growth, ① Korea: KRW 320,004 million ② China: KRW 257,594 million ③ US: KRW 160,256 million employment and decent work ④ Europe: KRW 54,752 million ⑤ Asia: KRW 194,848 million ⑥ Others: KRW 2,723 million ㆍContribution to job creation by hiring 3,368 persons in 2015 for all ① Korea: 210 persons ② China: 1,492 persons ③ US: 97 persons ④ Europe: 802 persons ⑤ Asia: 767 persons 10 Reduce inequality within and ㆍReduction of economic and cultural inequality of low-income handicapped people, senior citizens, and local residents through among countries volunteering activities: 6,365 employees/379 activities/27,353 hours ㆍSupports for underprivileged children through Dreamfull, an online donation platform: 39,245 donations/KRW 679,164,773 ㆍSupports for underprivileged women for acquiring drivers’ licences to help their self-sufficiency: 86 women in Seoul, Gyeonggi-do, Jeolla-do, Chungcheong-do, Gyenogsang-do, and Gangwon-do ㆍ ‌Operation of the Allkidstra Geumsan Chubu Brass Band consisting of children with cultural disadvantage: 45 children ㆍCar sharing to solve inequality of mobility of low-income group in the local communities: a total of 307 cars from 2008 to 2015 ㆍTire sharing to improve the mobility of social welfare facilities and solve risks from decrepit tires: a total of 11,754 tires for 2,939 cars from 2010 to 2015 ㆍSupports for people with cultural disadvantage through the Tuieum Bus project: 1,300 buses from 2012 to 2015 ㆍPursuit of co-prosperity between local children’s centers and university students through the Dream With project: diverse programs for 350 children of the community childcare centers conducted by a total of 347 participants from 21 university clubs ㆍOperation of shelters and cafes to help at-risk teenagers’ safety and self-sufficiency: 12 teenagers benefited from safe home and barista training 13 Take urgent action to ㆍReduction of more than 60,000 tCO2-eq GHG emissions annually by replacing boiler fuels at plants with LNG, installing high combat climate change and energy-efficiency equipment, recovering waste heat, and improving processes its impacts ㆍReduction of GHG emissions in transporting finished products by optimizing transport routes ㆍImprovement of fuel efficiency through continuous R&D: Our Enfren Eco and Kinergy Eco tires which are low carbon products save 16% fuel consumption and reduce more than 1,506,920 tCO2-eq GHG emissions compared with existing tires. UN Global Compact Hankook Tire joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in December 2012. We respect the 10 principles suggested by the UNGC and thus report our achievements and future plans concerning our compliance with the UNGC principles through this report. We will fully comply with these principles, and in doing so we will fulfill our role as a responsible corporate citizen. Principle Report Content Page Human Rights Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Employee Value Creation 42~47 Win-Win Supply Chain Partnership 62~65 Principle 2. Businesses should ensure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of Employee Value Creation 42~47 the right to collective bargaining Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Employee Value Creation 42~47 Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Win-Win Supply Chain Partnership 62~65 Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 42~47, Employee Value Creation and occupation. 76~77 Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Environmental Management 48~57 Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Business Ethics & Transparency 58~61 bribery. 74 Awards and Certifications As of December 2015 Areas Award Details Sustainability & Dow Jones ㆍSupervised by the Korea Productivity Center Environmental Sustainability Indices ㆍIncluded in the DJSI Asia Pacific for three consecutive years Management ㆍIncluded in the DJSI Korea for five consecutive years CDP (the former Carbon ㆍSupervised by CDP Korea Disclosure Project) ㆍReceived the Carbon Management Sector Winners Award for two consecutive years Green Star ㆍSupervised by the Korea Management Association Registrations & Assessments (KMAR) ㆍAwarded for eight consecutive years Corporate Reputation & Korea’s Most Admired ㆍSupervised by the Korea Management Association Culture Companies Consulting ㆍAwarded for six consecutive years Quality & Technology Excellent Quality ㆍSupervised by the Korean Standards Association Competitiveness Enterprise ㆍAwarded for six consecutive years Inno Star ㆍSupervised by the Korea Management Association Registrations & Assessments (KMAR) ㆍAwarded for four consecutive years Korean Standard-Quality ㆍSupervised by the Korean Standards Association Excellence Index (KS-QEI) ㆍHankook Tire: Awarded for seven consecutive years (Hankook Tire, T’Station) ㆍT’Station: Awarded for two consecutive years Brand Value Service Quality ㆍSupervised by the Korea Association for Service Certification (SQ) ㆍThe second certification in 2014 Korea Brand Power Index (K-BPI) ㆍSupervised by the Korea Management Association Consulting (Hankook Tire, T’Station) ㆍHankook Tire: Awarded for 13 consecutive years ㆍT’Station: Awarded for seven consecutive years National Brand ㆍSupervised by the Korea Productivity Center Competitiveness Index (NBCI) ㆍAwarded for seven consecutive years Best Korea Brands ㆍSupervised by Interbrand ㆍAwarded for three consecutive years Design Red Dot Award ㆍSupervised by Design Zentrum Nordrhein Westfalen (Essen, Germany) ㆍWinner Award: Winter i*cept evo2 and Smart Control AW02 ㆍLuminary Best of Best Award: Boostrac IDEA ㆍSupervised by the Industrial Design Society of America (IDSA) ㆍAwarded to: Alpike, hyBlade, Boostrac Good Design Award ㆍSupervised by the Korea Institute of Design Promotion (KIDP) ㆍAwarded to: Winter i*cept evo2 iF Design Award ㆍSupervised by iF international Forum Design GmbH Winner Award ㆍ ‌Winter i*cept evo2, Alpike, Boostrac ㆍGold Award: hyBlade Membership Korea Industrial Korea Fire Safety Federation of Korean Korea International Korea Electric Engineers Technology Association Association Industries Trade Association Association Human Resource Korea Environmental Korea Tire Manufacturers Korea Industrial Safety Korea Chamber of Development Forum Preservation Association Association Association Commerce & Industry Korea Business Council for Korea Management Association BEST Forum WBCSD-TIPG* Sustainable Development (KBCSD) * ‌TIPG refers to the Tier Industry Project Group under the World Business Council of Sustainable Development. In 2005, we formed a consultative body along with 10 other global tire manufacturers to perform research and work together for the sustainable future of the tire industry. Research topics include the identification of the impact of tire particulate matters generated in tire use on the environment and human body as well as requirements for the eco-friendly re-collection, recycling and disposal of used tires and the environmental impact of tire materials. In so doing, we at Hankook Tire contribute to the sustainable development of the tire industry. Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 75 Performance Summary Item Unit 2012 2013 2014 2015 Economic performance (consolidated) Sales KRW in millions 2,317,223 7,069,238 6,680,848 6,428,173 Cost of sales 1,561,773 4,710,851 4,280,801 4,084,046 Gross income 755,450 2,358,387 2,400,047 2,344,127 Operating income 308,592 1,031,006 1,031,637 884,990 Income before tax 293,528 989,675 935,634 839,374 Income tax 62,514 254,644 236,339 182,870 Net income 231,014 735,032 699,295 656,504 Other comprehensive income (74,107) 17,159 (57,417) 17,352 Total comprehensive income 156,907 752,191 641,878 673,856 Total assets 7,182,454 7,776,713 8,320,082 9,496,138 Total liabilities 3,960,969 3,852,578 3,803,609 4,355,350 Total equity 3,221,486 3,924,136 4,516,473 5,140,788 Patent registration Domestic Items 172 206 273 79 Overseas 27 29 25 19 Patent application Domestic 246 141 116 62 Overseas 36 43 44 49 Environmental performance Energy Consumption GJ 10,653,603 11,850,202 11,749,260 11,844,819 Intensity GJ/tons 9.82 10.11 10.08 10.10 Greenhouse Scope 1 tCO2-eq 233,632 253,403 247,899 250,838 gas Scope 2 829,392 952,451 933,152 951,398 Total 1,063,024 1,205,854 1,181,051 1,202,236 Intensity tCO2-eq/tons 0.980 1.029 1.013 1.025 COD Emissions tons 118.21 86.56 74.04 68.62 Intensity g/tons 108.72 73.85 63.49 58.49 Waste Treated tons 42,296 46,554 49,298 49,661 Intensity kg/tons 38.90 39.72 42.28 42.33 Recycling rate % 73.90 77.02 78.25 77.01 Water Consumption m3 7,081,540 7,402,267 7,420,364 6,934,645 Intensity m3/tons 6.53 6.31 6.36 5.91 Treated water Emissions m3 2,118,295 2,167,832 2,010,099 1,948,905 Intensity m3/tons 1.95 1.85 1.72 1.66 Recycling rate % 21.73 26.17 36.12 32.52 Raw materials Consumption tons 931,224 1,004,564 970,355 1,013,850 Intensity tons/tons 0.86 0.86 0.83 0.86 Ratio of eco-friendly products* % 21.47 24.12 44.11 47.14 Ratio of LCA-performed products 0.62 6.58 27.31 21.57 Social performance Employees Total employees Domestic Persons 6,598 6,897 6,911 6,934 Overseas (Korean) 249 270 295 302 Overseas (Local) 12,662 13,759 14,134 14,500 Total 19,509 20,926 21,340 21,736 New recruits Office staff (Korea) Persons 321 266 194 178 Operators (Korea) 255 311 62 32 Office staff (Local) 558 550 478 373 Operators (Local) 4,470 3,776 3,564 2,785 Total 5,604 4,903 4,298 3,368 Job category Office staff Persons 4,607 5,010 5,153 5,268 Operators 14,902 15,916 16,187 16,468 Employment type Regular Persons 6,834 7,146 7,178 7,210 (Korea) Non-regular 13 21 28 26 Non-regular rate % 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.4 Parental leave Applicants Persons 15 22 19 26 (Korea) Return to work 15 20 16 24 Rate of return % 100 90.9 84.2 92.3 Employees Parental leave Applicants Persons 31 35 43 66 (overseas) Return to work 24 29 38 13 Rate of return % 77.4 82.9 88.4 19.7 *‌Re-established the eco-friendly product calculation criteria since 2014 76 Item Unit 2012 2013 2014 2015 Employees Female Office staff Persons 771 878 927 948 Operators 571 601 573 577 Ratio of female % workers 6.9 7.1 7.0 7.0 Ratio of female managers* 5.0 6.3 6.5 7.1 New recruits Persons (Korea) 75 72 51 22 Diversity Handicapped Persons (Korea) 83 83 82 88 Local recruits Total employees Persons overseas 12,911 14,029 14,429 14,802 Korean expatriates 249 270 295 302 Local employees 12,662 13,759 14,134 14,500 Ratio of local % employees 98.1 98.1 98.0 98.0 Local managers Persons 533 618 677 735 Ratio of local % managers 4.1 4.4 4.7 5.0 Employees by Korea Persons 6,597 6,897 6,911 6,933 region China 8,775 9,192 8,751 8,285 Europe 2,700 3,028 3,742 3,876 America 241 263 287 351 Middle East, AsiaPacific 1,196 1,546 1,649 2,291 Total 19,509 20,926 21,340 21,736 Local employees China Persons 8,697 9,109 8,668 8,202 by region Europe 2,619 2,943 3,655 3,794 America 209 228 232 279 Middle East, AsiaPacific 1,137 1,479 1,579 2,225 Total 12,662 13,759 14,134 14,500 Retirement Office staff Persons 343 375 491 593 Operators 2,853 2,163 2,130 2,475 Avg. service years (Korea) Years 11.5 11.5 12.0 12.7 Performance & Ratio of regular % Compensation performance (Korea) evaluees 99.8 99.7 99.6 99.6 Grievance No. of grievances Cases handling (Korea) handled 32 16 19 45 Labor union Union member Persons (Korea) targets 6,598 6,897 6,911 6,934 Union members (1st Labor Union) 4,731 4,813 4,801 4,337 Health & Safety Accident rate 1.10 0.71 0.61 0.79 Accident severity rate 0.45 0.15 0.15 0.19 Smoking rate % 20.9 13.9 10.6 11.4 Employee No. of trainees Office staff Persons 5,002 4,974 training** Operators 16,116 16,390 Total 21,118 21,364 Training hours Office staff Hours 313,335 330,927 Operators 389,069 401,949 Total 702,404 732,876 Training hours per Office staff Hours 62.6 66.5 capita Operators 24.1 24.5 Total 33.3 34.3 Training on sexual Office staff Persons harassment (Korea) 1,356 1,773 Training on human rights 129 * No. of female managers/No. of total managers ** ‌T he figures differ from those of CSR Report 2014/15 due to the expansion of data criteria to company-wide office staff and operators. The changed data criteria will be used in the future. Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 77 Performance Summary Item Unit 2012 2013 2014 2015 Suppliers Percentage of Raw materials % 61.9 63.1 local purchasing Facilities 87.0 97.2 Indirect 97.5 96.1 Total 67.9 69.3 CSR evaluation of Raw materials Items 13 14 30 suppliers Facilities 57 71 183 Indirect 18 74 109 Total 88 159 322 Customers Customer satisfaction Points 85.3 86.6 88.8 No. of complaints regarding personal Cases information 4 2 3 0 Ethics No. of reports Cases 25 17 26 44 management Self-diagnosis score Points 71 82 75 73 No. of regulation violators Cases 0 0 0 0 No. of fair trade violations* 0 0 0 1 Corporate Expenses for corporate philanthropy KRW in millions 3,036 4,166 4,835 7,339 Philanthropy Philanthropic expenses to sales % 0.04 0.06 0.07 0.11 Volunteer activities Volunteer activities Hours (Korea, Hungary) hours 21,654 29,330 27,353 Participants in Persons volunteer activities 5,382 7,597 6,365 No. of volunteer Cases activities 355 414 379 Volunteer activities Hours hour per capita 2.3 3.0 2.7 * ‌The Fair Trade Commission ordered us not to exceed the limit of giveaway in March 2015 due to an overpayment at our previous customer appreciation event. In accordance with this corrective measure, we frequently monitor all events to prevent the occurrence of the same violation. Government-led R&D Projects and Government Investments Name of Project Details Supervising Team Total R&D Government Role Period Investment (KRW in thousands) Development of Clean Developing eco-friendly tire New Concept Tire Jun. 1, 2010~ 4,271,900 Participation Industrial Source Technology manufacturing technology through the Project Team Mar. 31, 2015 use of urethane uni-material Carbon-Reducing KetoneDeveloping polyketone fiber composite Raw Material Sep. 1, 2010~ 1,041,910 Participation Based Premium Fiber and materials Development Team Mar. 31, 2019 Resin Development of Grade Y Developing grade Y fuel-saving runflat Runflat Dec. 1, 2011~ 2,353,000 Supervision Fuel-Saving Runflat Tires for tires for passenger vehicles Project Team Mar. 31, 2016 Passenger Vehicles R&D Project to Develop Securing core technology for TOP, Sep. 1, 2013~ 2,600,000 Supervision High-End Automobile motorsports tires and developing ultra G Project Team Aug. 31, 2017 Parts Brands under the high-performance racing tires that meet Economic Region-Specific F1 requirements Base Organization Support Project Development of Core Developing graphite metal-form hybrid Proactive LAB Dec. 1, 2014~ 180,000 Participation Platform Technology for separators Nov. 30, 2017 Foam-Type Polymer Fuel Cell Stacks 78 GRI G4 Guideline Index General Standard Disclosures Indicators Contents Page Assurance Note Strategy and G4-1 A general strategic view of the organizations’s sustainability, in order to providd context for subsequent, 4, 10~15 Analysis more detailed reporting against other sections of the Guidelines. G4-2 A description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 24~29 Oranizational G4-3 Name of the organization 6 Profile G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 7 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 6 G4-6 The number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the 6 organization has significant operatios or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 6 G4-8 Markets served 6 (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) G4-9 Scale of the organization 6, 75 G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract, gender, region, work scope of non-permanent 76~77 employees, significant changes in number of employees G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 77 G4-12 The organization’s supply chain 62~65 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period egarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership or N/A supply chain G4-14 Reporting whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 10~15, 73 G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, or other initiatives to which the 74 organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of association and national or international advocacy organizations 75 Identified G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 76 Please refer to material the business Aspects and report Boundaries G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries and how they are implemented 18~19 G4-19 All the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content G4-20 Report on whether the Aspect is material within the organization G4-21 Report on whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, 38, 46, and the reasons for such restatements 52~53, 57, 76, 77 G4-23 Significant changes in the Aspect Boundaries and the Aspect in post-reporting period N/A Stakeholder G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 15~17 Engagement G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 15 G4-26 The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement 15~19 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that havae been raised through stakeholder engagement and how the organi15~17 zation has responded to those key topic and concerns Report G4-28 Reporting period for information provided 2 Profile G4-29 Date of most recent previous report G4-30 Reporting cycle G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report for its contents 85 G4-32 Report on ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen, the GRI Content Index for the chosen 79~83 option, the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured G4-33 Report on the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report, the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers, and whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report Governance G4-34 The governance structure of the organization, including committees of the hightest governance body 10~15 G4-35 The process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest 22~23 governance body to senior executives and other employees G4-36 ⑴ ‌Report on whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body ⑵ ‌System that enable responsible executives directly report to governance organization G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 22~23 G4-39 Report on whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer G4-40 Report on the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members G4-41 Report on processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed G4-42 The highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating 10~15 of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to 22~23 economic, environmental and social impacts G4-44 ⑴ ‌The processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics ⑵ ‌Actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice G4-45 ⑴ ‌The highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities ⑵ ‌Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-46 The highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 79 GRI G4 Guideline Index Indicators Contents Page Assurance Note Governance G4-47 The frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, 10~15 risks, and opportunities 22~23 G4-48 The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered G4-49 The process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body 22~23 G4-50 The nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them G4-51 ⑴ ‌The remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration ⑵ ‌How performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives G4-52 Report on the process for determining remuneration and relationship which the remuneration consultants have with the organization G4-54 The ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country Ethics and G4-56 The Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and 58~61 Integrity codes of ethics G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as advice lines G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on unethical and unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Specific Standard Disclosures Economic Disclosures on G4-DMA ⑴ ‌Why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material 18, 24, 30, Management ⑵ How the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts 34, 38, 42, Approach ⑶ The evaluation of the management approach 48, 54, 58, 62, 66 Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 8~9, 75 Performance G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate 54~57 change G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Retirement pension program (DC and DB types) G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government 78 Market G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation 77 Presence Indirect EconomG4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 66~71 ic Impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Procurement G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 64 Practices Environmental Material G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 53 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 52~53 Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 54~57 G4-EN5 Energy intensity G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 53 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water G4-EN10 Total water withdrawal by source Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 57 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity G4-EN19 Reduction of reenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Effluents and G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 52~53 Waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills G4-EN25 Weight of transformed, imported, exported, or treated wasted deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Products and G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 48~53 Services G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 9 Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with No violation environmental laws and regulations Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investment by type 57 Supplier G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 65 Environmental G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 65 Assessment Environmental G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal griev44 Grievance ance mechanisms Mechanisms Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region 77 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Labor/ManageG4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collec44 ment Relations tive agreements 80 Indicators Contents Page Assurance Note Occupational G4-LA5 Percentage of total work force represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety 38~41 Health and commitments that help monitor and advise on ccupational health and safety programs Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence ofr high risk of diseases related to their occupation G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Training and G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 46, 77 Education G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category Diversity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees and Equal Opportunity Equal RemunerG4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations No difference ation for Women of operation for the same and Men position Supplier AssessG4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practice criteria 65 ment for Labor G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken Practices Labor Practices G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance 44 Grievance mechanisms Mechanisms Human Rights Investment G4-HR1 Total number and percentalge of significant investment agreements and contracts that included human 14, 45 rights clauses or that underswent human rights screening G4-HR2 Total number of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained NonG4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No violation discrimination Freedom of G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective 45 Association bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights and Collective Bargaining Child Labor G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Forced or ComG4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents or forced or compulsory labor, pulsory labor and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments Supplier G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 65 Human Rights G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Assessment Human Rights G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal griev44 Grievance ance mechanisms mechanisms Society Local G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and 66~71 Communities development programs G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant 58-61 risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary None Anti-competitive G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their 78 Behavior outcomes Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with No violation laws and regulations Supplier G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 65 Assessment G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken for Impacts on Society Grievance G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance 44 Mechanisms mechanisms for Impacts on Society Product Responsibility Customer G4-PR1 Percentage of significant products and services categories for which health and safety impacts are 51~52 Health and assessed for improvement Safety G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health No violation and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and 51~52 Service labeling service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service No violation information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 36 Marketing G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputes products None Communications G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing No violation communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of custom27 None Privacy er data Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the proviNo violation sion and use of products and services Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 81 Independent Assurance Statement To the management of Hankook Tire At request of Hankook Tire (the “Company”)’, we have reviewed the information presented in the CSR Report 2015/16 (the “Report”). The management of the Company is responsible for preparing the Report. Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance engagement on the Report and to provide opinions on it based on our review. Procedures performed We conducted our engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000* and the requirements of a Type 2 assurance engagement as defined by AA1000AS (2008)**. We performed the following procedures to form our conclusion on the Report: ‧Reviewed the Company’s stakeholder engagement and materiality assessment process. ‧Reviewed media sources addressing sustainability issues during the Reporting period that are relevant to the Company. ‧Searched the media coverage of the Company’s sustainability issues during the applicable reporting period. ‧Analyzed latest sustainability reports published by industry peers. ‧‌Interviewed a selection of people in charge to understand the current status of sustainability performance and the Reporting process during the Reporting period. ‧‌Reviewed selected data regarding the Company’s sustainability performance, supporting evidence for assertions, and information from corporate-wide systems. ‧Reviewed The Company’s process for collecting and consolidating sustainability performance data. ‧‌Reviewed whether financial performance data has been extracted properly from the Company’s audited financial statements. * ‌International Standard on Assurance Engagement (Revised) : Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information from International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board ** AA1000AS(2008) : The second edition of the AA1000 Assurance Standard from AccountAbility Level of assurance We undertook a limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000. The nature, timing and the extent of procedures for gathering sufficient, appropriate evidence are deliberately limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the limited assurance of ISAE 3000 is in accordance with the moderate level as defined by AA1000AS (2008). The limitations of our review We excluded GHG (Greenhouse Gas) emissions in our limited assurance engagement. And, we did not review environmental and social performance data prior to 2013. However, we reviewed financial performance data based on the Company’s 2015 audited financial statements. Our conclusions The result of our review is outlined below. Inclusivity Has the Company engaged with stakeholders across the business to develop and implement its approach to sustainability? ‧ ‌We are not aware of any key stakeholder groups that have been excluded from the stakeholder engagement process outlined in the Report. ‧ ‌We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to conclude that the Company has not applied the inclusivity principle in developing its approach to sustainability. Materiality Has the Company provided a balanced representation of material issues concerning its sustainability performance? ‧ ‌We are not aware of any material aspects concerning the Company’s sustainability performance which have been excluded from the Report. ‧ ‌Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Company’s management has not applied its processes for determining material issues to be included in the Report. 82 Responsiveness Has the Company responded to the stakeholder concerns? ‧ ‌We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to conclude that the Company has not applied the responsiveness principle in considering the matters to be reported. Completeness and accuracy of performance information How complete and accurate is the economic, social, and environmental performance data in the Report? ‧ ‌We are not aware of any that have been excluded from the economic, social, and environmental performance data. ‧ ‌Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data relating to the above topics has not been collated properly from the Company’s reporting processes. How plausible are the statements and claims within the Report? ‧ ‌We are not aware of any misstatements of information or explanation used to support statements and claims on the Company’s sustainability activities presented in the Report. Observations and areas for improvement Without prejudice to our conclusions presented above, we believe the following matters require attention in order to improve the Company’s CSR Report. ‧ ‌It is recommended that the Company establishes specific objectives regarding each of its CSR areas, manages achievements and reports their progress. Such endeavors are significant in terms of internal management of each area, that also ensure to be more systematic and credible for reporting CSR achievements. ‧ ‌The scope of the Report covers the Head Office, all domestic operations as well as overseas businesses regarding some limited quantitative and qualitative data. Considering the Company’s initiative to expand global operations, it is necessary to expand the reporting scope to both domestic as well as overseas operations. Independence We comply with the Ethical Standard issued by IFAC (International Federation of Accountants). Our assurance team The assurance engagement was performed by the engagement team with a long history of experience and expertise in sustainability area. Jin-Sug Suh Regional Managing Partner EY Han Young Seoul, Korea May 2016 Hankook Tire CSR Report 2015/16 83 Hankook Tire Employees Involved in the Preparation of the CSR Report 2015/16 General Management of the Report Publication Jong Yune Kim, Seong Ha Yoon General Management of the Planning of the Report Publication Na Lee Gu, Hwan Hee Kim CSR Report General Design Management Dong Wook Kim Design Planning Jone Ha CG Responsible Corporate Governance Board of Directors Dae Won Hong Risk Management Eun Kyu Lee IR Integrated Risk Management Crisis Management System Yoo Seong Choi CS C ustomer Satisfaction & Quality Car maker Soo Jin Kim Management General Customers and Dealers Yun Jae Lee HS Employee Health & Safety Management Safety & Health Management Seon Uk Kim Employee Value Creation Sang Hoon Moon EV Employee Value Creation HRM, HRD, Communication Kang Hyun Yoo, Tae Min An Integrated Environmental Management Sun Mi Jang Climate Change & GHG Management Yoo Seong Choi, Hyo Geun Lee EM Environmental Management Environmental Management at Worksites Il Kwon Song, Ji Hun Lee Eco-friendly Produce Development Da Eun Park BE Business Ethics & Transparency Business Ethics & Transparency Min Seo Kim Win-Win Supply Chain Partnership Soo Eun Lim SS Stakeholder Satisfaction Management Corporate Philanthropy Yoon Mo Yang Hankook Tire Welfare Foundation Seong Youn Jeon Brand & Product Ji Sue Choi Appendix Government-Commissioned R&D Projects Da Eun Park 84 Detailed Information on the Report For more information or inquiries on this report, please contact us at: Hankook Tire, 133 Teheran-ro (Yeoksam-dong), Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea Tel +82-2-2222-1670~9 Fax +82-2-2222-1721 E-mail csr@hankooktire.com www.hankooktire.com Date of Publication June 2016 Publisher Seung Hwa Suh Publishing Company Hankook Tire Co., Ltd. Planning & Development CSR Team Design & Editing IR PLUS +82-2-557-9592 This report was printed in soy ink on FSC-certified socially responsible paper. Hankook Tire’s commitment to a cleaner environment starts with small, yet significant steps.
