Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact PAAGEORGI LIMITED Annual Report Introduction Paageorgi Limited is committed to the Principles of UN Global Compact and its continuous support. The company will also dedicate its support to the local Network and its values. Paageorgi Limited is a privately owned general construction company registered in Ghana and located at Batsonaa in Accra Ghana. The company supports the need to support corporate and national policies and strategies to enhance good governance, socio-economic and environmental programs. PAAGEORGI Limited is a national registered company and offers services in Health, Water Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH), urban water infrastructural development and Land development and land-use management. I direct corporate business and conduct research and review technical reports built environmental management and environmental health. My responsibilities include developing business plans and negotiate contract documents and financial management of projects. I participate in seminars, workshops, policy review meetings and business development, private sector and local content management in the oil and gas sector, building and general construction and in water and land use management reform processes and policy formulation. I contribute to consultancy and project proposal development leading to contract tenders. I supervise the implementation delivery projects and develop regulatory and statutory reports. I train employees and interns and I Page | 1 Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact take part in public debates on emerging climate change readiness and water infrastructural development. The company currently has a total workforce of twenty employees who are responsible for the daily operations of the company. The employment hierarchy ranges from management to casual workers and consist of both males and females. Workforce status of Paageorgi Limited: Employee status Number Management 2 Senior 5 Junior 8 Casual 5 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Cognizant of the requirements of the environmental protection agency Act 1994, (LI1652) Paageorgi Limited is committed to sound environmental management and will incorporate environmental issues in it operation and business decisions. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY Management recognizes that occupational health and safety is an integral and critical part of the company’s performance and is committed to ensuring that high performance is achieved. Sufficient resources and provisions are made available to ensure that: 1. Risk to the health and safety of employees operating for Paageorgi Limited are managed and that work equipment supplied by the company is safe and without risk to the health and safety of persons operating such equipment. Page | 2 Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact 2. Sufficient information, instruction and supervision is extended to employees to ensure their competence and safety in the course of their work. 3. Healthy working environment with adequate welfare facilities is maintained. 4. Wearing of protective working gears is properly enforced. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY ISSUES The company has a health and safety officer who ensures that staff has the requisite training to work on the various machines used in operation to prevent injury and other work related accidents. As a result, no major injury cases has yet been recorded during years under review. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF COMPANYS WORK 1. Construction of residential houses with climate change retrofitting structures. 2. Construction of concrete gutters and bridges. 3. Construction of groundwater infrastructure for domestic and irrigation use. THE LABOUR ACT 2003 The children’s Act, No. 560 of 1998, defined a child as a person below the age of 18 years. Section 12 and 87 prohibit engaging a child in exploitative labour, defined to mean labour depriving the child of it health, education or development. Section 91 of that text defined hazardous work or force labour and Paageorgii limited is solely in compliance with this Act. Paageorgii Limited also respect the Fundamental Human Right and Freedom. Section 12(2) states that every person in Ghana , whatever their race, origin, political opinion, colour, religion, creed or agenda should be entitled to the Fundamental Human Right and Freedom of the individual contained in this chapter but subject to the respect for the rights and freedom of others for Page | 3 Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact the public interest and Paageorgi gives equal remuneration for men and women for work of equal value, gives fair employment contracts, fair wages, quality healthcare and maternity protection, freedom of association and compensation for injuries and accidents. BUSINESS MANAGEMENT The company works to the principles of creating a share value business where the competitiveness of its business and the prosperity of the wider communities in which it is operating are mutually dependent. Code of ethics are set within the frame work of U.N. convention against corruption, including the respect for fair conduct of business, prohibition of all forms of corruption, bribery and fraudulent use of funds and resources and proper disclosure of information. All legal obligations including license to operate , registration, tax and value added tax, customs and duties, arbitration dispute mechanism, control of security personnel are designed implemented and monitored very well. SOCIAL MANAGEMENT Honest and transparent communication are established and maintained among all business partners, regulatory agencies and between affected communities and other stakeholders who are not business partners in other to build trust and confidence and share vision and value creation. HEALTH AND SAFETY Occupational health and safety performance are evaluated against national guidelines for workers welfare and loss prevention. Internationally and national published exposure guidelines including permissible limit and threshold limit are observed and enforced. Page | 4 Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact RESOURCE USE Information on the resource use and waste generation shall be documented and use as a guide that can be considered as indicators of operational efficiency and will be use to track performance changes over time. COMMUNITY RELATION Plans for avoidance or mitigation of negative impacts and promotion of positive ones shall be developed in consultation with affected parties and documented. FACILITY DESIGN, INFRUSTRUCTURAL CONSTRUCTION OPERATIONS AND MAITTENANCE. The choice of technology and facility design shall target performance levels and measures that generally considered to be achievable in new facilities by existing technology and reasonable cost. The application of the management plans to the existing constructional work will involve the establishment of specific target with an appropriate timetable for achieving them. Paageorgii limited will put in place comprehensive system to involve both incoming raw materials quality as well as out put quality. Procedures will be developed to assess and maintain water quality and availability of both surface and ground water. INFORMATION COMMUNICATION AND DOCUMENTATION Good communication channels will significantly help Paageorgii Limited form better relationship with her stakeholders and also minimize any discrepancies and misunderstandings. Page | 5 Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact PERSONNEL COMPETENCE AND COMPENSATION Pay and conditions for employees and sub-contractors are sufficient to meet basic needs of personnel and provide some discretionary income. MONITORING AND EVALUATION A documented implementation and monitoring work plan to or mitigate impacts identified during the assessment must be in place. The plan should include the roles and responsibilities of all relevant parties. The plan should be prepared in collaboration with all affected parties s or stakeholders. The implementation and monitoring work plan shall be review and updated when necessary and it must be done in consultation with affected parties. CONTINOUS IMPROVEMENT Paageorgi Limited will build a system to measure our performance relative to the expected goal. PARTNERSHIP One major goal of the sustainable development goal is partnership and Paageorgi will like to partner with both local and international companies to achieve this powerful development goal. We will like to integrate renewable energy sources into all the estate houses we shall be constructing from next year onwards to help in reducing the power outage currently facing the nation and this can be realize when we team up with companies with this vision. Page | 6
