The unique story of Siloso Beach Resort in its journey towards corporate sustainability 0 Siloso Beach Resort Sustainability Report 2016 Acknowledgment & contacts: Review: Report Committee 2016: Internal Review: Kelvin Ng, Managing Director Reviewed by Sustainability Sylvain Richer de Forges, Director of Sustainability Committee sylvain@silosobeachresort.com 20th October 2016 Karl Fischer, CSR Manager csr@silosobeachresort.com All SBR Sustainability Committee Members Student interns: Vanessa Neo, Jolene Ang , Benjamin Poh, Chen Rui Jue, Delvin Tang, Donovan Loh Staying for Good www.silosobeachresort.com 1 Siloso Beach Resort Sustainability Report 2016 This report follows the latest ISO 26000 guidelines on Social responsibility as well as the GRI 4.0. Staying for Good www.silosobeachresort.com 2 Our sustainability practices have been recognized at the highest level SBR Sustainability Report 2016 3 Our sustainability practices have been recognized at the highest level SBR Sustainability Report 2016 4 Content Highlight “ ’ ” “ ” SBR Sustainability Corporate Sustainability Report Report 2016 2014 55 Siloso Beach Resort Sustainability Report 2016 Main Reporting Content Global Compact Support and Statement………………..7 Managing Director Statement 2015……………………..10 This report provides GRI Guidelines index…………………………..………166-170 Introduction……………………………………………………11-14 content according to The SBR story…………………………..……….…...........15-20 GRI 4.0 Guidelines, Impact risks and opportunities………….….………..21-34 Organizational profile………………..………..…........35-54 and also a range of Report Parameters…………………..….…..….…………60-69 case studies on best Governance………………………….…..….…..…...........55-94 Environment…………………………………..…...………95 -142 sustainability Employment…………………….……..….………………144-148 practices. Human Rights…………………….…..…….…………………..148 Society………….………………..………...……….........150-151 Product Responsibility….…………...……….........152-155 Economic……………………………………………………156-160 Annex…………………………….………...……………...163170 SBR’s Villa Wing Staying for Good www.silosobeachresort.com 6 SBR’s United Nations Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Global Compact Commitment Global Compact 10 Principles UN Global Compact As of 1st February 2012, SBR is proud to be a member of Categories Global compact 10 principles the United Nations Global Compact. Human rights • Principle 1: Businesses should About the United Nations Global Compact support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human The United Nations Global Compact is a call to companies rights; and everywhere to voluntarily align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the • Principle 2: make sure that they are areas of human rights, labour, environment and antinot complicit in human rights corruption, and to take actions in support of UN goals, abuses including the Millennium Development Goals. Endorsed by chief executives, the UN Global Compact is a leadership platform for the development, implementation, and Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should disclosure of responsible corporate policies and practices. uphold the freedom of association Launched in 2000, it is the largest corporate responsibility and the effective recognition of the initiative in the world – with over 8,000 signatories based in right to collective bargaining; more than 135 countries. • Principle 4: the elimination of all For more information: www.unglobalcompact.org. forms of forced and compulsory labour; The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of • Principle 5: the effective abolition of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, child labour; and the environment and anti-corruption. • Principle 6: the elimination of Engaging in the Global Compact and implementing the discrimination in respect of principles will help SBR to: employment and occupation. •improve organizational integration of environmental, social Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should and governance issues. address the company’s expanded business opportunities and risks; support a precautionary approach •improve operational efficiencies; to environmental challenges; •access the experiences and good practices of peers; •acquire practical know-how; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to •attract, motivate and retain employees; promote greater environmental •increase trust in the company and renew its license to responsibility; and operate; •improve corporate reputation and brand image; • Principle 9: encourage the •engage in a proactive and constructive dialogue with civil development and diffusion of society and other stakeholders; environmentally friendly •strengthen stakeholder relations, both globally and locally; technologies •establish better links with the United Nations; •take a leadership role on critical issues & network with other organizations;. Anti• Principle 10: Businesses should •respond to financial market expectations and improve corruption work against corruption in all its access to capital. forms, including extortion and bribery SBR fully supports and follows the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact SBR Sustainability Report 2016 7 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Welcome Siloso Beach Resort is an Ecological Resort on the island of Sentosa in Singapore SBRCorporate Siloso Beach Resort Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report 2014 8 Siloso Beach Resort Main resort entrance Blending Life and Leisure with Nature At SBR the structures blend with the surrounding vegetation Siloso Beach SBR Sustainability Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sutainability 9 Managing Director Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Statement 2016 The years 2015-2016 have been successful and Environment: As always our commitment to environmental challenging ones for Siloso Beach Resort. While going causes remains strong. While we have continued with through more difficult financial times resulting from a existing strong measures and programs we also have double hit by slower global economy and the Zika Virus developed new initiatives. This year we are completing our outbreak, we have still managed to make progress in our brand audit which has already resulted in noticeable journey towards sustainability. Some existing initiatives changes such as a new corporate logo and overall alignment have been reinforced such as our strong as ever eco tour of the brand with sustainability. It is becoming increasingly (over 15,000 attendees reached, exceeding our most clear that hotel operations and sustainability initiatives go optimistic targets) and new ones developed such as our hand in hand in our resort. talent showcase for some of our special needs staff. Anti-corruption: SBR has never had any case of corruption. I am very proud to mention that our continuous push for We have put in place all the proper measures to avoid such environmental and social efforts has been further including regular third party external audits and recognized through new remarkable awards and transparency in financial information through reporting recognitions of which the Singapore Eco Friend Award initiatives. One of the major upgrades in the upcoming year (from the national environment agency NEA). We have will be to expand on the service offerings. been further recognized for our CSR initiatives as well through the LEAF certification (Nparks). While we are We have reached most of our targets set in our previous please to receive such appreciation for specific report (refer to annex) and have set ourselves new targets sustainability efforts, these awards will also contribute in for the year ahead that will be even more challenging. motivating our company to continue on our current sustainable development path and offer unique We are proud to see a continuous improvement from our opportunities to raise awareness on the need for last report which showcases that our initiatives are not businesses to adopt a more sustainable path. short-term efforts but have been constantly developing and growing. It is clear that SBR fully adheres to the commitments, initiatives and principles of the UN Global Compact and I look forward to reporting on our progress next year and that we will unconditionally continue to do so in the years our continuous support to the UN Global Compact. ahead. SBR has taken a number of practical actions to implement the Global Compact principles: Kelvin Ng Managing Director Human rights: We have always been following the UN Siloso Beach Resort Global Compact ten principles including on human rights. SBR has never had any infringement of these principles and we intend to keep it this way. Going beyond just Introducing our new corporate logo reflecting the adhering to these principles we actually have put into strong bond between hotel operations and place a range of practices that help to raise awareness on sustainability: stronger human right policies especially with regards to social employment and supporting a range of social community events. Labour: We have reinforced and implemented a number of measures which make us a more responsible employer. Some initiatives include new work life balance programs for the staff, continuing our efforts to employ people with disabilities (in 2015 our employment of PWD remains strong with 12% of our workforce that falls under this category), improvement of facilities and systems for safety, staff usage and comfort. For instance our kitchen area has been specifically modified and we have installed safety fences on our rooftop garden. SBR Sustainability Report 2016 10 Siloso Beach Resort Introduction Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Our journey towards sustainability Going beyond preserving the vegetal coverage and its inhabiting biodiversity, the buildings were constructed in a way that: At Siloso Beach Resort (SBR), we like to see ourselves as a very special hotel when it comes to sustainability and •Maximise natural lighting through an open concept; environmental values and I would like to highlight what I mean by this: •Maximize natural cooling through efficient design as well as the implementation of unique features such as what Our vision of a sustainable business remains (to the best of our knowledge) the longest selfmaintained roof top garden in Singapore; Even before SBR was conceived more than 10 years ago, it was decided that it would become an eco-hotel. This hotel •Making use of a very significant amount of re-used would not only adopt unique sustainable features in its materials in the built structure; design, but also act as a showcase of best sustainable practices to all our stakeholders. •Making use of the natural shape of the terrain (for example, our landscape swimming pool has been placed on Coming from a construction background, I have noticed top of an existing maintenance road). first hand over the years the level of very significant impacts that this sector has on our environment. It was •Rainwater harvesting and purification passive features; our vision that perhaps the construction of a hotel, which showcases how things can be done differently while still At SBR, we believe that real sustainability can only come remaining a viable business model, could play a significant from good initial design to minimize environmental role in progressing towards a less impactful industry impacts and maximise energy efficiency through passive sector. means. This is what we are actively trying to promote. Since this vision was first conceptualized, we have gone a Post-construction long way and are still growing strong into what has become our journey towards sustainability. Following the success of the construction phase, it quickly became apparent that much more could be achieved than The construction phase just growing the business without further consideration for the environment. On the contrary, we had to take This journey did not start without major obstacles. At the advantage of this unique position to continue on our path time of construction, our vision of a sustainable hotel was of sustainability through retrofitting and Cleantech seen as very unusual by many of our contractors and investments. stakeholders and it took determination and passion to proceed in making it a reality, the way we wanted it to be. As such, numerous initiatives and investments have gone into further reducing the environmental impacts postPerhaps one of our strongest and most unusual construction. To site a few: determination was to preserve all the existing trees on site. The location on a forested part of Sentosa Water minimization through numerous water saving and on a hill side did not prove easy. In order to preserve features including an elaborate water treatment system. these trees, we had to apply most unusual This system makes use of an underground natural spring construction techniques. These measures have reservoir which was discovered during construction (all allowed us to construct a 200 room hotel while the water for gardening and other applications such as the preserving over 200 fully grown trees and pool is not making use of any precious tap water but instead uses a natural resource that we have the chance of planting another 450 trees post construction. At having on site); SBR, the trees are literally integrated within the building’s structures. SBR Sustainability Report 2016 11 Introduction Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Our journey towards sustainability Energy use minimization through smart appliances (best We have donated to various environmental and social causes in class energy efficient lighting solution) but most notably including a single donation for the amount of half a million through the early investment in a heat exchange system dollars to the National University of Singapore for the which was one of the first to be installed in Singapore; purpose of raising funds to bring real dinosaur bones to Singapore. Management and outreach Special projects and R&D The next logical step in our journey towards becoming a SBR has embarked on a range of special projects that many more sustainable business model was to relook into our might see as unusual in a hotel environment. Some of these management to incorporate sustainable practices projects include: at all levels of operations. This was already implemented since the beginning but we went into a great -Roof top gardening: where we produce our own deal of effort to revamp our policies and staff training vegetables organically using an experimental worm methods to push the concept of sustainability even further composting system that we manage on site. Part of the and making sure that it is well integrated and production goes back to our F&B department. communicated throughout the organization, not just as guidelines, but more like a corporate culture. -The display of real dinosaur bones on site in order to promote the Lee Kong Chian Natural History Museum and CSR outreach on conservation issues. CSR was the most visible change in our outreach initiative. -Numerous environmental outreach messages onsite through The level of commitment to outreach on sustainable various means such as mascots, display panels, in house initiatives through our CSR programs is truly an environmental TV channels and more, which we use to achievement. SBR has since been running successful promote awareness on the most pressing global and local outreach programs to various schools and organisations. environmental issues such as Global Climate Change, pollution, biodiversity losses, water conservation… Some of our most visible outreach platforms to date include the Biodiversity.sg platform Our credentials as a small business promoting (www.biodiversity.sg) as well as our successful Eco Tours sustainability practices: which we use to communicate our practices to various stakeholders (to date more than 10,000 people from SBR is the winner/recipient of serval awards : sectors as diverse as schools, universities, corporations, government agencies…have undertaken our eco tours). •Singapore President’s Award for the Environment; • NEA’s Eco Friend Award We regularly outreach on global environmental issues • The Singapore Honorary PUB Watermark Award; through our contribution to various media platforms •ASEAN Business Award for CSR; including www.eco-business.com (one of Asia-Pacific’s •Singapore Environment Achievement Awards (Top achiever); largest environmental business communities). We are •The Singapore Sustainability Award; regularly featured in press releases as well as articles and •Singapore Special Mention CSR Award; blogs on sustainability best practices not just in Singapore •The first hotel in South East Asia to be certified as an Eco Hotel but increasingly on an international level. from TUV Rheinland (international certification body); •The first hotel in Singapore to be certified under the Singapore Donations Environment Council Eco Hotel Certification Scheme (we served as the model to develop this scheme); We regularly donate to various environment or social •One of the first hotels in Singapore to join The UN Global related causes should it be in the form of sponsorship of Compact; events, direct donations or providing facilities. •And numerous other recognitions… SBR Sustainability Report 2016 12 Siloso Beach Resort Introduction Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Our journey towards sustainability Commitment At SBR, we are convinced that corporate sustainability is the only way forward and we will continue on our journey towards continuous improvement in this direction. We believe that a single small business like ourselves can play a role by not just adopting such practices to our own business but, in our opinion even more importantly, to remain active in sharing these practices by outreaching to society and possibly inspiring many others to adopt a similar development path. Perhaps our most driving conviction behind all of this is that as a hotel, we are indeed in a position to influence and possibly educate people from all kinds of origins, nationalities, business sectors and interests, on a range of pressing environmental issues. The feeling that we are actually doing this is one of our greatest achievements. I hope that the above very brief highlights give you an overview of what we are trying to do for the environment and sustainability in general even though we are just a small business, and that the following report could inspire many other businesses to embark on this journey of sustainability with us. Sincerely, Mr Kelvin Ng, Managing Director, Siloso Beach Resort SBR’s waterfall Pic: Our latest eco pond SBR Sustainability Report 2016 13 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR’s Central Court & pool by night Vision: The Resort aims to set the environmental • Each one of us needs to change our critical benchmark to allow our guests and the community behaviors and be environmentally conscious on a to experience a quality eco-friendly environment daily basis; that encourages them to adopt environmentally friendly initiatives • Community and customers are essential to our long term success and we need their involvement and Mission: The Resort will continuously strive to support to build a successful and sustainable reduce its ecological impact by adopting best environment program; practices and applying appropriate new technologies • We need a complete and holistic approach in tackling environmental challenges; Values: At the resort we believe that: • Our plans, strategies, people and processes must • Our commitment to the environment begins with be built on the foundations of continuous our employees, stakeholders, customers and improvement. community. It requires both enormous dedication and real ingenuity and is a long term process; • Providing quality services and accommodation to our customers SBR Sustainability Report 2016 14 The story of Siloso Beach Siloso Beach Resort Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature The SBR Story This Sustainability Report, the fourth of the It is precisely this potential to make a real change by series, is set to mark a new era at Siloso Beach influencing the numerous guests who transit SBR is a very unique hotel Resort (SBR). through the facilities that has pushed SBR in this direction. in many ways and this report intends to The hotel industry is one that has the most potential to highlight the reasons why. influence many people, yet it is also one of the sectors that has made little progress in this field. Following the implementation of numerous sustainable initiatives, best practices and policies, it One single business adopting and showcasing sustainable became apparent that the next step for SBR to practices can influence many others to adopt a similar embark on would be to produce a sustainability development path: report that would provide a highlight of the journey into a single document. Single business SBR is proud to be one of the few hotels which was purposely built, from its conception, to be an Eco Hotel and to apply best sustainable practices throughout all its operations. Influence The commitment of SBR to be a reference in the Other businesses sustainability field is strongly present in daily operations. This report tells the Story behind the mind-set that has led to what SBR is today, the different stages of development and the unprecedented commitment of its management to set the benchmark of a new Significant changes era of sustainable business models in the leisure industry and to continually pursue in this direction. Realisation of a rapidly changing world One of the main drivers behind SBR adopting a sustainable business model is the realisation and acceptance by its management that we live in a fast changing world in which environmental issues are high on the agenda and in which businesses have an important role to play in helping limit its impacts on the environment. Global concerns such as climate Constructing an eco-resort from the very start change, pollution, biodiversity losses, fresh water depletion and more, are of great concern to current SBR’s view is that in this type of business (built and future generations and something needs to be environment/hospitality) integrating sustainable practices done. from the very beginning (and in particular the construction phase) is key as there is only so much that can be achieved SBR believes that it can play its part by reducing in reducing environmental impacts post-construction. If a environmental impacts on its premises through the developer is in a position to implement sustainable adoption of sustainable practices at all levels of thoughts from the very beginning, then it should be done at operations but also by sharing its opinions and this stage. initiatives with society through its CSR programs. It is apparent that while one single organisation can only make small and often insignificant differences on a national or even global scale through its daily operations, it can have very significant impacts on a larger scale by influencing various stakeholders and society at large. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 15 15 At Siloso Beach Resort (SBR) the concept of Siloso Beach Resort sustainability is not new, in fact even before the Blending Life and Leisure with Nature The SBR Story hotel was built more than ten years ago, it was decided that SBR would adopt a sustainable business model. Three key decisions were made Economically viable: with average high hotel occupancy, which were considered highly unusual at the time: SBR is not only an environmentally concious hotel but an economically viable business as well that will continue to use its facilities as a showcase of sustainable practices and a Our 3 guiding principles: test-bed of environmentally friendly technologies. 1) The natural terrain would be preserved; Siloso Beach Resort, Sentosa, is a recognised and certified eco-hotel from TUV-Rheinland and the 2) The trees would be preserved; Singapore Environment Council (certified from 2010/2011). Additionally SBR is the winner of several awards. 3) The resort would have minimum covered area. Our philosophy Since then the concept of sustainability has been “Making money? Our life, besides making well established and remains a core component of the business model with strong initiatives at all money, is also about happiness, levels of operations: enjoyment, health, and continuity. This is our company philosophy.. ..How can businesses continue into the future if they cannot anticipate the world environmental problems? It is for the simple fact that consumer awareness will lead to less profitability in the long run for those who do not practice sustainability.” Unique Environmental attributes: with features such as truly innovative environmentally friendly Mr Ng Swee Hwa construction techniques; the longest self-sustained Chairman/Owner of Siloso Beach Resort rooftop garden in Singapore; the only 100% spring water landscape swimming pool in Singapore; and numerous other unique environmental practices and initiatives in a hotel environment. Socially responsible: with features such as SBR Eco Tours; regular sponsorship of sustainability events; and its latest CSR program: The Biodiversity.sg website, SBR continuously gives back to society and actively promotes the concept of sustainability. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 16 16 Case study : Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR’s Pendulum of SustainabilityTM 1 “ 2 “ ” 4 3 “ “ ” 5 “ ” 6 “ ” 7 “ ” ” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 17 17 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Deck near reception SBR environmental statement: “SBR is committed to provide a memorable leisure experience while adopting and showcasing environmental and sustainability best practices. Our model is to first protect nature, then to reduce, reuse and recycle” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 18 18 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort SBR’s Waterfall Blending Life and Leisure with Nature In addition to being an enjoyment for our guests, our waterfall is also part of an innovative swimming pool treatment system SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 19 19 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort A jungle resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Central space At SBR, the vegetal coverage is so dense that most of our buildings & structures appear hidden in the vegetation SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 20 20 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and Siloso Beach Resort opportunities Blending Life and Leisure with Nature As a hotel business, Siloso Beach Resort acknowledges the fact that its operations have Main processes in place to address performance impacts on the surrounding environment and sustainability in general. and/or relevant changes In order to address performance, SBR has a Key environmental impacts are of Sustainability Committee in place. The committee various sorts, the below points highlight the major meets at least twice a year to assess the progress made and ones: benchmark against standards and targets. Under the guidance of the committee, annual targets are set to SBR key impacts address key sustainability issues. Key performance •Use of natural resources: Concrete products indicators are also put into place by the committee to (sand, limestone…), steel and other metals, wood monitor and track changes and progress over time. products, living resources (F&B)… During these meetings, issues regarding performance and potential changes are addressed which often leads to •Atmospheric emissions: Mostly from energy strategic planning and setting targets and objectives. consumption which in Singapore originates from the combustion of natural gas. Other emissions are from activities such as transportation, gardening and other maintenance activities. •Land disturbance: Construction activities have required some disturbance to the original landscape (despite the tremendous and unique efforts that have been made to limit the impacts). •Noise disturbance: During construction and hotel operations •Water consumption: Consumption of tap water from the network •Water contamination: Rejects of contaminated water from operations to drains •Wastes : Various wastes (organic & non-organic) •Biodiversity: As a forested terrain, SBR activities SBR Sustainability Committee regularly addresses have an impact on biodiversity (despite tremendous performances and applies changes as needed and unique efforts made to reduce the impacts). Approach to prioritizing these challenges and opportunities SBR considers all the above impacts to be important but it also acknowledges that some have higher impacts than others and therefore should be given different reduction priorities. Many of these impacts (not all) are regulated under Singapore law (e.g. noise, water contamination…). SBR acknowledges the fact that its SBR is proud to meet and in most instances exceed these legal requirements. activities, as a business, have impacts on the surrounding environment and that it can work towards reducing these impacts SBR Sustainability Report 2016 21 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature The beginning: Picture: Mr Ng (owner) and contractor entering the forest site of what will become Siloso Beach Resort (2003) “When we first saw the site it was very apparent to us that if we were going to build a hotel here the terrain and its trees will have to be preserved to a great extent. We took this as a challenge not an obstacle ; this is precisely why we chose this site” Mr Ng SBR Sustainability Report 2016 22 Constructing the Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature resort Building the resort inside a rainforest was a major challenge Constant reminders and training of the construction team was a daily exercise to ensure the preservation of the trees. Panels were put in place reading “keep the trees alive!” Littering was constantly monitored throughout the site and emphasized through staff meetings. Monitoring was intense. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 23 23 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Constructing the resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature In order not to damage the trees roots, a special technique known as micro bore piling had to be used (vibrations were greatly reduced by doing so) Constructing within a rainforest surrounded by trees also meant to use smaller machineries so as to navigate within the terrain to limit damage to the surrounding. Heavy machineries could not be used. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 24 24 Constructing the Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature resort Building on stilts allowed better protection to the trees and to build on a sloped terrain SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 25 25 Environmental Impacts Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort •Use of natural resources: (high priority) As a hotel Blending Life and Leisure with Nature the usage of natural resources is high. There are however a multitude of ways in which these impacts can be reduced. Key conclusions about progress in addressing •Atmospheric Emissions: (high priority) SBR these topics and related performance in the acknowledges the seriousness of climate change reporting period and believes that it can play its role by significantly reducing its emissions and showcasing these efforts. •Use of natural resources: Numerous progress have been made to reduce the usage of natural resources of all sorts. •Land disturbance: (high priority) Because SBR has Current achievements are judged satisfactory and SBR will been built on a pristine forested environment, continue to pursue its natural resources minimization preserving the terrain has always been of high strategy with targets for continuous improvements. importance. •Atmospheric emissions: Numerous initiatives have been •Noise: (low priority) SBR operates at below legal taken to reduce energy consumption. There is still a lot that noise level. Noise has never been an issue within can be achieved at SBR in terms of reducing emissions. SBR the hotel facilities. SBR however closely monitors its has identified this aspect as one of its priorities for the noise levels to ensure that there is no disturbance coming years. to its guests and wildlife. •Land disturbance: Tremendous efforts have been put in •Water consumption: (high priority) SBR place since the very beginning of construction work. Land continuously pushes to reduce its tap water usage. disturbance reduction efforts have been very successful. However, due to the unique location of the resort SBR will continue to push for limited impacts in this field. above a natural water source and numerous water saving measures in place, tap water consumption is •Noise: Noise levels have never been an issue within the already very low for a hotel of its size. premises. SBR will continue to push for limited impacts in this field. Noise pollution from outside the premises •Wastes: (high priority) SBR already has many remains an issue programs in place to reduce its wastes, often by reusing whatever waste can be utilised in other •Water consumption: Initiatives undertaken at SBR since its ways. SBR actively practices the 3R’s. conception have resulted in very low water consumption. Water saving has been evident. SBR will continue to push •Biodiversity: (high priority) Because SBR has been for limited impacts in this field. built on a pristine forested terrain, preserving the biodiversity on site has always been of high •Water contamination: SBR does not have rejects of importance. hazardous substances in significant amounts. Water contamination at SBR is judged insignificant to date •Energy use: (high priority) SBR is continuously trying new ways to reduce its energy usage through •Wastes: Since its conception, SBR has implemented the adoption of new practices and technologies. numerous programs to reduce its wastes. Initiatives have resulted in very minimal waste being generated including from the F&B department. SBR will continue to push for limited impacts in this field •Biodiversity: Since its construction phase, SBR has taken extreme measures to preserve the biodiversity on site. This aspect has been very successful and exemplary. SBR will continue to push for limited impacts in this field •Energy use: Great achievements have already taken place at SBR to reduce energy usage and the hotel will continue to push for improvements SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 26 26 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Our Villa Wing Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Villa Wing A truly unique retreat surrounded by nature… SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 27 27 Case study : Siloso Beach Resort The “War Room”: our arguments Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 2 for sustainability “ ’ 1 “ ’ ’ ’ ” ” 3 “ ” “ 4 5 ” “ 7 ” “ “ 6 ” 8 “ ’ ” 9 “ ’ ” ’ ” “ 10 ” In summary: Be sustainable…or else..!!! SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 28 28 Assessing Materiality 2015 Siloso Beach Resort Elements of primary importance: Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Of course as a business, our priorities are not only towards the environment. The below highlights a bigger picture of our priorities: Through various surveys and internal discussions the below profile of materiality for the organization emerged. While all aspects listed below are important to SBR and its stakeholders , we can within this shortlist assign areas of importance based on the compilation of both SBR’s as well as stakeholders preferences. • Economic: It is probably surprising to most people that SBR does not see marketing or financial profit as its top priority. SBR has always been more of a social enterprise rather than a for profit business. It is important for SBR that its business is self-sustaining and from a financial point of view the hotel has been doing reasonably well since it started business which can be seen as a good example that a business applying sustainability practices can also do well financially. • Environment: As an eco-resort, the environment is a top priority, thus almost all aspects were included. • Social: It is not surprising that as a hotel, guest satisfaction, safety, and employment rank high. Many other important social aspects were not included in the assessment, as they are already well regulated in Singapore, and thus were not a significant concern to SBR or its stakeholders. These include aspects related compulsory labor, collective bargaining, anti-competitive behavior, public policy, child labor, and indigenous rights, Significance to stakeholders 10 Guest Satisfaction Health & Safety Privacy Diversity & Equal Opp/ Compliance Non-descrimination Employment Training & Education 8 Environment Procurement Practices Economic Marketing Local Communities 6 Market Presence 5 Significance for SBR 0 5 6 8 10 Economic Environment Social  Employment  Economic Performance  Materials  Occupational Health and Safety  Market Presence  Energy/Water  Training and Education  Procurement Practices  Biodiversity  Diversity and Equal Opportunity/  Emissions/ Effluents and Non-descrimination Waste  Compliance  Products and Services  Local Communities  Compliance  Marketing Communications  Overall  Customer Health and Safety/ Customer Privacy Siloso Beach Resort SBR Sustainability Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 29 29 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Description of the most important risks and Siloso Beach Resort opportunities for the organization arising Blending Life and Leisure with Nature from sustainability trends; SBR is conscious that many sustainability trends Prioritization of key sustainability topics as risks and both local and international are a risk to the opportunities; business but SBR tends to see them as opportunities. The below points highlight what SBR SBR addresses sustainability topics in a very holistic way. Its has identified as major risks to its operations both in approach is not just focused on local issues but also on the short and long term and the opportunities that international sustainability aspects. they create. SBR has identified the following aspects as priorities: Risks Opportunities Climate change related Global Climate Change; Global Biodiversity Loss; risks: -Opportunity for Global depletion of fresh water resources; -Sea level rise (as a beach Investment in Cleantech Operations Financial growth. resort, SBR is very concerned about this in anticipation of rising energy costs. SBR believes that it can play its role in all of the above to trend) . various extents (mostly by raising awareness on the issues), however it also believes it can be more effective by focusing -Increase of occurrence of -Opportunity for on particular aspects. For this reason, biodiversity issues vector borne diseases (e.g. partnerships with various have been chosen as SBR’s primary focus point. Dengue). As SBR’s facilities stakeholders in raising are on a densely vegetated awareness on these terrain, increase of topics. Tables summarizing: Targets, performance against mosquito occurrence is a targets, and lessons learned for the current reporting concern. period; -Rise in ambient SBR is very target oriented. The following sections highlight temperatures (and these targets therefore rise in energy needs) . -Implementation of more “ severe government tax on aspects such as emissions, water consumption in response to mounting environmental pressures. Global financial instabilities: World financial instability. As a business significantly ” dependant on foreign -Opportunities to secure tourists, financial crises business sustainability by have a direct impact on diversifying the business SBR’s operations. Local pollution -Opportunities to invest in cleaner technologies and anticipate for future pollution taxes SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 30 30 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Targets Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR is very target oriented, every year old targets are reviewed and new ones are set. SBR has in fact been setting itself targets since its conception and has an excellent track record of meeting the targets that it fixes itself. Below is a list of our latest targets which have been set over the years. Most of these targets have been achieved. A list of targets set for years prior to the reporting period are available in annex Targets for the 2015 – 2016 reporting period: Component Target Comment Marketing To increase marketing outreach using the new branding of In progress the resort as a sale focus. Financial profit To develop new sale opportunities through so far untapped In progress opportunities such as F&B events linked with eco tours, the development of a pool bar and new events venues. Guests satisfaction To improve guest satisfaction through an improvement in In progress housekeeping standards and other aspects such as room upgrades and service quality Service quality To improve the service quality through training of the In progress workforce in specific departments such as the front office. Safety To keep up with current safety levels In progress Regulatory To continue to be fully compliant with rules and regulations. In progress requirements To start reporting on organic waste as per NEA requirements Energy Consumption To retain the current low energy consumption and possibly In progress reduce (difficult considering current low consumption) Water resources To retain the current low water consumption and possibly In progress improve (difficult considering current already low consumption) Carbon emissions To reduce carbon emissions through continuous upgrades in In progress low energy appliances. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 31 31 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Targets Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Targets for the 2014 – 2015 reporting period (continued): Component Target Comment Employees satisfaction To improve employee satisfaction through In progress annual events and better intensives Customer feedback To provide more ways for customers to give In progress feedbacks. For instance through the development of a new web platform and interactive elements Innovation and R&D To continue with R&D projects such as the In progress rooftop garden and develop new ones such as the deployment of solar PV systems Social responsibility To continue with ongoing csr programs such as In progress the eco tours and possibly develop others Environmental outreach To continue with ongoing environmental In progress outreach program. To continue updating the biodiversity.sg platform Waste generated To continue with food waste management In progress program and keep the current high recycling rates Onsite biodiversity To continue with current conservation practices In progress on site including the use of Origin as mosquito control agents Ethical business To continue with current standards In progress practices Setting ourselves new targets year on year helps us keep focus SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 32 32 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Our swimming pool is one Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature of a kind Our swimming pool is the heart of our resort SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 33 33 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Targets for the next reporting period and midSiloso Beach Resort term objectives and goals (i.e., 3-5 years) Blending Life and Leisure with Nature related to key risks and opportunities. targets Categoryfor the next reporting Targets period: Natural resources Reduce the use of natural resources by another 3% (relative to previous reporting period) Global Biodiversity Loss: Atmospheric Reduce carbon emissions by 3% •Objective: Preservation of biodiversity remains a key emissions (relative to previous reporting aspect of how SBR operates. SBR is committed to preserve period) a rich biodiversity on its premises and to actively promote global biodiversity conservation through outreach programs. Land disturbance Continue to increase vegetal coverage by 3% through roof •Goal: SBR will continue in its efforts to preserve and top gardening and use of other increase habitats on its premises in order to host a variety of species . This includes the preservation of existing trees existing surfaces and ponds and their associated species. Noise Keep noise levels at current Water Reduce tap water consumption consumption by 3% (relative to previous reporting period) Operations financial growth: Water Further improve the treatment contamination of waste water from the resort •Objective: SBR takes the concept of sustainability in a before being discharged (e.g. holistic way which encompasses not only environmental further improve grease trap and social issues but also financial sustainability and treatments) economic growth. SBR intends to continue its business in an environmentally and socially sustainable way while Wastes Reduce waste by another 3% remaining financially viable. (relative to previous reporting period) •Goal: SBR intends to continue to grow the business and achieve long term financial growth. Biodiversity Continue to increase biodiversity by providing new Depletion of fresh water resources: habitats for species •Objective: At SBR the water management is already very Energy use Further improve energy good and tap water consumption very low for an hotel of its efficiency through Cleantech. size. SBR will however continue to intensify efforts to even Reduce by 3% push the water saving initiatives further by both improving on water efficiency and by maintaining the health of its spring water reservoir. Mid term objectives and goals •Goal: Invest in Cleantech to better control water Global Climate Change: consumption in guest rooms (where most of the current tap water consumption occurs). •Objective: SBR takes the risks posed by climate change seriously and will continue to develop by integrating elements which will both reduce its Reducing by 3% may not carbon emissions and provide adaptive advantages seem much but to a changing environment. because our waste, water and energy usage is already •Goal: In the medium term SBR intends to become a carbon neutral hotel by offsetting its emissions. very low it is actually a challenge SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 34 34 Governance mechanisms in place to Impacts, Risks & Opportunities specifically manage these risks and Siloso Beach Resort opportunities, and identification of other Blending Life and Leisure with Nature related risks and opportunities. Governance mechanisms: Risks Bi-annual SBR believes that the approach is to integrate ways review to manage these risks within the long term plan of the organisation rather than to ignore them. A long and slow adaptation is a better path than a sudden and unplanned change. The risks identified as significant are taken into consideration during sustainability committee Sustainability Committee meetings and minimisation targets are set to address these risks. Previously set targets and goals are then reassessed during the next meetings and a new set of targets and management decisions are taken to best address these risks. Guidelines Targets Other related risks and opportunities In addition to the primary risks and opportunities identified, SBR has also highlighted other elements Risk Opportunities Safety at work To take appropriate measures to (HSE) ensure a first class safety environment for its staff “ Guests safety To ensure that the place is safe for the guests Development To make the business even more of new hotels competitive especially by in Singapore focusing on our eco concept New To put more emphasis in government developing a local work force rules on foreign hires Increase To put further emphasis in guests improving quality of services and expectations facilities Humidity To redesign aspects of the resort related issues in order to cope better with such in hotel issues facilities Potential To further improve safety onsite Burglary issues through greater surveillance and monitoring SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 35 35 Siloso Beach Resort Our open air corridors Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Our open concept corridors SBR’s Open Concept Many places at SBR adopt an open concept, should it be for the corridors, the café area and other public spaces. This concept allows amongst other benefits to have a feeling of being surrounded by greenery SBR Sustainability Report 2016 36 Organizational Profile Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature REPORT PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization Using less plastic, energy-saving light bulbs and a smart Siloso Beach Resort Pte Ltd. heat-exchange system can only do so much, so, throughout the Resort, we assimilate nature with comfort recluse, The name of the resort simply reflects the location greenery with cutting-edge technology in a bid to have our name: Indeed, SBR is adjacent to Siloso Beach on guests come to appreciate nature's infinite value. Sentosa Island, Singapore. At Siloso Beach Resort, the only Eco resort residing on the G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or beautiful island of Sentosa, guests can enjoy the only services. natural spring water landscape pool in Singapore, complete with a waterfall feature, while relaxing amongst the balmy shades of flora to the soothing sounds of cascading waters. Siloso Beach Resort services are in the leisure There are rooftop garden suites complete with rooftop industry which include: bath, one of a kind in Singapore. •Providing hotel rooms for stay; Facilities: e.g. Sitting at the heart of Singapore's hippest beach Siloso swimming pool, waterfall, water slides, children Beach in Sentosa, the resort's strategic location and lush playground, in-house TV channels, exhibits of foliage within its surroundings, guests find themselves faced various type on site (mostly biodiversity) with a strewn of choices. Bay-windows looking out to white sandy beach rooms, a walk away to the beach, various •Food and beverage: SBR has a single restaurant entertainment outlets and activity booths located along the café in which breakfast and daily meals are served. beach's stretch, offers both scenic and convenient leisure. Company logo: The resort provides an experience of an ideal getaway, for honeymooners and lovers in the mood for a romantic getaway or holidaymakers in search of tranquillity on an island beachfront. SBR brands its services under Siloso Beach Resort SBR is directly involved in providing these services and does not outsource for aspects directly related to main business stream. As a family owned and operated business, unlike most other hotels, SBR Nestled within its lush foliage surrounding, Siloso Beach does not outsource the management. Resort hosts a range of rooms to fit the needs of the various guests, from romantic getaways for couples to retreats for Contractors are involved from time to time for holidaymakers. aspects such as: With the main foyer of rooms facing beachfronts, guest •Consultancy rooms are provided a natural backdrop of the sea landscape •Architecture while decking the inner courtyard sprawls a 95m long •Legal affairs natural spring water landscape pool with a waterfall feature, providing a relaxing atmosphere. Hotel services information: It is a love and passion for the environment and Every room is fitted with amenities to ensure that your stay nature that will act as an impetus for us to begin to is both enjoyable and comfortable. care unconditionally for the waning ozone layer, depleting forests and out-of-control pollutants. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 37 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Central roof top , along suite wing SBR’s extensive roof top space One of the main roof top at SBR is used for a variety of purposes going from a plant nursery to a roof top vegetable farm to open air Jacuzzis to a flexible event space used for special occasions. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 38 Siloso Beach Resort Our very unique luxurious villas Blending Life and Leisure with Nature One of the villas, living room Luxury villas with a very special touch While offering 12 luxury high end villas to its guests, the most unusual aspect of these villas is that most of them have several live trees passing straight through the living space. This feature was done as one of the extraordinary efforts to preserve the existing trees on site. It also provides a special atmosphere to the rooms. Siloso Beach SBR Sustainability Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 39 Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Eco Alfresco Café Dining Our dining experience caters to more than just an experience, care is taken in minimising carbon footprint while guests enjoy their meals. Dishes are prepared with homegrown herbs within the resort's own garden, from mints to basil and many more spices of a variety. Savour some of our all-time favourites such as fish and chips or try out the grilled fish platter for healthier choices. Our green conscious café Every ingredients used in the menu are ensured with care to minimise carbon foot print, this includes purchasing ingredient primarily from local sources first and when unavailable purchases will then be made from the next nearest source possible including countries such as Vietnam and Malaysia. Event decors are prepared fully using home grown leafs and flowers as decor, this in turn leads to minimum or no usage of tablecloths. Through a food disposal system, usage of garbage bags is also minimised. While appreciating the nature around the vicinity, we hope to share the finer details to the dining experience with our valued diners. From embracing what nature has to offer around us and aspire to continuously bring that experience to the plate. Leave the fins in the sea! No to Blue fin tuna And many others… SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 40 40 Organizational Profile Our villas offer a unique retreat Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature and peaceful atmosphere SBR 2 bedroom villa with pool Villa self maintained pond SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 41 41 Case study: Our Eco Conscious Cafe Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR’s restaurant (like the rest of our resort) has put into place very special policies when it comes to sustainability issues: SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 42 42 Siloso Beach Resort Organizational Profile Blending Life and Leisure with Nature G4-5 Location of organization’s G4-6 Number of countries where the organization headquarters operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the Location: SBR operates from a single site in sustainability issues covered in the report. Sentosa. Sentosa is a small island off the Southern coast of Singapore. It is part of Number of countries where the organization operates: Singapore and is easily accessible through Just 1 various types of transportation such as monorail, public bus or boardwalk. Despite the fact that SBR only operates in Singapore, the sustainability initiatives that it adopts are relevant in any Registered address:Singapore, 51 country. This is due to the international nature of the Imbiah Walk Sentosa Singapore 099538 guests staying at the facilities (from over 50 countries). SBR hopes to spread the environmental awareness to its guests through various environmental initiatives such as complimentary eco-tours. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 43 43 Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Country Reason of importance Europe Europe has taken a lead over many South East Asian (SEA) countries on G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form the sustainability agenda. SBR has great pride in sharing its initiatives Siloso Beach Resort is a privately owned and managed with European guests as a lot can be eco-resort. gained in learning from best Chairman/Owner: Mr Ng Swee Hwa overseas practices within the Managing Director: Mr Kelvin Ng European union North Same as above America People from all around the world transit through SBR which makes it a South East Being countries close to home, SBR prime sustainability awareness hub Asian believes that it can influence local countries SEA guests to apply similar changes within their own countries All other SBR believes that there is a win-win countries situation in interacting with guests from any countries both through learning foreign best sustainability practices and influencing foreigners to apply SBR practices in their own countries. One of the driving forces for adopting a sustainable The fact that SBR is a privately owned and managed ecobusiness model lies in the fact that as a hotel resort plays an important role in the unique sustainable initiatives which have taken place at the resort since its environment, numerous people from conception. various countries and background transit through the facilities. Indeed, most hotels around the world are not managed by the owners themselves but usually outsourced to This also means that there is a great potential to management companies. However, as the management of passively educate the guests on a range of an eco-hotel is very unique and requires passion and sustainable best practices while spending a good attention to details in order to achieve minimization of time at the resort. As a socially responsible impacts at all levels, the owners at SBR have chosen to corporate citizen, SBR believes it can play its part in manage the hotel themselves. educating the society at large. Limitation factor: Additionally, many hotels are part of SBR sees itself as a local operation with bigger chains and the management is often located overseas. Even if local managers have strong an international outreach. commitments to make a change by adopting a sustainable business model, decisions are often out of their hands which makes procedures much more complicated. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 44 44 Organizational Profile G4-8 Markets served (including geographic Siloso Beach Resort breakdown, sectors served, and types of Blending Life and Leisure with Nature customers/ beneficiaries) Proportion (%) of guests origin for year 2014/2015 China United States Indonesia 2% Hong Kong China Indonesia India Others 2% Singapore 15% Saudi Arabia 24% Thailand 5% Hong Kong 1% Taiwan Russia Australia 12% India 3% New Zealand 1% Germany Germany 25% Russia 1% Singapore Saudi Arabia New Zealand 7% United States Australia 1% Others 1% Taiwan Thailand SBR accommodates guests from all around the world. As a hotel business, anyone willing to stay at SBR is welcomed to do so and SBR does not apply any discrimination of any kind on the origin of its guests. Sector served: SBR serves clients from all types of sectors (no discriminations) Types of customers: SBR serves all types of customers (no discriminations) Business and markets: ’ SBR categorises its market into 3 categories: National: Singapore Local: South East Asia International: the rest of the world SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 45 45 Organizational Profile Reservation modes Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature At SBR , the guests bookings originate from four main forms: Proportion of Reservation Type (%) from 2015 2% 22% Corporate FIT 59% TA 17% OTA SBR has had to date a soft marketing campaign policy. Indeed, marketing outreach has never been very aggressive at SBR in a sense that the hotel has relied a lot on word-of-mouth awareness of its facilities and services rather than active promotion through brochures and other means. For a long time, SBR has remained a “hidden secret”. Many locals who have come to the resort have been surprised that they did not hear about the place before through advertising. One of the reasons behind this lies in the philosophical concepts behind SBR that self-awareness is always favored over active and often excessive marketing. It appears to SBR that allowing guests to judge for themselves and communicating on what they have experienced to Word-of-mouth awareness others is a more sincere way of spreading the word on the resort. is a preferred marketing It is only in recent years that awareness on the resort has spread mean at SBR including through its unique environmental and sustainability initiatives which have attracted a lot of visibility and public interest both in Singapore and beyond. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 46 46 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort 2010: audited Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 2011: unaudited 2012: unaudited 2013: unaudited Beneficial ownership: 2014: unaudited •Ng Swee Hua 2015: unaudited •Ng Yu Teck Number of employees: SBR is a reasonably scaled Sales/revenues by region: 100% from Sentosa site in Singapore hotel withbetween 50-100 employees Number of operations: 1 single operation Costs (S$): (Cost is exclusive of depreciation) on Sentosa •2011: 8,387,625.00 Net sales (S$): •2012: 9,853,503.00 •2013: 9,344,790.00 •2011: 13,005,658.00 •2014: 7,124,375.00 •2012: 11,615,059.00 •2015: 7,738,767.00 •2013: 11,234,395.00 •2014: 11,226,071.00 •2015: 11,732,427.00 Total capitalization (S$): •2011: 10,795,185.00 •2012: 10,089,480.00 •2013: 6,561,821.00 •2014: 4,769,523.00 •2015: 2,911,835.00 “ Quantity of services provided: 3 main services: Room accommodation, meetings/events facilities, and food & beverage. Sub-categories: Breakfast, café, laundry, room charges, room ’ services, romantic packages, tel/fax, internet access, shuttle services, pool bar, spa. ” Financial 2011 to 2015 14,000,000.00 12,000,000.00 10,000,000.00 Total Revenue 8,000,000.00 Total Capitalization 6,000,000.00 Costs 4,000,000.00 2,000,000.00 0.00 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 47 47 Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort Employees breakdown Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Cultural diversity and origin is one of the strengths of SBR. This is reflected in the staff which comprises a multitude of cultural backgrounds. Employees Minority Group of full-time employees 2015* 7 4 Foreign Worker 4 Singaporean Chinese 25 Singaporean Malay Singaporean Indian 27 Singaporean PR / Others *Singaporean includes Singapore Citizens and Permanent Residents. Data for full-time employees only. SBR takes a lot of pride in “ diversifying it’s workforce. A diversification of the origin of its workforce means diversity in cultures and languages, but also ’ ” brings an international atmosphere to the resort. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 48 48 EMPLOYMENT Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, Employment employment contract, and region, broken down by gender Total workforce: 67 employees (2015) Female : 28 employees Male : 39 employees Employment type: Full time employee: 61 (91%) (34 female / 35 male) Part time employee: 6 (9%) (4 female/ 2 male) Region: All our workforce is on a single site which is the island of Sentosa Our workforce can be SBR is a single site operated business. All of our workforce is actually at our hotel. described as: We have a relatively well sized workforce in the range of 60-100 employees which varies from time to time. Thebalance between men and women is well distributed, and he numbers tend to change slightly with part timers Eco conscious intakes. We are also constantly having long term interns. They are part of our workforce during the Attentive attachment. SBR is an equal opportunity employer We support: -Diversity -People in need -Fairness -Honesty -Responsibility SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 49 49 Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by G4-12 Describe the company’s supply chain. collective bargaining agreements. Total number of suppliers: 24 SBR has created various employee committees which aim to engage discussions with the management and to Suppliers 2015 advise. 4 3 Such committees include: -The Sustainability Committee -The Health and Safety Committee -The Human Resource Committee -The Annual Review Committee These committees are composed of 17 department managers and cover about 20% of the “ workforce Housekeeping Food and Beverages Maintenance ” Total amount of money spent 2015 5% 35% 60% Housekeeping Food and Beverages Maintenance SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 50 50 Organizational Profile G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting Siloso Beach Resort period regarding size, structure, or ownership Blending Life and Leisure with Nature There have not been any changes in the capital structure since the start of operations. Below is a summary of SBR’s latest awards: PUB Watermark Award Development phases: There have been two main phases of development of the facilities: The Watermark Award was introduced in 2007 to recognise individuals and organisations for their •Principal hotel wing (standard rooms, deluxe rooms outstanding contributions and commitment to protect and roof top suites) and raise awareness of Singapore’s precious water •Villas wing resources. Renovation work: Siloso Beach Resort (SBR), which has been conferred the Watermark Honorary Award for its exemplary Main guest rooms: SBR is currently in a renovation contributions towards water and environmental phase which is ongoing and being conducted in sustainability in Singapore, centres its efforts on several phases through the various room types. reducing potable water usage in their operations and promoting public awareness on water conservation. Villa wing: SBR is currently modifying its villas to Their efforts include a self-maintained rooftop garden accommodate more family oriented guests. which retains rainwater for irrigation and the use of excess spring water to irrigate the landscape. Its water General works: Small upgrades (e.g. new efficiency index is within the top 10% among hotels in staircases/corridors, new floor mats…) are taking Singapore. SBR is also a strong proponent of education, place throughout the resort. making use of its facilities to showcase and test-bed environmentally friendly technologies and practices. *ADD* Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination In 2015 all room locks are being updated to a latest system Ongoing renovation! recipient of various Siloso Beach Resort is the prestigious awards and certifications which it has received in recognition of efforts to reduce its impact on the environment, foster a company-wide culture of Landscape Excellence environmental awareness, and give back to society and Assessment Framework 2013 nature through educational tours and CSR projects. Landscape Excellence Assessment Framework (LEAF) is a voluntary certification scheme by National Parks Board (NParks) that seeks to These awards and certifications are an important way to encourage property developers to focus on communicate to the stakeholders the sincerity of the landscape enhancement as an integral part of commitment to preserving the environment. Through these development and marketing. Provide achievements, we hope to set the environmental recognition for excellent efforts by developers benchmark higher for the tourism industry in Singapore and in greenery provision, protection of trees, and South East Asia. encouragement of biodiversity. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 51 51 Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature PUB Honorary Water Mark Award 2015 PUB Watermark Award Our latest award: The PUB Honorary Water Mark Award was given to SBR for its outstanding water conservation projects but also its overall holistic approach to sustainability SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 52 52 Below is a summary of SBR’s latest awards: Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Singapore President’s Award for the Environment 2013 Community In Bloom 2014 – Platinum Band Community In Bloom is a program by the National The President's Award for the Environment Parks Board to promote community gardening. (PAE) Our Eco-Resort achieved this recognition due to The President’s Award for the Environment is various green and community activities, including the highest environmental accolade for preservation of biodiversity, earthworm composting, individuals, organisations and companies that and promoting sustainable growing methods to have made significant contributions towards schools and the community. environmental and water resource sustainability in Singapore. It recognises and honors the sustained environmentand water-related contributions by environmental champions from the People, Public and Private (3P) sectors. Beyond that, this prestigious award also aims to inspire more individuals, organisations and companies to step forward and join the effort to tackle our environmental challenges. Enabling Employer Awards 2014 – In Recognition The Enabling Employers Awards gives recognition to organisations that have hired people with disabilities and have made efforts to integrate them with their workforce. About 14% of SBR’s staff are persons with disabilities. Siloso Beach Resort received the President’s Award for the Environment from President Tony Tan Keng Yam on 24 September 2013, at the Singapore Environment and Water Awards Ceremony 2013. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 53 53 Previous Year’s Awards Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature •ASEAN Business Award (CSR Category, 2012) • Singapore Environment Achievement Awards (top achiever 2010) The resort was recognized for its social and environmental programs as a “Most The criterion for the SEAA focus on assessing the Admired ASEAN Enterprise” under the leadership displayed by the company, the real Corporate Social Responsibility award environmental improvement made as well as the category for SMEs (Small-Medium ability of an organisation to establish procedures, train Enterprises). The award recognizes staff and innovate in order to achieve breakthroughs admired ASEAN businesses in four areas: in environmental performance. growth, employment, innovation and CSR. Siloso Beach Resort achieved recognition for its This award is unique because unlike commitment to sustainability and ecological previous awards received by the resort, preservation and was awarded the SEAA Top Achiever this was regional and those applying for Award for 2010. Since the SEAA was started in 1997, the award came from the various ASEAN this is the first time that the award has been given countries. The criteria for the award was to a hotel. also heavily focused on not just the environmental impact, but also •First Eco-certified hotel in South East Asia from contributions to the community and TUV Rheinland society. •Singapore Sustainability Award (top achiever 2011) TUV Rheinland performed a certification audit at Siloso Beach Resort with the objective to determine, whether the implemented environmental management system meets the requirements for obtaining the TUV Rheinland’s “Eco-Hotel” certification program. The certification requirements In 2011, a total of 68 companies submitted also encompassed ISO 14000 criteria for an for the Singapore Sustainability Awards, environmental management system. with 9 winners chosen among the various categories, with SBR being the only Top •Special mention from Singapore CSR Compact Honour Winner in its category. At the 1st Singapore Compact CSR Awards, held during Although SBR has achieved other awards, the international Singapore Compact CSR Summit, SBR this one is the first to take all 3 aspects of received the Special mention Award for our strong sustainability into equal consideration: commitment to the environment and corporate social responsibility. The award and summit are organized by economic, social, and environmental. the Singapore Compact for CSR, which “functions as a national society in furthering the CSR movement in Singapore”. In the last 4 years, SBR has been awarded important awards & certifications for its sustainability efforts… SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 54 54 Siloso Beach Resort COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization SBR has put into place stringent codes of conduct when it comes to adopting a precautionary approach at all levels of its operations. The SBR sustainability committee plays a crucial role in the company applying the precautionary principle at all levels of operations and systematically. The below diagram highlights the procedure: Recently SBR has undergone a risk management training and application in which external auditors have conducted a risk assessment audit. Following recommendations from the auditors, numerous changes have been made to manage risks in a most effective and ethical way. “ “ ” ” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 55 55 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature G4-15 Externally developed economic, Governance environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Below are some of the guidelines: Standard Where Date of Stakeholders Type SBR adheres to a range of externally developed applied adoption charters and principles. While some of them are government regulations, many are voluntary UN Global SBR Feb 2012 MultiBinding initiatives by SBR to follow these standards and Compact stakeholders often even exceed them. Risk SBR Jan 2012 Multi bizSAFE While SBR implements many of its own regulations management level 3 and principles, it is important to base these Fire safety SBR since Multi Legally principles and adhere to a range of internationally agreed standards. 2006 binding F&B/ food SBR since NEA Legally Adopting a range of externally developed standards hygiene 2006 binding also reinforces SBR’s management policies and Eco Hotel SBR Jan 2011 Multi Voluntary insures that the company has a strong backbone Guidelines/TUV and set of standard operation procedures (SOP’s) in Rheinland place. Eco Hotel SBR Nov 2010 Multi voluntary guidelines/SEC Singapore SBR Since Multi Legally Construction construct binding codes ion “ “ ” ” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 56 56 G4-16 Memberships in associations Siloso Beach Resort SBR is associated with a range of stakeholder Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance organizations. While some are related to the hotel business many have been established through the Association Comment sustainability programs and CSR outreach. Singapore Compact A primary point of contact for CSR related for CSR events and support in Singapore. As a SBR believes that being a member of these member, SBR is regularly involved in associations extends its sphere of influence and in seminars and meetings organized by this organization. SBR has also sponsored some many instances allows it to play its corporate of these events. citizen role. Association Comment Singapore SBR is actively supporting the work of SEC Delta Senior Just this year, SBR started our Environment through sponsorships or direct School (DSS) partnership with DSS where we will Council involvements. have 5 students from their horticulture program interning in our landscape department. If everything PUB’s Friends of SBR is an active member of the Public Utility goes well, it will be extended to other Water Network Board’s Friends of Water Network, and departments (F&B and supports efforts to promote water Housekeeping). We will continue to conservation. work with them to provide opportunities for people with mild Singapore Nature As a member, SBR regularly attends events intellectual disability. Society organized by this organization. It also has eco-business.com Asia-Pacific’s largest environmental sponsored some of their initiatives. business community. As a member and an approved client, SBR submits St Andrew’s Autism SBR actively supports the integration of regular environmental related Centre people with disabilities through its articles to this platform . partnership with the organization. Mountbatten SBR provides internships to students Vocational School of Mountbatten Vocational School Tripartite Alliance Inspired by TAFEP’s guide on Working with who best match the people we are for Fair People with Disabilities, SBR created a looking for. Currently, they are Employment handbook for our employees and managers working in our F&B Department. Practices (TAFEP) to refer to. We implement and support fair employment practices in the workplace. Ministry of the SBR meets a few times a year with UN Global Compact Environment members of the ministry to network Signatory/Member. The United Nations Youth and share best sustainability global CSR initiative is the world's largest Environmental practices and involvement of the CSR initiative that aims to drive more Engagement youth community in Singapore. sustainable practices in businesses throughout the world. Since 2012. National Learning Journey partner for PS21 Environment Excel Convention 2010. SBR is the first Agency learning journey partner from the private sector . Sentosa Island Sentosa Island regularly organises Partner meetings between its island partners and often by inviting third party organisations to discuss about future and potential development plans of the island. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 57 57 Association Comment Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance Make a wish SBR regularly donates to this Foundation foundation which aims to give children with life threatening illness an opportunity to realize a SBR is active in engaging wish with stakeholders through National University Member, Raffles Museum. SBR memberships and active of Singapore financially supports many causes of the museum contributions. While many Open Door Fund Member. Facilitating recruitment partnerships are already (recruiting disable and senior persons) for the disabled and the senior persons established, SBR constantly seeks new engagements Singapore Business Member as a corporate but also Federation as a participant in their opportunities…interested? sustainability forums Singapore Signatory/Member. SBR is Packaging committed to reducing its Agreement packaging waste. and many others… In the past 3 years alone, SBR has established numerous partnerships with various stakeholders in very different fields from environmental and social NGO’s to government organization and the private sector. So far for SBR, joining an organization through membership has usually resulted in other means of collaboration going beyond the simple membership (e.g. organizing mutual events, sponsorship of events, working on mutual programs…) “ ” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 58 58 Siloso Beach Resort G4-17 List all entities included in the Blending Life and Leisure with Nature organization’s consolidated financial Governance statements or equivalent Company structural diagram: Singapore Registered Company Name: Siloso Beach Resort Pte. Ltd. Siloso Beach Resort is a family owned hotel. Its only site and operations are on Sentosa island. SBR does not have any other operating companies, subsidiaries or joint ventures. SBR has a unique yet simple corporate structure formed of a general management core and dependant departments. Main Divisions Description Front office Takes care of first contact with guests (registration, check out…) and general inquiries Housekeeping Daily rooms and facilities cleaning Maintenance Electrical/mechanical maintenance F&B Food and beverages services Security Resort security and observation Reservations Handling of all reservation matters Sustainability Environment/society/financial sustainability Accounts Handling all accounting matters Human Handling all employees related Resources matters Quality services Quality of services monitoring and Sustainability As this diagram highlights, the actions Gardening All gardening matters (gardening is an Committee plays a crucial role at SBR as important department at SBR it serves as a filter to most decisions taken regarding considering the extent of vegetal the company’s operations. The presence of this coverage) structure ensures that sustainability is not just a The corporate structure at SBR is an integral part of practice but rather unique because: the business structure. •It is a family owned and managed business; •Corporate sustainability is an integral part of the overall management “ “ ” ” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 59 59 Siloso Beach Resort Report Parameters Blending Life and Leisure with Nature REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY G4-18 Process for defining report content This report is written using the GRI 4.0 guidelines. Materiality: This report covers all indicators highlighted in GRI 4.0 guidelines. SBR wishes through this report to be fully transparent in reporting the information which SBR is willing to publicly share in the hope that it may inspire other organisations in the hospitality field or others. Focus area: As an eco-resort, the environment topic is important to us and therefore we have chosen to give it a particular attention. The Story of SBR is unique especially with regards to the initiatives which have been taken to preserve the environment on site and to spread awareness on environmental issues. However, as we do adopt an integrated sustainable business concept, we also take into consideration economic and social aspects, which are also reported. Stakeholders: This report is targeted at all our stakeholders. A list of stakeholders is given in G4-24 We define the content to include in the sustainability report on two basis: 1) The guidelines provided by the GRI 4.0 which acts as a backbone to structuring the report. While certain elements are compulsory, others are left open and it is up to the sustainability committee to decide weather to include option reporting indicators depending on our needs, objectives and status of information currently available for these indicators. 2) This report is not just a sustainability report following established guidelines but importantly a story of SBR from its inception to present retracing the story of this unique business on its journey towards sustainability. Because of this, there are many elements of the report which go much beyond the needs of the reporting framework. GRI 4.0 guidelines Sustainability committee to draft a table of Status of data collection content Relevant Companies objectives G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries The materiality chart (refer to page 29) identifies areas of priorities which help shape the reporting content and the specific material Aspects. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 60 60 Siloso Beach Resort Our unique “jungle feel” Report Parameters Blending Life and Leisure with Nature One of our villa wing paths Many areas of our resort offer a natural immersive environment SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 61 61 Siloso Beach Resort Report Parameters G4-20 Boundary of the report Blending Life and Leisure with Nature As a single site operated business, boundaries of the report are clearly defined: The Report covers single operations of G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements Siloso Beach Resort in Sentosa Island. of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report This is SBR’s fifth sustainability report.There are no restatements. This report intends to cover all areas of environment, social and economic aspects of the G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting organisation and to report on all key indicators according to the guidelines of GRI 4.0. There are periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. no specific limitations. G4-21 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, This is thefifth sustainability report. In our previous subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced report (2015), we changed from GRI 3.1 to GRI 4.0, operations, and other entities that can and we continue to use the GRI 4.0 framework for this significantly affect comparability from period report. to period and/or between organizations. “ SBR is not involved in joint ventures nor does it have any other subsidiaries. Outsource operations are mentioned throughout the report and are considered part of our sustainability efforts (i.e. Siloso Beach Resort is selective with regards to its outsourced ” operation/contactors with a consideration for sustainability practices). GRI GRI 4.0 3.1 Readjustments New guidelines More depth in reporting SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 62 62 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Siloso Beach Resort The following Disclosure Items refer to general Blending Life and Leisure with Nature stakeholder engagement conducted by the Governance organization over the course of the reporting period Organization Program partner G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. www.eco-business.com : SBR eco articles Our stakeholders include all the various partners with whom we work with on the various programs Origin exterminators. that we have. Sustainable solution to mosquito control Main programs supporting organizations SBR has developed a number of high level outreach Singapore compact for CSR programs. Some of these programs have gained CSR. Various events a lot of support from leading organisations in their respective fields. Below is a selection of latest Singapore Polytechnic engagements with stakeholders. SBR Eco Tours/internships University of Nevada Las Organization Program partner Vegas. SBR Eco Tours World Wide Fund for Nature: SBR Biodiversity Portal …And many others… Conservation international: SBR Biodiversity Portal Tropical marine Science Institute: SBR Biodiversity Portal Raffles Museum of Biodiversity Research : SBR Biodiversity Portal Census of Marine Life: SBR Biodiversity Portal The Singapore Institute of Other stakeholders comprise the following Biology : SBR Biodiversity Portal Singapore Environment Council: Stakeholders Comments SBR Biodiversity Portal Customers Guest staying at the hotel as well as passing guests Science Centre Singapore: SBR (e.g. F&B guests) Biodiversity Portal Civil Society SBR is very active in reaching out to society through its numerous CSR programs National University of Employees SBR puts a lot of attention on its employees and Singapore: SBR Biodiversity and other contract workers which play a very important role Portal workers in the success of the business United Nations Environmental Suppliers As an hotel environment, SBR works with Programme: SBR biodiversity numerous suppliers many of which are active in portal the sustainability field SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 63 63 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of Siloso Beach Resort stakeholders with whom to engage. Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance As an eco-hotel, SBR takes particular care to select stakeholders which share its vision of sustainability. The below diagram highlights the systematic process by which SBR chooses its stakeholders: This selection is targeted at different levels with varying stringency: Stakeholders Comments Hotel Guest SBR primary target is to attract eco conscious travellers. In order to achieve this, SBR primarily advertises its services in eco travel platforms. However, SBR remains open to accept any type of guests to its facilities. Suppliers/service SBR takes great care in assessing every purchased product to be sustainable. In providers order to do this, particular care is taken to assess every purchased item and to identify potential alternatives which are less impactful on the environment. Program partners As most of SBR programs are into sustainability, SBR is very selective on organisations with whom it partners “ ’ “ ’ ” ” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 64 64 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Siloso Beach Resort engagement by type and by stakeholder Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance group and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report Community panels preparation process. SBR sits on a number of community /discussion panels , of SBR has various approaches to engage with which some include: stakeholders: •Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources. Corporate and education institutions engagement Surveys •Sentosa Island partners discussion group SBR is regularly approached by stakeholders who wish to undertake surveys. In recent years many of these surveys have been targeted at third parties Written communications gaining a better understanding of SBR sustainability initiatives. SBR engages with various stakeholders through written communications means. Focus groups •Reports on environmental initiatives SBR is open to collaboration and partnership with •Sustainability and CSR programs all stakeholder groups. •Articles/news •Marketing material In the past years, SBR has gained strong •Audiovisual materials stakeholder partnerships with groups as diverse as: •Eco tours •Government Organisation (e.g. Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources, National and many more… Environment Agency, National Parks Board, Public Utilities Board, Ministry of National Development…), Frequency of engagement •NGO’s (e.g. Singapore Environment Council, World Wide Fund for Nature, Conservation International, Stakeholder group Frequency Singapore Compact for CSR…) Hotel Guests Constantly •Private Sector: SBR is regularly engaging with various private sector entities, from suppliers to manufacturers or service providers Government Frequently. Mostly organizations through attendance of •Public Sector: SBR engages with many public sector events and events organizations such as universities, schools, sponsorship community services… Private sector Constantly through our supply chain and various Our 3 focus groups: programs (e.g. eco tours) NGO’s Frequently. Mostly through our CSR programs (e.g. biodiversity portal) and events sponsorships SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 65 65 Siloso Beach Resort On site engagement Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance SBR has a range of programs aiming to engage stakeholders on its site: Stakeholder engagement Description Environmental Channels Two channels in the Resort are dedicated to providing environmental information, and are available in all guest rooms and in common areas. Eco-Huts Various huts (7 in total) around the resort contain environmental messages. It is a passive learning concept, where information is made available in a very relaxing environment. SBR Mascots In an effort to make their environmental messages more fun and appealing to kids, SBR has created two mascots. Self-Guided Eco Journey For those guests who wish to know more about the Resort, there are selfguided Eco Journey panels placed throughout the resort. These panels provide key facts and figures about the hotel environmental achievements which are elaborated in much more depth in the guided eco tour Eco Corner Located just outside SBR’s reception, it is a starting point for guests to learn about the environmental activities of the Resort. Most importantly, the area hosts a large map of the resort, pointing out the environmental messages and highlights. Guest Conservation Messages Messages to guests about conservation of resources are present at SBR’s Reception, and in the rooms which have “10 tips to have a greener stay” Café Biodiversity Exhibit SBR’s Café features large pictures of biodiversity taken around the Resort. On the side of each picture information about the species, and a message about nature conservation are present. Real Dinosaur Bones Display In collaboration with NUS, SBR is displaying real diplodocus vertebrae bones. Eco Leisure A Climate change themed board game is available for guests to play. Through playing the game, they are made aware of some of the most important consequences of climate change. and many more… “ ’ ’ “ ” ” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 66 66 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and Siloso Beach Resort how the organization has responded to those Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance key topics and concerns Our guests: misunderstanding of the concept to preserve much wildlife on site including monitor “ lizards and insects. SBR response: As an Eco Hotel, SBR has a strong commitment to preserve biodiversity on site. As such it made significant efforts to minimize the impacts through the built environment by preserving the initial terrain, trees and plants. It also takes great care in pest control and cleaning products to use less impactful products. As a result, one would expect to find more species at SBR than in a conventional hotel where these could be ” considered as pest. SBR is trying hard to communicate this message to its guests that biodiversity preservation is important and a primary goal of SBR in order to blend leisure and nature Our guests: misunderstanding on open door concept together and provide a memorable staying throughout the resort (non air conditioned public spaces). experience for nature lovers. SBR response: Indeed, at SBR only 28% of the terrain is Our guests: misunderstandings on the concept not covered area. The rest has been kept open space as much to provide amenities in the rooms (tooth brush, as possible. One of the main reason for this was to preserve shampoo bottles...). It has come to our attention the existing trees on site (more than 200 initial trees have that there has been a few misunderstandings on been preserved). The other reason is for energy efficiency. the fact that SBR does not provide amenities kit in By having open public spaces, which are either using natural the rooms. The misunderstanding is on the fact cooling (wind) or ventilators, SBR is able to significantly that SBR is trying to reduce on cost by doing so. reduce its energy consumption. SBR believes that the excessive use of air conditioning in public spaces is not SBR response: SBR has been very clear that the necessary to achieve a desired level of comfort. reason for not systematically providing amenities in the guests rooms has nothing to do with cost saving Our guests: misunderstanding on the need to apply but is purely an environmental initiative to reduce mosquito control treatment on site. wastage within the resort and to promote good practices to our guests. We wish to highlight that SBR response: There has been some complains that SBR any guest can request for such services and that was using fogging methods to treat its mosquitoes. Some amenities are indeed available on request by the guest found it to be disturbing while they are enjoying the guest should they need it. outdoor environment and that as an eco hotel SBR should not use chemicals. We believe that too often amenities provided in hotels throughout the world result in tremendous As a resort which is located in an environment with very wastage and resource usage. Serious studies also high vegetal coverage, SBR has no choice but to apply highlight that many guests would not make any use mosquito control procedures. This is actually not only SBR’s of such amenities and usually bring their own choice but also a government regulation in Singapore as products with them (e.g. tooth brushes, part of the fight against dengue fever potential cases. shampoos…). However SBR has taken feedbacks into account and since over a year is trying a new pest control technique that makes use of alternative treatments using a bacterial based SBR has resumed to provide solution around the perimeter of the resort. This process is much less impactful on wildlife which is very important to amenities in all the guest SBR. rooms. SBR would like to highlight that it is very mindful of guests comfort and wildlife welfare but it is also concerned about assuring a safe environment for its guests and staff. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 67 67 Report Parameters Siloso Beach Resort Report Parameters REPORT PROFILE Blending Life and Leisure with Nature G4-28 Reporting period SBR’s Sustainability Committee comprises executives and managers of various departments and meets at least two This report covers information for the period of times a year to review achievements, assess progress and 2014 (1 Jan 2014 to 31 Dec 2014) set new targets for continuous improvement in our sustainability journey. However, many of the data collected covers a longer time period, often since the very conception SBR’s Sustainability Committee members: of the hotel more than 10 years ago. It is important in order to capture the level of achievements at SBR Designation of Sustainability Committee that the report portrays not only some data for the members last two years but also puts this into context of the Managing Director greater picture since the construction days. Director of Sustainability One can only appreciate the efforts and CSR Manager achievements in the pursuit of sustainability when F&B Manager gaining an understanding of the history of this Housekeeping Manager sustainability journey at SBR. Front Office Manager Sales & Reservations Manager It is a journey that SBR has embarked on, not Finance Manager punctual achievements. SBR prefers the term of HR Manager journey as becoming a more sustainable company is something that requires constant efforts and adjustments and it is a long term process. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report G4-4.0 GRI Content Index This sustainability report is SBR’s Fourth, previous report was published on 25 Oct 2014. Category/sections Indicator Pg No. Strategy and Analysis G4-1 – G4-2 10 -35 G4-30 Reporting cycle Organizational Profile G4-3 – G4-16 37 58 SBR sustainability reports will be re-edited to Identified material G4-17 – G4-23 59 62 include up to date information annually. aspects and boundaries G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 – G4-27 63 67 the report or its contents. Report Profile G4-28 – G4-33 68 -69 contact regarding this report: Governance G4-34 – 41, 44, 49, 71 -76 csr@silosobeachresort.com 51, 52 Ethics and integrity G4-56 77 Additional contacts: This report was approved and voted by SBR sustainability committee. Economic indicators G4-EC1 – G4-EC9 156-160 G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. Environmental indicators G4-EN1 – G4-EN31 95142 SBR is reporting in accordance to the Core Social indicators option. Labor practices & G4-LA1 – G4-LA13 144-148 decent work Human rights G4-HR3 148 Society G4-SO1, 6 150-151 Product responsibility G4-PR1 – G4-PR5 152-155 SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 68 68 Siloso Beach Resort Report Parameters ASSURANCE Blending Life and Leisure with Nature G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. The below table provides a list of some third The validity of the information provided in this party verifications (there are many others): report is subject to stringent review both internally and externally. Verifying Aspect verified Documental evidence Third Party •Internally: This report has been reviewed by our Sustainability Committee. Data collection from Singapore Environmental Certificate: Singapore various departments follows company guidelines and internal quality control procedures. Environment achievements Environment Achievement Council Awards (Top achiever -2010) •Externally: SBR sustainability statements are Singapore Sustainability Certificate: Singapore publicly available and have been subjected to Business achievements Sustainability Award (Top review by a number of stakeholders including awards and certifications provided by third party Federation (social, honour – 2011) Environment organisations. As part of the process of and economical) obtaining our numerous awards and certifications (e.g Singapore Environment TUV SUD Risk assessment: Certificate of Audit by TUV Achievement Award, Singapore Sustainability “bizSAFE level 3 SUD Award, Singapore Compact Merit Award for CSR, certified” Eco Hotel certifications from TUV Rheinland and the Singapore Environment Council), the statements Government Financial Audit report accredited statements provided in this report have been extensively auditor reviewed, analyzed and verified by these parties in much more depth than just a simple third Singapore Green initiatives Certificate: SEC Eco Hotel party verification assessment (e.g.: water/energy Environment and operations certification (2011 -2012) audits). Council Through the detailed internal and external TUV Green initiatives Certified eco hotel (first to Rheinland and operations be certified in South East verifications, SBR is confident of the Asia (2009 – 2012) accuracy of the information hereby provided in this report :“ ” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 69 69 Case study : the fear of a Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature sustainable path 2 “ 1 “ ” ” 3 “ ” “ 4 ” 5 “ ..It is easier to start by ” climbing a hill! You do not climb to the top of a high mountain straight away.. Climbing Corporate sustainability ..It is easier to adopt a progressive approach progressing step by step You do not become a towards this goal. sustainable business straight away.. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 70 70 Siloso Beach Resort GOVERNANCE Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest Senior Management: governance body to senior executives and other employees Siloso Beach Resort is a family owned and operated business. Senior management (responsible for executive decisions ) comprises of family members: •Mr Ng Swee Hwa: Chairman/Owner •Mr Kelvin Ng: Managing Director/Owner •Ms Felicia Ng: Sales and Reservations Manager As a small family run organization, the number of company executives is limited and comprises of a majority of male representatives. Ratio 2:1 Senior advising group is comprised of a Sustainability Committee. Decisions of the committee have influence on family members decisions. The Sustainability Committee is responsible for analysing key executive decisions on economic, environmental and social impacts in the organisation. Below shows the gender ratio in the committee. The Sustainability Committee comprises of 9 As a family owned business, our owner has the final say in members of which 6 are male and 3 are female: all decisions being made. The Sustainability Committee is responsible for executive decisions. The Sustainability Committee comprises of senior executives and the decisions and conveyed to employees in various departments. G4-36 Report whether the organization has Female appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post Male holders report directly to the highest governance body SBR is a family owned and managed resort hotel. SBR does not have a unitary board structure. A detailed composition of the Sustainability Committee is given at Section G4-31. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 71 71 GOVERNANCE Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance G4-37 Report processes for consultation G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental SBR is a family owned and managed resort hotel. SBR and social topics. If consultation is delegated, does not have a unitary board structure. describe to whom and any feedback processes Report the composition of the highest governance to the highest governance body. body and its committees by: Shareholders engagement: Executive or non-executive Independence SBR has various mechanisms in place to collect Tenure on the governance body feedbacks from its stakeholders which includes Number of each individual’s other significant positions service providers, suppliers and hotel guests. and commitments, and the nature of the commitments Hotel guests are able to provide feedback through Gender various means which include : Membership of under-represented social groups Competences relating to economic, environmental •Pre established feedback forms available in every and social impacts room and which are then collected by the staff during room cleaning; Stakeholder representation •Approaching one of the staff directly who will then report to their department managers; G4-39 Chair of the highest governance body •Websites: The resort’s website provides various The chairman, Mr Ng Swee Hwa, is also an sections especially designed to collect feedbacks as executive officer in the organisation. well as through third party sites such as Tripadvisor which allows guests to review the hotel. SBR Highest authority in the organisation is by the owner regularly scans these sites to gather feedback and himself, which is also an executive officer in the take corrective action if necessary. organisation. The reason for this arrangement is that SBR was built from the very beginning with direct guidance from the owner to “ make SBR a very unique hotel with a strong commitment in sustainability and environmental preservation. ’ As outsourcing an environmentally conscious management is proven very difficult to find, It was crucial that the owner and family members remained actively involved in the management of SBR in order to stay committed to ” preserving the environment and promoting sustainable practices. :“ ’ ” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 72 72 GOVERNANCE Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, SBR has a process in place in order to assign members of its various governance boards: Governance boards are comprised of advisory committees of which: : Governance boards are comprised of advisory committees of which: •The Sustainability Committee •The Risk Management Committee •The General Review Committee New committee members are appointed for a period of 2 years after which their relevance on the board is reassessed. Diversity: SBR does not conduct gender discrimination when appointing new members. Efforts are made to aim towards an equilibrium between number of man and women in the committees. G4-41 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 73 73 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance G4-44 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. During meetings, the performance of existing targets and objectives are reviewed. Each department manager will then provide the results of the performance of previous fixed targets in the environment, social and economic aspects. If previous targets have not been achieved, an investigation is launched to determine the reason and also to fix new targets. A number of indicators have been put in place in order to regularly assess the performance of the organisation with regards to economics, environment and social aspects. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 74 74 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance G4-49 Employees feedbacks: SBR has a well-established process for collecting feedbacks from its employees. In order to do this, regular meetings are organized at two levels: Intra-department meetings: Managers of the different departments meet with their respective staffs to collect feedback. Feedback is then transmitted to the sustainability committee Inter-department meetings: These meetings involve departments managers with general management. Several committees have been established for this purpose: -SBR sustainability committee SBR has open policies with regards to -SBR safety and risk management committee -SBR Annual review committee collecting feedbacks from its employees A feedback collection box is another General feedback collection mechanisms for employees to provide feedback mechanism anonymously should they not wish to interact with the management directly. Incoming feedback Every feedback is taken seriously and analyzed by the management which will SBR Feedback then decide of an First analysis (manager level) collection box appropriate action “ Significant Insignificant ” Sustainability Committee Action recommended Action denied Action denied Executive Corrective Action Director approved SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 75 75 G4-51 Linkage between compensation for Siloso Beach Resort members of the highest governance body, Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance senior managers, and executives Every employee of the company is subject to Linkage between compensations employees rules and regulations which include employees rights. These rules are highlighted in the Level Compensation employment contract and agreed between the employee and the employer at the time of employment. Highest Highest governance is the owner of the governance company. Compensation is not fixed but These include (but are not limited to): proportional to company profit as per shareholders stakes -Number of paid leave and holidays Manager Higher base pay than executive and More annual leave entitlement -Fixed salary and bonuses options Performance bonuses •Compensation: SBR has flexible compensation Monthly pay package options for various levels of management which are Executive Two annual leaves entitled customized based on experience and qualifications. Performance bonuses •Departure arrangements: These are the same for Others Monthly pay package all employees and are subject to one month notice. Rank and Allowance Other departure arrangements may occur and File Performance bonuses arrangements are made on a case to case basis. Part timers Hourly rated Allowance G4-52 process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are As part of our compensation, involved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of all full time employees benefit management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have from healthcare options with the organization. SBR deals with remuneration on its own without outside consultants inputs. The salaries are set and benchmarked against standards in the industry. It is currently up to the “ management to finalize and adjust salaries based on aspects such as performance, level of experience and education. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 76 76 G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, Siloso Beach Resort Ethics and Integrity principles, standards and norms of behaviour Blending Life and Leisure with Nature such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics SBR has a well-established code of conduct which covers principles relevant to economic, social and environmental attributes. These guidelines are compulsory and applied throughout the departments.. General orientation, covers: safety, environment training , work ethics, corporate values “ “ ” ” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 77 77 SUSTAINABILITY IN HOTELS Siloso Beach Resort Originally published by SBR for GreenPearls Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Case study The hotel industry is one that is rapidly Hotels are intensive ventures where it takes many expending and not without significant years to recover the initial investment. The time environmental and social impacts. There are for recovery can be significantly cut short through still countless hotels which choose to develop operational savings in energy and water costs in remote environments without adequate predominantly as well as other areas. measures and development objectives that protect the environment and local Furthermore, tourism predictions point to the fact communities. This trend should change as that the demand for sustainable tourism is hotels are in a unique position to educate and expected to rise significantly in the coming years, lead change towards more sustainable therefore adopting more sustainable practices not concepts and practices. only provides direct cost savings but will also increasingly serve as a key sales point driving Every business line addressing sustainability business growth. faces unique challenges and opportunities. Hotels is a very unique business sector that Another trend is the fact that more and more both offers great challenges and huge travellers are looking to escape their busy city opportunities through the adoption of a urban jungle lives to hotels which provide an sustainability strategy. While many businesses immersion back to nature. The search for pristine would only deal with specific industry sectors environments with fresh air, living trees and sites and stakeholders, when it comes to hotels the which still hold a diversity of species is becoming sectors of influence are very broad and could the new luxury trend. As people will increasingly drive large scale changes in practices from move to densely populated cities, this aspect will multiple angles. Indeed, hotels are offering become more and more apparent. unique educational grounds considering the large number of people from all around the A holistic approach is key world which transit through them. Despite this simple fact very few hotels have to date taken Most hotels sustainability programs are often only the sustainability agenda beyond regulatory or focused on water and energy and sometimes compliance requirements. waste as well. While return on investment can be achieved faster through these aspects, there are a General confusions on sustainable hotels are range of other aspects hotels should look seriously apparent. Here a sustainable hotel would be into which have important implications on the defined as an entity continuously looking to sustainability of the business. minimize its impacts on the environment and society while maintaining a healthy business Below are certain key elements which can serve as model. It is not a single achievement but a a general sustainability framework which we will continuous improvement strategy. here refer to as the generic DSRSO-approach(TM): It makes business sense 1) Design: the sooner a hotel can look into sustainable consideration the better it is as only so We have heard the same story countless times much can be achieved post construction. If an that adopting more sustainable practices also establishment can start at the design stage than a makes good business sense but this statement great deal of efficiency can be achieved passively. is especially true in the hotel industry. Indeed Aspects such as maximizing open spaces, hotels are high consumers of water, energy preserving trees on site (if any), designing the and waste within a relatively small surface spaces to make the most use of natural lights and area, therefore reductions in consumption cooling will be key contributors in the overall effectively translates to significant financial efficiency of the buildings (and thus cost savings). savings. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 78 78 SUSTAINABILITY IN HOTELS Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 2) Construction: Construction is also very important Case study as many environmental impacts would happen during this phase. There are many aspects that can A unique potential to educate be looked into to minimize impacts; from training of the construction team to avoid environmentally Hotels have a unique opportunity to act not only destructive practices, setting specific guidelines and as leisure environments but also as educational putting additional monitoring measures. Very centres. The reason for this simply relies in important is also looking into the raw materials numbers; indeed considering the number of used for the built structures as hotels can make use people who transit through hotels around the of a significant amount of recycled items without world at any given time from very different affecting the quality of the structures and comfort. backgrounds and origins the potential to educate Cost can also be reduced through such practices. is enormous. If only a small fraction of transiting hotel guests would retain something from their 3) Retrofitting: The next logical phase is to retrofit stay through educational programs this would the newly built facilities with technologies and already be a significant achievement. appliances which are energy and water efficient. If well planned actually most of a hotel efficiency Providing information passively is a specific should be by design (passive efficiency) however challenge to this industry sector. Indeed, as this can be further improved through technological people pay to stay in hotels they may not be inputs. Areas of focus are light fixtures, chiller interested to be bombarded with information systems, pumps, water heaters which all can be they did not ask for. The information can however customized for greater efficiency. If the conditions be displayed and provided in a non-intrusive way are suitable, renewable energies should be looked which always gives the guests the option to either into as well. learn from it or ignore it. This mind-set is very important when setting educational programs for 4) Setting the management: Moving from the hotels. Examples would include the use of in hardware elements equally important is to look at house TV channels, booklets or display boards how the hotel will be managed. A hotel could be throughout the facilities. built in the most sustainable way but if it is not managed with a similar mind-set it is wasting the Hotels can educate on a range of subjects efforts. Management is crucially important and the preferably on issues which are in line with their sustainability agenda should be an integral part of surrounding and business model. For instance an the business model affecting the core decision eco-hotel could choose to educate on framework rather than just be a departmental environmental sustainability whereas a city hotel affair. Building a culture of sustainability within the could educate on the cultural heritage of its given organisation takes time and requires a bottom up location. Considering their unique transitional approach in which every employee can contribute. position, any given hotel should at least have some educational focus! 5) Outreach: last but not least is setting up outreach programs which could be in the form of a Customisation CSR agenda. While a hotel can greatly influence through its in-house activities sharing best practices While a general framework (DCRSO – achieved within but also much beyond the approachTM) acting as a “magic recipe” for a boundaries of the hotel is the next phase. Hotels sustainable hotel sounds convenient, like with can use their facilities as education grounds as well other businesses it does not work this way and as test bedding of innovative technologies and also customization is key. Indeed, while many hotels develop their own educational programs. would be quite similar in their built structure and locations (e.g. a typical city hotel), many hotels are actually in unique sites and using unique designs which require customization if looking into a sustainable approach. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 79 79 SUSTAINABILITY IN HOTELS Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Opportunities on a given site will only be available Case study to certain; for instance a site on a beach front could benefit from sea breezes as a central cooling mechanism and the design developed around this An ecosystems approach concept whereas a hotel near a lake could make use of the fresh water for cooling systems, While many hotels or in fact businesses in irrigation and consumption; geothermal energy general would claim to have sustainability could be available to some while solar or wind strategies without addressing biodiversity and would make more sense to others and so on…the ecosystem issues this is clearly not possible. Any location of the site should shape the sustainability business serious about sustainability should strategy. include biodiversity and ecosystems preservation/enhancement as a core element of The initial assessment of the site at the earliest their strategy. These two elements are complex stage possible is crucial to maximize the potential and because of this most entities would rather in terms of sustainability and being able to make just omit them from the equation; this is not the right initial choices. sustainable! Pushing the concept While certain sites are more prone to conservation programs, making use of the While the vast majority of hotels would simply ecosystem and preserving the inhabiting adopt a basic sustainability strategy focusing on biodiversity can be adopted by any hotel. A city energy-water and waste efficiency, the hotel for instance in a central urban location opportunities to go much beyond are limitless. obviously will not have much terrain or Design can be customized to the extent of greatly biodiversity to preserve within its premises, benefiting the surrounding environment and however much can be done by incorporating communities. elements in the design which will create species habitats. This may include making use of rooftop Some examples of meaningful initiatives could gardens, creating ponds or even developing include (but are not limited to): renewable systems conservation programs and partnerships beyond that produce onsite energy and redistributing the the facilities. excess to the grid; purifying rainwater and distributing the excess to the community; providing Last it is important to understand that and enhancing natural habitats to shelter a rich sustainability in hotels is not about addressing degree of biodiversity for instance through the targeted aspects such as most commonly energy preservation of trees, creating or preserving water and water but rather about a holistic approach ponds or installing extensive rooftop gardens; which can only come from the understanding of collecting the food waste from hotels restaurants the impacts and potentials unique to a specific and reusing the waste for composting/gardening or hotel. biogas production… “ “ ” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 80 80 SBR CSR initiatives Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance Rooftop Terrace – A stunning view of the South China Sea, Eco Tours and below our 100m long self-maintenance rooftop garden. Green Sanctuary –This area is where our own gardening staff grow plants and herbs for use around the Resort. Sustainable Farming – Learn more about the healthy vegetables that are grown on our rooftop. Landscape Pool – A unique swimming pool that is better for both people and the environment. The eco tours have taken place for the last 3 Wormery – Learn how our earthworms turn food waste years. The aim is to showcase and share the into organic compost fertilizer for our plants. sustainability achievements at the hotel with various stakeholders in order to inspire others to Natural Filtration Pond – Learn how our springwater will embark on the same path. This program has been undergo sand, vegetation and animal filtration. Learn the very successful and to date, more than 10,000 importance of the Tilapia fish in our food waste recycling people from university students to fortune 100 program. companies top executives have attended the tours. Al Fresco Café – Learn about how we apply the 4Rs (Respect, Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle) in our Café. Purpose We use the resort and its environmental aspects as Cost: The tour is free as it is one of our CSR initiatives a case-study for the environmentally sustainable to promote compassion for the environment and to business model. The aim is to create awareness educate our participants about various environmental of environmental issues and help to develop challenges that our world is facing right now. There is a more compassion for the environment. small fee to enter Sentosa Island but entrance is free if you walk in through the boardwalk. Duration 1.5 to 2+ hours, followed by 15 minutes for Q&A. Events sponsorships Who? SBR regularly financially supports meaningful events. The Eco Journey is targeted towards company Below is a list of some of the latest events SBR has groups and students, however, we offer it to financially supported: anyone who is interested in environmental sustainability. This includes stakeholders like our • PUB’s Friends of Water Networking Session (2014) guests, partners, and suppliers. Our tours have attracted many primary, secondary and polytechnic • Singapore Packaging Agreement CEO’s :Luncheon (2014) students. We are able to tailor made the program to include more educational levels. • Singapore Compact’s International CSR Summit (2010, 2011, 2012, 2013) The Program • Make A Wish Foundation Zecia’s Birthday Celebration The Eco Journey has 8 major “stations” or areas of (2012) interest all around the resort. • Sentosa’s Clean and Green Workshop 2012 Introduction – Explains the purpose of the tour, the general eco-concept, and the guidelines for • Singapore CSR Compact: “Sustainability is about Ecology, constructing the resort. Economy, and Equity” event (2013) Villa Wing – This area aims to showcase blending • St Andrew’s Autism Centre’s Teachers and Coaches Day leisure with nature, with trees even incorporated 2013 into the design of buildings. And many other causes… SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 81 81 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Eco Tours, newly implemented logo • SBR Eco Tours were implemented less than 4 years ago. In such a short time, the tours have grown in popularity and a way to share its sustainability initiatives with various stakeholders. • The tours have been well received by SBR’s guests, saying it was their highlight of their stay here. • SBR intends over the next years to continue to grow and develop this program especially in providing more customized tours for various groups (e.g. universities, corporate, young children…) • We will continue to expand this program in order for it to reach out to as many people as possible. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 82 82 SBR Eco Tours Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Every tour that we conduct is synonymous with the success of sharing a cause which is close to our heart. We have many success stories to tell about this program and continuously receive feedbacks on people and groups which found that they have really learnt something useful. We are continuously adjusting this project to improve even further overtime.. Siloso Beach Resort SBR Sustainability Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 83 83 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance Happy 13,000! This year we are very proud to announce that our eco tour has officially registered more than 13,000 people which have taken the tours SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 84 84 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance Our reception area has recently undergone major renovations with the extension of the floor area by about double the previous space available. As part of the concept a large portion of the reception open space is now dedicated to a permanent exhibition dedicated to our eco tour and the special sustainability practices adopted by Siloso Beach Resort. The exhibit also intends to serve as a self eco tour for those who may not have time to take part in our daily guided tours. While the guided tours go into much greater details the exhibit provides an overview of what people may see around them during their stay with us. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 85 85 SBR Biodiversity Portal Program Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance Recently, Siloso Beach Resort (SBR) has developed the Biodiversity website: biodiversity.sg, which it manages in collaboration with a range of institutions both in Singapore and internationally. The CSR project was developed during the International Year of Biodiversity in 2010 to raise awareness of the intensifying trend of the extinction of species on Earth. The portal was conceptualized and developed based on a book: “The diversity of Life on Earth: from Heritage to Extinction”. More than merely a unique educational platform on biodiversity, the website was specifically designed to serve as a hub for individuals and organisations willing to learn and act on the subject both locally and internationally. The website has 3 main parts: Learn – For those looking to increase their knowledge about biodiversity, the book “The Biodiversity of Life on Earth: from Heritage to Extinction” provides a comprehensive overview of general knowledge and issues relevant to the loss of biodiversity. This book is created to be interesting Donations (with lots of pictures!) and readable by just about anyone, no matter what your knowledge of SBR regularly donates in order to support meaningful biodiversity. causes. Discover – There are various ways that you can One of the latest was a single donation of SGD expand your interest in biodiversity, be it through photos, videos, additional informational resources, 500,000 to the National University of Singapore in order scientific work, or finding out the places where you to support the implementation of a real dinosaur can see rich biodiversity. All these resources are exhibit within the upcoming new Natural History Museum provided here for you to tap into and discover. in Singapore. Act – Given the rapid loss of biodiversity hotspots around the world and the urgency of saving species As more “conventional” donations, SBR from extinction, taking action is of utmost regularly donates to sponsor causes such importance. We help link you to the conservation projects that matter most to you. Please note that as seminars, social causes, events… none of these donations are made through our site, but rather we simply provide links to credible conservation groups and projects. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 86 86 Our Commitment to Biodiversity Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Conservation Governance SBR central court Many aspects of how the resort is built and overall dense vegetal coverage reflect our strong commitments of biodiversity conservation SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 87 87 SBR mascots program Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance SBR eco articles program Siloso Beach Resort has introduced a cartoon concept to promote key environmental One of SBR’s program is to actively participate and drive messages throughout its facilities. dialogues on key environmental issues. In order to do this, SBR regularly publishes articles on www.ecobusiness.com The idea is to make use of two created fictional which is Asia Pacific’s largest environmental business characters (Prof Monitor and Squirzy) in order to community. Through its contribution, SBR is an approved outreach to our guests in a fun and yet partner of eco business. effective way. List of articles recently published: While, numerous environmental educational messages are already present throughout the resort Title Content summary (e.g. Eco huts, TV channels…), we feel that the The power of human and The potential to generate power by cartoons will outreach more effectively to a wider recovered energies recovering wasted energies public including young children. Food security: asking the Thoughts on the real concerns of right questions the availability of food on the Concept: Our aim is to passively provide planet and sustainable solutions environmental information and to use our resort as Ozone: the forgotten The ozone crisis, the evolution of a showcase of sustainable best practices. We will threats recovery efforts and potential new always respect the choices of our guests to either coming threats ignore or take the time to appreciate the The value of water: a The state of water scarcity on the information that we make available. Our concept is lesson from arid areas planet and sustainable solutions to provide our guests the possibility to learn something new about the environmental issues Climate forcing and the The threat posed by feedback that we face and to reflect upon it, while having a threat of feedback mechanisms and sustainable good time at our resort. mechanisms climate remediation solutions Demystifying the concept How to build a sustainable Characters role: The principle behind the of sustainable construction construction project characters is simple: Prof Monitor plays the role of the knowledgeable source which we use to convey Renewing renewables A detailed analysis on energy accurate key messages. Squirzy (the squirrel), on supplies, trends and sustainable the other hand, is a more funny character which solutions serves the purpose of asking the right questions, Driving an innovation The biodiversity crisis and how we but sometimes in a humoristic way. revolution through could use biodiversity to our biomimetic advantage Characters choice: We chose a monitor lizard Can global sustainability be An analysis of issues posed by and a squirrel to act as our eco ambassadors achieved without demography and sustainable mascots for the simple reason that these two demographical solutions animals can been seen at our resort (mostly in the considerations café area) and they also represent our commitment Putting CSR and The role of corporates in to the preservation of wildlife and biodiversity on sustainability at the heart addressing environmental and our site. of a business social issues “ ” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 88 88 SBR Environment Outreach Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature (Mass media) Biodiversity Portal SBR Eco-business.com articles “Renewing Renewables” “Biomimetics” “Food security” “The power of human energy” “The global water crisis ” “Demography” … Press releases/blogs/student reports… SBR is regularly featured in press releases as well as students and companies reports to highlight its sustainable initiatives SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 89 89 Eco Panels Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Numerous: panels describing the resorts environmental initiatives are displayed throughout the hotel Eco Huts SBR Eco Huts: a total of 7 huts throughout the resort display extensive information messages each hut on one key environmental topic Biodiversity picture exhibit Our café biodiversity exhibit showcasing pictures of wildlife taken within the resort as well as general text on biodiversity Siloso Beach ResortSBR Sustainability Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 90 90 Sustainable farming Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance • SBR ECO games: SBR has developed its own environmentally oriented board games which it makes available to guests within public areas. SBR produces its own compost using an innovative vermicomposting system. The compost is then used as an organic fertilizer to grow vegetables on our Eco huts rooftop. Organic vegetables are then supplied to the F&B department. The aim is to provide chemical and pesticide free leafy vegetables for some of our dishes. The benefits are that because they are SBR has numerous huts on its site. Each hut has been grown on-site by our own staff, we can ensure they utilised to convey key environmental messages on are free of harmful chemicals. We are also lowering our environmental footprint: specific topics. Each hut deals with a particular environmental concern. 1.Carbon footprint is lower since there is no fuel involved in transporting the final product. There are 7 eco huts: 2.Water footprint is lower, since we use • The climate change hut our own spring water source that does not compete • The biodiversity hut with the public water supply. • The water hut • The sustainable development hut 3.Land footprint is lower, since it is located on • The resources hut our Resort, and using the concept of urban farming • The population hut to make the most out of limited space. • The pollution hut 4.Ecological footprint is lower, since there are no pesticides and no fertilizers running off into the Eco TV channels environment. 5.Food waste is recycled, as we use vermicomposing (worm) to produce top-quality 100% natural fertilizer for our soil, using the food SBR has dedicated two in-house TV channels to scraps from our F&B operations. environmental awareness. Eco leisure • One station showcases an environmental documentary •Sentosa nature trails: SBR actively promotes the • Another station showcases a 1.5 hour presentation use of nature walks and trails located behind its developed by SBR which explains the main resort. While many parts of Sentosa island have environmental concerns of the century. been sacrificed for development purposes, large areas of forested terrain still remain in the central “ part of the island. Numerous nature trails have been put into place for nature lovers to enjoy. •Singapore natural parks: SBR also promotes within its premises and marketing material eco tourism activities within Singapore which are ” largely unknown to travelers. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 91 91 Our unique roof-top organic Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature farming Governance “ “ ” ” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 92 92 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Actively Promoting Eco leisure activities SBR Eco Games Promoting Sentosa Island Eco Trails at the resort as well as Eco tourisms activities in Singapore in General (nature reserves…) to our guests: SBR has developed board games on the thematic on Climate Change and Biodiversity for its guests Eco trails in SBR’s backyard campaign Our website features a lot of information of our environmental initiatives as well as general environmental resources SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 93 93 Siloso Beach Resort SBR Environment Mascots Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR mascots helps to convey key environmental messages throughout the resort in a fun way SBR in house Eco TV Channels SBR Eco Channels are available in all our 180+ guests rooms and are a very effective way to outreach on these issues to a broad audience transiting through the hotel SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 94 94 Environment Siloso Beach Resort Environmental MATERIALS Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Since its conception, SBR has always made use of a G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume very significant amount of reused and recycled materials within its facilities. Various materials have been used in the construction of the The concept has overtime been implemented into resort and its daily operations. Two of the most important operational standards and management guidelines. materials are wood and paper inputs. The below highlights some of the elements: Paper Usage by Weight 2014 •Many of the stairways at SBR have made use of Normal Paper recycled paper unwanted old train tracts wood from Australia. SBR 100 has a permanent wood workshop and 90 all the wood coming into SBR is from reused or 80 recycled sources. 70 60 •Extensive surfaces of indoor corridor floorings are KG 50 made from recycled tires (rubber mats) 40 30 • 100% Reused children playground furniture 20 10 In addition to active implementation of recycled 0 Apr-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 May-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 and reused elements, SBR is active at promoting and practicing the 3 R’s (Reduce, reuse, recycled). In fact, SBR has come up with its own version by adding another R. Indeed, SBR’s policy is first to Total weight of paper used for 2010 : 1042.6 KG respect the surrounding environment (especially Total weight of paper used for 2011 : 1094.6 KG natural features and its inhabiting biodiversity), and Total weight of paper used for 2012 : 1070.0 KG then reduce, reuse and recycle. Total weight of paper used for 2013 : 923.0 KG Efforts to reduce are very present throughout the Total weight of paper used for 2014 : 878.8 KG resort with practices implemented in areas such as F&B and housekeeping. Total volume of wood used from 20052014 (by cubic meters) “ 120, 23% Primary wood Reused wood ” 404, 77% Total volume of wood used from 2006 to 2013*: 524 cubic meters *The amount of wood used in 2012 and 2013 was negligible, as such the data has not changed since the last reporting period. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 95 95 Siloso Beach Resort Plastic Disclosure Project Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment SBR is committed to reducing its plastic waste, and this year will be Plastic Bottle Usage (Kg) disclosing information about its use of plastic through the Plastic 558 397.8 Disclosure Project Survey. For 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% more information, visit Plastic Recycled Plastic not recycled www.plasticdisclosure.org G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. • Maximize use of reused wood Usage of input materials like paper and • For primary wood, incorporate sustainability wood are a necessity to running our (FSC certified) and durability (cheap wood business, which unfortunately can will need to be replaced frequently) contribute to deforestation, climate • Use recycled paper for selected printing change, and loss of biodiversity. For this • When normal paper is used, ensure it is not reason we apply the following wasted and always used on both sides and guidelines: then recycled. Material Comment Weight/Volume % of Total Wood At SBR some of the outdoor staircases (numerous 120 cubic 23% considering the hill type of terrain) are from reused meters source from dismantled train rails from Australia. SBR has its own wood workshop and full time carpenters on site which make use of waste wood items collected from demolition sites to make and repair items within the facilities. Outdoor children The children playground has been collected from an Not available 100% playground unwanted source (second hand) Corridor rubber All SBR main corridors carpets have been changed Not available 100% mats to recycled rubber mats Paper We use recycled paper for selected areas, such as 41.6 kg 1.5% printing of brochures, name cards, feedback forms (2010/11/12) for Eco Tours, various posters, and reports. We plan to increase our percentage of recycled paper 10.4 kg 1% usage in the following years. (2012 alone) 15.6 kg 1.69% (2013 alone) We actually practice our 4R’s: we believe that we should first Respect nature then Reduce, Reuse and last Recycle. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 96 96 ENERGY Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature G4-EN3 ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE Environment ORGANIZATION Total Electricity Used 2015 Total Electricity Usage from 2008 to 2015 250000 200000 2500000 KWh 150000 2400000 100000 KWh 2300000 2200000 50000 2100000 0 Mar-15 Apr-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 2000000 Jan-15 Feb-15 May-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 1900000 1800000 Month 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 At SBR, energy management is well taken care of. The uniqueness of our practices is however towards good initial passive design of the structures at the resort. Indeed, the hotel was designed from the very beginning to be energy efficient. SBR’s electricity consumption is below average for a hotel of this size. The most surprizing aspects of the above graphic is that energy consumption has remained relatively stable over the past few years. This is not due to a lack of actions to reduce our energy consumption, but rather due to the fact that the hotel was designed from the beginning to be energy efficient (mostly through good structural design and energy efficient appliances). At SBR Energy management has been Phase 2: Retrofitting Once the hotel was built, numerous progressive energy efficient technologies and appliances have been and continue to be implemented Phase 1: Good structural design The hotel’s unique architecture Phase 3: Management allows passive and significant energy Numerous management guidelines were put efficiency into place Phase 4: Sharing We are now at the stage of sharing what has been done in order to influence others to adopt energy efficient practices especially on aspects of passive design SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 97 97 Direct energy consumption by primary energy Siloso Beach Resort source Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment At SBR the energy source is currently from grid electricity. In Singapore the vast majority of grid electricity is produced through the combustion of natural gas. We also have on site emergency energy generators which operate on diesel. However, these generators are only used in case of main energy supply cut off. Energy used in 2015 by GJ 9000 8000 Natural Gas (Electricity) 7000 6000 Natural Gas (Gas) GigaJoules 5000 Total 4000 3000 Almost all of the energy 2000 used at SBR is from grid electricity which in 1000 Singapore is almost 0 entirely from the combustion of natural gas Energy Type Energy Uses in 2015 GJ Natural Gas (Gas) Natural Gas (Electricity) Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Indirect Energy consumption for 2015 Gigajoules Source Indirect Energy Purchased 8147.72 Electricity (nonrenewable) Estimated* Primary Energy Consumed in 9451.36 Natural Gas production of Indirect Energy *As no data is available regarding primary energy consumed to produce indirect energy, we have estimated the amount of primary energy used based on the Singapore data for 2009 provided to the International Energy Agency: http://www.iea.org/stats/electricitydata.asp?COUNTRY_CODE=SG *As the Resort does not produces energy to sell hence the energy sold is inapplicable. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 98 98 Energy efficiency through good Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature design Environment SBR central court, open corridors Our open concept combined with high vegetal coverage and other features such as rooftop gardens already account for very high energy efficiency at SBR SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 99 99 Energy efficiency Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 4th generation modular heat exchange chiller system. At SBR we believe that investing in more energy efficient technology makes both economic and environmental sense Energy efficient lighting solutions and appliances throughout the resort State of the art energy efficient water heater for our kitchen Systematic use of LED &CFL And much more… lighting throughout the hotel SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 100100 Some of our Cleantech Siloso Beach Resort systems Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Swimming pool Ionization treatment systems Swimming pool sand filtration Our pool does not use conventional chlorine treatment but various filtration and purification steps E-clean balance wave technology units: technology that reduces heat loss from incoming electrical current, not as effective SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 101101 Some of our Cleantech Siloso Beach Resort systems Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Photovoltaic just arrived at SBR Our new solar PV system Solar panel Newly installed solar panels will be used both for research and for education. While we do dot really believe in solar PV technology as an efficient solution here in Singapore mostly due to whether condition (high cloud coverage) and high maintenance (high dust content in the air despite an incline setting to facilitate rain wash the panels would still get dusty overtime loosing significant efficiency). On the other hand by having our own panels we will be able to collect valuable data that will act as a showcase of how much energy can be generated in this particular location through PV. Siloso Beach Resort SBR Sustainability Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 102102 SBR is home to one of the longest Siloso Beach Resort self maintained roof top gardens in Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Singapore SBR is home to one of the longest self maintained rooftop gardens in Singapore. This helps to significantly increase vegetal coverage and energy efficiency Section of green roof seen from central rooftop SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 103103 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR case study : Roof Top Garden Technology There are numerous roof top technologies now available (some more proven than others). The advantage of self-sustained roof top gardens is that they provide a significant advantage for naturally cooling the space below. Furthermore, they increase the vegetation coverage and provide habitats for species. It is important to consider implementing a rooftop garden from the beginning as they will add significantly more weight on the structure which needs to be accounted for in the construction design. A simple yet effective methodology consist of constructing containers on the roof. The containers bottom should have a slight angle and be connected to a drain so that water does not accumulate. The first layer comprises an egg shell substrate (to retain humidity); on top a layer of sand (about 30cm) so that roots will not penetrate the structure; on top soil is finally added. Siloso Beach Resort SBR Sustainability Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 104104 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Open air pathways Open air corridors SBR open air structural concept plays a significant role in passively reducing the energy use around the resort (natural air flow + natural lighting). At SBR more than 70% of the terrain has remained open space And much more… Open air cafe SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 105105 Siloso Beach Resort G4-EN6 REDUCTION OF ENERGY Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment CONSUMPTION Energy saving through outreach Hot water pool •Management Energy Saving Guidelines for staff: SBR has specific staff guidelines for energy management. The guidelines highlights best practices and limitations that SBR staff must respect and that contribute in reducing our energy usage. These guidelines include aspects such as: Switching lights and appliances off when not in use. •Messages to initiate guests to save energy: we try to involve Our approach at SBR is that our guests as much as possible. As an eco Added in Jan 2015, our hot water pool recycles heat resort, we have numerous environment education messages throughout the resort and 2 in-house TV waste from the 4th generation chiller system. At channels dedicated to environmental awareness. the holding tank, the spring water is heated up by hot water One showcases a documentary on current pipes coming from the chiller plant. As the water returning environmental problems, while another is a slide to the chiller has lost much of its heat, this also means that show made by SBR which educates our guests on the usage of cooling towers is reduced thereby helping us reducing these impacts (water management, to save water. The hot water pool was created in order to climate change, biodiversity loss etc). We hope that create efficient use of the increased heat waste they will spread the message in their home country. recovery in a closed loop system, along as for our guests’ enjoyment. The heated spring water is kept warm at Energy Saving through technology the spa pool. However, as more heat waste is created on hot days, the warmer the weather, the warmer the pool. •LED & CFL lights: throughout the resort, •Energy efficient pumps, Energy Saving through initial design •Extensive usage of fans instead of air conditioning, •Balanced wave technology, (a technology that reOpen concept: All the room corridors have an open concept shapes the incoming electrical current, making it which serves the purpose of maximizing natural air flow and more stable and significantly reducing energy loss natural lighting therefore significantly reducing energy through heating). consumption for cooling or lighting purposes. At SBR •Latest 4th generation heat exchange chiller system: numerous public spaces adopt an open air concept such as As part of our energy saving initiatives, we have our Al Fresco Cafe. It was in fact one of the original upgraded our 3rd generation to the 4th guidelines that the built area would be kept to a minimal generation heat exchanger. It works on the (built-up environment is only 28%). same principle as our 3rd generation chiller but the only difference is that it has better heat All the buildings are on stilts: It was decided that all the recovery. The result is that we have lower energy buildings were to be constructed on stilts (main buildings as consumption as compared to the top 50th well as the villas). Having the structures on stilts allows air percentile of hotels in Singapore. As more heat flow to circulate from below the buildings as well as waste is being recovered, we decided to construct a between buildings which provides a natural cooling effect hot water pool to increase the utilise these heat (only slight cooling is achieved through this mean). waste. The upgraded chiller system and the new hot water pool works together to help us to Roof top garden: SBR is home to one of the longest rooftop conserve energy in our resort. gardens in Singapore which also plays a key role in passive energy efficiency. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 106106 Efficiency through good Siloso Beach Resort technology Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Hot water pool Our heat exchange chiller system is very Mr sow graph unique and efficient SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 107107 Efficiency through good Siloso Beach Resort technology Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Hot water pool “ ” ” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 108108 Energy saved due to conservation and Siloso Beach Resort efficiency improvements. Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Technology Energy saved 4th generation 30% savings compared While it is difficult to evaluate with modular heat to more conventional exchange chiller chillers precision, SBR is confident in saying that system through the combined efforts of the Balanced wave 10% saving on energy efficient technologies, good systems installed appliances energy passive design and good Efficient lighting 15% compared to management practices, SBR facilities are throughout incandescent lighting at least 30-40% more energy Passive construction 30-40% or more than design conventional buildings efficient than a conventional building would be. Management 5-10% of energy from guidelines lighting and appliances What about all the trees? Energy efficient 15% compared to water heater conventional heater Furthermore, the decision by the management to preserve a vegetal coverage and trees on site contributes to an additional very significant energy saving which we have yet to gain clarifications on. Indeed, trees provide shading, retain humidity and therefore significantly contribute in reducing the building heat load. Some benefits of preserving trees (more than 200 preserved at SBR) Energy gains (through shading) Preserving biodiversity Stabilizing the terrains (trees provide habitats for a great (especially true on a hill side) variety of species) Preserving the water table Fresh air! (tree purify the air and release (trees act as a natural pump oxygen ) keeping the water table close to the surface) SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 109109 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Spring Water Swimming Pool One of the unique features at SBR is the natural spring that lies below our resort. This natural source of water which would otherwise naturally flow out to sea is used for various purposes including gardening and to provide water for our landscape swimming pool. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 110110 Case study : Our Swimming pool Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature treatment process At SBR, our swimming pool is truly unique in many ways. Through the way it was built following the natural terrain, to the way it is treated going away from conventional chemical uses to the source of the water which is from an underground reservoir The below diagram provides a very schematic overview of the process 2. Waterfall oxygenation process 3. Salt treatment We regularly add salt to treat the pool. This ionization process is much better than using chlorine 1. Bio-filters Treatment ponds These 80m+ long ponds contain various plants and fishes which serve as bio-indicators of the quality of the pool There are two sections of the pond: 1)Only plants 4. Pool 2) Plant + fishes The pond also serves the purpose of rebalancing the pH to neutral Our swimming pool uses an integrated natural treatment process 5. Sand filtration 6. Spring Water Source. At the source, the water is cleaned through a decantation process to get rid of larger particles and clear the water Siloso Beach Resort SBR Sustainability Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 111111 •Roof top gardens: To date (2012) SBR still has one Siloso Beach Resort of the longest self maintained roof top gardens in Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Singapore. This extensive roof top covers the entire surface area of the main building. In addition to ecological benefits it also serves the purpose of cooling the building below therefore significantly reducing the energy requirements for cooling the below indoor spaces. WATER Water saving initiatives at SBR •Spring water usage: Below SBR lies a natural spring reservoir. SBR has made good use of this natural resource in order to minimize water wastage. Spring water is mostly used for the swimming pool as well as for all gardening purposes. Government regulations impose the usage of tap water for other usages such as guests rooms and F&B. •Water saving appliances: SBR has installed water efficient appliances throughout the resort including guests rooms and public areas. These include: •Water efficient taps (sensors) •Water control valves •Water efficient taps and shower heads •Waterless urinals (in all public toilets) •Water saving policies: SBR has put in place specific guidelines for its staff to minimize water consumption which are part of our environmental management guidelines. •Water awareness: SBR spreads awareness on the need to conserve water resources through numerous educational panels throughout the resort including one of its huts (“the water hut”) which is dedicated to water issues. There is also information on this topic within SBR in-house eco TV channels. “ •Water harvesting/roof top garden: SBR’s self sustained rooftop garden allows water to be harvested and naturally purified. Plants on the rooftop do not need extra watering due to the water retention properties of the rooftop garden. ” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 112112 Siloso Beach Resort G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment source Total Water Usage from Total Water Consumption 2007 to 2015 2015 60000 3000 Cubic Metres Cubic Metres 50000 2500 40000 2000 30000 1500 20000 1000 500 10000 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 Years Month The above graphic represents the water Because SBR has a natural supply of fresh water that consumption of SBR since august 2006. While water continuously comes out, its tap water consumption consumption has slightly decreased overtime, it remains very low. SBR makes use of two distinct has remained quite stable. sources of fresh water: one comes from the spring and the other is tap water from the network. Spring water is It is important to highlight that SBR has very special mostly used for the swimming pool and gardening whereas conditions when it comes to water usage. Indeed, the tap water is used for guests services in rooms below SBR lies a nature spring reservoir which (showering…). SBR has a very significant positive impact by naturally flows out to sea. During the construction allowing the management of Sentosa island to pump water phase, this underground source was discovered and from its spring which is used to water the SBR has since made good use of the resource. surrounding areas ( for gardening and landscaping purposes). Water Withdrawl by Source in 2015 Tap Water (guest rooms, “ kitchen) 7008, 19% Rain Water (rooftop garden and swimming 2499, 7% pool) ” Spring Water (swimming 27127, 74% pool, gardening, general cleaning) SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 113113 Siloso Beach Resort Most of SBR water consumption originates from an Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment underground spring water reservoir. The water that is taken from this source is of natural origin and if not taken would otherwise flow out to sea. As such SBR water usage from this source has no impacts on diminishing water reserves within the G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water spring. recycled and reused. In addition to its very efficient water consumption practices, SBR also has initiatives in place to recycle and reuse the water. Such initiatives include: SBR’s has a very limited consumption •Roof top garden: allows a significant amount of rainwater of city tap water (due to its natural spring to be collected if needed source and water saving initiatives) •Swimming pool closed loop system •Extensive use of groundwater for gardening G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected •Excess water from the spring goes to a reservoir which is by withdrawal of water used by Sentosa management to collect and water the entire island SBR water sources are: •Spring water excess: The below graphic highlights the volumes reused/recycled: “ ’ None of these sources are significantly affected by the withdrawal of water from SBR as usage is well managed and kept to a minimal. Actually, the spring water is not actively pumped from the ground but naturally flows out. As such, if SBR was not making use of it, it would just flow out to sea. Furthermore, the Spring is regularly refilled with rainwater. No sources of the water used at SBR are from protected areas/areas of biodiversity value or sources of importance to local community. SBR takes great efforts into ” managing the source in the most sustainable way possible. Recycled Water for 2015 (cubic metres) 7,008 Discharged Water (Tap Water) Recycled Water (Spring Water) 27,127 SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 114114 Siloso Beach Resort Water management Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR is involved in a very special and major water initiative. Indeed, it allows Sentosa water contractors to extract water from its pond to water the entire island Numerous water saving features throughout the resort And much more… SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 115115 BIODIVERSITY Siloso Beach Resort At SBR biodiversity has a very special Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment significance. Indeed, because the location of the resort is on pristine forested terrain, G4-EN12 DESCRIPTION OF SIGNIFICANT IMPACTS OF biodiversity is relatively high especially ACTIVITIES, PRODUCTS, AND SERVICES ON BIODIVERSITY IN PROTECTED AREAS AND AREAS OF when compared to other parts of HIGH BIODIVERSITY VALUE OUTSIDE PROTECTED Singapore. AREAS G4-EN11 OPERATIONAL SITES OWNED, As the site surrounding SBR is a forested terrain, SBR’s LEASED, MANAGED IN, OR ADJACENT TO, activities do have certain impacts on biodiversity: PROTECTED AREAS AND AREAS OF HIGH BIODIVERSITY VALUE OUTSIDE PROTECTED SBR significant impacts on biodiversity AREAS •Noise: Despite that noise levels are kept at reasonable levels, The location of SBR is on a forested mountain hill. some disturbances on biodiversity resources do occur. Around and behind the resort lies protected terrains which hold many trees and a relatively rich •Built environment: As building structures have been inhabiting biodiversity. developed on site, some disturbance on biodiversity have occurred during the construction phase. It is however SBR was constructed with minimal digging, does not important to highlight that extraordinary measures to own any underground area. preserve the original terrain and minimize the impacts on biodiversity have been taken. Measures taken at SBR to The property of SBR is not listed as protected status preserve the natural terrain are unique and exemplary. nor considered as protected by any organization. •Gardening (e.g. cutting down branches): Occasional Location: maintenance work in order to insure guests safety are carried Map of resort with surroundings. regularly. These activities mostly include cutting down tree branches which may cause slight disturbances to wildlife. •Mosquito control (spraying of chemicals on plants) : In order to meet government standards and insure guests comfort and safety (dengue control), mosquito treatment do have to be carried on site. SBR has in the past used the traditional fumigation treatment. However, since the last few years, a new treatment using less impactful chemicals is under trial. Habitat protected or restored •Overall resort environment: Despite the built environment, a significant portion of the land has been preserved. •All trees : All grown trees on site have been preserved. •Ponds: Many ponds around the resort have been preserved We can see from the satellite image that SBR is in order to maintain their rich inhabiting biodiversity. surrounded by forested terrain. While Furthermore, many other man made ponds have been added large parts of Sentosa island have been allocated for throughout the resort. development of the built environment, only a patch •Roof top garden: SBR’s extensive roof top gardens not only of greenery remains in the central part of the island has energy efficiency attributes, but they also allow around the resort. SBR is conscious of this, and additional greenery coverage including the plantation of has taken strong measures to ensure the various species that attract insects. preservation of wildlife not only on its site but also insuring that its operations have very limited At this time SBR is not working with any other organizations impacts on the surrounding. to protect or restore habitat, however this may be a consideration for future CSR initiatives. We are are actively using the Biodiversity Potal website to promote parties that Size of land owned: protect natural habitat. 15,449.0 m2 Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability SBR Sustainability Report 2016 Report 2014 116116 Biodiversity on site Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Birds nesting on site Numerous squirrels can be spotted on site By preserving the trees and areas of forested terrain, SBR has managed to maintain a higher degree of biodiversity on its premises… 8 species of frogs have been monitored on site Numerous insects and invertebrates in our forested areas Numerous species of plants on site (mostly local species) SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 117117 Siloso Beach Resort Alternative Environmentally Blending Life and Leisure with Nature friendly mosquito control Numerous self sustained ponds have been implemented throughout the resort. In addition to providing habitats for a diversity of species, these ponds are also growing grounds for fish that eat mosquito larvae as well as dragonflies which effectively serve as a natural mosquito control agent In addition SBR is using an alternative mosquito control treatment (instead of traditional fogging) using a bacterial based solution instead of conventional fogging. This treatment allows much less impact to the variety of species on site (insects, reptiles…) SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 118118 Heritage trees garden Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Native trees In partnership with Nparks, SBR has embarked on a project to showcase the heritage trees of Singapore. About 10 different species have been planted surrounding our pool area. We intend to educate our guests on the original nature Flaura of Singapore. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 119119 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Live trees passing through all our villas Our unique concept of blending the natural surrounding environment with structures: Throughout the resort in order to preserve many of the existing trees, we have integrated the trees within the built structure. As such almost all of our villa rooms as well as many parts of the buildings actually have trees passing through them. Other techniques of preserving the trees are also found throughout the resort. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 120120 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature A few snap shots from the resort of integrations of trees within the structures. There are in fact countless examples of such practices throughout the resort. Indeed, whenever possible, trees have been preserved and integrated into the built design SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 121121 Siloso Beach Resort Trees VS structures Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Our concept of allowing trees to pass through the structure is highly present throughout our resort SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 122122 Dinosaur bones exhibit Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Display of real dinosaur bones within our reception area and information on conservation Waste wood workshop SBR wood workshop. A significant portion of the wood at SBR originates from unwanted wood from construction sites. We then reprocess the wood for maintenance, furniture… Roof top farming Roof top garden growing facility. We produce vegetables and spices without any use of chemicals SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 123123 Case study: Dinosaur Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment At SBR we have recently become very involved with dinosaurs in the most unusual way. At SBR we want to share Siloso Beach Resort is proud to showcase Real Dinosaur Bones on its premises. our passion for The display of these bones is a joint venture between Siloso Dinosaurs Beach Resort (SBR) and the National University of Singapore (NUS). Background: So how did SBR get into possession of real dinosaur bones??! Well it all started with the close collaboration that SBR has with the Raffles Museum of Biodiversity Research http://rmbr.nus.edu.sg/ (NUS). SBR has been in close contact with this reputable institution since SBR started the development of the Biodiversity.sg (www.biodiversity.sg ) which is one of its CSR programs. Following this SBR has been actively involved with some of the Museum activities. Recently it came to our attention that the RMBR intended to expend into a new National History Museum for Singapore. One of the main attractions the upcoming Museum was looking forward to was to have a unique display of complete and real dinosaur skeletons. In order to make this a reality the RMBR embarked on an ambitious fund raising exercise to raise enough money to purchase 3 unique and almost complete dinosaur skeletons (believed to be from the same family), a world first! SBR immediately responded to this by gifting a significant amount of money for this unique and most worthy cause. SBR was the first donor to put money on the table which sparked other donors to come on board as well. Since then, the necessary funds of 12 million have been collected from various donors (including SBR) and the dinosaurs skeletons are now under way to Singapore! In appreciation of our move in initiating this much needed funding exercise, the RMBR has accepted to collaborate with us in mounting this preliminary dinosaur exhibit which intends to inform the guests passing by the hotel and various stakeholders on the importance of dinosaurs, biodiversity preservation and to promote the upcoming National History Museum where the full skeletons will be displayed starting in 2014. “Dinosaur” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 124124 Case study: Dinosaur Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Opening of the Lee Kong Chian Museum We were very pleased to see the opening of the National History Museum this year. As the first donor to have come onboard nearly 4 years ago, it is a very satisfying feeling to see that the full dinosaur bones now feel the space of the Museum. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 125125 G4-EN13 HABITATS PROTECTED OR RESTORED Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment SBR is Fully compliant with national regulations and goes above and beyond regulations for preserving trees and biodiversity. Since its construction stage, very significant Anyone coming to SBR will quickly notice the extent of the consideration has been taken to preserve the efforts which have been made to preserve the trees and biodiversity on site. Biodiversity preservation and incorporate them within the structure. education remain to date one of the main •Different innovative construction techniques were applied guidance of SBR. to incorporate the trees. •In some parts, buildings have been built around trees. During the initial development stage very special •In some parts, trees literally go through the structure. care and measures have been applied to preserve •In other parts, trees are in close proximity of buildings. as much as possible the biodiversity on site. Going beyond just preserving the trees, one other One of the strongest decisions was to preserve important initial guidance in the development of SBR was to all the trees. This was a very serious commitment preserve the terrain. In order to do this, a minimum which required a lot of special attention and extra of built surface area has been allocated while the vast efforts: majority of the resort remains open terrain, much of it with its original vegetal coverage. SBR conducted an environmental site assessment of the trees affected by construction. More than In order to preserve the terrain, the resort was built making 200 fully grown trees have been preserved use of original shape of the land. For instance, the on site: In order to achieve this, special construction swimming pool was just placed where an old dirt road used techniques had to be applied. This included the use to be. The same concept was applied in many other locations such as the villa wing where villas emplacements of micro bore pilling techniques. This pilling were chosen according to the less impactful locations for technique using lighter equipment bores a hole the trees and surrounding vegetal coverage. instead of compacting the earth, which allows to significantly reduce the amount of vibrations near In a later phase of development of SBR, further targets the tree roots and to preserve the trees (the use of were developed to enhance biodiversity. In particular, 450 conventional pilling techniques would have killed additional trees were planted, and numerous man-made most of the trees). ponds have been placed in various locations of the resort. These self-maintained ecosystems, attract a variety of Training and supervision. Such decision to wildlife including frogs, dragonflies and many others. preserve the trees was very unusual at the time of construction in Singapore and therefore required Pushing the concept, SBR is trying hard new solutions extra attention during construction. Indeed, constant supervision of the worker’s teams was of mosquito control (which is usually done by required to make sure that no toxic spills or other fumigation) that would be less impactful to biodiversity. A common practices were going to affect the trees. new control mechanisms using BTI technology is currently Because there were so many trees to preserve, under trial. These treatments are meant to be more buildings had to be built around these trees. This focused on certain species (mosquitoes) and therefore was a particular challenge and each tree required known to have lesser impacts on other species inhabiting an average of 10 consultants to make sure that both the premises. the trees and the surrounding structures would coexist well. A future objective would be to better understand and monitor the biodiversity of the area by establishing a photo database to record the various species and sightings. Having done so many efforts to preserve the biodiversity on site, SBR is very active at promoting not only the preservation of species on site but also educating on the concept of biodiversity on a large scale. Indeed, SBR has implemented various educational programs on this topic. SBR will continue its efforts to develop solutions to make its facilities a biodiversity sanctuary SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 126126 SBR Biodiversity Outreach Programs Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment •Biodiversity Exhibit: permanent A picture exhibit on biodiversity within G4-EN14 TOTAL NUMBER OF IUCN RED LIST SPECIES our café area. The pictures (both medium AND NATIONAL CONSERVATION LIST SPECIES WITH and large size) on display were all taken HABITATS IN AREAS AFFECTED BY OPERATIONS, BY within the resort. Our aim is to promote LEVEL OF EXTINCTION RISK biodiversity and to showcase that our Singapore National Parks board has published a book conservation efforts have allowed to highlighting endangered species in Singapore. preserve a rich variety of species on site. SBR has a copy of this book for its reference and information can also be obtained from the following •Biodiversity Portal: SBR has website: developed the Biodiversity.sg Website which has gained strong support Singapore red list from leading organisations in the field both locally and internationally. http://www.nparks.gov.sg/cms/index.php?option=com_co ntent&view=article&id=146&Itemid=128 Program supported by: United Nations, Conservation International, World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), National University of Singapore, Singapore Science Centre, Singapore Institute of Biology, Singapore Environment Council. Website:(www.biodiversity.sg) •Eco tours: SBR eco tours have a special emphasis on biodiversity preservation on Number of IUCN red list species potentially affected: 2 our site. To date, more than 7000 persons According to the Singapore Red List, both these species are have attended the tours from various present on Sentosa and thus could potentially be affected stakeholders: schools, universities, by our operations: corporates, guests… Spotted Owl (Strix occidentalis) Status: Near Threatened •TV eco channels: Two in-house TV channels are dedicated to environmental Oriental Magpie -Robin (Copsychus saularis) awareness and both cover elements of Status: Least Concern biodiversity issues amongst other We are also concerned about these issues and we provide a environmental issues. range of information on species including links to endangered species in Singapore from our biodiversity site . Biodiversity.sg www.biodiversity.sg SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 127127 EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS, AND Siloso Beach Resort WASTE Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Total Electricity Used 2015 250000.00 200000.00 KWh 150000.00 100000.00 50000.00 0.00 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 Month SBR takes the consequences faced by G4-EN16 ENERGY INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) global climate change seriously. EMISSIONS (SCOPE 2) Despite that it is aware that its own operations have In Singapore 1kwh corresponds to 0.5233 kg of CO2 insignificant impacts on a global scale (and climate (equivalent) (source NEA) change is a global scale issue), it also recognises the fact that any given business including its own has an SBR monthly average electricity consumption is 188,606 important role to play in doing the right thing by KWh reducing its Green House significantly Gas Emissions. But most importantly to Therefore SBR monthly carbon emission is 0.5233 x 188,606 actively promote, share and showcase how it does = 98,697.5 kg CO2e so in order to inspire many other businesses to do the same, especially in its own line of business: the And for one year: 98697.5 X 12 = 1,184,372 kg CO2e hospitality and leisure sector which is a global significant contributor. SBR annual estimated carbon footprint: 1,184 tonne of CO2e Numerous efforts have been done at SBR to cut down atmospheric emissions. Some related to (This value is only an estimate based on electricity energy management while others are consumption; it does include external operations, supply chains and transport) more towards a passive approach. Furthermore, the above amount should be significantly The below section provides an evaluation of SBR’s emissions based on energy use at the resort: reduced once taken into account the trees “ present on site. ” SBR annual carbon footprint for 2015: SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 128128 Siloso Beach Resort SBR Dense Foliage Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Elements of canopy at SBR Due to its extent of vegetal coverage , SBR benefits from an excellent air quality environment SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 129129 G4-EN17 OTHER INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS Siloso Beach Resort (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 3) Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment The main source of GHG emissions at SBR is primarily from electricity consumption Our gardening which originated from the combustion of natural gas. activities account for a very small In addition to this primary consumption, several amount of smaller and irregular activities are also contributing but to a much smaller extent. While aware of these emissions sources, SBR is still in the process of gaining a more precise understanding of the emissions involved G4-EN19 REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) from these sources. EMISSIONS Other indirect GHG sources: Tree preservation and planting (passive Gardening activities: May involve from time to time approach): preserving trees on site, has also in the process the usage of machineries which burn fuel, significantly contributed to offset emissions on site. Indeed, these include: preserving the trees also preserves the carbon stored within the trees as well as the carbon dioxide removal -Land-mowers potential of these trees. While it is very difficult to evaluate -Chainsaws how much carbon emissions is saved through this means, It -Various other cutting machines -Emergency generator is significant. SBR has preserved over 200 trees on its site and additionally planted another 450. Fumigating (mosquito control) •Good design (passive approach) :Due to the energy The chemicals are sprayed through a blowing efficient design of the buildings, SBR energy use is machine which consumes fuel. significantly reduced which translates to significant reduction in atmospheric emissions. Transports: SBR operates two small buses to transport its guests to and from the resort. The trips involved are however short (about 4 km) and •Active approach: SBR has numerous initiatives to therefore the emissions involved through this reduce its energy consumption through the use of new means is relatively small. energy efficient technologies. The reduction in energy usage translates to reduction in atmospheric SBR 12 seater van emissions. SBR 15 seater van SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 130130 G4-EN20 EMISSIONS OF OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES (ODS) Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment SBR has a policy in place to avoid the usage of ozone depleting substances. As such, very few if any are actually used on site. These substances may only be contained in: •Coolants in fridges •Sprays of various sorts SBR is free of any CFC’s Small amounts of HCFC’s are HCFC’s are present in small amounts and within government regulations. contained in our fridges and cold rooms in refrigerants liquids Emissions by weight: insignificant G4-EN21NOX, SOX, AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS The only SBR related activities that involve some of these substances are transportation and gardening. Values have not been directly measured but are very low considering the amount of transport and gardening requiring machineries involved. Insignificant amounts of SOx and NOx originate from gardening machineries At SBR atmospheric emissions of either ozone depleting substances or Nitrous or Sulfuric oxides are: Very small amount of SOx and NOx come from our bus exhausts (our bus trips only cover small distances) SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 131131 G4-EN22 TOTAL WATER DISCHARGE BY Siloso Beach Resort QUALITY AND DESTINATION Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Total amount of water discharge for 2015: G4-EN23 TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND 25,127 cubic meters (based on estimates DISPOSAL METHOD from employee and guest water usage). All of our discharged water comes from the A large portion of the waste at SBR is recycled, especially public water supply, and goes back to the public from the housekeeping and food and beverage water treatment. Almost all of the water used is departments, which recycle many plastic drinking discharged through guest activities like bottles, tin cans, and cardboard containers. As SBR does showering and flushing of toilets. A very small not produce any hazardous wastes. 100% of the waste percentage (less then 1%) of our water that is not reused or recycled is collected and sent for withdrawn is consumed as drinking water by our incineration. We are constantly improving our guests or used by our housekeeping staff for monitoring systems, and plan to provide more general cleaning and evaporates. information about the amount of total waste produced in subsequent sustainability reports. Our other sources of water, such as spring water and rain water, are not discharged, but rather the Much of the food waste is also recycled using the natural excess is used for gardening purposes by SBR and methods of vermicomposting (using earthworms) or Sentosa. aquaculture (tilapia and other fish). We also recycle some of our cardboard through the vermicomposting process. Our earthworms hard at • New food waste disposal system work! We have a new system implemented in 2013 to supplement our vermicomposting system for food waste. This system involves the use of Aquaculture and the local Tilapia Fish. Prior to this system, we disposed our food waste either in the wormery or the machine but the machine was wrote off in 2012.So we can only dispose the food waste in the general waste or wormery. The only problem is that we are limited to Vegetarian waste without any citrus or oils. After implementation of the new Tilapia Aquaculture system using grey, red and black Tilapia we increased the types of food waste being recycled to some meat items, bread and vegetables but some of the wormery food waste feeding restriction still applies in the aquaculture system located in the Bio filtration pond at the second level. Experimental composting system SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 132132 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Foodwaste Collected for Vermicomposting for 2015 600 Amount of foodwaste 500 400 300 200 100 0 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 Months Cardboard Collected for vermicomposting for 200 2015 150 KG 100 50 0 Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Months “ “ ” ’ ” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 133133 At SBR we have a unique approach to promote recycling by linking the end Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment product to the source. Below are some of the panels that we developed and display SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 134134 G4-EN24 TOTAL NUMBER AND VOLUME OF Siloso Beach Resort SIGNIFICANT SPILLS Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment To date, SBR did not have any instances of spills whatsoever. G4-EN26 IDENTITY, SIZE, PROTECTED STATUS, AND BIODIVERSITY VALUE OF WATER BODIES AND RELATED HABITATS No Spills to date and SBR intends to SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY THE ORGANIZATION’S keep it this way DISCHARGES OF WATER AND RUNOFF G4-EN25 WEIGHT OF TRANSPORTED, IMPORTED, EXPORTED, OR TREATED No water body is directly affected by WASTE DEEMED HAZARDOUS UNDER THE SBR’s water runoff. TERMSOF THE BASEL CONVENTION2 ANNEX I, II, III, AND VIII, AND PERCENTAGE OF TRANSPORTED WASTE SHIPPED Water runoff goes to the Sentosa drain which then INTERNATIONALLY flows to treatment facilities. SBR does not have, produce or use any SBR actually has a positive impact in water waste that is considered hazardous conservation through two activities. under the Basel convention. •SBR has constructed numerous ponds throughout As a hotel environment, hazardous waste the resort which bring biodiversity back to these are very limited. areas. Cleaning products used are selected to •SBR has set up a main pond nearby its resort where be environmentally friendly. the overflow of the spring goes. This pond has created a natural habitat for various species of insects fish and frogs. “ ” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 135135 Waste management Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Metals recycling Stone table At SBR we make use of waste in Recycling bins for the guests any way we can Cartons recycling All guest rooms equipped In-room messages with soap and shampoo dispensers And much more… Siloso Beach Resort SBR Sustainability Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 136136 Siloso Beach Resort Waste management Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Making use of recycled materials At SBR many of the items are actually from 100% recycled origin or simply from unwanted sources. A few of these items include: A large portion of the outdoor steps are from reused timbers from a railway trail in Australia All the corridors and a large portion of walkways are layered with rubber mats If we could we would do more… which are 100% recycled However there are limitations to the amount from car tyres of recycled items that can be used in core construction under current Singapore law The children playground comprises items which are have been reused from an unwanted source And much more… … SBR Sustainability Report 2016 Report 2014 Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability 137137 Waste management Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Closed-Loop Cycles for Food Waste At SBR there are two closed loop cycles which are used to naturally deal with much of the food waste: 1. Aquaculture: Tilapia and other fish in our pond eat a wide variety of food items such as bread, vegetables, and meat (as long as no oil). The tilapia also produces nutrient-rich water which is then used for watering the plants. 2. Worm-Composting closed loop: FoodWaste Food Waste Earthworms About 5KG of Earthworms Food waste gets About 25KG of vegetable andfruit fruit Food waste gets vegetable and eaten by our about wasteisiscollected collected eaten by our 40,000 waste 1 million daily for daily for earthworms, earthworms,and and vermicomposting vermicomposting turned into castings turned into castings No Wastage O% Restaurant Vegetables Castings are fertilizer Vegetables from for vegetables free of farm supply about pesticides and 20% of event needs chemical fertilizers Siloso Beach Resort SBR Sustainability Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 138138 SBR Worm Composting Data Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature & Progress Indicators Environment Foodwaste collected for vermicomposting for 2011 to 2015 700 600 500 400 KG 300 200 100 0 Months Worm castings (Organic Fertilizer) Monthly 600 500 O – Sustainable Farming 400 KG 300 200 100 0 Jun-11 Sep-11 Dec-11 Mar-12 Jun-12 Sep-12 Dec-12 Mar-13 Jun-13 Sep-13 Dec-13 Mar-14 Jun-14 Sep-14 Dec-14 Mar-15 Jun-15 Sep-15 Dec-15 Months Community and educational impact: SBR has donated worm castings to more than 30 schools and community gardens, and conducted training on vermicomposting for more than 10 schools! SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 139139 Siloso Beach Resort PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment G4-EN27 EXTENT OF IMPACT MITIGATION OF G4-EN28 PERCENTAGE OF PRODUCTS SOLD AND THEIR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS PACKAGING MATERIALS THAT ARE RECLAIMED BY AND SERVICES CATEGORY Such initiatives are highlighted throughout the report. The table below tentatively summaries the SBR Eco Shop? main initiatives : To date SBR does not really sell products. It has plans to open a shop on its premises in the near Impacts Initiatives to reduce impact future. This shop would focus on selling ecological products of various sorts. Materials • Minimize Amenities, such as Use only providing toothbrush and Currently the only products sold that involve toothpaste upon request packaging are F&B items such as cans of soft drinks. • Extensive use of recycled wood for poolside furniture and various other areas. 100% of the packages (empty cans) or other Water • Extensive use of spring and rain packets are sent for recycling. Use water. • Water saving taps and In room products (shampoos, soap…) are only showerheads in rooms, and encouraging guests to change provided if requested by the guests. By doing so, towels/linens alternate day. wastage of packaging and products is significantly • Use of Waterless urinals reduced. Emissions • Controlled shuttle bus timings to reduce vehicle emissions. Effluents • Not a significant impact. Noise • Not a significant impact. Waste • Recycling of food waste mainly through worm composting and feeding our fishes. • Extensive waste recycling program. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 140140 Combining a sustainably designed and Siloso Beach Resort maintained environment with messages is Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment our key formula Messaging is very present throughout the resort. Our newly introduced mascot concept allows to pass key messages to our guests including on aspects of recycling Our mascots. In this scene, our two characters explain the concept of water conservation. The egg has a “Biodiversity” theme. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 141141 Siloso Beach Resort COMPLIANCE Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment SBR has always been compliant with national regulations and has not received any G4-EN29 MONETARY VALUE OF SIGNIFICANT fines for misconduct. FINES AND TOTAL NUMBER OF NONMONETARY SANCTIONS FOR NONCOMPLIANCE SBR will continue to apply most stringent WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND practices when it comes to meeting regulatory REGULATIONS requirements. In fact many of the initiatives carried at To date, SBR has never endured any fines or SBR go far beyond the legal requirements. non-monetary sanctions of any kind for This includes aspects such as energy efficient noncompliance with environmental laws and design, water management, energy regulations. Monetary value is 0 management, waste management and more. SBR is a very responsible business and takes SBR has a holistic approach to sustainable great care in applying the precautionary management and believes in test-bedding new principle. practices and technologies in order to continuously improve. Having done this for many years now, it has also put SBR a significant step ahead of government regulations. SBR’s concept is to invest in new technology and practices early on and reap the benefits, rather than wait until forced to catch up as regulations and accepted business practices change. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 142142 At night our resort offers a Siloso Beach Resort unique atmosphere Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Usage of lights is carefully planned to procure both a comfortable resort feel and also to limit the usage of energy SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 143143 Siloso Beach Resort G4-LA1 Rate of new employee hired and employee turnover by age group, gender, and Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Employment region. Breakdown of New Employees Hired 2015 “ 1 1 30 & Below 16 16 30 & Below 31-50 31-50 51 & above 34 51 & above 34 ” New Employees Hired 2015 Group Persons Rate Male 21 0.56 Female 30 0.26 Below 30 34 0.65 G4-LA2 Benefits provided for full-time employees by 31-50 16 0.13 significant locations of operation. Siloso Beach Resort full-time employees enjoy: Above 51 1 0.04 •Leave entitlement •Medical benefits Employee Turnover 2015 •Dental benefits •Public holidays Group Persons Rate •Sentosa Island partner card Male 23 0.14 •Bonuses . •Special allowances Female 34 0.07 Below 30 35 0.08 31-50 21 0.07 Above 51 1 0.06 *All employees are in the same region/operation at Siloso Beach Resort “ ’ ” ” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 144144 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature G4-LA3 Return to work and retention Employment rates after parental leave by gender. Employees entitled to parental leave / G4-LA6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost took parental leave / returned to work days, absenteeism, and number of work related after parental leave ended / are still fatalities by region and gender. employed 12 months after leave ended for 2013: We abide by the Singapore national laws on recording and Female = 1 Male= 1 reporting accident statistics, which follows the Retention and Return to Work Rate = recommendations of the International Labor Organization. 100% OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help to monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. SBR is active in participating with various groups for the improvement of workers’ health and safety. SBR regularly sends representative staff to attend trainings which include: Our health screening -Fire safety training program combined with -CPR and AED training -Risk assessment our employee health Percentage of total workforce: 25% package provides a Only staff that are most relevant in applying these skills good medical coverage to improve the safety of others are sent for training. Lost Days** on Medical/Hospitali Occupational Disease Year Number of Staff* Gender zation Leave Injury Rate Rate Lost Day Rate 2011 1 (no fatalities) Male 10 1.9 0 18.5 2012 0 2013 1 (no fatalities) Female 13 1.3 0 17.8 2014 3 (no fatalities) Female 47 3.4 0 53.4 2015 3 (no fatalities) Female 47 3.4 0 53.4 * Not including minor injuries. No independent contractors were injured or suffered from occupational disease. ** Lost Days refers to scheduled working days and is counted when more than half of a working day is lost. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability SBR Sustainability Report 2016 Report 2014 145145 Assistance Programs regarding Siloso Beach Resort GUIDANCE Serious Diseases Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Employment Economic Education/Training Counselling Prevention/Risk Treatment Control Program Recipients Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Workers X X X X Worker’s Families X X X X Community X X X X Members G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and risk of diseases related to their occupation lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in None of the employees at SBR are exposed to managing career endings any high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation. In addition, numerous opportunities are offered to Since 2012, SBR has put into place a free and the staff to attend training programs and compulsory health screening program for all of its educational talks which varies depending on what employees (the program continued to be opportunities for learning come available conducted in 2013). This screening process also (conferences, trade shows., workshops…) In aims to raise awareness on a range of common Singapore the CPF fund, for which SBR illnesses and chronic diseases (SBR does not have contributes, is a main way for employees to any occupational activities that are related to a manage their retirement funds. high incidence of occupational disease). During this screening, health professionals come on-site to conduct a series of tests and to educate the staff G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving on health related topics. regular performance and career development reviews, by gender G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions All our employees receive performance and career development reviews once a year. SBR does not have any formal health and safety agreements with trade unions. Health and safety is very important to SBR, which is why we are – 100% (both males and females) BizSAFE Level 3 (SBR has recently obtained this local health and safety endorsement). TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category All of our employees are required to undertake a 2 day compulsory training upon joining the At SBR we offer our staff a range of organization. In addition, every employee as 1-2 days of additional training every year regardless of options to improve their skills gender or employee category. throughout the duration of their employment with us SBR Sustainability Report 2016 146 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Employment Employment G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Composition of Nationality Above 50 years 30-40 years Male Female Governance Body: 100% Singaporean 33% 67% 67% 33% Employees Minority Group of full-time employees 2015* 7 4 Foreign Worker 4 25 Singaporean Chinese Singaporean Malay Singaporean Indian 27 Singaporean PR / Others *Singaporean includes Singapore Citizens and Permanent Residents. Data for fulltime employees only. “ Age and Gender of total employees 2015 ’ ” 9 Below 30 28 31 31-50 Male Female 51 & above 39 27 “ ’ ” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 147147 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature EQUAL RENUMERATION FOR WOMEN Employment and Human Rights AND MEN HUMAN RIGHTS G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee NON-DISCRIMINATION category, by significant department of operation. G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. SBR is an equal opportunity Total number of incidents of discrimination: 0 employer. The salary ratio of women/men is 1. So far SBR, since the start of operations until 2014, SBR did not have any At equal career level and background, incidents of discrimination and we women and men can expect the same intend to keep it this way salary range and the same level of consideration and attention. Siloso Beach Resort’s Commitment to Fair Employment Practices SBR has pledged to observe the 5 Principles of Fair Employment Practices under the Singapore Tripartite Agreement on Fair Employment Practices (TAFEP), these include: a. Recruit and select on the basis of merit (such as skills, experience or ability to perform the job) regardless of age, race, gender, religion, marital status and family responsibilities, or disability. b. Treat your employees fairly and with respect and put in place progressive human resource management systems. c. Provide employees with employees with equal opportunities to be considered for training and development based on their strengths and needs, to help them achieve their full potential. d. Reward your employees fairly based on their ability, performance, contribution and experience. e. Abide by labour laws and adopt the Tripartite Guidelines on Fair Employment Practices. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 148148 Case study : Why should Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature organizations practice CSR and give 2 back to society? “ 1 “ ’ ” ” 3 ” ” “ 4 ” 5 “ ” “ 6 7 ” ” ” 8 “ 9 ” ” 10 “ ’ ” ” “The private sector is the only hope of a faster change” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 149149 SOCIETY LOCAL COMMUNITY Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with Society implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. Development programs: 100% of our operations are implemented with SBR is actively participating to various community such community engagement, impact assessments, development programs. Such programs include and development programs. the sponsorship of university scholarships, schools educational programs, the make a wish An initial impact assessment of potential foundation and many others… construction damage to trees and terrain was conducted (this was for internal use and has not been publically disclosed). We have a Sustainability Committee and a Health and Safety Committee G4-SO2 Operations with significant potential or which deals with the relevant environmental and actual negative impacts on local communities. social impacts. As a single operated business on the island of We engage with the community for feedback on Sentosa (considered a leisure and any grievances, however as an SME located in a entertainment hub), SBR does not have primarily tourist destination, we have not found it necessary to establish formal community significant negative impacts on local consultation committees or formal local community communities. grievance processes. On the contrary, SBR has a positive impact We do purposefully create plans on how to engage by providing leisure services while operating our stakeholders, and use stakeholder mapping to assess which stakeholders would be impacted the its business in a sustainable way. most and which ones would be interested in our activities. Community engagement: SBR has put into place a range of programs which intend to engage our staff with the community. Such programs include helping community groups in need such as the St Andrew’s Autism Center or the older workers. We encourage our staff to participate in such social movements and offer rewards for those who do. COMPLIANCE Impact assessment: SBR has recently conducted an in-depth assessment of its operations and a range G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines of surveys, both internal and external, to gain a and total number of non-monetary better understanding of the impacts of its various programs and guests satisfaction. sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. People with disabilities: It is our continual initiative to remain as a socially responsible business. About 14% of our employees are people with SBR did not have Since its opening, disabilities. Close to 70% of our employees in Al Fresco Café are PWDs. Most of our staff with PWDs any fines or non-monetary have mild intellectual disabilities. sanctions for noncompliances with laws and regulations. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 150150 Some of our community Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature donations include: Society (SBR regularly donates to causes which are close to its heart) Make a Wish Foundation We regularly support this cause that aims to grant children facing life threatening illnesses a wish Sichuan Earthquake Disaster relief aid We were one of the first companies to fund the relief efforts Tribob Singapore Sprint Series And many more… SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 151151 Product Responsibility Siloso Beach Resort CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Product Responsibility G4-PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Finished product Products: SBR does not produce its own products, however has policies in place to purchase in the most responsible manner. This involves analyzing the products that we purchase in order to get the most sustainable options and which will also be safe for our staff and guests to use. •Services: The services that we offer have gone through a health and safety risk assessment and audited by a third party. As such every aspects of our operations follows stringent health and safety standards. Even from the beginning development stages of the Resort, health and safety impacts were assessed for improvement. List of life cycle stages subject to health and safety G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance assessment: with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services Yes No during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Development of X Since opening, SBR did not have any incidents of nonproduct and concept compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and R&D Not Applicable services. Certification Not Applicable There has been a few incidents in 2014 at the hotel Manufacturing and Not Applicable for aspects such as: Production -Fall from slips and trip due to slippery floor: 1 Marketing and X -Cuts after broken glass: 0 promotion Over exertion due to staircases: 2 Storage distribution X and supply These incidents were found to be accidental and Use and Service X not related to non compliance Disposal, reuse, and X recycling At SBR the level Percentages of products and services of incidents undergoing such procedure: Products: Not Applicable Is very low Services: 100% Siloso Beach SBR Sustainability Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 152152 PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING Siloso Beach Resort G4-PR3 Type of product and service information Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Product Responsibility required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. 100% of relevant product and service categories Products: As a hotel business, many of the products that SBR uses are purchased from third parties. As such, these products already contain the regulatory labels on them with regards to content, safety, disposal and other specific aspects. SBR ensures that these labels remain on the products before handling by staff and guests. Relevant information regarding the sourcing of component products of our hospitality services, where applicable, is required. At SBR all required labeling are present on site Services: Labels and banners promoting various types of services are widely present at SBR. SBR meets all regulatory requirements with regards to labeling of safety aspects which include: •Fire exits/extinguishers location/emergency exits •Food type (e.g., nuts, spices…) •Non-smoking signs But also extensive labels and panels on services location: -reception/café/roof top garden… SBR has gone much beyond this by setting a range of information corners such as location panels at each elevator floor or our Green Hub Corner where a large scale map of the Pic: Our pool signage resort is displayed. G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. We are compliant with Since opening, SBR did not have any incidents of rules and regulations and non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes no we do not use concerning product and service information and labeling. inappropriate of funny SBR intends to keep it this way and is constantly collecting signs when it comes to feedbacks in order to improve such aspects even further. serious aspects or legal There are currently truly numerous information panels and labels throughout the resort informing on the nature of requirements products and services. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 153153 G4-PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, Siloso Beach Resort including results of surveys measuring customer Blending Life and Leisure with Nature satisfaction. Product Responsibility The below graphic showcases compiled monthly customer satisfaction feedbacks over a year period. SBR conducts monthly survey of customer satisfaction. Different means are used to do this which include: -In room feedback forms -Random surveys -Website surveys Percentage of Feedback from Positive Guest Experience 2014 100.00% 90.00% 80.00% 70.00% 60.00% 50.00% 40.00% 30.00% 20.00% 10.00% 0.00% Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Months/ Years SBR is currently in the process of a major facilities renovations which include a total refurnishing and design change for all our rooftop suites and facility rooms in a first phase. In a second phase our standard and deluxe rooms will also be upgraded. This major upgrade should significantly contribute towards customer satisfaction improvement in addition to a range of other measures which are also currently being implemented. A happy customer also makes us happy SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 154154 MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Public Policies G4-PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for and sponsorship. noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products SBR does not sell any banned or similarly questionable and services. products. We follow the DMAS (Direct Marketing Association of Singapore) marketing code of conduct. However, we are not one of the members and To date SBR did not have any the code of practice serves as a general guideline. We review this voluntary codes on a yearly basis. fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the above G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. We have not had any reported incidents so far. SBR has a soft approach to marketing and our approach is not aggressive or competitive with other hotels. CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Customer data and privacy regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. protection is important to us Like any other hotels, we are always dealing with a range of customer complaints, however so far, we have never had any issues or complaints regarding breaches of “ customer privacy and losses of data. ’ At SBR, customer privacy is one of our priority and we treat ’ such data with care and professionalism. Recently SBR has invested and put into place a major internal backup computer system that allows all the ’ customer data to be safely stored on our servers. ’ SBR does not store information without prior approval of its customers. Most of the data that we collect is on a temporary basis between the time the customer makes a booking to the time he leaves the hotel or cancels the reservation. ” SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 155155 Economic Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Total business revenue for FY 2015: S$11,732,427 2015 Distribution of Total Revenue (in Singapore Dollars and by %) 131,500 , 1% Salary (including bonus and CPF 1,822,312, 15% contribution) 2,294,779 , 20% Costs and Operating expenses Profit (before provision for income tax) Social and Environmental 7,483,836, 64% Investments (CSR Activities) “ “ SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 156156 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s Siloso Beach Resort activities due to climate change. Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Economic SBR takes climate change issues seriously. SBR acknowledges the fact that climate change is real G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined and that progressive changes as a result will be felt benefit plan obligations? throughout the century. Our coverage includes the below: Short term: While SBR does not see any significant financial impacts in the short term, many aspects of how it operates and plans its business in the CPF Contribution medium to long term take climate risk into Compulsory consideration. Transportation Medium and long term: Medical insurance (+ hospital coverage) SBR foresees that financial risks in the medium to Work/Life Balance long term may include: Accommodation Meals • Increased adaptive costs: e.g. coastal erosion from rising sea levels, stronger and more frequent rainfall events and tropical storms which could cause structural damages to our buildings and associated problems such as floods, water G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from infiltration into buildings… government.  As ambient temperature will increase, SBR SBR has not received any financial assistance from the will have to find new solutions to deal with Singapore government so far nor is the government present mosquito control. These new solutions in the shareholding structure. The construction of the hotel tend to be more expensive, which are was privately funded. additional costs to the company. However, SBR is starting to look into a range of government funds, especially for the implementation of  As the impacts of climate change increases, new energy efficiency projects. the world economy will be adversely affected. This will affect leisure travels and therefore SBR’s business.  As a beach front business, sea level rise will become a major issue for SBR in the long MARKET PRESENCE term. G4-EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at  The potential of future environmental significant locations of operation. regulations and taxes serve to potentially increase operating cost. Our wages are in line with standard minimum entry Opportunities level wage in the hotel industry in Singapore.  With climate change also comes the We have recently increased our minimum wages to make opportunity to provide sustainable them more competitive. This process is also part of our hospitality services. strategy to attract and retain local talents.  Having been environmentally conscious from the very start, climate change also Ratio for both genders is in the range of 0.93 (in our favor). could add a competitive advantage to the resort as other businesses work to catch up and improve their environmental credentials. SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 157157 Procedure for local hiring Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature G4-EC6 Procedures for local hiring and Economic proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. SBR is an equal opportunity employer. It has a clear procedure in place when it comes to foreign verses hiring Singaporeans. Priority is always given to Singaporeans in situation of equal skills and experience. Proportion of senior management hired from the local community: At SBR, senior management is 100% Singaporean and comprises of family members (we define senior management as “ those above the normal department manager positions). Breakdown of Department Managers 2015 Total: 9 Singaporeans (including Permanent Residents): 8 ” Foreigners: 1 Singaporean Foreigner SBR has a balance between Singaporeans and foreigners in its management SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 158158 Siloso Beach Resort GUIDANCE Blending Life and Leisure with Nature INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS Economic G4-EC7 Development and impact of Economic G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, infrastructure investments and services and the extent of impacts. provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in kind, or pro-bono SBR works with various organizations who advise us on the engagement. economic needs of Singapore and help us to understand our indirect economic impacts. Infrastructure Investments: While many of the infrastructure at SBR was developed with guest Indirect Significance of Impacts satisfaction and the environment in mind, they economic were not developed primarily for public benefit. impacts Most of the resort's infrastructure has a direct Seasonality of Negative: Seasonality can result in economic return such as rooms and restaurants Tourism Industry some economic instability. facilities. Attracting tourists Positive: Attracting more tourists Services: Before implementing a new service, SBR to Singapore will bring additional money into conducts a financial analysis of how much it’s going the Singapore economy. This is to cost verses financial returns. Initiatives are aligned with the national policy of subdivided into two categories: promoting Singapore, and Sentosa Island in particular, as a tourist -Financial investments: Investments for which a destination. positive financial return is expected Employment of Negative and Positive: Hospitality -CSR investments: Investments for which no financial Foreign Talent is an industry that by necessity return is expected. employs a significant percentage of foreign talent. This can have a For CSR projects, a budget is allocated from the positive effect on the economy, total hotel revenues. SBR has no financial interest in but also it may result in otherwise doing so but also believes that acting as a lower wages for some occupations. responsible corporate citizen in giving back to society is an important moral task that any business Raising awareness Positive: Actively promoting should consider. of sustainable sustainable business serves to have business a positive effect on the Singapore Our Eco Tour program in particular is a CSR project economy. This is a better model that is for public benefit by teaching students, for creating long-term prosperity companies, and the community about sustainable and in line with Singapore’s pledge business using SBR as a case study. Although a local to cut GHG emissions 16% by 2020. community assessment has not been conducted, Extent of Impacts: For all of our indirect economic impacts, we are confident of the importance of this program the extent of the impact is very small, and not possible to as it has been requested by many teachers and observe in relation to the overall Singapore economy. business. We believe that knowledge about However, as a responsible business, we still feel it is sustainable business will benefit the public as they important for us to study and understand our indirect will have better quality of life from business impacts economic impacts when society accepts that sustainable and responsible practices are the only viable way of doing business. Our Eco Tour program is conducted free of charge (pro bono) and since its start in 2007 has been conducted for more than 7500 participants (as of October 2014). For 2013, there were over 1900 participants! The estimated cost of running the program for each year is about S$12,000 per year. SBR Sustainability Report 2016 159 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Economic G4-EC9 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. SBR has a strong policy to purchase its supplies as much as possible from local suppliers. For aspects such as F&B, local is defined as within South East Asia. One of our primary reasons for purchasing locally is to reduce our carbon footprint. More than 70% of our purchases are done locally (as a percentage of our total purchasing budget) In addition to the geographic location, we also take into account cost and quality, carbon footprint of transport, the sustainability of the supplier in its production and disposal processes, and social performance. Our purchasing policy is Asia centric Recently, SBR has implemented a sustainability fund This fund collected through various means will help to fund our sustainability Projects with the aim of having our sustainability programs self sustained In the future SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 160160 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Our final key message ’ SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 161161 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Thank you for reading through! That’s all folks! SBR Sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Report 2016 Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability 162162 Annex “ ’ ’ ” 163 Annex Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 1. Review of 2014 -2015 targets Since the construction of the Resort, the Owners had a vision to develop an eco friendly resort. Below details the targets that have been set by the Sustainability Committee: LIST OF TARGETS AND INITIATIVES: 2014/2015 Component Target Comment Marketing To develop the area of events sales through Achieved a major rebranding MICE. To emphasize on the resorts unique including a new logo which will offering in terms of facilities, location and make it easier to promote the sustainability. resort for its sustainability practices Financial profit To improve sales especially through events Not achieved. However, the sales as per above strategy (MICE). economy and a spread of Zica virus have greatly affected sales for the reporting period Guests satisfaction To improve guests satisfaction with an Still in progress however good emphasis on facilities upgrades (rooms and progress in renovating the rooms common spaces). To complete all standard and has been made deluxe rooms renovations. Service quality To improve service quality through staff Achieved. A scheme has been put in training and better offerings place to send staff for WDA training courses Safety To keep up with current safety levels Achieved. Safety standards have remain high for the reporting I – Sustainability Targets period Regulatory To continue to be fully compliant with rules Achieved. SBR did not have any requirements and regulations. To start reporting on organic regulatory infringements in the waste as per NEA requirements reporting period. We have started monitoring organic waste data. Energy Consumption To retain the current low energy consumption In progress, our energy and possibly reduce (difficult considering consumption has remained very current low consumption) low and stable Water resources To retain the current low water consumption In progress, our water consumption and possibly improve (difficult considering has remained very low and stable current already low consumption) Carbon emissions To reduce carbon emissions through Achieved. We have installed a solar continuous upgrades in low energy appliances. pv system near our pool area To install solar PV system Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 2012 164 Annex Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 1. Review of 2014 2015 targets Component Target Comment Employees satisfaction To improve employee satisfaction through Achieved. We have reinforced our an integrated welfare program. sport activities with group exercises twice a week Customer feedback To increase and improve customer Achieved. We have conducted feedback through more surveys and numerous surveys as part of the facilities upgrades rebranding exercise Innovation and R&D To continue with R&D projects such as the Achieved. Our r&d projects have rooftop garden and develop new ones such remained. We have not engaged in as the deployment of solar PV systems further projects this reporting period. We have however signed a MOU with Ngee Ann Polytechnic to have more research exchange Social responsibility To continue with ongoing csr programs Achieved. Our projects have remain such as the eco tours and possibly develop strong. The eco tours have now others been attended by over 15000 people Environmental outreach To continue with ongoing environmental Achieved. We have updated our outreach program. To continue updating resources and a stronger presence the biodiversity.sg platform on social media. We have launched a new platform: The SBR Sustainability Hub Waste generated To continue with food waste management Achieved. I – Sustainability Targets program and keep the current high recycling rates Onsite biodiversity To continue with current conservation Achieved. We have gotten highest practices on site including the use of Origin recognition for these efforts through as mosquito control agents the LEAF certification. Ethical business To continue with current standards Achieved practices Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 2012 165 Annex Siloso Beach Resort 1. GRI 4.0 reporting indicators Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Indicator Reporting Status Page Comment G4-1 Fully 10 G4-2 Fully 21 35 G4-3 Fully 37 G4-4 Fully 37 42 G4-5 Fully 43 G4-6 Fully 43 G4-7 Fully 44 GRI 4.0 Reporting indicators G4-8 Fully 45 46 G4-9 Fully 47 G4-10 Fully 49 G4-11 Fully 50 G4-12 Fully 50 G4-13 Fully 51 54 G4-14 Fully 55 G4-15 Fully 56 G4-16 Fully 57 58 G4-17 Fully 59 G4-18 Fully 60 G4-19 Fully 29 and 60 Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 2012 166 Annex Siloso Beach Resort 1. GRI 4.0 reporting indicators Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Indicator Reporting Page Comment Status G4-20 Fully 62 G4-21 Fully 62 G4-22 Fully 62 G4-23 Fully 62 G4-24 Fully 63 G4-25 Fully 64 G4-26 Fully 65 GRI 4.0 Reporting indicators G4-27 Fully 67 G4-28 Fully 68 G4-29 Fully 68 G4-30 Fully 68 G4-31 Fully 68 G4-32 Fully 68 G4-33 Fully 69 G4-34 Fully 71 G4-35 Fully 71 G4-36 Fully 71 G4-37 Fully 72 G4-38 Fully 72 G4-39 Fully 72 Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 2012 167 Annex 1. GRI 4.0 reporting indicators Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Indicator Reporting Page Comment Status G4-40 fully 73 G4-41 fully 73 G4-42 no G4-43 no G4-44 fully 74 G4-45 no Not applicable/missing information G4-46 no Not applicable/missing information GRI 4.0 Reporting indicators G4-47 no Not applicable/missing information G4-48 no Not applicable/missing information G4-49 fully 75 G4-50 no Not applicable/missing information G4-51 fully 76 G4-52 fully 76 G4-53 no Not applicable/missing information G4-54 no Not applicable/missing information G4-55 no Not applicable/missing information G4-56 fully 77 G4-57 no Not applicable/missing information G4-58 no Not applicable/missing information Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 2012 168 Annex 1. GRI 4.0 reporting indicators Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Aspect Indicators Pages Comment/Omissions Environment Materials G4-EN1, 2 95 96 Some relevant materials (such as metals) were omitted as no data was available Energy G4-EN3, 6 97 109 G4-EN3, 4, and 7 omitted , as relevant data not available. G4-EN6 is reported but specific data is not available. Water G4-EN 8, 9, 10 110 115 Biodiversity G4-EN 11, 12, 13, 116 127 14 Emissions G4-EN 15, 16, 17, 128 131 G4-EN18 omitted as relevant data is not available 19, 20, 21 for this indicator. G4-EN20, is reported but specific data not available. Effluents and G4-EN 22, 23, 24, 132 139 Waste 25, 26 Products and G4-EN 27, 28 140 Services Compliance G4-EN 29 142 Overall G4-EN 31 G4-EN31 omitted as data is confidential. Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment G4-LA 1, 2, 3 144 -145 Occupational G4-LA5, 6, 7, 8 145 -146 Health and Safety Training and G4-LA 9, 10, 11 146 Education Diversity and Equal G4-LA12 147 Opportunity Equal G4-LA13 148 Remuneration for Women 2016 Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 169 Annex 1. GRI 4.0 reporting indicators Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Aspect Indicators Pages Comment/Omissions Human Rights NonG4-HR3 148 descrimination Society Local Communities G4-SO1, 2 150 151 Compliance G4-SO 8 150 Product Responsibility Customer Health G4-PR1, 2 152 and Safety Product and G4-PR3, 4, 5 153 -155 G4 – PR5: No 2015 data available for customer Service Labelling feedback Economic Economic G4-EC 1, 2, 3, 4 156 157 Performance Market Presence G4-EC 5, 6 157 158 Indirect Economic G4-EC 7, 8 159 Impacts Procurement G4-EC 9 160 Practices Siloso Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2012 Corporate Sustainability Beach Resort Corporate 2016 170
