CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBI TY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 CONTENTS CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 2 INTRODUCTION 3 ABOUT METZ A/S 4 OUR APPROACH TO CSR 5 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT 6 RISK SEGMENTATION OF SUPPLIERS 6 HIGH RISK SUPPLIER COMPLIANCE FROM RISK SEGMENTATION 7 HIGH RISK SUPPLIER COMPLIANCE FROM METZ CODE OF CONDUCT 8 PROMOTING A GOOD AND HEALTHY WORKING ENVIRONMENT 8 UNGC METZ STAKEHOLDER CSR ACTIVITY 2016 9 A DIFFERENCE TO BE REMEMBERED BY 9 A DIFFERENCE FOR OTHERS 9 COMMUNICATION FIRST AID TRAINING COURSE 10 A DIFFERENCE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 10 OUR EMPLOYEES 11 ON PROGESS APPENDIX: METZ CSR POLICY 12 CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT The purpose of our Communication on Progress report (COP) is to document and communicate the way we work with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, within our own organization as well as in our network of suppliers and customers. We strive to continually improve our CSR performance, both in our supply chain and within the daily operations of our organization. We are confident, that responsible business management will deliver sustainable business results. It is primarily the companies of the world that drive globalization, and it will only be through a global fellowship and cooperation that we can ensure progress for the benefit of the world’s economies and societies. It is therefore my pleasure to inform you that Metz A/S once again reaffirms our support to the United Nations Global Compact and its 10 principles. Yours sincerely, Claus Hedegaard CEO UNGC COMMUNICATION 2 ON PROGESS INTRODUCTION Metz A/S signed up to the UN Global Compact in November 2013, as we wanted to adopt an internationally recognized framework for structuring and reporting on our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) efforts. With our commitment to the UN Global Compact, we recognize that we as a company are committed to continually improve and document our work within CSR, and we wish to communicate this to our stakeholders, including our customers, suppliers and employees. As a supplier of promotional products, we work as an intermediary between the end customer and the supplier. On some occasions, our suppliers are agents, who work as intermediaries just like us. Metz has a network of many suppliers and sub-suppliers, and therefore we have a responsibility to seek to influence our suppliers in terms of establishing responsible supply chains for the products that we ultimately sell to the end customer. In the following pages, we presents the Metz approach to CSR, our ambitions for working with the CSR principles as well as the CSR activities and projects that we have conducted or initiated during 2015/2016. UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGESS ABOUT METZ A/S Metz A/S was established in 1993 and is an owner-driven company that supplies promotional products and corporate gifts to more than 200 companies and organizations. Metz is the leading and largest supplier in the industry in Denmark and employs 35 people at our headquarters North of Copenhagen in Denmark. Metz acts as a trend spotter and purchaser on behalf of their customers. As a supplier of promotional products and corporate gifts to Denmark’s largest companies, Metz has to be a responsible and trustworthy partner in all areas. Most of the products are produced, according to the customers’ wishes and needs. As the only Danish company, Metz has obtained membership and part ownership of the world’s largest procurement organisation, IGC Global Promotions. IGC was founded in 1956 and is a global network represented in 52 countries. Our mission is to provide high quality products while also influencing and improving conditions relating to labour rights, human rights and the environment in our supply chain. We do this by communicating and by providing guidance to our suppliers in order to help them improve their processes and to comply with the principles of the UN Global Compact. Since we are not a manufacturer, this is the area that we will be able to influence the most, and thus have the greatest impact on. UNGC WE SUPPORT COMMUNICATION 4 ON PROGESS OUR APPROACH TO CSR The backbone of the Metz CSR strategy is shaped by the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Together with our suppliers and building on the UN Global Compact principles, we wish to work towards a more responsible supply chain for our customers and our other stakeholders. We do this by collaborating proactively with our suppliers and assessing our partnerships in order to strengthen their compliance with internationally proclaimed principles for Human Rights and Labour Standards, Environment and Anti-corruption. This approach is also defined in our company’s CSR policy that structures and motivates our efforts within CSR, see appendix. Our CSR policy builds on our ambition to make a positive difference to our stakeholders. One of the ways to do this is to create a transparent and responsible valuechain. Our CSR efforts are driven by the following ambitions; • We believe that by working responsibly, over the long term, we can outperform competitors, who do not adhere to the same standards and practices. • We strive to monitor and manage the CSR risks associated with our business, as well as communicate our performance to our customers, so that we can support the success of their own businesses. • We know that responsible business conduct provides sustainable, long-term business results, and that responsibility is a prerequisite for retaining our customers’ trust and confidence. Metz is an organization with a global network of suppliers and customers. Our main area of impact from a CSR perspective is our supply chain, which due to our global valuechain is the UNGC area where we can make the biggest difference in terms of integrating CSR principles into business practices. For Metz, responsible supply chain management (RSCM) is therefore a strategic CSR focus area that supports our overall business strategy. RSCM has been our main priority in terms of CSR and the primary focus of our CSR activities in the past year, and will COMMUNICATION continue to be in the future. 5 ON PROGESS RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY RISK SEGMENTATION CHAIN MANAGEMENT OF SUPPLIERS At Metz we recognize the challenges and risks associated with managing global supply chains, Our risk assessment is based on four steps, whereas some of our suppliers need only go and that our supply chain is the area where we have our biggest impact and opportunity to through the first two. We make this distinction due to the fact that it is important for Metz to be influence social and environmental conditions. However, we also recognize that not having our able to implement a risk based but also resource efficient supplier management system. own production poses a risk and to some extent limits the control and leverage we have in terms of improving the sustainability of our supply chain. Our business model is based upon sourcing either directly from the supplier or indirectly through an intermediary. We distinguish between direct suppliers, companies selling branded On-boarding goods, recognized agents or other intermediaries. The latter group often manages an indenew suppliers pendent network of suppliers and will often represent higher supply chain related risks than 1. Initiate dialogue a single supplier. and send out CoC For Metz, working with RSCM is about finding the right balance between the risks and the resources we have, and thus setting realistic goals for improvement. Our RSCM system is based on the UN Global Compact framework. The ten principles of the UN Global Compact, the 2. Risk segmentation 4. Reporting of suppliers principles in the ILO conventions and the UN Declaration on Human Rights form the basis of the demands we present to our suppliers. The Metz Supplier Code of Conduct outlines the requirements that we expect our suppliers to comply with. The purpose of our RSCM system is to have a systematic management system that enforces 3. Actions based on risk segmentation responsible business practices across the supply chain with the purpose of monitoring significant risks and determining the effort needed to achieve reasonable confidence about Phasing out suppliers’ level of compliance with the Metz Supplier Code of Conduct and international suppliers standards. UNGC COMMUNICATION 6 ON PROGESS HIGH RISK SUPPLIER COMPLIANCE LEVEL 4 Phasing out FROM RISK SEGMENTATION 0% in level 4 (against last year´s 5%). Some suppliers from last year´s level 4 were phased out of our system, however a number of suppliers have been moved to level 3, 2 or 1 because they In the past year we have optimized our internal supplier database, and added levels to the have had audits or provided other types of compliance documents. listed suppliers. This provides a quick overview of the supplier´s present compliance stage and the requirements needed for the suppliers to move to the next level. Next year we will focus our efforts on level 2 and 3, and try to help the suppliers move up a level, and we will do this through guidance and close cooperation. From this year´s review, we can see an improvement in the number of suppliers that meet our requirements for documentation and our code of conduct compliance. Some new suppliers have moved directly to level 1 and some to level 2 (if a new supplier does not show compliance, they move directly to level 3). Result of our risksegmentation in 2015, Result of our up to date risksegmentation, LEVEL 1 based on high risk areas (4 steps). based on high risk area (4 steps). Compliant no supporting documents are needed; however minor improvements may be necessary. This year 52% were placed in level 1 (against last year´s 50%). Some of the suppliers from levels 2 and 3 were moved to level 1 due to supporting compliance documents or closing of their CAPS. Some new suppliers entered directly to level 1. 50% LEVEL 1 52% LEVEL 1 19% LEVEL 2 17% LEVEL 2 LEVEL 2 26% LEVEL 3 31% LEVEL 3 Partial compliance supporting documents 5% LEVEL 4 0% LEVEL 4 and/or major improvement needed. 17% were in level 2 (against last year´s 19 %), and some suppliers have been moved to level 1. If a supplier did not manage to close their major non-compliance findings, if documents had Our target for year 2020 is that 95% of our primary factories in high-risk areas will meet the expired or if there has been changes in their organization that affected their compliance, we requirements of our Code of Conduct. We will meet this target by phasing out the factories have been forced to move some of them down to level 3. where it has not been possible to improve their CSR performance, by moving our primary factories up to our level, and by entering into new partnerships with factories that demonstrate high commitment to the work with CSR. LEVEL 3 Not in compliance – Compliance documents are needed. Ideally, we would like to inspire the factories to take responsibility and to understand the 31% were in level 3 (against 26% last year). Some suppliers regained compliance documentaimportance of social responsibility, so in time it is not a matter of whether they are compliant or tion and were moved up to level 2 or 1. No suppliers from last year´s level 3 have been moved non-compliant, but a question of what they are doing extra on CSR within their industry. to level 4. 7 HIGH RISK SUPPLIER COMPLIANCE FROM METZ CODE OF CONDUCT DISCRIMINATION 0% FORCED LABOUR 0% Throughout the past year, we have worked intensively with our risk assessment system, and updated some of the areas within the system that needed improvement. The system provides FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION us with a quick overview of our suppliers’ performance and identifies which areas that need AND RIGHT TO ORGANIZE 0% extra guidance and effort on our part. The new updates should help us map the areas further, CHILD LABOUR 0% so we can work closer on meeting our target for year 2020, and reduce the areas of noncompliance by 50%. HEALTH AND SAFETY 67% WORKING C0NDITIONS 23% Please find below the findings from this year´s assessment against the Metz Code of Conduct. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 11% 1. HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR ETHICAL BUSINESS Discrimination, findings in our document review 0% PRACTIECES 0% Forced Labour, findings in our document review 0% Freedom of Association and Right to Organize, findings in our document review 0% Child Labour, findings in our document review 0% Working Conditions, findings in our document review 23% Health and Safety, findings in our document review 67% PROMOTING A GOOD AND HEALTHY 2. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT WORKING ENVIRONMENT Risk identification and management, findings in our document review 11% Similar to last year, we can see from the assessed documents, that it is the area of Health 3. ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES and Safety that needs extra attention. With regard to “Health and Safety”, it is mostly lack of Corruption, findings in our document review 0% PPE (Personal protective equipment) that the suppliers need some guidance in. It’s important that both the management team and the workers understand the reasons why it is important (preventing injuries, sickness etc.). Next year we will focus on promoting the benefits of having a good and healthy working environment, what it can do for the company by giving the workers the right tasks, challenge their individual areas of expertise, but also the benefits that comes from a good team spirit in the workplace. In our opinion healthy and satisfied workers will deliver better quality and better service and in the end this will result in greater success for the company. 8 METZ STAKEHOLDER A DIFFERENCE TO BE CSR ACTIVITY 2016 REMEMBERED BY Our payoff: “A difference to be remembered by” reflects on the promotional items that we sell to COSTUMERS our clients, which their recipients are happy about – and will remember. However, it also reflects We have seen a change in the smaller companies in the last year. It seems that the large the culture within Metz and is the center of our daily work in the organization in relation to the corporations´ CSR development and required documentation for sustainable practices are service we provide to our customers, what we can do to help others, how we treat our colleagues, now starting to trickle down to the small and medium sized companies. A number of medium and what we can do for the environment etc. sized companies are now also asking for confirmation of their code of conduct, transparency in their supply chain (permission for same if required) in order to demonstrate their responsibly produced items. This is a positive development as we are confident that responsible business management will deliver sustainable business results. Through global cooperation it will be A DIFFERENCE FOR OTHERS possible to influence and educate the factories on the importance of social responsibility for DISCONTINUED PRODUCTS the benefit of the world’s economies and societies. To avoid throwing out products that could make a difference for others, we have entered into an agreement whereby we deliver our discontinued items to a women’s center and to a help SUPPLY CHAIN organization for the homeless (1). Our main area of impact from a CSR perspective is our supply chain, which is the area where we can make the biggest difference in terms of integrating CSR principles into business CHRISTMAS GIFTS – VALGGAVEN.DK practices. It is important that our supply chain has a responsibility towards CSR and towards us, We are committed every year to develop and and we believe that building bridges between our companies will result in better products and produce 100,000 Christmas gifts that are worth better business relationships. remembering. Besides our customer decided Christmas webshops (with their own gift choice), From our recent factory visits we can see a positive development in the number of projects we have a predefined Christmas webshop with 25 with the factories in question, and we can see that the factories take greater ownership of our different gifts that our customer´s employees can NEPAL TH ANKS YOU projects when they get this extra attention and interest. We will therefore continue the approach FOR YOUR SUPPORT choose from. We call this “valggaven.dk”. Tusind tak for dit bidrag til Røde Kor from last year and keep visiting our primary factories every year. Dit bidrag gør en stor forskel for s og Nepal Projects by Menu. As a standard, one of the 25 gifts is a donation, menneske r og er med til at sikre ma d, nogle af verd ren ens mest uds atte Projects sikr t van d, husly og er arbejde lægehjælp. og uddann and this year the donation is a combination of Nepal Teddy give else til kvin r håb og tro derne i Nep al. Hver ene Next year we will also look closer at mapping our supply chain further. In our opinion it is an på fremtide ste n. Vi ved, at fattige har det nytter, når i dag adgang du støtter. the “Menu Nepal teddy” project and a donation nogensind e. Røde Kor til uddannelse , rent vand og lægehjæ Flere advantage to keep the number of suppliers to a minimum and work on strengthening the flygtninge. Og for uds s er der for naturkatastro fernes ofre lp end to the “Red Cross” (2). atte overalt og for krigens . Hver dag. til nogle af Dit bidrag er en hjælpe business with the individual factories. verdens mes nde hånd t udsatte me nnesker. Og betroet os vi er glad for, opgaven me at du har d at sikre, at hjælpen når Derfor: End frem. nu en gang (1) Examples on discontinued samples: Clothing, drinking bottles, tak. mugs, towels, blankets, knitted hats, caps, gloves, first aid kits etc. (2) Many young Nepali women from poor families are at risk of being led into prostitution. Through education of children and employment of young women Menu offers an alternative. Menu has teamed up with local producers in Nepal, which also wants to create a better future for Nepal’s children and women. The production employs hundreds of weavers and tailors. 9 FIRST AID TRAINING COURSE It’s important to be able to help others, if there is an accident, or if a person has a heart attack. Many accidents end in death or in serious permanent injury because the victim does not receive the proper life-saving help in the first crucial minutes. That is why all employees at Metz have been offered a first aid training course provided by “Dansk Folkehjælp”. The first course was held in November 2016 and the second course will be held in January 2017. A DIFFERENCE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT CUSTOMER WEBSHOPS WITH ENVIRONMENTAL FOCUS One of our main business areas is worldwide distribution of promotional items through our webshops. For this reason, we have developed a system that focuses on minimizing waste by 15-20%. This includes all aspects that are associated with the finished item like production, storage and delivery. Furthermore, this also prevents our customers from spending money on ordering quantities that are not used. BESIDES THE THINGS WE ALREADY DO; Each year we are focusing on finding new ways to optimize our processes and minimize our environmental impact. In 2014, we stopped ordering bottled spring water to REDUCE OUR WATER WASTE and each employee received a drinking bottle instead. In 2015, we introduced a system to REDUCE OUR FOOD WASTE, where each employee notifies the receptionist if they will be in the office for lunch the following day. In 2016, all employees got rechargeable computer keyboards and computer mice to REDUCE OUR BATTERY WASTE, this will each year save the disposal of around 450 batteries. IT IS THE SMALL THINGS THAT CAN HELP MAKE A DIFFERENCE. 10 OUR EMPLOYEES A good working environment is not only about the way we talk to each other, it´s about giving the employees the right tasks, challenge their expertise, and about supporting a good team spirit. It´s important that the employees get proper answers and guidance to their questions and feel that they are listened to when they present their suggestions and ideas. In other words, each employee should feel important and valued. At Metz, we acknowledge that each employee plays a vital role in the success of the company. We continuously focus on the elements that advances their commitment, job satisfaction and their wellbeing at work. We do this by having annual one-on-one development interviews, by offering a private health insurance for our employees and their children, by fostering a good team spirit (e.g. by frequently organizing social events) and by giving the employees free access to sports facilities, healthy lunch programs, free fruit etc. We believe that all these things result in a good working environment in the organization and are reflected in the statistics of our average yearly sick leave and average years of employment. AVERAGE SICK LEAVE AVERAGE SICK AVERAGE SICK AVERAGE SICK FOR PRIVATE OFFICE LEAVE FOR METZ LEAVE FOR METZ LEAVE FOR METZ SECTOR EMPLOYEES IN EMPLOYEES 2016 EMPLOYEES 2015 EMPLOYEES 2014 DENMARK 2014 2.31 2.2 3.35 6.5 AVERAGE METZ 2015 MALE FEMALE TOTAL YEAR OF EMPLOYMENT EMPLOYEES 11 24 35 9.94 MANAGEMENT 1 3 4 TEAM 11 APPENDIX: METZ CSR POLICY Metz wishes to be a responsible and trustworthy business partner as a supplier of promotional products and corporate gifts to Denmark’s largest companies. Metz does not have any in-house production, but acts as a trend spotter and purchaser for our customers. By delivering the right products, by providing high quality service, and by creating a transparent valuechain, we want to support a successful business for our customers. Metz was founded upon these values and principles. We created our CSR policy with the goal of making a positive difference. Responsible supply chain management and the collaboration with our suppliers are the areas in which we have our biggest CSR impact, and where we can make the biggest difference in relation to advancing responsible business practices. The framework for, and backbone of, our CSR strategy and activities are based on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact that we joined in November 2013. By building on the UN Global Compact principles, we will work towards a more responsible supply chain. We do this by proactively influencing and collaborating with our suppliers in order to comply with internationally recognized principles for Human Rights, Labour Standards, Environment and Anti-Corruption. UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGESS
