RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 CONTENT Letter from the CEO..........................................................1 About Rezidor....................................................................2 SCOPE AND BOUNDARIES OF THIS REPORT CONTACT Highlights 2015..................................................................3 The Rezidor 2015 Responsible Business Report describes the most material For any comments, queries or questions please contact: ­corporate responsibility and sustainability aspects of our operations, not the full Sustainable Brands..........................................................4 range of our actions and data. The information in this report refers to the year 2015 Inge Huijbrechts, Vice President Responsible Business Materiality and Stakeholders.......................................6 unless otherwise stated. Unless otherwise indicated, achievements mentioned in inge.huijbrechts@carlsonrezidor.com this report cover all hotels which are managed, leased or franchised by the Rezidor Organisation and Governance....................................8 Hotel Group. This includes 354 properties which were in operation on 31 December Christiane Reiter, Senior Director ­Corporate Communication 2015. For new hotels that were opened in 2015 or hotels that discontinued operaThink Planet tions during the year, data is only reported for the months they were in operation. christiane.reiter@carlsonrezidor.com Together for a Greener Future..................................10 Rezidor has limited the reporting boundaries to areas in which the company has full control over data collection and information quality. Downstream impacts are generThink People ally excluded as we do not currently have reliable tools to measure their effect. The Rezidor Hotel Group – ­ Corporate Support Office Avenue du Bourget 44 Our Core Capital............................................................22 Financial data presented in our Responsible Business Report is derived from audited B-1130 Brussels annual accounts. For all external reporting, currencies have been converted to Euros Think Together (€). Our financial reporting accounting principles and currency ­conversion rates are Belgium Tel: +32 2 702 9000 Proudly Contributing to Local Communities....... 32 stated in Rezidor’s 2015 Annual Report. Rezidor applies the precautionary principle. www.rezidor.com This is our 10th annual Responsible Business Report. Eco-Labelled Hotels.....................................................40 The Responsible Business Report has not been independently reviewed by audiGRI Standard Disclosures Table.............................. 42 tors or any other third party. It is prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 D ­ isclosure Guideline, CORE option. Global Compact Compliance................................... 44 THINK PLANET THINK PEOPLE THINK TOGETHER 22 % ENERGY SAVED 87.5 EMPLOYEE 5,000+ VOLUNTEERING DAYS SATISFACTION SCORE LETTER FROM THE CEO Responsible Business is an essential part of Rezidor’s business philosophy. We act in a sustainable way, and care for our people and our planet. Due to our Scandinavian roots and heritage, classified as best practice within the hospitality industry. Responsible Business has a long tradition at Rezidor. In 2015, we were one of the pioneers to sign an agreeOur first environmental policy dates back to 1989, and ment with Safehotels, an independent third-party global we were one of the first international hotel companies security consultancy – 65 of our hotels were already to introduce a group-wide Responsible Business pro­certified in the course of the year. gramme. We are proud that our continued efforts are During Rezidor’s Responsible Business Action Month acknowledged beyond the industry: since 2010, we and throughout the year, our teams prove they have a were named each year one of the World’s Most Ethical true heart for their local communities, raising €1,3m in Companies by the think-tank “Ethisphere”. in-kind and cash donations. Various hotels in Europe Rezidor’s Responsible Business programme supports have and continue to support vulnerable refugees. our 4D Strategy of Develop Talent, Delight Guests, The COP21 agreement and the launch of the Sustaina­ Drive the Business and Deliver Results. It is based on ble Development Goals in 2015 have confirmed the three core components: role that international businesses can and must play in •T  hink Planet – minimising our environmental footprint curbing climate change and in contributing to sustaina•T  hink People – taking care of the health & safety ble development around the globe. The tourism industry of guests and employees provides income through employment and job creation • Think Together – community action and business ethics. and fosters sustainable development by focusing on In 2015, we continued to drive our long-term Think employability and education. Collaboration within our sector is essential in these important missions – so I am “International Planet activities and achieved impressive savings driving alignment between all major global hotel groups businesses can and in energy (22%) and water (29%). Focusing on water ­stewardship, we also launched a Radisson Blu partnerin my role as Chairman of the International Tourism Partnership (ITP) that I am holding since June 2015. must play a role in ship with “Just a Drop” and donate USD 15 for every 250 towels re-used in our hotels –enough to provide Thank you for your interest in Rezidor and our Responsible Business programme! driving sustainable one child with drinking water for life. Our worldwide Meetings Minus Carbon offsetting programme for Yours sincerely, development around Meetings & Events by Club Carlson equally growed: 32,000 tonnes of CO2e have been offset and 32,000 the globe.” trees have been planted. Our Think People initiatives were concentrated on the further development of our Safety & Security programme – a key item for our guests and business ­partners in today’s changing environment. Rezidor’s Wolfgang M. Neumann cor­porate security management programme TRIC=S is President & CEO REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 1 ABOUT REZIDOR The Rezidor Hotel Group is one of the most dynamic hotel operators in the world with a presence in 80 countries across Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. Rezidor has a portfolio of 457 hotels in operation or under development containing more than 100,000 guestrooms. Rezidor is a member of the global Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group. 457 At the end of 2015, Rezidor had 354 hotels in ­operation offering 78,428 guestrooms in 63 countries. Another 103 hotels and 21,572 rooms were under development. HOTELS 100,320 Rezidor’s core brands are Radisson Blu (upper upscale) and Park Inn by Radisson (mid scale). They are complemented by our new brands: Quorvus Collection (luxury) and Radisson RED (lifestyle select). ROOMS 80 For frequent guests, Rezidor offers the Club Carlson loyalty programme. Since November 2006, Rezidor has been listed at Nasdaq OMX Stockholm (Sweden). Carlson, a COUNTRIES 40,000 ­privately held global hospitality and travel company based in Minneapolis (USA), is the majority shareholder. Rezidor’s Corporate Support Office is based in Brussels, Belgium. HOTELIERS Rezidor’s group-wide and award-winning Responsible Business programme has been implemented in all managed and leased hotels as well as in our corporate offices. Franchise operators are strongly encouraged to adopt the programme. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 2 HIGHLIGHTS 2015 2015 has been an exciting and challenging year for Rezidor’s Responsible Business ­programme. Our main achievements include: • Energy savings reach 22%* • Safehotels alliance certifies 65 Rezidor hotels • Water stewardship programme continues, reducing • Employee satisfaction score remains high at 87.5 Rezidor’s water consumption by 29% • Radisson Blu’s Pink Breakfast focuses on preventing • Proportion of eco-labelled hotels in the group breast cancer reaches 77% • New courses launched to develop our female talent • Meetings Minus Carbon offsets 32,000 tonnes of carbon and plants 32,000 trees * Weather adjusted • Rezidor is recognised as one of the World’s Most Responsible Business performance indicators: Ethical Companies for the sixth year in a row Indicator 2015 2014 2013 • €1.3m donated to charity Energy/m2 (kWh)1) 254 2662) 2792) • Rezidor employees complete 5,000+ days of Energy/occupied room (kWh)1) 85 892) 902) ­volunteering Water/guest-night (liters) 1) 333 335 340 • Blu Planet, the innovative towel re-use program Carbon Footprint per guest-night (kg CO2e)1) 22.1 21.4 22.8 Climate analysis Employee Satisfaction Survey 87.5 87.5 87 at Radisson Blu, provides safe drinking water to Safety and security: Safehotels Alliance certification 65 n/a n/a 4,700 children 1) Rezidor managed and leased hotels 2) Restated REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 3 SUSTAINABLE BRANDS BLU PLANET ‘CHOOSE TO REUSE SAVES LIVES’ For every 250 towels that our guests choose to reuse, Radisson Blu Hotels make a donation to the international water charity “Just A Drop” to provide a child with safe drinking water for life. Donations from more than 230 Radisson Blu hotels go to “Just A Drop” drinking water and sanitaPINK BREAKFAST tion projects in Kenya. Brain Food for Radisson Blu Experience meetings BRAIN FOOD The social benefits of these projects are tangible. is good for our guests! The food is healthy and At the I­kalaasa Secondary School in Kenya, we have helps you maintain a constant attention span. installed a water tank. One of the female students In October, Radisson Blu hotels supported the It’s also good for the planet because it includes told us that it has had a big impact, particularly for worldwide breast cancer awareness month more local, organic and vegetarian options. the girls in the school. They have been able to with the Pink Breakfast. On the Pink Breakfast The six principles of Brain Food: improve their personal hygiene and this helps them buffet, food and drink items which can help to concentrate in lessons. Financially, having the 1. Lots of fish, whole grain, fruit and ­vegetables. reduce (breast) cancer, were added to the water tanks also helps the school. Until the tank was Radisson Blu Super Breakfast. In collaboration 2. P  rimarily fresh, locally sourced ingredients. installed, a large part of the school’s budget was with eminent nutritionist Dr Serog, six specific 3. Pure ingredients with minimal industrial spent buying water. The school will now use that ingredients and some creative and healthy rec­processing. money to invest in a better science laboratory. ipes were introduced. As part of the campaign, 4. Less meat and always a maximum 10% fat donations were collected for Europa Donna, ­content. the international breast cancer awareness 5. N  atural sweeteners and never more than organisation. 10% added sugar. 6. Focus on good taste and on satisfying the senses. BLU ROUTES Go local and healthy with Blu Routes by Radisson Blu: Local running, walking and cycling routes for our guests, defined by our staff and available in the hotel’s One Touch app. Routes can also be found on radissonblu.com/bluroutes. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 4 SUSTAINABLE BRANDS PARK INN #ADDCOLOURTOLIVES MURALS Park Inn by Radisson is a young dynamic brand which cares for youth at risk with Adding Colour to Lives. To launch the programme in September 2015, we invited Purchasing local ingredients is a key element SMART FOOD Joel Bergner (joelartista.com), a recognised artist and of Smart Food by Park Inn by Radisson. social educator, to create and paint a series of public Whether you’re looking for a coffee break, murals together with local, disadvantaged youth and working lunch or a more classic sit-down our staff in Brussels, Cape Town, Heathrow, Köln and ­buffet, our extensive menus offer a superb Malmö. The project generated a unique collaboration variety of choice. Offering well-balanced and and gave the young people a voice to express themnutritious meals using fresh, local produce, selves through art. our food tastes great and is ethically sourced. Easy to eat and presented in style, keeping your meeting or event as energised as the ­surroundings. Comfy Classics – Our take on the soup, salad and sandwich lunch, but delivered with Park Inn by Radisson style. RUNINN 2-bite food – Not just your typical finger food, Go local and healthy with Runinn by Park Inn by Radisson: local running ­little portions that say yum! Perfect for mingling. and walking routes for our guests, defined by the staff and available on the Bento Box – A fresh alternative to the convenhotel app. Runinn routes can be found on the homepage of each particitional plated lunch. pating hotel. Food fight – Our more substantial buffet menu for when size matters! REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 5 MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDERS Rezidor has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact REZIDOR COMMITMENTS TO ITS STAKEHOLDERS making Responsible Business the way we do business since 2009 and became the first hotel c­ ompany to sign Our most significant impacts are important, both and by continuously evaluating where we stand and the UN CEO Water Mandate. Our Responsible Business for our long-term success as a company, and for our how we can do better. policies, strategy and activities are in line with the ten stakeholders as they affect the decisions that stakeRezidor has identified eight Responsible Business principles of the Global Compact. They also incorporate holders make in relation to Rezidor. We recognise that stakeholder groups. We maintain clear commitments the elements of Water Stewardship. we have an impact on a wide range of stakeholders, to each group. Striving to be a successful and sustainable business both directly and indirectly. The basis for identifying and selecting our key requires a dedicated appreciation of the environment in Rezidor believes that we have a clear responsibility Responsible Business stakeholders relates primarily to which we operate. This section describes how we have to take serious action on the various material topics the extent we influence or impact them: economically; defined the most material topics for our organisation in which face our company and to continue on the sussocially or environmentally. accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 tainable tourism route. At Rezidor, we achieve this by process. Click here to read our Responsible Business Policy Stakeholder Responsible Business Policy Employees We educate and facilitate our employees to make a conscious decision in favour of environmental, ethical, and social issues in their work and private lives. Customers We inform and make it easy for our guests to participate in Responsible Business ­ ctivities at our hotels. a Property Owners We work together with property owners to find innovative solutions that satisfy our ­ conomic, environmental, and social objectives. e Shareholders We provide shareholders and investors with timely, accurate, and transparent information on Responsible Business performance, related risks, and opportunities. Suppliers We strive to purchase products that have a reduced environmental impact during their lifecycle, from suppliers who demonstrate environmental and social responsibility. Authorities We require our managers to abide by local and international legislation, especially regarding labour laws, health and safety, human rights, and the environment. Community We take an active role in the international responsible business community and c­ ontribute to the local communities where we operate. Environment We do our utmost to continuously improve our performance in the areas of energy and water use, chemical and resource consumption, and waste generation. Our goal is to reduce our impact on the environment and minimise our carbon footprint. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 6 MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDERS MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT which was used to discuss two issues that stake­ • Our company’s 4D vision and long-term strategy, For its materiality assessment, Rezidor based itself on holders viewed as particular challenges for the in particular our Responsible Business Strategy the following internal and external sources: ­i­­ndustry: water consumption and labour standards and targets. In 2016, we will finalise a worldwide /human rights. 2020 Carlson Rezidor Responsible Business • The International Tourism Partnership (ITP) Industry • A company-specific online evaluation with internal Strategy. Stakeholder Dialogue. ITP is a global platform which brings together the leading hotel chains, including and external stakeholders such as General • External contextual information and research such Rezidor. In 2014, ITP promoted the analysis and mapManagers, hotel owners, and corporate clients. as the World Economic Forum yearly risk assessping of relevant ethical, social, and environmental The survey ­evaluated Responsible Business issues ment report. issues through a stakeholder questionnaire and that matter today and in the future and had 280 in-depth interviews. From this, a materiality matrix respondents. was developed which hotel chains used as the •C  ontinuous interactions with various stakeholder basis to identify their company’s materiality. The groups through our daily operations and dedicated ­process culminated in a stakeholder dialogue event exchanges, for example our annual employee survey (see page 25). Materiality assessment Internal sources Internal sources • Rezidor 4D Strategy • Industry stakeholder survey (ITP) • Responsible Business Strategy • Industry stakeholder dialogue (ITP) • Employee opinion survey • WEF reports • Stakeholder survey • UNWTO reports • Hotel owner meetings Material aspects for Rezidor • Carbon • Safety and Security • Business Ethics • Energy • Human Rights • Community • Water stewardship • Employment Development • Responsible and Employability •R  esponse to Supply Chain • Responsible Natural Disasters Supply Chain Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Copenhagen REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 7 ORGANISATION AND GOVERNANCE Rezidor’s Responsible Business Policy is embedded at all levels of the organisation. We combine both a top-down and bottom-up approach to ensure maximum engagement in operations and the greatest impact for the Group as a whole. Head Board of Directors The Board of Directors is periodically Office informed about the Responsible Business progress, as needed. CEO and E­ xecutive Responsible Business reports to the Committee Chief Operating Officer of Rezidor. The Executive Committee is frequently updated on strategies, plans and progress. Responsible ­Business Sets the Responsible Business strat­Department egy and follow-up, and ensures cross-departmental cooperation. The team works very closely with the Area Support Office teams. Regions Regional Responsible There are a total of 21 Regional Business ­Coordinators Responsible Business Coordinators who set regional targets in line with Group strategy. They also follow-up on progress made by hotels. Hotels Responsible Each hotel has a Responsible BusiBusiness ­Coordinators ness Coordinator and Responsible Business team. The Responsible Business Coordinator and the team jointly define the Responsible Business action plans in line with both regional and Group priorities. All employees are trained on Respon­ sible Business. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 8 ORGANISATION AND GOVERNANCE MEMBERSHIPS UN Global Compact signatory since 2009. The prinWorld Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC). An inter­ RECOGNITION ciples and requirements of the Global Compact inform our Responsible Business targets and actions. The national organisation of travel industry executives which promotes global travel and tourism. Rezidor is AND AWARDS Compact is the world’s largest voluntary corporate represented together with other Carlson companies. • 2015 Guardian Sustainable Business Award responsibility initiative, with over 10,000 business and for Diversity and Inclusion with the Park Inn by other stakeholders from 140 countries. Since 2000, the International Tourism Partnership (ITP). ITP brings Radisson Newlands, Cape Town, employing 30% deaf staff. Global Compact has been a strategic policy initiative together the world’s leading international hotel comfor businesses which are committed to aligning their panies to provide a voice for environmental and •T  op honours at the Worldwide Hospitality Awards operations and strategies with its ten principles which with Meetings Minus Carbon by Club Carlson. social responsibility in the industry. In June 2015, cover the areas of human rights, labour, the environWolfgang M. Neumann, President & CEO of Rezidor, • As one the active members of the Overseas Secument, and anti-corruption. became chairman of ITP. Together with Carlson, we rity Advisory Council (OSAC), Carlson Rezidor received the Constituent Council Achievement continue to play a leading role in the hospitality Award from the International Security Foundation. UN CEO Water Mandate. The UN’s CEO Water industry’s forum on Responsible Business, in particu•O  ne of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for Mandate seeks to mobilise a critical mass of business lar on the Youth Career Initiative, the Hotel Carbon the sixth year in a row by the Ethisphere Institute. leaders to advance corporate water stewardship, in Measurement Initiative, the Hotel Water Measurement The designation recognises companies that not partnership with the United Nations, civil society Initiative, and ITP’s Human Trafficking work. only promote ethical business standards and organisations, governments, and other stakeholders. practices internally, they exceed legal compliance The Rezidor Hotel Group announced its involvement Signatory to the Code of Conduct for the minimums and shape future industry standards by introducing best practices today. Rezidor is with the UN CEO Water Mandate in 2014 and was the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation in one of 131 leaders from various industries with the first hospitality company to do so. Through the UN Travel and Tourism. The Code started as a project ranking. CEO Water Mandate organisations engage to work on of ECPAT (End Child Prostitution, Child Pornography • Best Employer in Hospitality (UK) in 2014 and 2015. six areas of water stewardship: direct operations, supand Trafficking of Children for Sexual Purposes) and •2  015 Excellence Award for the most outstanding ply chain, collective action, public policy, community is ­supported by the UN World Trade Organisation PR and Communications strategy in Africa, for engagement, and transparency. (WTO) and UNICEF. Carlson was the first major North Sierra Leonne – Ebola Outbreak. American hospitality company to sign the Code in • EcoVadis Silver supplier ranking for sustainable UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. In 2014 2004. Together with Carlson, we adhere to the practices. EcoVadis aims to improve the environRezidor signed the UN Women’s Empowerment Code’s principles in all of our hotels. mental and social practices of companies by Principles, a set of principles for business offering ­leveraging the influence of global supply chains. ­guidance on how to empower women in the workOSAC. Rezidor is one of the founding members of Each company is assessed through a questionnaire which is customised to the size of the complace, marketplace, and community. They are the US State Department’s Overseas Security Advisory pany, its industry sector and countries of operaresult of a collaboration between the United Nations Council (OSAC) Hotel Security Working Group and tion. The questionnaire covers five areas: Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of continues to be one of its leading members. business practices, the environment, social Women (UN Women) and the United Global Compact. ­p­­olicies, ethics and supply chains. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 9 TOGETHER FOR A GREENER FUTURE 77 % OF HOTELS 22 % ENERGY SAVED 32,000 TONNES OF CO2 OFFSET WATER STEWARDSHIP ECO-LABELLED AND TREES PLANTED REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 10 THINK PLANET ENERGY As a pioneer of sustainability, Rezidor implemented Think Planet was launched in 2012 as a campaign to 3. Responsible renovation and construction. We want the hotel industry’s first environmental policy in 1989. reduce energy consumption by 25% (compared to 2011) to create buildings with the lowest possible carbon We followed with the first comprehensive Responsible before the end of 2016. In order to guide our actions footprint. At Rezidor, this is done based on the Think Business programme in 2001. Since then we have and initiatives, we developed five pillars for the energy Planet principles in our standards and in close coopgradually developed various environmental actions saving part of Think Planet: eration with property owners, builders, and archiand launched Think Planet in 2012. Think Planet covers tects. the environmental actions of the business including 1. T  hink Planet investments. We believe that investenergy efficiency, carbon offset, water conservation, ments are the first step in saving energy. As well as 4. Think Planet tools. Easy to implement energy saving waste management, and sustainable procurement. investing in proven energy saving measures such as tools which provide a quick return on investment – Our goal is to minimise Rezidor’s environmental footLED lighting, we are also testing innovative technolofor example, motion and daylight sensors. print without compromising guest comfort. gies: for example, wireless guestroom controls. 5. T hink Planet habits. The involvement of all employENERGY EFFICIENCY 2. L ED lighting retrofit. LED lights use 95% less energy ees is essential to realise our Think Planet targets. Due to the nature of the hotel business, hotels conthan conventional bulbs and have a lifespan that is We use continous and creative communication to sume a lot of energy in air conditioning, food service, 25% longer. This makes it an ideal technology to ensure that employees develop good energy use the living environment, and recreational facilities to reduce energy consumption. We introduced a habits such as switching off appliances and lights provide our guests with the best service. However, Group-wide initiative to retrofit LED lights in all of when not in use. we never stop trying to reduce our use of energy. our hotels and to obtain technical advice from our key lighting suppliers. 2015 RESULTS kWh/m2* kWh/OR* During 2015, Rezidor’s energy intensity reduced 291 97 further to 254 kWh/m² and 85 kWh/occupied 286 94 room. These gains have been achieved by opti279 mising the lighting, heating and cooling systems, 90 266 89 focusing on energy efficiency in daily operations, and investing in new technologies. In weather 254 85 adjusted terms, this corresponds to a 22% saving in kWh per square meter and a 21% saving in kWh/ OR. The total energy consumption of the group 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 amounts to 1,176,521 MWh. * Restated data. Data restated based on improved quality of hotel data. RevPAR RevPAR REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 11 THINK PLANET ENGAGING STAFF IN THINK PLANET HABITS WITH LUMI Lumi the Firefly is the energetic Think Planet mascot who lights the vital energy-saving spark in our staff. A firefly is the ideal mascot for Think Planet: these little insects generate light 100% efficiently. To develop the energy savings habits of our staff, the Think Planet employee engagement programme includes: • The 2012 Lumi quiz – by answering five energy related questions correctly, employees had a chance to win an iPad each month. • Lumi tips – every week Lumi gives the employees a tip on how to save energy or water, or reduce waste. • Think Planet Solutions Game: an online game to help General Managers and hotel teams to identify the ­correct Think Planet solutions. • The Lumi Talks video competition where hotels send in their short videos showing how they are saving KENYA’S energy in their hotel. FIRST LIGHTING About half of the energy consumed by a hotel is used for lighting. During 2015, Rezidor hotels invested over €2m in LED lights. This is in addition to the €2.5m One of our most recent successes is the invested in LEDs in 2014. By the end of 2015, environ­Radisson Blu Hotel Nairobi Upper Hill which was awarded the Green Key eco-label in mentally friendly LED and compact fluorescent lights January 2016. As the first Green Key hotel in (CFL) accounted for 78% of all lights in our hotels. Kenya, it fully demonstrates the Think Planet commitment of Rezidor. The hotel integrates RESPONSIBLE RENOVATION AND CONSTRUCTION environmental technologies in the building Rezidor applies Think Planet principles to all new-build including systems which enable us to reuse grey water for irrigation, a reverse osmosis hotels and major renovations. The principles cover all plant for water production, energy efficient relevant issues relating to the construction site and lights for interior and facade lighting, and the building. Our guidelines require the use or developsolar panels for hot water production. ment of: • Sustainable and renewable energy sources and measures to improve the thermal insulation of facades to minimise heat loss and gain Radisson Blu Hotel, Nairobi Upper Hill • Heat and rainwater recovery systems • Building management systems • Effective waste and recycling systems • 100% LED lighting for outside signage. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 12 THINK PLANET WATER STEWARDSHIP To address the challenge of managing global water 4. Public policy resources and providing everyone with access to 5. Community engagement clean drinking water, the United Nations established 6. Transparency. the CEO Water Mandate in 2007. This unique public-­ private initiative is designed to assist companies in the INITIATIVES 75 development, implementation, and disclosure of water As part of our Think Planet programme, the Think sustainability policies and practices. As a member of Planet water initiative has been specifically designed UN Global Compact since 2009, Rezidor signed the to help our hotels to further reduce their water conCEO Water Mandate in 2014, becoming the first hospisumption. tality company to do so. The action plan and toolkit we have developed includes: % OF HOTEL ROOMS Since Rezidor signed the mandate, we have centred • Tools and solutions for guest rooms, kitchens, pools, ARE EQUIPPED WITH WATER our actions on the following six water stewardship landscaping, and technical plants. We install water-­ EFFICIENT AND/OR DUAL commitments: saving technologies in areas where water consumpFLUSH TOILETS 1. Direct operations tion is high, and engage our guests through initiatives 2. Supply chain such as our towel re-use programme which directly 3. Collective action benefits children living in water-stressed areas. 88 2015 WATER CONSUMPTION IN DIRECT O ­ PERATIONS Around 36% of Rezidor’s water consumption Litres/GN occurs in water-stressed areas (exclusively in the 362 Middle East and Sub-Saharan Africa). Because 343 of this, we pay close attention to reducing the 340 use of water in our operations. Between 2007 335 333 % OF HOTEL ROOMS and 2015, Rezidor reduced water consumption ARE EQUIPPED WITH LOWby 29% (in litres/guest-night). By the end of 2015, our hotels’ average water consumption amounted FLOW TAPS AND WATER to 333 litres/guest night. ­OPTIMISED SHOWERS 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 RevPAR REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 13 THINK PLANET • Three movies, featuring our mascot Lumi, are used to also extended. At the Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Click here to train housekeeping, laundry, and kitchen staff. We Deira Creek, Diversey CLAX has helped to reduce see the film designed the Lumi performance board in order to the laundry’s impact: help our staff understand the standard and track their – Water consumption by 27% performance with accuracy and credibility. – Energy consumption by 25% – Chemical use by 36%. SUPPLY CHAIN It is estimated that 86% of the total direct and indirect COLLECTIVE ACTION water footprint of hotels originates in Food & Drink, As part of our engagement on water stewardship, mostly through embedded water needed to grow the Rezidor organised a second water-workshop in coopproducts served (ref. Accor PWC 2011 Environmental eration with Grohe, Europe’s largest manufacturer of The Blu Planet towel reuse proFootprint Analysis). Only 14% of the total water footprint sanitary fittings. The following topics were covered gramme is good for the planet across the value chain of a hotel is consumed directly during the workshop: and for local communities. in operations. • Designing for water sustainability in new builds Laundry (either in-house or through suppliers) • Retrofitting to optimise existing properties Click here to accounts for up to 20% of a hotel’s direct water con• Changing the behaviour and expectations of hotel see the film sumption. Rezidor is working with various suppliers to guests. minimise the overall water footprint in these areas of our operations. As a direct outcome of the Industry Stakeholder Dialogue, the International Tourism Partnership (ITP) •O  ur main tea supplier is Ronnefeldt, a family b ­ usiness has developed an initiative to measure the water footwhich has existed for nearly 200 years. Ronnefeldt print of hotels called the Hotel Water Measurement sources all of its tea from traditional growers who Initiative (HCMI). It builds on an earlier ITP initiative to do not use additional irrigation. Half of the tea they measure the carbon footprint of the hotel industry. Our second water-workshop ­supply is grown organically and Ronnefeldt aims to The new tool will be launched in August 2016 d ­ uring demonstrates true cooperation make this 100% within five years. the Stockholm World Water Week. Rezidor, together and leadership in this core topic • Use of Diversey CLAX laundry products dramatically with other leading hotel companies, is an active memin the hospitality industry. ber of the HCMI working group. reduces the environmental impact of our in-house laundry operations. The lifetime of linen products is REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 14 THINK PLANET WATER SAVING AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT In our Radisson Blu hotels we have turned the towel reuse programme into a force for good – saving lives through a donation to water projects. For every 250 towels that guests choose to reuse, we make a donation to the international water charity “Just A Drop” to provide a child with safe drinking water for life. Since the launch of the Blu Planet initiative in April 2015, Radisson Blu hotels have brought safe drinking water to 4,700 children. Blu Planet has decreased the hotels’ and our laundry suppliers’ water usage by an estimated 12.2 million litres. REPORTING AND COMPLIANCE Monthly environmental statistics for managed and leased hotels are collected in the Think Planet section of our financial reporting and c­ onsolidation system. All hotels report their full Responsible ­Business performance in the yearly RB Status Report which contains 90 checkpoints on Think Planet, Think People, and Think Together. Rezidor checks the environmental compliance of all hotels. No issues arose in 2015. Community impact of Blu Planet projects in Kenya, in cooperation with Just A Drop REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 15 THINK PLANET WASTE REDUCTION Waste is generated by many activities in our hotels ties. We have also rolled-out food waste reduction including food preparation, consumption of pre-packtraining through our network of area chefs. The training aged items, guest waste, and cleaning. Rezidor proresulted in a reduction of 20% in waste-per-cover in actively seeks ways to reduce the residual waste selected locations. which goes to landfill or incineration. Upcycling ‘lost and found’ items in Antwerp INITIATIVES When all Park Inn staff uniforms were replaced by Reducing food waste trendy new outfits, the Park Inn by Radisson hotel in Roughly one-third of the food produced in the world Antwerp upcycled them into aprons for our restaurant for human consumption annually — approximately 1.3 waiters. Radisson Blu Hotel, Madrid Prado billion tonnes — is lost or wasted. Every year, consumers in rich countries waste almost as much food (222 Engaging guests in waste separation and recycling million tonnes) as the entire net food production of Guests are encouraged to separate and recycle waste Sub-Saharan Africa (230 million tonnes). throughout our hotels. Our Radisson Blu Hotel Madrid As consumers and employees in the hotel industry, led the way with an innovative and visible communicawe are already working to change this. 52% of our tion in guestroom waste bins. hotels are now accurately measuring food waste during preparation, on the plate, or through spoilage. We gather data by volume or weight so that our Food and Drink teams can accurately gauge the required quantiRadisson Blu Hotel, Madrid Prado 31 % RECYCLING RATE 88 % OF OUR HOTELS HAVE 65 % OF HOTELS HAD WASTE FOR ­MANAGED AND A DEDICATED WASTE SORTING FACILITIES ON LEASED HOTELS SORTING AREA HOUSEKEEPING TROLLEYS REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 16 THINK PLANET ECO-LABELS A hotel eco-label guarantees guests that Rezidor hotels operate in a Think Planet way. Rezidor now has 77% of our hotels certified with an eco-label. Our target is to have 100% of our hotels eco-labelled. All of the eco-labels we use are specific to the hotel industry and use third party, onsite audits as part of the certification process. Our biggest partner, Green Key enjoys a global reputation. Since the first Green Key hotel in Denmark in 1994, the certification has been assigned to over 2,300 hotels and other sites in 47 countries. Hotels with the Green Key eco-label comply with around 100 sustainability criteria covering lighting, energy consumption, waste management, and water reduction. To qualify for a Green Key eco-label, a property must: • Have eco-friendly lighting in at least half the property • Reduce energy and water consumption • Treat all waste water • Recycle the maximum amount of waste. In Africa, Green Leaf eco-labels were achieved by 8 hotels. In the UK our hotels are certified by the Radisson Blu Old Mill Hotel, Belgrade, c­ elebrates their Green Key eco-label Green Tourism Business Scheme and in Ireland by the Green Hospitality Award. This year a number of Rezidor hotels have been 150 6 the first to be eco-labelled in their country or market. They include Radisson Blu hotels in Iceland, Russia CORPORATE (Chelyabinsk), Kenya (Nairobi), and first time Green Leaf hotels in Ethiopia (Addis Ababa), Mozambique (Maputo) ­PARTNERSHIP and Senegal (Dakar). WITH TRIPADVISOR GREEN KEY COUNTRIES WITH GREENLEADER CERTIFIED HOTELS SINCE 2009 FIRST ECO-LABELLED HOTEL IN THE MARKET REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 17 THINK PLANET CARBON FOOTPRINT Rezidor’s scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions INITIATIVES Meetings Minus Carbon by Club Carlson for Planners primarily result from energy consumption. Since 2006,  otel Carbon Footprint Measurements H The first and only global loyalty programme which offRezidor has calculated our carbon dioxide and equivaIn 2012, the Hotel Carbon Measurement Initiative sets the estimated carbon footprint of every meeting lent emissions. Rezidor’s group carbon footprint per (HCMI) was launched by the international Travel or event, Meetings Minus Carbon is a unique and free guest-night in 2015 amounts to 22.1 kg of CO2-equiva­ Partnership (ITP) and World Travel & Tourism Council service for meeting planners. The programme is manlents (CO2e), 13% lower than in 2011. This figure is (WTTC), together with all major hospitality companies. aged through Rezidor’s partner Carbon Footprint Ltd impacted by Rezidor’s growth in countries with carbon Rezidor is an active member of the HCMI working who purchases and invests carbon credits in projects intense energy supplies such as the Middle East and group and has rolled-out the methodology to all manin both India and Kenya. the ramp up of number of guestnights in new hotels. aged and leased hotels. HCMI is also the basis for our Effectively each tonne of carbon generated is offset If we consider a like-for-like hotel portfolio, the carbon Meetings Minus Carbon programme. twice: once in a Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) wind intensity has decreased by 2.6% compared to 2014. 20 Wolfgang M. Neumann, Rezidor CEO and President, joining the Meetings Minus Carbon tree planting in the Great Rift Valley in Kenya. % OF ENERGY COMES FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES 25 % OF OUR HOTELS ARE EQUIPPED WITH COMBINED HEAT AND POWER PLANTS REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 18 THINK PLANET energy project in India, and again in a tree-planting In Kenya, funds are used to support the Escarpment ­initiative in Kenya’s Great Rift Valley. Environment Conservation Network (ESCONET). Since Meetings Minus Carbon was launched on ESCONET aims to effectively mobilise the community Earth Day 2013, the programme has offset over 32,000 in the Great Rift Valley and boost its capacity to rehatonnes of carbon in wind energy projects and planted bilitate, conserve, and protect natural ecosystems. 32,000 trees in Kenya. Meetings Minus Carbon by Club Carlson for Planners Click here to is free to meeting planners, good for the planet and see the film the community. In addition to offsetting CO2 emissions, the programme protects water catchment areas, rehaFor further information about Meetbilitates wildlife habitats, and reduces poverty by proing Minus Carbon please view our video. It includes comments from the viding additional income in local communities. local community, cooperating NGOs, and other participants. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 19 THINK PLANET RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN CODE OF CONDUCT Rezidor works closely with all suppliers to set strict environmental and responsible business criteria on the products and services we purchase. All Rezidor suppliRESPONSIBLE PURCHASING ers, at group, area, and hotel level, are required to sign the Supplier Code of Conduct which becomes part of the supplier agreement. What’s more, 51% of hotels also actively ask suppliers to complete Rezidor’s REDUCES KITCHEN FOOTPRINT Responsible Business Supplier Questionnaire. In 2015, we decided to install the VITO fat filter in all hotel kitchens. The VITO fat filter reduces the use of deep frying oil up to 50%, meaning healthier food offerings for our guests and an impressive reduction in frying oil waste. VITO ­f ilters are completely biodegradable as they are made from cellulose. VITO® provides a significant reduction in emissions from the production and transportation of frying oil. The VITO Frying Fat Filtration System has been included in the blueprints for our kitchens to ensuring it becomes part of our operational standard. ECOVADIS ­SILVER AWARD ECOVADIS silver award for sustainable supply chain practices. EcoVadis aims to improve environmental and social practices of companies by leveraging the influence of global supply chains. The Silver recognition placing us among the top 30% Ecovadis performers. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 20 THINK PLANET KEY SUPPLIERS commercial marine fish are either fully exploited or over-­ Spend breakdown (mature markets), As part of Think Planet’s energy, water, and waste fished. To help us source our seafood sustainably, pro% of total spend reduction programmes, Rezidor works with key sustaincurement closely works with key suppliers to ensure able suppliers to provide integrated solutions and prothey do not sell any threatened species on the Marine Corporate suppliers, 5% Regional suppliers, 79% jects for our hotels. Suppliers such as Siemens Building Stewardship Council (MSC) or WWF Red List to our Local suppliers, 16% Technologies, Johnson Controls International, Osram, hotels. Sprinx, Intellihood, Grohe, Grundfoss, and Diversey Sustainable seafood tools are used by 84% of our provide us with the latest sustainable products. At the hotels. We estimate that 59% of all fish and seafood same time they focus on sustainable production methpurchased has been certified sustainable. ods and operations. Overall 13% of our hotels serve fairtrade food and Supplier type*, In Food and Drink operations, where a large part of 11% serve organic food. Purchasing local ingredients % of total number of suppliers our company’s carbon footprint originates, we apply is a key element of Brain Food by Radisson Blu and sustainable seafood purchasing practices. Across Smart Food by Park Inn by Radisson. It’s also essential Mature markets, 73% the globe, supplies of more than 70% of the world’s in the new Radisson Blu Super Breakfast. Emerging markets, 27% * excluding contractors, ­u tilities, one-time suppliers, CAPEX spend. Brain Food for Experience Meetings by Radisson Blu REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 21 PEOPLE OUR CORE CAPITAL 2,050 PEOPLE TRAINED IN OUR 50+ 87.5 DIFFERENT ONLINE AND EMPLOYEE 65 SAFEHOTELS ALLIANCE BUSINESS SCHOOL CLASSROOM COURSES SATISFACTION SCORE ­CERTIFIED HOTELS REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 22 THINK PEOPLE SAFETY AND SECURITY LEARNING FROM CRISES IN MANY MARKETS ers, and local support teams enabled the hotel to COMPLIANCE IS THE NEW C-WORD 2015 was an incredibly challenging year from a safety ­reopen less than one month after the incident. IN OUR TRIC=S FORMULA and security perspective. Terrorism against tourism hit Throughout most of 2015, the Radisson Blu Mammy In 2007, Rezidor developed and introduced a formula headlines with attacks in Egypt, Tunisia, and in mature Yoko Hotel Freetown (Sierra Leone) and Park Inn by known as TRIC=S to localise our approach to safety markets like Paris. Radisson in Donetsk (Ukraine) continued to operate and security. TRIC=S stands for: At Rezidor, we experienced the nightmare of a in challenging environments. It’s a reminder of how senseless attack directly, this time on the Radisson Blu important it is to focus on safety and security so we Threat assessment Hotel Bamako in Mali. Lives were lost, including those can provide quality accommodation to travellers and + Risk evaluation and mitigation of three staff members. It has caused irreversible disemployment for local staff in markets where both can + Incident response preparedness tress to innocent individuals and to the families and be scarce. However, these situations also provide us + Crisis management, communication and continuity friends of those affected by this tragedy. The extraordiwith experiences that we can apply in all of our proper= Safe, secure and sellable hotels. nary efforts of our staff, management, the hotel’s ownties to help make travel safer for everyone. HONOURING HEROES After the terrorist attack on the Radisson These acknowledgements are the highest Blu Hotel in Bamako, the President of Mali, civilian decorations in this African nation. Sym­Ibrahim Boubacar Keïta, honoured the bolically, they also are a tribute to those who Rezidorians who sadly lost their lives during put their heart and passion into this crisis. Our the attack. Each received the National Order commitment to grow and thrive in Africa is of Merit (l’Ordre Nationale du Mérite). Gary stronger than ever and the reopening of the Ellis, General Manager at the Radisson Blu Radisson Blu Hotel in Bamako a month after Hotel, Bamako, was also honoured with the the attack is testimony to our Yes I Can! spirit. title of Officer of the National Order of Merit (Officier de l’Ordre Nationale du Mérite). Mr. Keïta, president of Mali, honouring Gary Ellis. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 23 THINK PEOPLE The development of TRIC=S started in 1997 when we Alliance AB. Safehotels certifies safety and security announced that the role of corporate safety and secuagainst their own, independent ‘Global Hotel Security rity was shifting from a reactive and centralised comStandard’. Our target was to certify 40 hotels in 2015, mand-and-control model to a more proactive, decenbut by the end of the year, 65 hotels had been certitralised and dynamic role. The change enabled safety fied. The certification of Rezidor hotels will continue, and security to play a vital part in supporting our growwith many more expected to be certified by the end ing number of hotels in many different locations. of 2016. Our TRIC=S formula has been widely recognised as The Safehotels ‘Global Hotel Security Standard’ good practice for corporate safety and security mangives guests, buyers, and travel managers reassurance agement. During 2015, this went further when ASIS that certified hotels have been audited against an International utilised Rezidor’s programme as a case independent standard. Certification also ensures that study at the world’s largest annual security seminar in any security gaps have been closed. Anaheim, California. Over the coming year, Safehotels will also evaluate In January 2015, Rezidor took another innovative Carlson Rezidor’s existing self-assessment hotel secustep when we became the first major international rity programme. This programme is available to all hotel group to sign an agreement with the Safehotels hotels in the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group. COLLABORATION TO HELP MAKE EVERYONE SAFER Carlson Rezidor is a founding member of the US State Department’s Overseas Security Advisory Council (OSAC) Hotel Security Working Group (HSWG). Since OSAC 2007, we have worked together with our counterparts to share information and good practices. This benefits AWARD both the hotel industry and everyone who depends on us to provide safe and secure shelter around the world. In November 2015, OSAC Since 2009, we have held annual joint training presented the Constituent ­workshops, facilitated by experts from the State Council Achievement Department, local governments and HSWG members. Award to members of the Hotel Security Working Over the years, these training sessions have provided Group. They include Paul high-level development workshops for over 500 hotel ­Moxness, Carlson Rezidor’s security managers. Sessions have already been held Vice President for Safety in Shanghai (China), Mumbai and New Delhi (India), and Security. Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam, the first Amman (Jourdan), Doha (Qatar), Bangkok (Thailand), ­Safe­hotels Alliance certified hotel Istanbul (Turkey), and Dubai (UAE). REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 24 THINK PEOPLE CARING FOR EMPLOYEES OUR PROMISE – EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION independent party. In 2015, the results showed that To recognise our commitment to diversity, individuality Rezidor aims to be the employer of choice for our employee satisfaction score remained high at 87.5. and passion, Rezidor has developed ‘Our Promise’ – ­people. We care for our employees, involve them in Rezidor’s employee loyalty score is 6 points above a vibrant and vital Employee Value Proposition (EVP). our planning and decision making processes, and ask the average score of other industries. The 2015 survey Our Promise summarises Rezidor’s offer to our people for their feedback. included 26,100 participants from 279 business units. and aims to promote employee engagement with the Our annual Climate Analysis is a group-wide This is an outstanding result within the global hospitalcompany. It strengthens the human nature of the true employee opinion survey conducted by an external ity and service industries. Rezidorian spirit, our attitude, and our work ethics. Our Promise also recognises that personal and long-lasting relationships are at the core of our business and crucial to our success. Our Promise features six strong pillars: 1. We are powered by passion #OURPROMISE MOMENTS 2. We genuinely care Throughout the year, colleagues shared how 3. We innovate to shape our future they live and feel the EVP with #ourpromise. 4. We act responsibly 5. We stand together 6. We grow talent, talent grows us. Our Promise was developed by our people for our people in an exciting process which involved a multi-­ national and multi-cultural taskforce with members from all levels and regions of the company. A Great Way to Work and Live Yes I Can! Is the core service philosophy of the Rezidor Hotel Group. But it is so much more than just a slogan. Yes I Can! is a way of life for our staff and ensures their professional – and personal – development. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 25 THINK PEOPLE GENERAL MANAGER OF THE YEAR Maria Tullberg, General Manager of the Radisson Blu Hotel of the Year and Women in Leadership champion “The pleasure of being part of team members’ growth and development is what keeps me motivated in all ­situations. To achieve individual goals is great but to achieve goals as a team is truly amazing.” “The award meant so much to me personally but it really is the people around me, now and in the past, who led to the hotel’s recognition. I am naturally extremely competitive, with a strong drive for perfection and attention to detail, but I also believe in creating a warm and friendly atmosphere where the team are empowered to achieve their full potential.” Sally Hughes, General Manager of the Park Inn by Radisson Hotel of the Year REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 26 THINK PEOPLE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION GUIDING PRINCIPLES To involve more women in leadership Rezidor wants to: At Rezidor, we celebrate the diversity of our people • Challenge existing thinking and increase the repand respect that each and every one of us is unique. resentation of women in senior positions across the Click here to We believe in creating a working environment where entire company read our Codes and Policies the things that make us different are always valued. • Breakdown the barriers that prevent women across These principles are communicated very clearly in our Rezidor from having open conversations about their Code of Business Ethics, our Human Rights policy and careers and encourage them to consider flexible our Employment Principles. approaches towards their working conditions Rezidor recognises that our uniqueness comes from • Harness the individual strengths both visible differences such as age and gender, and of our female ­leaders and actively encourage their less visible differences such as beliefs and sexuality. collective p ­ articipation at every level of We know that if we encourage everyone in the comour business pany to feel involved and respected, the richness of • Develop and retain our female leaders through their ideas and perspectives will create long-term ­sustainable and lasting changes which focus on value. ­long-term career planning for all. Park Inn by Radisson Newlands, Cape Town wins The Guardian WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP In return, we ask those women working in senior posiSustainable Business Award for Diversity and Inclusion. In 2014 Rezidor launched its Women in Leadership inititions to lead by example and become positive role ative. Supported by our CEO and top management, the models for the future. They are uniquely positioned to Initiative is driven by various actions both within and outside the company. help us develop a culture where our principles and processes ensure more employees choose Rezidor DIVERSITY more often. IN ACTION Rezidor believes people with disabilities should enjoy equal opportunities. Through a partnership with the Deaf Federation of South Africa (DEAFSA), the Park Inn by Radisson G(IRLS) 20 SUMMIT ISTANBUL Cape Town Newlands is showcasing its dedication to community involvement and responsibility. A third of the hotel’s employees are The G(irls)20 summit focuses on preparing current and focussed on the participation of women in the labour deaf staff who work in both back and front of future generations of girls and women for equal and susforce. The organisation aims to hold G20 leaders to a house roles. tainable job opportunities and breaking down the barriers key commitment they made to expand the role of women The positive example of the Park Inn Hotel to employment – whether they are cultural, social, or politiin the labour force. Olivier Harnisch, EVP & Chief Operathas now been copied in our newly opened cal. The G(irls)20 initiative to develop women resonates ing Officer for Rezidor, represented the private sector Radisson Blu Vendôme Hotel, which also loudly with Rezidor as a hotel group as it aligns closely with on a panel discussing best practices to support this goal. employs 8 deaf team members. our own Women in Leadership programme. Coinciding The young and talented delegates to the G(irls) 20 Summit In total, Rezidor hotels employ more than with the G20 summit in Istanbul, the 2015 G(irls)20 event were hosted at the Radisson Blu Sisli Hotel in Istanbul. 200 individuals with disabilities. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 27 THINK PEOPLE HUMAN RIGHTS POLICIES Purposes) and signed the ECPAT Code of Conduct on cial Child Protection module. This module is part of Within the international hospitality industry, Rezidor is behalf of its companies. Carlson and Carlson Rezidor our mandatory classroom-based Living Responsible recognised for its unique business approach inspired continue to provide support to ECPAT. Business training. The module includes various caseby our Yes I Can! service philosophy. In 2009, Rezidor One of our core actions in support of the ECPAT based ­scenarios and encourages discussion amongst signed the United Nations Global Compact which Code is to ensure all employees are trained in a spe­participants. requires companies to embrace, support and enact a set of ten core principles relating to human rights, labour principles, the environment, and anti-corruption. Key human rights and employment principles are reflected in two policies, which complement our Code CARING ABOUT When appointing two young trainees in the Radisson Blu Hotel Karlsruhe last year, little did General Manager DIVERSE YOUNG of Business Ethics and clarify the principles we live and Hagen Müller know that this fact and, most of all, his work by in our hotels. They include: engagement and actions to keep them employed in TALENT the hotel, would lead to a full page article in Germany’s most respected news magazine Der Spiegel. •H  uman Rights Policy. Covers Rezidor’s engagement The first trainee from Indonesia, Wingfeb Banjarnahor, on issues such as ethical business conduct, pro­ came to Germany to study engineering. When that did tection of the rights of children, combating human not succeed, he took a student job at the Radisson Blu ­trafficking, and the protection of the rights of Hotel Karlsruhe where he’s showing real talent as part of ­employees. the kitchen team. Because of this change in professional goals linked to his visa, Wingfeb was ordered to return to Indonesia. The General Manager, who did not want to • Employment Principles. This document covers let such a talented young man go, personally mobilized Rezidor’s promises to its employees such as non a myriad of contacts to finally successfully obtain that ­discrimination, freedom of association and developWingfeb could stay in Germany, to respond to the general ment of talent from within. resource shortage in restaurant staff. A similar story is that of Artjon Coco, trainee from Albania in the same hotel. With the support of Hagen, Both policies are publicly available, communicated on he also returned to Albania with contract in his possesinternal channels, and made available to all hotels and sion, the basis to get him a working visa. Today Coco is employees. happily back in the Radisson Blu where he uses his excellent command of Italian and other languages in interactions with the guests. CHILD PROTECTION AND ANTI-TRAFFICKING Thanks to the caring spirit and perseverance of Hagen, Protecting victims of human trafficking is important to both young men now have positive perspectives for Rezidor as a leading international hotel and travel their future careers in the hospitality industry. ­management company. Under the leadership of Carlson Group we take a public stand and work to ­prevent human trafficking and the exploitation of Hagen Müller, General Manager of the Radisson Blu Hotel Click here to Karlsruhe, with trainees Wingfeb Banjarnahor, and Artjon Coco. read the full article women and children. Photo: Fiona Ehlers, Der Spiegel (in German) In 2004, Carlson joined ECPAT (End Child Prostitution, Pornography and Trafficking of Children for Sexual REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 28 THINK PEOPLE EMPLOYMENT AND EMPLOYABILITY Employees by age In 2015 our employees came from 150 nationalities. 57.4% After successfully implementing YCI in a number of of our employees are men; 42.6% are women. Of the our hotels, Rezidor became the organisation’s lead Below 20, 5% Between 21–30, 38.6% total workforce, 14% is outsourced labour, mainly in house­ partner in 2013. We are currently running successful Between 31–40, 30% keeping and ban­queting departments. 36% of employYCI programmes in five countries (Ethiopia, Jordan, Between 41–50, 16.1% ees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Poland, Romania, and Senegal). During 2016 we aim to Between 51–60, 8.1% add another five locations: Egypt, Hungary, Lebanon, Between 61–65, 1.7% Above 65, 0.5% INCREASING EMPLOYABILITY FOR UNDERPRIVITurkey, and Zambia. LEGED YOUTH WITH YOUTH CAREER INITIATIVE Youth Career Initiative (YCI) is an employability ­initiative EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES AND SOCIAL DIALOGUE Employees by gender from the hotel industry for the hotel industry. Rezidor summarises its Employment Principles in a YCI conducts a six-month education programme public document available from www.rezidor.com. In Female which empowers disadvantaged young people and line with the European Union Directive on Works Men trains them for their future professional and social life. Councils (94/45/EC), Rezidor has established a In 2015 we employed It helps students between 18 and 21 who have dropped European Works Council, which has been entered into 150 nationalities. 57.4% of our employees are out of school, lack the financial means to complete by representatives of our central management and men; 42.6% are women. their education, or are at risk of exploitation. employees. Annual meetings are held, where issues Success rates are impressive: 85% of the programme’s such as the Group’s finances, performance, future vengraduates get a job at Rezidor or another company, or tures, and other important issues are discussed with continue their education. employee representatives. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 29 THINK PEOPLE PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT As a service provider, people are our core capital. The training programmes of the Business School @ The first pillar of our 4D Strategy is Develop Talent. Carlson Rezidor are constantly aligned with the vision, Rezidor believes in developing talent from within. brand values, and goals of the company. The Business We offer a range of tools to help each employee School helps the company to positively influence reveto realise their full potential. These include: nue, quality, and value. It offers a thought-provoking, • Rezidor’s five-step development plan stimulating, and enjoyable time for all who take part. • Business School @ Carlson Rezidor International Business Schools take place six times • Our online platform ‘Learning Link’. a year. We also organise regional Business Schools or local courses as the need arises. The Schools are held More than 50 different courses are offered via these in different cities, so that participants also get to experiplatforms. ence staying at our different hotels. On average we train 1,500 employees through our internal learning MENTOR-MENTEE PROGRAMME The Mentor Mentee Programme is designed to identify platform. The programmes are scheduled over a one to two week period and are facilitated either by our “Be proactive, say yes, and develop high potential talents to become General own internal trainers or by external consultants who accept challenges, never Managers of the Rezidor Hotel Group. This supports are specialists in their subject. the company’s culture of promotion from within to meet give up and keep your the succession planning needs of our growing business. Since the launch of the programme in 2000, we LIVING AND LEADING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Since 2008, Rezidor’s successful Living Responsible passion!” Steffan Sander have promoted more than 60 General Managers from Business and Leading Responsible Business classwithin. room-based courses have been part of the New Hire General Managers who are selected to be Mentors have extensive experience in their role, strong leaderOrientation and mandatory for all staff. The strengths of the training are its interactivity and intense question YOUNG LEADER ship qualities, and have the motivation and ability to and answer sessions. OF THE YEAR develop others. The Living Responsible Business course illustrates how each employee can live Responsible Business in Rezidor’s growth and development ensures that we are always searching for the leaders of tomorrow. BUSINESS SCHOOL @ CARLSON REZIDOR their everyday job and at home. In addition we focus on Through our Young Leader of the Year Award we The Business School @ Carlson Rezidor is the face-toour policies such as our Human Rights Policy and Code have identified many high potential personnel, face learning platform for employees within Rezidor. of Business Ethics and include a special module on rewarded their success, and supported their develThe Business School will celebrate its 20th anniversary Child Protection. opment to become our leaders of the future. during 2016. It was originally created because of a Leading Responsible Business focuses on how manSteffen Sander, who is currently the Front Office Manager at the Radisson Blu Arlandia Hotel, Stockneed to structure training and development, ensure agement teams can drive Responsible Business action holm, was named our Young Leader of the Year 2015 consistency, streamline costs, and in order to foster our plans in their hotels. thanks to his great ambition and Yes I Can! spirit. company culture. By bringing together individuals from Both courses are updated annually with the latest different hotels, the opportunities for ‘talent spotting’ examples and data. They are mandatory for all staff and internal networking increase. and hotels organise a yearly refresher training. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 30 THINK PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT PROFILES – Heads of Departments and Managers who attend MANAGE, LEAD, SUCCEED! our six Area Talent Review Meetings held around The personal development of our Head of Department the world. community is key for Rezidor. In order to help them The course is designed to help them advance in develop their managerial and leadership skills we have their career and to make them more aware of their added the Manage, Lead, Succeed! (MLS!) programme own talents, passions, and capabilities. The following to the Business School’s curriculum. subjects are covered: During two very intense days MLS! focuses on the • Authenticity ability of our Heads of Department to meet the chal• Balanced leadership lenge of managing and leading their team of diverse • Communicating with impact personalities successfully to achieve results. • Career Management Manage, Lead, Succeed! is a ‘blended training’. In • Total life balance. addition to the two days of classroom time, MLS! offers a stimulating variety of preand post-course learning Many of today’s greatest leaders believe in setting an options which make it a true learning journey. example when it comes to development. We believe this is true and have developed a dedicated, tailor-­ DEVELOPMENT OF HIGH-POTENTIAL made, and interactive Develop YOUR Talent Work­ Rezidor highlighted Women in Leadership at a talent day with FEMALE EMPLOYEES shop to support senior female talent in Rezidor. The SEG, a network of leading Swiss hospitality institutions. To support of our Women in Leadership initiative, Rezidor Workshop allows the participants to: launched two new courses in 2015 aimed at developing • Refresh their core skills, and discover how female talent in the company. The STEPS Programme is people learn FUTURE TALENT CEO Wolfgang M. Neumann presented aimed at women at the Head of Department/Manager • Review their current role, identify potential future Rezidor’s commitment to talent, developlevel, while Develop YOUR Talent is a workshop for roles, and to identify competency gaps ment, and Women in Leadership to an enthusenior female talent in the organisation. • Practice prioritising development areas and siastic crowd of students during the SEG STEPS will develop and empower high-potential writing tailored, personalised development plans ­talent day. Wolfgang explained that Rezidor truly embraces diversity and inclusion, and female employees. Participants were selected from • Share experiences and ideas. that talent always come first, independent of gender, visible differences, beliefs, or Participants of the first STEPS training group ­sexuality. Supported by young female talent from our Human Resources department, Wolfgang delivered a direct and clear message to future hoteliers: “We want to challenge existing thinking and increase the representation of women in senior positions across the entire company. We can do this together, men and women. Young generations of men and women can genuinely make a difference. If not us, who? If not now, when?” REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 31 PROUDLY CONTRIBUTING TO LOCAL COMMUNITIES 780 €1.3 5,000+ ONE OF THE WORLD’S MOST ETHICAL ACTIVITIES MILLION DONATED VOLUNTEERING DAYS COMPANIES REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 32 THINK TOGETHER COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Donations during 2015 a home. These parallel aspirations mean that Rezidor’s for sexual purposes, and institutionalised children. € support to Childhood fits well with who we are as a The charity has a particular focus on helping girls 1,600,000 company and as a corporate citizen. and young mothers. 42,316 Blu Planet donations World Childhood Foundation is a non-profit organiCooperation with this worldwide organisation, 1,200,000 460,000 In kind Box Appeal sation dedicated to serving the most vulnerable chilfounded by HRH Queen Silvia of Sweden, dates 800,000 23,000 boxes dren in the world. This includes street children, sexually back to 2007 and engages our hotels each year 400,000 827,071 Rezidor cash abused and exploited children, children trafficked in fund­raising for Childhood. donations EUR 0 Total Totaldonations donations €1,329,387 1,329,387 EUR As a service industry which utilises local natural and social resources, Rezidor aims to make the relationship between our business and the communitiesRevPAR where we operate as beneficial as possible to both. We achieve this by maximising the positive impact of our business on local people and the environment. There are important social needs in many communities we operate in. Rezidor hotels contribute by giving volunteer assistance and funding. In 2015, Rezidor gave over €1.3m in During Responsible Business Action Month cash and in-kind donations to the World Childhood 2015, Rezidor hotels provided support for The Way Home, Ukraine two World Childhood Foundation projects: Foundation (Childhood) and local charities. Sixtyonethree, Cape Town, South Africa Centre for Early Development, COMMUNITY IMPACT – CHILDREN AND YOUTH Sixtyonethree supports children who are victims The Way Home, Odessa, Ukraine Rezidor focuses our community engagement on proof sexual abuse. Often these children have lost The Centre for Early Development focuses on developing jects which benefit children, youth, and women. We trust in adults and find it difficult to speak about the abilities of very young children. It also looks for soluprovide both funding and volunteer assistance. their experiences. tions to the underlying social circumstances behind the The charity was founded in 2010 to provide large number of street children living in Odessa. The proper therapeutic care to children who are victims Centre provides children from at-risk families with free SUPPORT FOR WORLD CHILDHOOD FOUNDATION of abuse. It also helps other vulnerable children in educational and recreational activities. At the same time, Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group supports World Child­ Cape Town. both children and parents receive support to overcome hood Foundation (Childhood) as our worldwide cor­ Various therapeutic techniques are utilised in various obstacles and risks they face. The project porate charity. Rezidor’s mission is to provide our a playful way to establish trust between the child enables The Way Home to expand its efforts to eliminate and therapist. They include animal assisted therapy, neglect and abuse against children, both key reasons ­millions of guests with a comfortable and restful stay ­psychodrama, as well as art and music therapy. why children run away from home and end up living on away from home. Childhood aims to help children the streets. who are abused or exploited and ensure that they are given a safe and secure childhood, or simply, REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 33 THINK TOGETHER RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ACTION MONTH represents a donation in kind of approximately to Lives. Designed to help youth at risk, the project Every September our hotels around the world focus €460,000. Since the Box Appeal launched in 2008, fights youth unemployment through the provision of on giving back to the community during Responsible Radisson Blu and Park Inn by Radisson hotels have traineeships or skills development, organisation of Business Action Month (RBAM). 2015 was the twelfth donated more than 90,000 boxes. Yearly Talent festivals to showcase the attractiveness successive year RBAM has been run. More than of hotel jobs, and supporting art and sports projects for 10,000 volunteers took part in 780 activities during Super breakfast makes for Super Children youth at risk. September. Radisson Blu hotels in Africa, Europe, and the Middle To launch Adding Colour to Lives in September’s RB Some of the highlights of the hundreds of activities East celebrated the launch of Rezidor’s new Super Action Month, we invited Joel Bergner, an internationincluded: Breakfast by serving 2,000 breakfasts to children in ally recognised artist and social educator, to work with need. The ‘Buy a breakfast, give a breakfast’ campaign local youth and staff from our hotels. Together they Small Box. Big Difference also helped to raise money for local children’s charities created and painted a series of public murals. The proTwenty-four Radisson Blu and Park Inn by Radisson and the World Childhood Foundation. ject generated a unique collaboration and gave disadhotels in six Middle Eastern countries and first-timer vantaged youth a voice to express themselves through South Africa took part in our annual Box Appeal. In ADDING COLOUR TO LIVES art. The murals can be admired in Brussels, Cape 2015, the Box Appeal distributed 23,400 boxes filled The theme of Rezidor’s community engagement initiaTown, London Heathrow, Köln and Malmö. with necessities to labourers and people in need. This tive in our Park Inn by Radisson hotels is Adding Colour The Box Appeal in action in the United Arab Emirates Super breakfast makes for Super children, Budapest, Hungary Part of the #Addcolourtolives mural on the façade of the Brussels Midi international train station REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 34 THINK TOGETHER COMMUNITY IMPACT – REDUCING THE EFFECTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE Meetings Minus Carbon community impact Meetings Minus Carbon is a unique and free service for meeting planners which is managed through Rezidor’s partner, Carbon Footprint Ltd. It is the first and only global loyalty programme which offsets the estimated carbon footprint of every meeting or event held at a Carlson Rezidor property. Carbon credits are purchased and invested in projects in both India and Kenya. Effectively each tonne of carbon generated by a meeting is offset twice: once in Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) wind energy projects in India, and again in a tree-planting initiative in Kenya’s Great Rift Valley. In addition to offsetting carbon, the social benefits of this initiative include: • Poverty reduction through job creation Ndethye Ngutethye Sand Dam, Kenya • Improved quality of life through education •D  evelopment of water catchment areas to provide water and food security HELPING ­COMMUNITIES • Provision of wildlife habitats • Increasing the availability of electricity in nearby TO HELP T ­ HEMSELVES ­villages through wind power The Ndethye Ngutethye Self Help Group members have now completed their sand dam with the addition of a shallow well BLU PLANET TOWEL REUSE PROGRAMME and a hand pump. HELPS WATER STRESSED COMMUNITIES Following the construction of the sand dam and with confiThe cooperation with the international water charity dence in access to clean water, the group have learned how to grow drough t­ olerant crops and how to use new agricultural “Just A Drop” for our Radisson Blu towel reuse protechnologies. As well as being of benefit to the members and gramme (see page 4 and by side) brings safe drinking their families, the project will serve as an example to the wider water to water-stressed communities in Kenya. community who will see them practising terracing, inter cropping and agro forestry and will emulate them. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 35 THINK TOGETHER DISASTER RELIEF – CARING IN TIMES OF CRISIS NEPAL Donations of furniture, televisions, computers, clothCatastrophes often bring out the best in people. The ing, and shoes were made to refugee organisations recent earthquake in Nepal prompted employees of and children’s homes. More than 300 mattresses were the Radisson Blu Resort Fujairah (UAE) to donate an donated by the Radisson Blu Hamburg Airport hotel, average of five percent of their salary to support their while the Radisson Blu EU hotel (soon opening as the four Nepali colleagues whose families were affected world’s first Radisson Red) donated all of its furniture. by the earthquake. One of the affected staff lost two The Radisson Blu Dortmund made a large donation of close family members in the quake. Although many of pillows and sheets. the employees have big personal financial commitWe finished 2015 by donating our largest congress ments, their generosity is a testament to their commithall for a concert organised by the United Nations High ment to ‘Stand out Together’. Committee for the Refugees (UNHCR). Called ‘Under Joseph Ghosn, area director of procurement for the samma himmel’ (Under the same sky), the event was Middle East, was on Mount Everest when the earthheld at the Radisson Blu Hotel and Congress Center quake hit. After months of preparation he had joined Stockholm Waterfront. the Gulf for Good group for a planned twelve-day Radisson Blu Resort Fujairah supporting Nepali colleagues trek to Everest Base Camp. While the earthquake on MALI AFTERMATH 25 April ended that attempt, the trekking party survived Following the terrible attack on the Radisson Blu Hotel and managed to raise USD 65,000 towards the cost Bamako in Mali, Rezidor made a commitment to finanof extending an orphanage previously built by Gulf cially support the families of the employees who died. for Good. The Carlson Family Foundation also provided a USD In total, Rezidor hotels raised €34,000 in cash dona10,000 grant to Save the Children for a project in Bamako tions for the Red Cross/Red Crescent or local initiatives to give local youth a voice in promoting peace in their to support the earthquake victims. country. Rezidor cancelled our corporate New Year party and REFUGEES invested the funds in a new PC training room for the Across the Group, various hotel teams have become hotel. The new training room was officially opened involved in caring for the many refugees who have beginning of 2016 and will be used by employees and arrived in Europe from war-torn countries. local community organisations, for hospitality related, personal development and language courses. Mrs. N’Diaye Ramatoulaye Diallo, Minister of Culture, Crafts and Tourism, Republic of Mali, visiting the new training room at the Radisson Blu Hotel Bamako REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 36 THINK TOGETHER BUSINESS ETHICS REZIDOR NAMED AS ETHICAL BUSINESS REZIDOR ETHICS WHISTLEBLOWER WEBSITE Any employee with concerns or questions about the FOR SIXTH CONSECUTIVE YEAR A cornerstone in the Code of Business Ethics impleCode is encouraged to raise these directly with their In 2015, Rezidor was again listed as one of the World’s mentation is www.rezidorethics.com, a website run by supervisor or person of trust in the hotel or regional Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere Institute, an independent third-party organisation. Employees organisation. If this is not possible, the employee can a US think-thank dedicated to business ethics. This can use this site to find information on our Code of report the issue on www.rezidorethics.com. The site was the sixth consecutive year in which Rezidor has Business Ethics and report concerns anonymously. and hotline are available in eleven languages. received this prestigious honour. Ethical companies are identified by a committee of leading attorneys, professors, government officials, and organisation leaders. The methodology for the World’s Most Ethical ranking covers seven distinct ­categories: Corporate Citizenship and Responsibility; Corporate Governance; Innovation that Contributes TOPICS INCLUDED IN CODE OF CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS to Public Well Being; Industry Leadership; Executive BUSINESS ETHICS IMPLEMENTATION Leadership and Tone from the Top; Legal, Regulatory Rezidor’s Code of Business Ethics governs how Rezidor’s Code of Business Ethics applies to and Reputation Track Record; and Internal Systems we do business. It enables us to take positions on every person who works for us and every one of key issues of business ethics with a single voice. our companies. It is distributed to all employees and Ethics/Compliance Programme. The code includes ten principles which guide us in the ‘It’s All About You’ employee handbook. The World’s Most Ethical Companies designation whenever an ethical decision needs to be made. The Code of Business Ethics is available in sumrecognises companies that go beyond making stateThe principles are: mary and detailed form on www.rezidor.com and ments about doing business ‘ethically’ and translate is included in our internal procedures manual. All 1. We respect the law those words into action. Recipients not only promote employees are trained in the Code of Business 2. We show respect for all persons Ethics, its implications and reporting processes. ethical business standards and practices internally, in all situations The training occurs in the classroom-­based they exceed legal compliance minimums and shape 3. We think ethically ­Living Responsible Business course which is future industry standards by introducing best practices 4. We act fairly mandatory for all employees. today. The recognition provides companies with an 5. We do not discriminate against opportunity to be recognised for their global ethics anyone for any reason and compliance programmes. 6. We are honest and transparent They are the companies who lead, forcing other 7. We are loyal to our employer companies to follow or fall behind. Such companies 8. We do not exploit Rezidor’s resources use ethical leadership as a profit driver. Each one 9. We think of safety at all times 10. We take care of the Earth embodies the true spirit of Ethisphere’s credo: ‘Good. Smart. Business. Profit.’ For more information go to www.etisphere.com. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 37 THINK TOGETHER COMPLIANCE received subsidies or tax relief for their Think Planet Rezidor does not make any contributions or give other environmental investments. The benefit of these subsisupport (direct or indirect) to political parties or individdies totalled €795,000 in 2015. Subsidies or tax relief ual politicians. The Rezidor Hotel Group receives no was granted in Belgium, Ethiopia, France, Georgia, direct or significant financial subsidies from governGermany, Greece, Ireland, Norway, Russia, Saudi mental organisations in the countries where we operArabia, Sweden, Tunisia, and Turkey, Ukraine, United ate hotels. However, a number of our hotels have Kingdom. ANTI-BRIBERY TRAINING ANTI-BRIBERY COMPLIANCE Rezidor’s Anti-Bribery e-learning programme provides partici­ Compliance with the UK anti-bribery law and pants with the opportunity to understand our company’s polithe US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) cies and procedures and know how to correctly respond to is ensured by: any bribery related issues. The training is in line with the UK •m  aking adherence part of our Code of Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The ­Business Ethics aim of the course is to educate individuals about anti-bribery • training employees regulations and the consequences if they are not applied cor• inserting a reference in all partner contracts rectly. At the end of the training, participants know how to • c onfirming compliance by all employees in behave and act or react when confronted with bribery. management positions once per year. REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 38 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 39 Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Dubrovnik, Croatia 272 ECO-LABELLED HOTELS Austria Ethiopia Radisson Blu Park Hotel & Conference Centre, Lithuania Park Inn by Radisson Linz Radisson Blu Hotel, Addis Ababa ­Dresden Radebeul Park Inn by Radisson Kaunas Park Inn by Radisson Uno City, Vienna Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Düsseldorf Park Inn by Radisson Klaipeda Radisson Blu Style Hotel, Vienna Finland Radisson Blu Schwarzer Bock Hotel, Wiesbaden Park Inn by Radisson Vilnius Radisson Blu Hotel, Espoo Radisson Blu Senator Hotel, Lübeck Radisson Blu Astorija Hotel, Vilnius Bahrain Radisson Blu Hotel, Oulu Radisson Blu Hotel Lietuva, Vilnius The Diplomat Radisson Blu Hotel Residence Radisson Blu Marina Palace Hotel, Turku Hungary Radisson Blu Hotel, Klaipeda & Spa, Manama Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Helsinki Park Inn by Radisson Budapest Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Helsinki Park Inn by Radisson Sarvar Resort & Spa Luxembourg Belgium Radisson Blu Seaside Hotel, Helsinki Radisson Blu B‚ke Hotel, Budapest Park Inn by Radisson Luxembourg City Park Inn by Radisson Antwerpen Park Inn by Radisson Brussels Midi France Iceland Malta Park Inn by Radisson Leuven Park Inn by Radisson Lille Grand Stade Radisson Blu Saga Hotel, Reykjavik Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Malta Golden Sands Park Inn by Radisson Liege Airport Park Inn by Radisson Nice Airport Radisson Blu 1919 Hotel, Reykjavik Radisson Blu Resort Malta, St. Julian's Radisson Blu Astrid Hotel, Antwerp Radisson Blu 1835 Hotel & Thalasso, Cannes Radisson Blu Balmoral Hotel, Spa Radisson Blu Hotel at Disneyland© Resort Paris Ireland Mozambique Radisson Blu EU Hotel, Brussels Radisson Blu Hotel, Biarritz Park Inn by Radisson Shannon Airport Radisson Blu Hotel, Maputo Radisson Blu Hotel, Hasselt Radisson Blu Hotel, Champs Elysees, Paris Radisson Blu Farnham Estate Hotel, Cavan Radisson Blu Palace Hotel, Spa Radisson Blu Hotel, Lyon Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Cork Netherlands Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Brussels Radisson Blu Hotel, Marseille Vieux Port Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Galway Park Inn by Radisson, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Radisson Blu Hotel, Nantes Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Sligo Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam Bulgaria Radisson Blu Hotel, Nice Radisson Blu Hotel, Athlone Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam Airport, Schiphol Park Inn by Radisson Sofia Radisson Blu Hotel, Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport Radisson Blu Hotel, Dublin Airport Radisson Blu Palace Hotel, Noordwijk-aan-Zee Radisson Blu Grand Hotel, Sofia Radisson Blu Hotel, Paris-Boulogne Radisson Blu Hotel, Letterkenny Radisson Blu Hotel, Toulouse Airport Radisson Blu Hotel, Limerick Norway China Radisson Blu Le Dokhan’s Hotel, Paris Trocadero Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Dublin Resort, El Quseir Park Inn by Radisson Trysil Mountain Resort Radisson Blu Hotel, Beijing Radisson Blu Le Metropolitan Hotel, Paris Eiffel Radisson Blu St. Helen's Hotel, Dublin Park Inn by Radisson Hotel & Conference Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Ajaccio Bay Centre Alna-Oslo Croatia Radisson Blu Resort, Arc 1950 Italy Park Inn by Radisson Oslo Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Dubrovnik Sun Gardens Radisson Blu Hotel, Milan Park Inn by Radisson Oslo Airport Radisson Blu Resort, Split Georgia Park Inn by Radisson Stavanger Radisson Blu Hotel, Batumi Jordan Radisson Blu Airport Hotel, Oslo Gardemoen Czech Republic Radisson Blu Iveria Hotel, Tblisi Radisson Blu Tala Bay Resort, Aqaba Radisson Blu Atlantic Hotel, Stavanger Park Inn by Radisson Ostrava Radisson Blu Caledonien Hotel, Kristiansand Park Inn Hotel Prague Germany Kazakhstan Radisson Blu Hotel Norge, Bergen Radisson Blu Alcron Hotel, Prague Park Inn by Radisson Erfurt-Apfelstädt Park Inn by Radisson Astana Radisson Blu Hotel Nydalen, Oslo Park Inn by Radisson Frankfurt Airport Radisson Hotel, Astana Radisson Blu Hotel, Ålesund Denmark Park Inn by Radisson Lübeck Radisson Blu Hotel, Alna-Oslo Radisson Blu Falconer Hotel & Conference Park Inn by Radisson Munich East Kenya Radisson Blu Hotel, Bodø Center, Copenhagen Park Inn by Radisson Munich Frankfurter Ring Radisson Blu Hotel, Nairobi Upper Hill Radisson Blu Hotel, Tromsø Radisson Blu Fredensborg Hotel, Bornholm Park Inn by Radisson Nürnberg Radisson Blu Hotel, Trondheim Airport Radisson Blu H.C. Andersen Hotel, Odense Park Inn by Radisson Stuttgart Kuwait Radisson Blu Park Hotel, Fornebu, Oslo Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Copenhagen Radisson Blu Fürst Leopold Hotel, Dessau Radisson Blu Hotel, Kuwait Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Oslo Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Aarhus Radisson Blu Hotel, Berlin Radisson Blu Royal Garden Hotel, Trondheim Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Copenhagen Radisson Blu Hotel, Bremen Latvia Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Bergen Radisson Blu Hotel, Cologne Radisson Blu Daugava Hotel, Riga Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Stavanger Egypt Radisson Blu Hotel, Cottbus Radisson Blu Elizabete Hotel, Riga Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Oslo Radisson Blu Resort, El Quseir Radisson Blu Hotel, Dortmund Radisson Blu Hotel Latvija, Riga Radisson Blu Hotel, Alexandria Radisson Blu Hotel, Frankfurt Radisson Blu Ridzene Hotel, Riga Oman Radisson Blu Hotel, Cairo Heliopolis Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg Park Inn by Radisson Hotel & Residence Duqm Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg Airport Lebanon Park Inn by Radisson Muscat Estonia Radisson Blu Hotel, Hannover Radisson Blu Martinez Hotel, Beirut Radisson Blu Hotel, Muscat Park Inn by Radisson Central Tallinn Radisson Blu Hotel, Karlsruhe Radisson Blu Hotel Olumpia, Tallinn Radisson Blu Hotel, Rostock Radisson Blu Sky Hotel, Tallinn Radisson Blu Media Harbour Hotel, Düsseldorf REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 40 Poland Sweden Park Inn by Radisson Telford Park Inn by Radisson Krakow Park Inn by Radisson Stockholm Hammarby Sjöstad Park Inn by Radisson Thurrock Radisson Blu Centrum Hotel, Warsaw Park Inn by Radisson Uppsala Park Inn by Radisson York Radisson Blu Hotel, Gdansk Radisson Blu Riverside Hotel, Gothenburg Radisson Blu Hotel London Radisson Blu Hotel, Krakow Park Inn by Radisson Lund Stansted Airport, Stansted Radisson Blu Hotel, Szczecin Park Inn by Radisson Malmö Radisson Blu Hotel Manchester Airport Radisson Blu Hotel, Wroclaw Park Inn by Radisson Solna Radisson Blu Hotel, Belfast Radisson Blu Sobieski Hotel, Warsaw Radisson Blu Arlandia Hotel, Stockholm-Arlanda Radisson Blu Hotel, Birmingham Radisson Blu Hotel, Malmö Radisson Blu Hotel, Bristol Romania Radisson Blu Hotel, Uppsala Radisson Blu Hotel, Cardiff Radisson Blu Hotel, Bucharest Radisson Blu Royal Park Hotel, Stockholm Radisson Blu Hotel, Durham Radisson Blu Royal Viking Hotel, Stockholm Radisson Blu Hotel, East Midlands Airport Russia Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Göteborg Radisson Blu Hotel, Edinburgh Radisson Blu, Istanbul Tuzla, Turkey Park Inn by Radisson Astrakhan Radisson Blu SkyCity Hotel, Stockholm-Arlanda Radisson Blu Hotel, Glasgow Park Inn by Radisson Ekaterinburg Radisson Blu Strand Hotel, Stockholm Radisson Blu Hotel, Leeds Park Inn by Radisson Nevsky, St. Petersburg Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Stockholm Radisson Blu Hotel, Liverpool Park Inn by Radisson Nizhny Tagil Radisson Blu Portman Hotel, London Park Inn by Radisson Petrozavodsk Switzerland Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Jersey Park Inn by Radisson Poliarnie Zory, Murmansk Park Inn by Radisson Lully Park Inn by Radisson Pribalitiyskaya, St. Petersburg Park Inn by Radisson Zurich Airport Ukraine Park Inn by Radisson Pulkovo Airport St. Petersburg Radisson Blu Hotel, Basel Park Inn by Radisson Donetsk Park Inn by Radisson Pulkovskaya, St. Petersburg Radisson Blu Hotel, Lucerne Radisson Blu Hotel, Kiev Park Inn by Radisson Rosa Khutor Radisson Blu Hotel, St. Gallen Radisson Blu Hotel, Kyiv Podil Park Inn by Radisson Sheremetyevo Airport, Moscow Radisson Blu Hotel, Zurich Airport Radisson Blu Resort, Bukovel Park Inn by Radisson Sochi City Centre Park Inn by Radisson Veliky Novgorod Tunisia United Arab Emirates Park Inn by Radisson Yaroslavl Radisson Blu Palace Resort & Thalasso, Djerba Park Inn by Radisson Abu Dhabi, Yas Island Radisson Blu Hotel, Chelyabinsk Radisson Blu Resorts & Thalasso, Hammamet Radisson Blu Hotel, Abu Dhabi Yas Island Radisson Blu Hotel, Rosa Khutor Radisson Blu Ulysse Resort & Thalasso, Djerba Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Deira Creek Radisson Blu Paradise Resort & Spa, Sochi Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Downtown Radisson Blu Resort & Congress Centre, Sochi Turkey Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Media City Radisson Blu Sheremetyevo Airport Hotel, Moscow Radisson Blu Hotel Kayseri Radisson Blu Resort, Fujairah Radisson Hotel, Kaliningrad Radisson Blu Hotel, Ankara Radisson Blu Resort, Sharjah Radisson Resort, Zavidovo Radisson Blu Bosphorus Hotel, Istanbul The Radisson Blu Residence, Dubai Marina Radisson Royal Hotel, St. Petersburg Radisson Blu Conference & Airport Hotel, Istanbul Park Inn, Tallin, Estonia Radisson Sonya Hotel, St. Petersburg Radisson Blu Hotel, Ankara Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Asia Saudi Arabia Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Pera Park Inn by Radisson Al Khobar Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Sisli Radisson Blu Hotel, Jeddah Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Tuzla Radisson Blu Hotel, Riyadh Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Cesme Radisson Blu Hotel, Yanbu Radisson Blu Royal Suite Hotel, Jeddah UK G&V Royal Mile Hotel Edinburgh Senegal Park Inn by Radisson Bedford Radisson Blu Hotel, Dakar Sea Plaza Park Inn by Radisson Belfast Park Inn by Radisson Birmingham Walsall Serbia Park Inn by Radisson Birmingham West, M5 J1 Radisson Blu Old Mill Hotel, Belgrade, Serbia (West Bromwich) Park Inn by Radisson Cardiff South Africa Park Inn by Radisson Cardiff City Centre Park Inn by Radisson Cape Town Foreshore Park Inn by Radisson Glasgow City Centre Park Inn by Radisson Sandton Park Inn by Radisson Harlow Radisson Blu Hotel Waterfront, Cape Town Park Inn by Radisson Hotel & Conference Centre Radisson Blu Hotel, Port Elizabeth ­London Heathrow Radisson Blu Hotel, Sandton Johannesburg Park Inn by Radisson Manchester City Centre Park Inn by Radisson Northampton Spain Park Inn by Radisson Nottingham Radisson Blu Hotel, Madrid Prado Park Inn by Radisson Palace, Southend-on-Sea Radisson Blu Resort, Gran Canaria Park Inn by Radisson Peterborough Radisson Blu, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 41 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES TABLE AR = Rezidor Annual Report 2015 General Standard Disclosures Page Assurance General Standard Disclosures Page Assurance STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-1 1 G4-24 6–7 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-25 6–7 G4-3 2 G4-26 6–7 G4-4 2 G4-27 6–7 G4-5 2 REPORT PROFILE G4-6 2 G4-28 inside front cover G4-7 2 G4-29 inside front cover G4-8 2 G4-30 inside front cover G4-9 AR p. 3-6, notes 10 AR p. 51 G4-31 inside front cover G4-10 2, 25 G4-32 inside front cover G4-11 25 G4-33 inside front cover G4-12 18 GOVERNANCE G4-13 AR 3, 47 AR p. 51 G4-34 8 G4-14 inside front cover G4-38 AR p. 62 AR p. 51 G4-15 9 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-16 9 G4-56 24, 25, 33–34 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-58 33–34 G4-17 inside front cover AR p. 51 AR p. 3, 10 G4-18 6–7 G4-19 6–7 G4-20 6–7 G4-21 6–7 G4-22 11 G4-23 2 AR p. 51 AR p. 2, 3, 47 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 42 ­GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES TABLE Specific Standard Disclosures Page Omissions Assurance Specific Standard Disclosures Page Omissions Assurance CATEGORY: ECONOMIC CATEGORY: SOCIAL Material aspect: economic performance SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK G4-DMA 1, AR p. 10–16 AR p. 51 Material aspect: training and education G4-EC1 25, 29 AR p. 51 G4-DMA 26–27 AR p. 6 G4-LA9 26 G4-EC2 6, 13 G4-LA10 26 G4-EC4 34 G4-LA11 26 G4-EC6 N/A Data not Material aspect: training and education available G4-DMA 23 Material aspect: indirect economic impacts G4-LA12 25 AR p. 51 G4-DMA 1, 29, 33 AR p. 51 AR p. 62 G4-EC7 25, 29–32 G4-LA14 18 G4-EC8 SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS G4-EC8 25, 29–32 Material aspect: supplier human rights assessment Material aspect: procurement practices G4-DMA 24 G4-DMA 18 G4-HR2–not in NH 26 G4-EC9 18 G4-HR3–not in NH 34 G4-HR5–not in NH 18 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Material aspect: energy G4-HR6–not in NH 18 G4-DMA 11, 16 AR p. 51 G4-HR7–not in NH 26 G4-EN3 11–12 AR p. 51 G4-HR10 18 G4-EN5 11–12 AR p. 51 G4-HR12 34 G4-EN6 11–12 AR p. 51 Material aspect: society Material aspect: water G4-DMA 29–32 G4-DMA 13 AR p. 51 G4-SO1 28–29 G4-EN8 13 AR p. 51 Material aspect: anti-corruption Material aspect: emissions G4-DMA 33–34 G4-DMA 17 AR p. 51 G4-SO4 33–34 G4-EN15 and 16 17 AR p. 51 G4-SO5 33–34 G4-18 17 AR p. 51 G4-SO6 33–34 G4-EN 19 17 AR p. 51 G4-SO8 33–34 SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Material aspect: supplier environmental assessment Material aspect: product and service labeling G4-DMA 18 G4-DMA 20–21 G4-EN32 18 G4-PR1 20–21 G4-PR5 3 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 43 GLOBAL COMPACT COMPLIANCE Principles of the Global Compact Rezidor Systems and Processes HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection • Living & Leading Responsible Business Training • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements of internationally ­proclaimed human rights. • Employee Handbook – It’s All About You • Human Rights Policy Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit • Code of Business Ethics • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements in human rights abuses. • w ww.rezidorethics.com • Human Rights Policy • Policy against the Facilitation of Prostitution LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association • Human Resources Guidelines • Supplier Code of Conduct and the effective ­recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • Employee Handbook • Employment Principles • European Works Councils Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms • Code of Business Ethics • Employment Principles of forced and compulsory labour. • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements • Human Rights Policy Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition • Code of Business Ethics • Employment Principles of child labour. • ECPAT Code of Conduct • Human Rights Policy • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of • Human Rights Policy • Policy against Sexual Harassment and Illicit Activities discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. • Employee Handbook • Social Networking Policy • Living & Leading Responsible Business training • Supplier Code of Conduct • Policy on Recruitment and Selection • Employment Principles • Transfer Policy • Human Resources Guidelines ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach • Responsible Business Policy • Think Planet Energy and Water Action Plans to ­environmental ­challenges. • Responsible Construction and Renovation Guidelines • Think Planet Solutions Catalogue • Environmental reporting and targets Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote • Global Compact Caring for Climate • Living & Leading Responsible Business training greater environmental responsibility. • Responsible Business Policy • Supplier Code of Conduct • Responsible Construction and Renovation Guidelines • Hotel eco-labels • Think Planet tools • Club Carlson Meetings Minus Carbon Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and • Responsible Construction and • Club Carlson Meetings Minus Carbon diffusion of ­environmentally friendly technologies. Renovation Guidelines • Eco-labelled hotels • Think Planet tools and guest-facing communication ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its • Global Information Security Policy • Internal Audit forms, including extortion and bribery. • Code of Business Ethics and anti-bribery training • Supplier Code of Conduct • Anti-Fraud Policy W REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 44 REZIDOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 45 Radisson Blu Hotel, Kuwait The Rezidor Hotel Group is one of the most dynamic hotel companies in the world. The Group currently features ap ­ ort­folio of 457 hotels with 100,320 rooms in operation or under development in 80 countries across Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Rezidor operates the core brands ­Radisson Blu (upper upscale) and Park Inn by Radisson (mid-scale) as well as the new brands Quorvus C ­ ollection (luxury) and Radisson RED (lifestyle select). Rezidor is a member of the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group. For more information, visit www.rezidor.com
