Powering the World of Work ManpowerGroup Doing Well By Doing Good 2015 / 2016 Sustainability Report T AF R D The ManpowerGroup Promise We power the world of work. When our deep understanding of human potential is connected to the ambition of business, a dynamic power is created. Power that drives organizations forward. Power that accelerates personal success. Power that builds more sustainable communities. T We generate this kind of power by connecting the AF visions of clients, the motivations of people, and what’s now and what’s next in the world of work. We combine local expertise with a global reach to give R organizations around the world access to and the ability to capitalize on unseen opportunities. our success. D As trusted advisors we nurture partnerships with everyone we work with, because their success leads to Because of this, we create high-impact solutions to About this Report: This report is our communication on progress for the United Nations Global Compact, and was developed in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 “Core” guidelines. An Index of reporting to Global Compact Principles and GRI general and specific disclosures is available on our data sheets [LINK] enhance the competitiveness of the organizations and Stakeholders and Reporting Topics: the individuals we serve, so that they achieve more than We regularly engage with our core stakeholders – employees, candidates, they imagined. clients, NGOs and industry bodies as well as shareholders. We seek feedback in multiple ways, online and offline, to ensure our reporting addresses their And by creating these powerful connections, areas of greatest interest. More information about stakeholder engagement and we help power the world of work. prioritizing reporting topics is available here [LINK] 2 SUSTAINABILITY AT WORK Sustainability at Work: It’s Our Heritage PILLAR 1: “ “ Running a successful organization is about delivering a profit to our shareholders and about contributing to society by providing meaningful and sustainable employment for READY FOR WORK millions of people. Our business was founded on this principle almost 70 years ago and it still drives the performance of our people today. 2016 PILLAR 2: T Jonas Prising Chairman & CEO SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: AF “ We have a mission to improve the skills INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R of people wherever they may be, in whatever part of the world they live. We have a mission to talk to people, to consult with them… advise them and help them get the skills they SUSTAINABILITY D need to get a job. Our company can be a tremendous instrument for good if in some “ way we can help make people employable. BEGINS AT HOME 1969 Elmer Winter Founder & CEO GOALS AND PROGRESS 3 SUSTAINABILITY CEO Message At ManpowerGroup, we believe businesses have a responsibility to be a positive contributor to societal change. AT WORK Our business was founded on this principle — that running a successful organization is about delivering a profit to our shareholders and about contributing to society by providing meaningful and sustainable employment for millions of people. PILLAR 1: Fast forward nearly 70 years and our dual purpose holds true. Today, the stakeholder view employers must take is increasingly important. In this world of constant change, WHEN YOU JOIN MANPOWERGROUP READY FOR WORK technological disruption and bifurcation of employment opportunities, we are seeing the YOU KNOW THAT YOU’RE PART OF polarization of the population play out in front of our eyes — the U.K. Brexit vote, unrest AN ETHICAL COMPANY THAT in Turkey and political uncertainty as far afield as Europe, the United States and the AT ITS CORE BELIEVES IN DOING South China Sea. Beyond our organizations, in the communities in which we operate, WELL BY DOING GOOD. PILLAR 2: people feel disenfranchised and disconnected and too many look ahead and cannot see how their circumstances will improve. Businesses have a role to play to ensure we are enhancing people’s lives and are an important part of the solution. T SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: AF That’s why our Sustainability Plan is built around learnability and employability: about how we help people nurture the desire and ability to develop in-demand skills to be employable for the long-term. It’s why we partner with governments, NGOs and of course our clients, to get people Ready for Work, help them stay relevant by Skilling Up and improve diversity in Integrated and Inclusive workplaces. And it’s why we actively support the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals around Education, Equality and Decent Work for Economic Growth – because they are directly related AS CEO OF THE WORLD’S LEADING WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS COMPANY, PEOPLE ARE MY PRIORITY. INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R to our core business so we can, and do, make a real difference. It’s also why we practice what we preach — by investing in skill development that helps our people achieve their potential, and encouraging employees to share their talent in SUSTAINABILITY D the communities in which we live and work. It’s how we attract the best people to work for us because when you join ManpowerGroup you know that you’re part of an ethical company that at its core believes in doing well by doing good. As CEO of the world’s leading workforce solutions company, people are my priority. BEGINS AT HOME Not just because it’s the right thing to do, but because it increases the success of our clients and accelerates our business performance. We will continue to do more to deliver on our purpose and I am proud of our team’s commitment and passion to serve all of our stakeholders every day, all over the world. GOALS AND PROGRESS Jonas Prising 4 SUSTAINABILITY Our Sustainability Plan We create meaningful opportunities that AT WORK accelerate people's career success, enhance the competitiveness of organizations and build more sustainable communities. Our Purpose Millions of people each year trust us to help them PILLAR 1: stay relevant, reskill and upskill so they can achieve more than they imagined. READY FOR WORK Our Pillars 1 Ready for Work T 2 Skilling Up 3 Integrating and Including PILLAR 2: Building New Skills Developing Employability Nurturing Diversity for a Fast-Changing SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: AF for Tomorrow’s Talent World of Work in the Workplace INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R SUSTAINABILITY Our Local Impact D ENSURING YOUNG PEOPLE ARE WORK READY WHEN THEY LEAVE EDUCATION HELPING PEOPLE NURTURE LEARNABILITY THROUGHOUT THEIR CAREER JOURNEY ENABLING ALL PEOPLE TO PARTICIPATE IN THE WORKPLACE AND ACHIEVE THEIR POTENTIAL BEGINS AT HOME Supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals: Our Global Impact Ensure inclusive and equitable quality Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal Promote inclusive and sustainable economic Reduce inequality education and promote opportunities for leadership at growth, employment within GOALS AND lifelong learning all levels of decision-making in and decent work for all countries opportunities for all political, economic and public life PROGRESS 5 SUSTAINABILITY Doing Well By Doing Good: Why Sustainability Matters in the Human Age AT WORK Changes in the world of work are accelerating at a pace and scale never In 2011 we identified the Human Age, driven by four structural forces reshaping seen before. Technology continues to disrupt, creating new jobs and radically the world of work. People feel these impacts too: those with in-demand skills changing others. The goal today is no longer finding the job for life, but to can call the shots while those without have fewer opportunities. This places PILLAR 1: develop the skills, experience and expertise necessary to be employable for the greater emphasis than ever on the need for relevant skills and learning. long term. As the world’s leading innovative workforce solutions company, our core READY FOR WORK As skills needs change rapidly, employability depends not just on what expertise is matching the talent businesses need with the skills individuals have. people already know, but on how well they learn, apply and adapt. At Partnering with more than 400,000 clients, we provide work and employability ManpowerGroup we are committed to nurturing learnability — the programs for more than 3.5 million people every year and employment advice PILLAR 2: desire and ability to learn new skills — to help people become and stay employable throughout their career journey. T for more than 10 million. If you consider how many families that touches, that’s a major social impact of which we are proud. SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: AF o W tfo Pla orc rkf rms e Uberizati on Unc erta inty Ch oic e Socpose Pu r ial INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R Four forces driving change in the Human Age: Shifting Demographics Glo bal Flexibility Dev Skills elop ment SUSTAINABILITY D Technological Revolution Greater Individual Choice Rise of Client Sophistication Mob One Life ility Career Security BEGINS AT HOME Automati On on Demand One-SizeFits-All Teachable Fit Protectionism Barriers GOALS AND Unemployment Job for SkLilolsw Nine-to-five PROGRESS Life 6 PILLAR 3: GOALS AND SUSTAINABILITY PILLAR 2: PILLAR 1: INTEGRATING AND SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS BEGINS AT HOME SKILLING UP READY FOR WORK INCLUDING AT WORK IC 400,000 cli ents provided ONOM n o with talent ed workers Hold in supp g mor EC sociatehs day every year l s ac with iers to e tha n 00 a ent e o 0,0 m Cod ur S acco 10, e of upp un 00 60 sign 0 Making an Impact Con lie t as du r H d ct ce we alf la act ar p r e le $16.3 b k e op ork illion ep ow f th int ials o ce nn in salaries paid in la ille and b M enef its 3.4 in mil D investe d or perm lion m illion ility eve tem ane peo $70 mployab 015 2 ry por nt ple ye a , R in e rams in rog a p r ry w con p or t 72,000 volu SOC nteer AF in 2015 hou rs Globally and Locally IAL icity lectr les of e ab 55% 17% renew from T 33% of m Dir of o an ec u a rgy tor r B ger L ne ne e s a oa s TA tion inhous re rd an c e 4 du gre ions 201 an 10 million wo of d s to is More th 10 en m m red receive our c % o s a people d guidan areer mar f our l n ce k EN tion d advice a V era g rtif a ce ets h arges v I R op d head ied (or e LEE t ON of dar motin qu ar e M 0% tan pro t qu D er 10 ve s ces hts s ivale EN nt) 30 ha acti n rig u % pr ma ga se re hu co s e an m p 7 SUSTAINABILITY AT WORK PILLAR 1: READY FOR WORK PILLAR 2: T SKILLING UP AF 1 Ready PILLAR PILLAR 3: for Work INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R SUSTAINABILITY D Developing Employability for Tomorrow’s Talent — It’s our business BEGINS AT HOME to identify the skills that young people need to secure in-demand roles. Manpower Malaysia is doing exactly that with our Recruit, Train, Deploy, Manage (RTDM) graduate program. See page 11 GOALS AND PROGRESS 8 SUSTAINABILITY AT WORK PILLAR 1: 1 Ready for Work Developing Employability for Tomorrow’s Talent By 2030, Generation Z1 and Millennials2 will make up two-thirds of the workforce3 and 65% of Generation Z will do jobs that do not exist yet4. Addressing youth employment now will set us up with the leaders of the future so we must create the opportunities that help tomorrow’s talent move into work and up the career ladder. We want to ensure young people have the skills they need before they enter the Developing Employability labor market and help them nurture their learnability the desire and ability READY FOR WORK to develop in-demand skills – to stay employable over longer working lives. for Tomorrow’s Talent At ManpowerGroup we start young, working with children before they leave school, because we know giving young people a strong start is critical for PILLAR 2: T sustainable careers. Those who have four or more contacts with employers while in school are more likely to be employed age 19-24, and five times less likely to be jobless later in life5. SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: AF Partnering with clients, governments and NGOs means our impact is even stronger. With organizations like Junior Achievement we build work-readiness and financial literacy for children ages 4 to 18 across the world. In Malaysia and Thailand we work with universities to skill up graduates to get first jobs in a competitive global 65% of Generation Z INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R will do jobs that do not exist yet4. SUSTAINABILITY D labor market. And sometimes our approach is private sector led: in Spain and the U.K. we provide work experience, training and entrepreneurial skills for unemployed young people to help them get that first break. BEGINS AT HOME Access to continuous learning and real work experience is the first step on the career path and key to addressing inequality. That’s why we’re providing training, ENSURING YOUNG PEOPLE coaching and creating ways for young people to learn on the job, from school through graduation and throughout their working lives. ARE WORK READY WHEN GOALS AND THEY LEAVE EDUCATION 1 Generation Z (those born in the mid 1990s to early 2000s) 2 Millennials (those born between 1982 and 1996, ages 20-34) 3 United States Census Bureau 4 “How To Attract Talent for Jobs that Don’t PROGRESS Exist Yet,” Forbes, October 2015 5 Employer Contact at School Reduces Likelihood of Young People Becoming NEET, Education and Employment, February 2012 9 “ SUSTAINABILITY Ready for Work AT WORK Preparing young people for the labor market of the future means starting early and requires deep partnerships with schools, PILLAR 1: “ educators and employers. We are grateful for the long-standing partnership between READY FOR WORK JA and ManpowerGroup that now spans multiple geographies. PILLAR 2: T Asheesh Advani Junior Achievement Worldwide CEO SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: Doing It for the Kids AF ManpowerGroup and Junior Achievement Nurture Learnability for the Next Generation Young people today face many of the uncertainties of job seekers from previous generations. But today’s world of work is even more complex, volatile and fast moving. Too many young people find themselves graduateAcross the United States we’ve invested time and dollars to bring the world of work to life for more than 45,000 young people over the past nine years. We have pledged a quarter of a million dollars to digitize materials on Junior INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R ready not job-ready. To change that, we partner with Junior Achievement (JA), the world’s largest non-profit organization dedicated to young people’s work readiness. Achievement’s USA Education Gateway and support blended learning that builds students’ IT skills. We know this plug and play approach to learning provides the best balance of technology and human connection and will develop essential workplace skills for thousands more students. SUSTAINABILITY D ManpowerGroup knows which skills employers want, when and where, and we bring this practical experience to JA’s mission to inspire 10 million students every year to dream big, seek out experiences and reach their potential. Investing over $2 million and thousands of hours of volunteering in over 35 locations in the last decade, we’re proud to deliver successful, long-term Our activities reach beyond the United States. With JA Europe and the European Commission we deliver the European Entrepreneurial Skills Pass, certifying entrepreneurial competences and work-readiness. ManpowerGroup senior leaders also sit on regional JA boards, participate in Leaders for a Day BEGINS AT HOME programs that are building skills in work-readiness, entrepreneurship and provide job shadowing and digital training webinars to young people and financial literacy. across ten European countries — Belgium, Bulgaria, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Sweden and the U.K. Our commitment comes from the top. Jonas Prising, Chairman & CEO of ManpowerGroup and Vice Chair of JA Worldwide, provides both strategic All of this works. JA Alumni are more employable, more enterprising, start support and engagement at the ground level. Volunteering on Bring Your more businesses and earn higher salaries than non-JA students6. The JAGOALS AND Daughters and Sons to Work Day at BizTown and delivering Excellence ManpowerGroup partnership demonstrates global reach and local impact, and Through Ethics training to local high school students, Jonas is leading by provides the valuable combination of skills and experience that will be young PROGRESS example and plenty of ManpowerGroup volunteers follow. people’s ticket to ride for years to come. 6 Education, JA Europe 10 SUSTAINABILITY Ready for Work AT WORK Learn. Develop. Place. Repeat World Class Skilling Up of Graduates PILLAR 1: In emerging markets employers are struggling to fill vacancies despite young populations and growing numbers of graduates. The ASEAN Economic Community, created in 2015, enables employers in Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam to source and attract candidates from a regional talent pool of 622 million people. Yet our recent Talent Shortage Survey indicates that employers in Asia are still finding it difficult to fill key roles such READY FOR WORK as sales representatives, engineers and technicians. As geographic borders flex and the market for talent and top jobs becomes increasingly competitive, we are creating sustainable models that can be replicated around the world. PILLAR 2: It’s All Talk: Career Conversations Get Thousands Work Ready in Thailand T Perfect Match: Connecting 300 Malaysian Graduates with In-Demand Roles SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: AF INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R In universities across Thailand we offer coaching and career conversations to students. We apply our knowledge of in-demand skills and understanding of where the jobs are to help graduates to It’s our business to identify the skills that young people need to secure indemand roles and Manpower Malaysia is doing exactly that with our Recruit, Train, Deploy, Manage (RTDM) Graduate Program. So far we have trained SUSTAINABILITY critical time. D be employable across ASEAN for the long-term. We partner with more than 30 leading education institutes, the Office of the Vocational Education Commission and the Ministry of Education to reach graduates at a over 300 graduates and matched them to positions in business management, communication, catering, engineering, IT and even marine naval architecture. Together with employers we develop selection processes that identify graduates who are a Teachable Fit — those with the soft skills and BEGINS AT HOME Our core expertise and world of work insight across our strong and learnability mindset to be work-ready, in those organizations. Onsite connected brands — Manpower, Experis, ManpowerGroup Solutions industry-relevant training and structured on-the-job learning modules help — is helping nurture learnability and employability for a new generation simulate the workplace then graduates enjoy up to a year of career coaching of talent. With more than 1,000 applications every year for the past through our Associate Care and Performance Management program. This four years, our career coaching has helped accounting, engineering, helps provide a perfect match and sustained support for young people at GOALS AND architecture and IT graduates develop career plans and be ready for a what can be the most challenging time in their working lives. world of work. PROGRESS 11 SUSTAINABILITY Ready for Work AT WORK Hot Entrepreneurial Skills for Ice Cool Youths PILLAR 1: Manpower Spain Helps More Than 400 Youth Learn While They Earn READY FOR WORK New ways of getting work done continue to emerge, including the growth of the gig economy and portfolio working. Over half of Millennials say they’re open to new ways of working in the future and more than a third would consider running their own business according to our Millennial research. PILLAR 2: T In Spain, where youth unemployment stands at 45%7, we partnered with global consumer goods company Unilever to pilot Soy Frigo — Unilever’s summer youth employment program. With an ambitious goal to create a brilliant future for 10,000 young people in Europe and 100,000 globally by 2020, Soy Frigo provides an SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: AF opportunity for young people to develop crucial skills in micro-entrepreneurship, marketing and finance, so they can run their own small business in the future. As Unilever’s recruitment partner, we assessed and selected 25,000 applicants, provided training and deployed 410 young people as ice-cream sellers across Spain and Portugal. For many this is their first job, and they are developing entrepreneurial skills while gaining valuable work experience — putting training into practice. INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R Over half of Millennials say they’re open to new ways of working in the future. SUSTAINABILITY D BEGINS AT HOME GOALS AND PROGRESS 7 Spain Youth Unemployment Rate, Trading Economics, June 2016 12 SUSTAINABILITY Ready for Work Desperately Seeking Skills and Experience AT WORK Manpower U.K. Gets Young People Job-Ready with Movement to Work Entry level qualifications just don’t cut it for entry level jobs. It’s hard to get on the career ladder without the crucial combination of skills and experience. In high-demand industries like cyber security and IT, 84% of job postings, including PILLAR 1: entry level positions, require at least 3 years of experience10. What about the people that have neither skills nor experience? UK employers are tackling the problem head on. Our Manpower brand in the U.K. is part of Movement to Work, a voluntary READY FOR WORK collaboration of companies addressing youth unemployment. Businesses including Accenture, Barclays, BT, Marks & Spencer and Unilever are part of this movement committed to creating thousands of high quality vocational training and work experience opportunities for the 764,000 18-24 year olds in the U.K. who are not in education, employment or training (NEET)8. PILLAR 2: T Manpower helps young job seekers acquire skills, confidence and work experience to move up the career ladder through practical workshops developing CV writing, interview and presentation preparation, personal financial management and use of social media to find work. By offering vocational training and work placements for unemployed young people, we connect them with SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: AF experience and work while providing our clients with work-ready candidates. Our approach to doing well by doing good is working: Movement to Work aims to connect 50% of young people to jobs, while Manpower has provided 70% of our participants with work. And it’s sustainable. By inviting our supply chain network to make the same commitment, we magnify the impact and help even more of tomorrow’s talent to find jobs. INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING Playing the Long Game R SUSTAINABILITY D Manpower India Offers Bright Future to 40,000 in India Jobs and skills are a critical component of reviving communities. Manpower India is helping to do just that in the region of Jammu and Kashmir in partnership with the Ministry of Home Affairs and the National Skill Development Corporation. Project Udaan is an incredible opportunity to directly connect with the corporate world and gain firstBEGINS AT HOME hand experience which, in my case, Project Udaan positions the region as a valuable source of highly educated graduate employees offering work experience placements and training in retail, banking and IT. resulted in employment. Reaching 40,000 young people over five years, the program is delivering sustainable Pooja, Udaan Program Graduate change and offering a bright future to educated young people and providing work-ready talent to companies across India. GOALS AND PROGRESS 8 Job Market Intelligence: Cyber Security Jobs, Burning Glass, 2015 13 SUSTAINABILITY AT WORK PILLAR 1: READY FOR WORK T 2 PILLAR 2: SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: AF PILLAR Skilling Up INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R Skilling Up Building New Skills for a FastSUSTAINABILITY D Changing World of Work — MyPath provides practical tools and coaching for people with ambitions to move up and earn more. BEGINS AT HOME See page 16 GOALS AND PROGRESS 14 SUSTAINABILITY AT WORK PILLAR 1: 2 Skilling Up Building New Skills Building New Skills for a FastChanging World of Work Technological disruption has created a period of transition in the labor market. Increasing automation, Artificial Intelligence and robotics means skills needs are changing at an unprecedented pace. But it need not be a battle of human versus robot. Currently READY FOR WORK for a Fast-Changing fewer than 5% of occupations can be entirely automated, however about 45% of the activities individuals are paid to perform could be9. World of Work PILLAR 2: T This may not mean fewer jobs but it will mean different jobs. Some skill sets will become redundant and people will have to adapt to new ways of working. Individuals will be able to take on less mundane, more fulfilling roles — if they have the relevant skills to do so. That’s SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: AF why we’re helping people at all stages of their working lives to nurture learnability and acquire sought after skills that help them stay relevant. Our MyPath program provides people with the tools they need to develop careers. We offer assessment, coaching, development and even degrees so our people can learn while they earn and find work in growing sectors. FuturSkill provides hard and soft skills training in INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R shortage areas like call center and IT, and in China we’re supporting people to develop entrepreneurial skills to start their own business. In India and the U.K., we’re training and upskilling workers in IT and engineering, shaping the curricula exactly as employers require. For our SUSTAINABILITY D people, we’re providing career choices and pathways to skill up, move up and earn more in a fast-changing world of work. BEGINS AT HOME Learnability: the desire and ability to learn new HELPING PEOPLE NURTURE skills to be employable for the long-term. LEARNABILITY THROUGHOUT GOALS AND THEIR CAREER JOURNEY PROGRESS 9 Four Fundamentals of Workplace Automation, McKinsey, 2015 15 “ SUSTAINABILITY Skilling Up Learnability: The Hot Ticket to Earn More and Move Up Manpower U.S. Offers Coaching, Development and Degrees to Advance Careers AT WORK When businesses want it all — experience and qualifications — we help make that possible. ManpowerGroup’s annual Anything you can Talent Shortage Survey and our work with thousands of U.S. companies every year, means we know which skills employers want and where. There are few organizations better placed to combine the power of work experience with education so that do to make yourself PILLAR 1: people can be job-ready for in-demand roles. stand out is important. Our MyPath program offers people the tools they need to advance their careers. We provide assessment, coaching, Manpower is giving “ READY FOR WORK development and even degrees so they can learn while they earn and find work in growing sectors like finance and IT. Through me the tools I need to our partnership with Western International University we’re offering Manpower associates across the United States the opportunity to achieve college degrees at no personal cost, while they work and while they’re supported by our own expert career coaches. be innovative in the job market and to be PILLAR 2: T We’ve also helped 122,000 U.S. associates increase their earning potential with us in the last two years — 61% of whom have experienced a pay increase of more than 50-75% from their first to their most recent job. By offering industry-relevant courses combined with specialized coaching, our people are developing career-relevant skills for accountancy and business administration more competitive. SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: AF roles. They get to balance employment and learning commitments at a pace that works with their busy lives. We know first-hand, improving people’s learnability and employability means businesses have access to a wider pool of quality talent and individuals have the in-demand skills that gives them more control and choice throughout their careers. Joe-Ron, MyPath Participant INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R D “ SUSTAINABILITY BEGINS AT HOME GOALS AND PROGRESS The skills these courses are giving me are relevant to the job market of today. Manpower is my ally, working with me to keep me relevant. Nicole, MyPath Participant “ 16 SUSTAINABILITY Skilling Up Formidable! AT WORK Upskilling 60,000 People in France to Fill Business Critical Roles In France, ManpowerGroup’s largest market, we are developing skills for in-demand sectors like IT and call centers so people can be employable for the long-term. Through FuturSkill, ManpowerGroup’s professional training brand, PILLAR 1: we deliver assessment, training and access to our online learning management system for more than 60,700 people across France. Our Bridge To Work program is addressing talent shortages by redeploying unemployed people to fill in-demand positions. They are trained in soft and hard skills, how to take assessments and how to READY FOR WORK use learning management system software. Ninety percent of candidates are placed into work as IT help desk “ technicians, developers, customer service representatives and production workers — quite a formidable outcome! “ PILLAR 2: T It’s a perfect example of how practical and effective solutions SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: AF can be used to combat unemployment, but also offer a real alternative to traditional recruitment methods for our clients. Fadil Darani, FuturSkill Training Project Manager, ManpowerGroup France INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING For All the Skills In China R Entrepreneurial Talent in Their Thousands — the Job Creators of Tomorrow SUSTAINABILITY D When start-ups and small and medium-size businesses are responsible for creating up to two out of three new jobs10 it’s perhaps no surprise that governments are trying to figure out how they grow their share of entrepreneurs. In Shanghai investment in training and access to capital and tax benefits is substantial, so the government wanted a tool to BEGINS AT HOME maximize return on investment. Building on our candidate selection expertise, ManpowerGroup has created a unique New Business Starters (NBS) assessment for entrepreneurial skills and aptitudes — identifying relevant cognitive skills, personality traits and life experiences that accurately select individuals with the highest potential to succeed. To date over 225,000 candidates have been assessed, some fresh to the labor market and others taking a new career direction, all benefitting from upskilling advice and training. Experience tells us that high-scorers are two to three times GOALS AND more likely to succeed as new business starters — and really will be the job creators of tomorrow. PROGRESS 10 “Small Business, Job Creation, and Why We Should Lend to Young Companies,” Forbes, June 2014 17 SUSTAINABILITY Skilling Up AT WORK The Personal Touch: Knowing Me, Knowing You 90% Score Top Jobs with Experis India’s Tailored IT Program When one in three employers globally report talent shortages, partnering with our clients to help people PILLAR 1: develop sought after skills is critical. Last year in India, our Experis brand did just that to train 1,000 graduates in testing, Java and mainframe skills. Working with our client, a top Fortune 500 technology company, we designed the Hire, Train, Deploy model and developed a tailored curriculum and intensive READY FOR WORK boot-camp training in 30 40 day programs. Participants were diverse, sourced from across India and from all stages of their career. Some were new graduates and others experienced professionals looking to re-skill and make lateral moves. Impressively, PILLAR 2: T in this underrepresented sector 60% were female. The key capability we look for? The desire and ability to learn. It’s this learnability that is valued above all in our selection process and most closely aligned with success — 90% went on to work for our client. SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: Playing the Long Game AF INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R Manpower U.K.’s 18 Year Journey with Jaguar Land Rover 18 years of partnership SUSTAINABILITY D When something works well it’s worth repeating. That’s why in the U.K., our partnership with Jaguar Land Rover has been running for over 18 years. In the last five we have supported 7,000 people into work while they upskill and achieve formal qualifications to NVQ Level 2. More than 600 of them were 18-24 year olds not in education employment or training (NEET) who are now equipped with in-demand skills and earning potential. Over 1,500 new jobs created in 2014 alone BEGINS AT HOME 7,000 people Our program has helped reposition the West Midlands region in the U.K. as a global center for automotive manufacturing. In 2014 Jaguar Land Rover also opened its new engine manufacturing center in Wolverhampton and has already created over 1,500 placed into work more new jobs. A talented workforce with in-demand, relevant skills really can in the last 5 years create jobs and prove a critical component of reviving communities and GOALS AND strong economies. PROGRESS 18 SUSTAINABILITY AT WORK PILLAR 1: READY FOR WORK T 3 PILLAR 2: SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: AF PILLAR Integrating and Including INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R SUSTAINABILITY D Nurturing Diversity in the Workplace — ManpowerGroup and the Australian Defence Force are creating a diverse and inclusive workforce across the BEGINS AT HOME Navy, Army and Air Force. See page 22 GOALS AND PROGRESS 19 SUSTAINABILITY AT WORK 3 Integrating and Including Nurturing Diversity in the Workplace Changing demographics are dramatically impacting workforces in the Human Age. People are living longer and working older and many employers now have five generations to motivate and manage. Movement of people is also impacting talent pools. Europe is seeing its biggest influx since World War II and many bring valuable skills to a region challenged by an aging PILLAR 1: population and talent shortages. Nurturing Diversity Diversity, integration and inclusion is a social and economic priority. That’s READY FOR WORK why we commissioned research with over 200 global leaders to find out what in the Workplace can be done to close the gender gap faster. It’s why we are supporting clients like the Australian Defence Force to make grand steps in recruiting more under-represented groups — women, indigenous Australians and PILLAR 2: T culturally and linguistically diverse people — well above total population rates. And why we work with the U.K. Ministry of Defence to help Service Leavers transition valued skills to civilian jobs. It’s also why we’re opening SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: AF doors to skilled refugees displaced across Europe and matching them with talent shortages. And why we are performing outreach to train and recruit local unemployed people for some of the highest profile global events. Whether they are individuals with disabilities, displaced or discriminated against we make it our priority to enable all people to participate in the workplace and achieve their potential. Organizations INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R with inclusive cultures have 39% higher customer satisfaction, 22% greater productivity and 27% higher profitability11 than those that are not inclusive. It is not just the right thing to do, it makes clear business sense. SUSTAINABILITY D Leaders say gender parity is at least a generation away – an average of 17 years BEGINS AT HOME ENABLING ALL PEOPLE TO – so we are providing organizations with practical steps to accelerate progress and PARTICIPATE IN THE create a culture of conscious inclusion. WORKPLACE AND ACHIEVE GOALS AND THEIR POTENTIAL “Why You Need to Retain Women: The Business Case for Gender Diversity,” Business 11 PROGRESS Ethics, March 2012 20 “ SUSTAINABILITY Integrating and Including Ensuring the ADF is a diverse, inclusive and contemporary AT WORK workforce is not a nice to have, it’s imperative. Through our journey with ManpowerGroup we are taking action, driving “ change, and making this a reality. Our Recruitment Process Outsourcing is the biggest in the world, so we know this PILLAR 1: won’t happen overnight, but we are committed to this path and the practical steps ManpowerGroup has taken along READY FOR WORK with us have already made progress. Commodore Tony Partridge, Director General, PILLAR 2: On the Front Line of Diversity T Defence Force Recruiting, Australia SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: Transforming Military Recruitment in Australia AF For the Australian Defence Force (ADF), diversity is a major tool in their armoury to ensure they have the best talent for the 300+ different roles they need to fill. Their skill requirements are complex while the standards and quantity of recruits required are extremely high. Through our public-private collaboration Australians and those who are culturally and linguistically diverse – is mission critical. DFR has already made great strides: Indigenous Australians make up 3% of the total population, and currently we are helping the ADF recruit Indigenous Australians at an overall rate of 4.8% across the INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R – Defence Force Recruiting (DFR), a partnership between ManpowerGroup Australia and the ADF – we are combining the core expertise of both of our organizations to integrate recruitment across the Navy, Army and Air Force to create a diverse and inclusive workplace. Defence Force, rate of 7.7% for the Navy, 4.4% for the Army and 2.6% for the Air Force. Working with such a progressive client, we have been able to use our Seven Steps to Conscious Inclusion model and neuroscience-focused training SUSTAINABILITY D This successful relationship spans more than a decade and our expertise, insight and practical solutions have secured another five years of partnership to 2020, worth more than $400 million in delivering the largest and most complex Recruitment Process Outsourcing (RPO) in the world. DFR to identify and address unconscious bias and create an inclusive culture. Leadership comes from the top — each of the Service Chiefs for the Navy, Army and Air Force has been instrumental in driving change. Rethinking people strategies and reshaping operational solutions is important too. BEGINS AT HOME delivers the entire recruiting process, including marketing, recruiting operations, Targeted advertising to promote flexible opportunities for women in the ADF medical and psychological assessments and the coordination of selection has resulted in increased enquiries, applications and enlistments. Promotion boards and employment offers. of the breadth of female-friendly roles, offers of postings in home towns and reduced signup periods for certain roles from four to two years have helped the Every year DFR attracts 100,000 enquiries and processes 70,000 applications. number of women applicants increase by more than 85%. With 16 national recruiting centers, outreach work across the vast geography is essential and traveling thousands of miles to locations as remote as Alice Flexibility works. We know we have much more to accomplish and that there is GOALS AND Springs to find the best-matched recruits is part of our job. Shifting the needle no silver bullet, but through a dedicated, prolonged and multi-channel strategic PROGRESS to source talent from wider pools, attract the best skills and better approach we have reached a broader audience, changed perceptions and represent underrepresented groups – including women, Indigenous achieved diverse results. 21 SUSTAINABILITY Integrating and Including AT WORK I feel relevant and that PILLAR 1: my work is important; I can support my Welcome, Bienvenido, Willkommen, Welkom family, that’s very It was an READY FOR WORK important to me. Opening Doors for Refugees in Europe intensive training course, The influx of over a million displaced people entering Europe since 2015 presents a wealth but it was all PILLAR 2: T of untapped talent – including programmers, doctors, mechanics, engineers and construction workers – for whom work is a passport to integration. ManpowerGroup Netherlands has partnered with the Dutch Council for Refugees, UAF (an NGO supporting refugees in finding worth it. SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: AF work) and the Naturalisation Service to offer refugees re-training and long-term employment as interpreters. Ready and willing to learn, refugees are upskilling or converting skills through intensive courses and then matched with interpreter positions. Together we are empowering those who have overcome their own obstacles to help others do the same. We are also supporting refugees in other parts of Europe. In northern Norway, one ManpowerGroup client was struggling to fill manufacturing vacancies in the oil and gas industry I’ve gained self-confidence; I’m now responsible as a selfemployed interpreter with a recognized accreditation. INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R and since 2002 we have been working with the local refugee center to fill vacancies with people who are able to work, desperate to earn and eager to develop language skills. More than 450 people displaced from countries including Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Iran, Iraq, Somalia and Sudan have found work through the program. Through these and other dedicated refugee programs I feel better connected and integrated into Dutch Society, I can give something back to the Netherlands. D we are helping individuals utilize or develop new skills, find meaningful work, regain “ normalcy and rebuild their lives. SUSTAINABILITY BEGINS AT HOME “ Working with ManpowerGroup, we have found a trusted advisor who can help connect people with meaningful opportunities. We now have access to tools to help us identify refugees with the relevant skills, match them to vacancies and guide them as to what employers will expect from them. GOALS AND Dorine Manson, Managing Director, Dutch Council for Refugees PROGRESS 22 SUSTAINABILITY Integrating and Including AT WORK It’s Game Time! Going for Gold! Building Diverse and Inclusive Workforces at International Events In the summer of 2016 all eyes were on Rio de Janeiro as Brazil hosted one of the highest profile sporting events in the world. ManpowerGroup Brazil worked for PILLAR 1: months to fill 15,000 positions from highly skilled tennis line judges and broadcast media technicians to experienced customer service and food service workers. Our approach to doing well by doing good extended across the event: we created valuable work opportunities for people from local communities, attracted a diverse READY FOR WORK workforce through outreach in nearby favelas, and hired more than 150 people with disabilities to join the winning team supporting Brazil. PILLAR 2: T We didn’t just go for gold in Rio. Our track record goes back to the London 2012 Olympics where we recruited and trained more than 6,000 people from surrounding London boroughs, many young or unemployed. SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: AF And in 2015 we partnered with the Milan Expo, creating over 1,000 jobs, where one in ten positions were reserved for recently unemployed people, helping them build new skills. Supporting the local labor market is a key theme and providing employees with meaningful work experience and access to our MP4Talent e-learning program meant they were even better qualified to find roles after the crowds left Milan and the Expo came to an end. INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R SUSTAINABILITY D Of the 15,000 workers ManpowerGroup hired, BEGINS AT HOME more than 150 people with disabilities joined the winning team supporting Brazil. GOALS AND PROGRESS 23 SUSTAINABILITY Integrating and Including AT WORK A Tale of Three Cities Breaking Down Barriers in Madrid, Barcelona and Zaragoza Plenty of people are willing and able to work given the chance, yet we for over a decade. ManpowerGroup trains business mentors for clients PILLAR 1: still have some way to go before workforce participation for people with including Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Electrolux and Viacom, and finds the disabilities comes close to that of non-disabled people. Globally it stands best-fit diverse talent to help them meet obligations under the Spanish Law READY FOR WORK at 53% for men and 20% for women with disabilities, compared with 65% for Social Integration of the Disabled. and 30% for the non-disabled respectively.12 We also provide support throughout the six month internships including In Spain we have been helping individuals and organizations address this. 20 hours of coaching on topics such as communication and corporate PILLAR 2: Our Fundación ManpowerGroup INTEGRA Program has been training disabled university students in Barcelona, Madrid and Zaragoza T culture, guiding students towards sustainable employment and professional integration. SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: Playing the Long Game AF Mission Critical: Right Management U.K. Helps Service Leavers Adapt to Civilian Life Every year in the U.K. thousands of people leave the armed forces with a range of skills and experience, but service INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R men and women can find it hard to demonstrate the relevance of those skills for civilian roles. The Career Transition Partnership (CTP) – an agreement between the Ministry of Defence and Right Management U.K. – has provided resettlement services for 180,000 individuals transitioning from the Royal Navy, Army, Air Force and Marines to civilian life over the last decade. We have also supported thousands of organizations looking for inSUSTAINABILITY D demand skills to employ ex-military personnel including qualified engineers, managers and vocational drivers. The CTP helps people adjust to civilian life over a four year period which starts long before they leave and lasts for up to two years after. We advise people on their choices and preparation for a change of direction and offer training to upskill, reskill or adapt qualifications to civilian life. For example most military drivers don’t BEGINS AT HOME have the qualifications needed to drive commercially, so Manpower provides conversion training to achieve relevant qualifications supporting Royal Logistics Corps personnel to find work opportunities and begin the next chapter of their career. Our approach is working. Over 90% of all Service Leavers transitioning via the CTP are settled into a new civilian job role within six months. The partnership was recently extended for a further six years and now applies to Early Service GOALS AND Leavers too, whether they have served for six weeks or six years. PROGRESS 24 12 World Report on Disability, World Health Organization, 2011 SUSTAINABILITY AT WORK PILLAR 1: READY FOR WORK PILLAR 2: T SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: AF Sustainability INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R Begins at Home SUSTAINABILITY D BEGINS AT HOME ManpowerGroup Global Headquarters, Milwaukee Wisconsin — We employ almost 1,000 people. With this size of footprint we can make a significant, positive impact in our community. See page 27 GOALS AND PROGRESS 25 SUSTAINABILITY In Our Own Backyard AT WORK Making an Impact Every Day in the Community of Milwaukee Our business is about finding the best talent – so our clients succeed and so we create millions of opportunities that make a real difference in people’s lives in an increasingly unpredictable world. That’s what we mean when we talk about doing well by doing good. And it’s our own people PILLAR 1: who make all of this happen. At our global headquarters in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, we employ almost 1,000 people. With READY FOR WORK this size of footprint we can make a significant positive impact in our community – a responsibility we have taken seriously for nearly 70 years. Our local commitment is wide and varied. Every day of the year, we provide a home for community activities ranging from student mentoring, interview and resume coaching, weekly homework clubs, Dress for Success PILLAR 2: T sessions and university networking events on international work opportunities. We know that no matter the career path a person may take, soft skills and experience are SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: AF vital to move up, right from the start. Contact with employers gives tomorrow’s talent the edge in a competitive jobs market. Through our partnership with local Jesuit high school Cristo Rey we provide students with structured internships – four days of school and one day of work for a full year. We provide them with real work experience and contribute $27,000 towards the education of each student. Our people volunteer their time, knowledge and experience to support plenty of local initiatives INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R all over the world too. Employees who work for an organization that has purpose and creates meaningful impact for the communities in which it operates are three times as likely to be engaged than those that don’t13. Our annual global Power Awards also recognize those that have contributed to their community around the world because we’re proud that SUSTAINABILITY D sustainability really does begin at home. BEGINS AT HOME Employees who work for an organization that has purpose and creates meaningful impact for the communities in which it operates are three times as likely to be engaged than those that don’t12. GOALS AND PROGRESS 26 13 “How a Sense of Purpose Boosts Engagement,” Inc.Com, April 2014 SUSTAINABILITY Great People. Great Place. Great Results. AT WORK Our High Performing, Collaborative Learning Culture Our commitment to helping all of our people move up the career ladder and achieve their potential is important to us. That’s why we create a high performing, collaborative, learning culture at ManpowerGroup. Skills needs are changing rapidly so when it comes to training and development we practice what we preach. Nurturing the learnability of our people is a business priority so we can design and deliver solutions, develop strong pipelines of talent and progress career PILLAR 1: journeys that mean our people can enjoy bringing their best selves to work. READY FOR WORK MANPOWERGROUP PEOPLE AND CULTURE STRATEGY PILLAR 2: T #1 Global Workforce Solutions Company People & Culture High performance and collaborative culture with the capabilities that enable us to win SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: Attract Attracted and engaged by challenging work and I am Connect Connected to working collaboratively with AF Great People Develop Challenged and motivated to reach my Reward Accountable for my results, excited by Great Place Lead Trusted Workforce Experts, leveraging our Live Living our values, strengthening our We are Execute Executing against our vision and strategies with INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING by making a difference in a global collaborative organization my colleagues to R provide value to the clients, candidates and communities that I support fullest potential through the assignments, training and coaching I seek and receive differentiated rewards and inspired by a high performance culture deep knowledge of human potential to provide our clients with innovative workforce solutions winning culture and proudly creating the ManpowerGroup Experience everyday focus, discipline and speed SUSTAINABILITY D Great People Processes Great Leadership Great Results “ BEGINS AT HOME “ A culture of high performing, collaborative learning in a diverse, purpose-driven organization is a key driver of our business performance. That’s why People and Culture is one of our enablers to GOALS AND accelerate us to the #1 Global Workforce Solutions Company. PROGRESS Lisa Banner, Senior Vice President of People & Culture, ManpowerGroup 27 SUSTAINABILITY AT WORK The Sky’s the Limit Accelerating our Emerging Leaders “ PILLAR 1: Building a sustainable pipeline of leaders globally is critical to the future success of all organizations. Our business is no different, so in 2014 we launched our Emerging Leader READY FOR WORK Experience. The program focuses on identifying and developing the skills of our emerging leaders and is a key part of ManpowerGroup’s succession planning It’s a fantastic environment for growth “ across our family of brands. Stretch assignments, development tools, executive coaching providing expanded experiences, PILLAR 2: and mentoring span the three-year program building leadership capabilities and providing on-the-job experience. T Already we are seeing success. Overall engagement is 11 percentage points higher among support, exposure, diversity of thought, training and challenges to help navigate SKILLING UP AF Emerging Leaders than the rest of the organization. Their intent to stay 3+ years is 20 percentage points higher and preference to remain with us if offered a comparable position is 12 points higher. All of the program participants are progressing in their careers and 80% will be in a new role by the end of 2016. The next cohort of Emerging Leaders are raring to go. and aid in my personal development. Chris Rowland, moved from RPO operations role to Global Diversity Officer, ManpowerGroup “ PILLAR 3: INTEGRATING AND R “ The executive sponsorship and mentors who have been there to INCLUDING listen and help me develop the competencies I need have been most SUSTAINABILITY D important. The significant exposure to and commitment from the most senior executives of our organization has been invaluable. Sarah Peiker, moved from U.S. country role to VP ManpowerGroup Solutions, Europe BEGINS AT HOME GOALS AND PROGRESS 28 SUSTAINABILITY AT WORK Conscious Inclusion is Parity Begins at Home about ensuring all people feel invited in and their Shifting the ManpowerGroup Needle for Women Leaders human potential is valued. Our leadership at the World Economic Forum and active role on their Gender Parity PILLAR 1: 07 Council means we are all too aware that organizations are stuck in a circular BE ACCOUNTABLE; SET MEASURABLE conversation about why we don’t have enough women in leadership. There has AND ACHIEVABLE OUTCOMES READY FOR WORK 06 been a great deal of talk, but not enough action. Macro numbers and averages are not BE EXPLICIT; WOMEN WHEN AND WHERE? enough and can result in “pink ghettos” with women in HR, communications and support positions instead of P&L and staff roles. That’s why in 2015 we commissioned research across 25 countries, inside and outside of our organization, to understand the barriers women face getting into T 05 PROMOTE A CULTURE OF CONSCIOUS INCLUSION; PROGRAMS ALONE DON’T WORK PILLAR 2: 04 leadership, and importantly to identify Seven Practical Steps to shift the needle HIRE PEOPLE WHO VALUE PEOPLE SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: and accelerate more women into leadership positions. AF At ManpowerGroup, our leaders are committed to a culture of Conscious Inclusion. Our Chairman and CEO Jonas Prising has articulated his talent legacy: an all-male succession bench isn’t going to cut it. Personal letters to the Key Leadership Team prioritized 03 FLIP THE QUESTION – ASK, “WHY NOT?” ? 02 succession planning and gender diversity as a critical part of our INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R People and Culture strategy. He has been explicit about where we want women to progress and by when, setting clear and measureable goals for business: by 2020, 40% of our Executive Leadership Team and Key Leadership Team roles will be held LEADERSHIP HAS TO OWN IT; DON’T DELEGATE IT D 01 by women. CHANGE YOURSELF FIRST SUSTAINABILITY “ “ BEGINS AT HOME I had to develop a different mindset — a lot of of my senior managers are of different genders and generations. I had to learn to trust and look at outputs, not time on the phone or time spent talking to people. We have to be prepared to change. GOALS AND Male Established Leader, ManpowerGroup Europe PROGRESS 29 SUSTAINABILITY AT WORK PILLAR 1: READY FOR WORK “ Many of the rotational programs I was looking at after graduation focused in only one vertical like finance or HR. I was thrilled to learn ManpowerGroup had a rotational program that touched many business key areas. The education, exposure and experiences I have received have been phenomenal. Halley Shaw, PowerUp graduate, Experis, ManpowerGroup Solutions, Global HR, North America Finance, ManpowerGroup Put Your Money Where Your Learning Is Grad Programs So Millennials Develop Skills to Stay Employable Millennials seek progression, not always promotion14, so investing in training and creating ways to learn on the job and move around the organization is a sure way to appeal. To harness the appetite of our own young people we launched our European Graduate Program in 2014. Successful applicants participate in “ the two-year experience that develops new skills working on national, regional and global assignments. They enjoy role rotations, mentoring PILLAR 2: T and valuable exposure to senior leaders and peers in other locations and brands. So far, graduates have progressed into a variety of roles in marketing, operations and IT in countries across Europe. In many of our key markets, including France, Sweden and the U.K., we deliver National Graduate Programs, providing country experience and exposure to SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: AF develop talent and build skills. In the U.K. our nine month High-Potential Graduate Program combines mentoring, training and practical experience specifically designed to nurture learnability in innovation, self management, collaboration, networking, influencing and personal brand. In the United States, our PowerUP Professionals Program spans two years and offers new graduates rotations across brands and functions from HR, technology, data analytics and finance. Participants build important relationships and experience across our broad business exploring where their passion and interests lie. All of our Millennial learners carve new career paths in roles they may never have considered. INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING New Ways of Learning are Emerging ManpowerGroup’s Global Learning Platform, powerYOU R SUSTAINABILITY D As skills needs change we encourage learnability within our own organization by making learning easy and sign-posting in-demand skills development. Our sustainable learning culture is a long-term one. We have been providing online training since 1998 and in 2015 we relaunched our digital learning platform, powerYou, to include responsive design, Our 59,000 active employees and associates BEGINS AT HOME 7,500 mobile and tablet versions. are using more than At any one time we have 59,000 active learners using more than 7,500 virtual and blended learning courses tailored by brand, geography and career stage. Courses range virtual and blended learning courses from negotiation and management to the latest training in IT infrastructure. Content is tailored by brand, geography and career stage. GOALS AND delivered in bite size chunks and continually updated, so our people can learn how, when and what they want. PROGRESS 30 14 Millennial Careers: 2020 Vision, ManpowerGroup, May 2016 SUSTAINABILITY Walking the Talk Building Capabilities through Career Conversations AT WORK Eighty-two percent of people would be more engaged if their manager incorporated career conversations into their day-to-day reporting process15. So to attract and retain the brightest, career conversations are a critical part of performance management – not just a single conversation between an employee and their manager, but a series of conversations with a wider network of people designed to address the things employees care most about. PILLAR 1: At ManpowerGroup ongoing career conversations between managers, our people and their broader network are an essential part of our collaborative learning culture. We develop coaching skills so our people can have effective career conversations and we share this insight with our clients too. READY FOR WORK PILLAR 2: Doing Well AND Doing Good Rewarding Top Performance with Real Purpose T SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: Doing well by doing good is a key driver of business performance and one India and Brazil say working for employers who are socially responsible and aligned to their values is important16 and a majority of Millennials everywhere say purpose is a priority. For the generation following AF of the reasons we attract the best talent. Eight in ten Millennials in Mexico, Millennials, Generation Z, almost half say that in choosing a job they would INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R rank working for a company that helps make the world a better place as important a consideration as salary17. That’s why in Europe, ManpowerGroup’s biggest market, we recognize SUSTAINABILITY D excellent performance with life-changing opportunities, allowing our top talent to share expertise and make a positive contribution to local communities. Each year our best performing employees have headed to South Africa to support the Maharishi Institute, providing disadvantaged young people with the opportunity to reshape their future BEGINS AT HOME through higher education. Our people bring core ManpowerGroup expertise and personal development tools to where it is most needed. GOALS AND PROGRESS 15 Career Conversations, Right Management, April 2016 16 Millennial Careers: 2020 Vision, ManpowerGroup, May 2016 17 Survey of Generation Z in the US, salt Communications, June 2015 31 SUSTAINABILITY AT WORK Moving from Conversation to Action Shifting the Needle Through Thought Leadership and Insight We know the issues that matter most to people and business. PILLAR 1: Through our industry-leading thought leadership we help organizations to anticipate world of work opportunities READY FOR WORK and challenges – managing Millennials, overcoming talent shortages, identifying future skills and accelerating progress to parity for women in leadership. PILLAR 2: We survey 66,000 employers in 42 countries and territories to understand hiring intentions across industry sectors. Our Manpower Employment Outlook Survey is used as a labor T SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: market barometer by many government departments including Bank of England. As well as research and insight, we provide practical solutions to help shift the needle from conversation to action. We play a leadership role with global trade organization Ciett to set the highest standards for our industry. Our AF INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R executives devote time and strategic guidance to organizations like the World Economic Forum and their Councils on Gender Parity, Education and Employment, Skills and Human Capital, and Labor Mobility. Through this activity we help other Jonas Prising, ManpowerGroup Chairman & CEO at the World Economic Forum’s “Progress Towards Parity” session, Davos, Switzerland, January 2016. Panelists also included Melinda Gates, Sheryl Sandberg, Zhang Xin and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. SUSTAINABILITY D organizations do well by doing good — engaging with business, political, academic and other leaders to address global issues like gender parity, youth employment and equipping people with the skills needed for the future. BEGINS AT HOME GOALS AND PROGRESS “ Our thought leadership provides practical solutions to address global issues. “ 32 SUSTAINABILITY The Inside Story on Award-Winning Ethical Standards Leading our Organization and our Industry AT WORK Q&A with Richard Buchband, ManpowerGroup General Counsel a ManpowerGroup has earned numerous process. We also share our policies with our PILLAR 1: distinctions for demonstrating commitment to clients and require suppliers to sign our Supplier ethics. How have you accomplished that? Code of Conduct. READY FOR WORK From the very beginning, our strong ethical Refreshing ManpowerGroup’s global policies in all foundation has been at the core of ManpowerGroup areas is important, so in 2015 we supplemented operations. Ethics runs throughout our organization; We were the first corporation to sign the Athens our Anti-Corruption Policy to reflect trends and our leaders set the tone, but every person plays a Ethical Principles, a voluntary business code of PILLAR 2: role in keeping our ethical compass firmly in place. Our employees are proud of our industry-leading position; we are consistently included in the Dow T best practices. Staying current with changing regulations across our global organization can be complex, but I’m proud we do this well. We work ethics to combat human trafficking and our efforts to engage more companies resulted in several thousand organizations becoming signatories SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: Jones Sustainability Index and the FTSE4Good Index, and we are the only company in our industry that has been named to both the World’s Most Ethical Companies and Fortune’s World’s Most Admired Companies. These recognitions are a testament to our people and our values. AF hard to lead by example. ManpowerGroup often talks about bringing core expertise and partnering with others who bring their own complementary expertise. Who do you partner with and how do you lead by example? either directly or through the commitment of an industry federation. We partnered with Verite´, an international NGO focused on supply chain responsibility and sustainability, to develop “An Ethical Framework for Cross-Border Labor Recruitment”. The framework, INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING ManpowerGroup is a diverse organization operating across 80 countries and territories, with thousands of clients and supplier partners. How do you ensure global R As an industry leader we set high standards for ourselves and others. Our core business practices are designed to protect and promote fundamental human rights at work – providing fair employment, which is based on our standard practices, has been used by private and public organizations to assess their exposure to risk in their supply chains, and was incorporated into the U.S. Government’s SUSTAINABILITY ethical standards? D compliance with ManpowerGroup’s We’ve rolled out tailored digital training to ensure it’s clear and simple for our employees around the world to understand and follow our Code of safe working conditions and data privacy. We’ve positioned ourselves strategically to promote meaningful work and sustainable employment. We play a leadership role in Ciett, our global Executive Order Strengthening Protections in Federal Contracts. It’s great to see the impact that our work can have on so many. What are you most proud of as BEGINS AT HOME Business Conduct and Ethics and other policies. industry trade association, and that has helped us ManpowerGroup General Counsel? We have a near-perfect training completion rate develop relationships with the International Labour Organization, the European Commission and other For nearly 70 years we have created access to across our 80+ global markets and aim to improve government agencies. Our partnership with the opportunities in the communities where we work further – so we are all sharing this responsibility. World Economic Forum allows us to elevate the and live. Our people go to work each day knowing We use our ManpowerGroup Annual People conversation about talent sustainability to a world they are making a contribution and they tell us that Survey to take a pulse on ethical awareness and GOALS AND stage, providing practical solutions and guidance to our purpose-driven culture is a key motivator. To culture from the bottom up and conduct periodic me, that really is doing well by doing good. PROGRESS risk assessments as part of our Internal Controls organizations and businesses. 33 SUSTAINABILITY AT WORK How We Know We Are Getting It Right Measuring Our Performance At ManpowerGroup doing well by doing good is demonstrated by more than business performance. Our ManpowerGroup Annual People Survey and Net Promoter System process give us the metrics to ensure our people are engaged and developing, and that we are delivering a great experience to our PILLAR 1: clients and candidates. This is how we will continue to deliver value to our shareholders and grow the bottom line. READY FOR WORK Delivering a great experience... Operating effectively Engaged and developing... and profitably... PILLAR 2: T SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: Our clients and candidates tell us we are delivering a great experience AF Our performance tells us we are operating effectively and profitably Our people tell us they are engaged and developing INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING HOW WE MEASURE R HOW WE MEASURE HOW WE MEASURE SUSTAINABILITY • Client and Candidate Net Promoter System • Revenues • Client portfolio D • Revenues • Operating profit • Earnings per share • ManpowerGroup Annual People Survey • Employee retention • Internal promotions • Employee Net Promoter System BEGINS AT HOME GOALS AND PROGRESS 34 ManpowerGroup Annual People Survey SUSTAINABILITY Valued Feedback from More Than 22,000 Employees AT WORK “Manpower has offered me courses that will help Developing “I LOVE THE develop my skills and Learnability through TRAINING AND PILLAR 1: obtain qualifications to further my career.” Education and Training DEVELOPMENT. Growing Learnability I WILL ALWAYS READY FOR WORK through Global “ I have learned so much. We have REFER TO “ resources and a culture that put us in touch MANPOWERGROUP Opportunities “ ManpowerGroup's with our managers and other professionals global presence in the company that serve as coaches and AS A FANTASTIC PILLAR 2: provides a wide range of job opportunities within my country and T mentors for our career paths.” PLACE TO LEARN.” SKILLING UP I LIKE THAT MANPOWERGROUP anywhere in the world. ” “I appreciate AF Developing Pride through our Culture of Doing Well By Doing Good “ HAS SUCH A working for a “collaborative This is the most PILLAR 3: environment LARGE GLOBAL large, multiI have ever worked in. THE COMPANY INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING FOOTPRINT. I FEEL CONFIDENT THAT I CAN R national company. This organization provides many opportunities There is a culture within the company that makes you feel as though you are part of a community which is all in it together. ” ENCOURAGES DIVERSITY AND MAKES EVERYONE FEEL LIKE THERE IS A SUSTAINABILITY ACHIEVE MANY OF MY FUTURE CAREER GOALS IN A VARIETY OF D that enhance my career goals.” “ManpowerGroup is an ethical company and I can trust our PLACE FOR THEM. IT’S A SAFE ENVIRONMENT FOR EMPLOYEES TO BE THEIR TRUE AND BEGINS AT HOME INDUSTRIES.” leadership.” AUTHENTIC SELVES.” Supporting Work “ManpowerGroup is a company “ I feel proud to work for an organization that respects family, GOALS AND and Life through that promotes a healthy work/life flexibility and allows you to share your ideas and be innovative. ” PROGRESS Flexible Working balance.” 35 SUSTAINABILITY AT WORK PILLAR 1: READY FOR WORK PILLAR 2: T SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: AF INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING R SUSTAINABILITY D Our Data Highlights — We are continually reviewing the data we report to ensure we are measuring the indicators BEGINS AT HOME most important to our stakeholders and aligned to sustainability reporting best practice guidelines. See page 38 GOALS AND PROGRESS 37 SUSTAINABILITY We are continually reviewing the data we report to ensure we are measuring the indicators most important to our stakeholders and aligned to sustainability reporting best practice guidelines. More detail on our approach to reporting, along with our GRI Index and full sustainability datasheets, is available here. AT WORK Our Goals How We Measure What We Accomplished Progress PILLAR 1: • Global partnership framework established with Junior Achievement • Investments in programs • Employability programs and partnerships in all key markets NURTURE and partnerships READY FOR WORK LEARNABILITY FOR • $70 million invested in employability programs and partnerships in EMPLOYABILITY • Employability outcomes key markets (NEW) • Developing framework for tracking and measuring outcomes from programs and partnerships PILLAR 2: • Recognitions and accolades • Spend covered by Supplier T • Consistant recgonitions: Ethisphere’s World’s Most Ethical Companies, Fortune’s World’s Most Admired Companies, Dow Jones Sustainability Index, FTSE4Good Index, EcoVadis Gold CSR rating SKILLING UP PILLAR 3: MOST TRUSTED BRAND Code of Conduct • Employee volunteering in key markets • Environmental performance AF • Recognized in The Sustainability Yearbook 2016 from RobecoSAM • Supplier Code of Conduct rolled out across all markets • Employee volunteering in key markets increased by 20% • Reduced energy usage in offices and greenhouse gas emissions • Client NPS programs rolled out across all key markets, representing 80%+ INTEGRATING AND INCLUDING THE BRANDS FOR IN-DEMAND TALENT R • Client, Candidate and Employee Net Promoter Scores (NPS) of business • Candidate NPS rolled out in key markets • Employee NPS piloting across North America SUSTAINABILITY WINNING CULTURE WITH THE CAPABILITIES D • ManpowerGroup Annual People Survey (MAPS) culture and capabilities indices • MAPS winning culture scores increased across all indices: collaborative, performance-based, trusted and ethical, fast and agile • MAPS capabilities index score increased by 5.5% BEGINS AT HOME TO ACCELERATE • Advancing women into key • Specific goals to achieve gender parity in key leadership succession plans PERFORMANCE leadership roles • Increased percentage of midand senior-level openings filled through internal • Internal promotions promotions HIGHLY ENGAGED • Achieved all-time high employee engagement score since adoption of MAPS • MAPS engagement index GOALS AND WORKFORCE WITH ABOVE AVERAGE • Increased focus on measuring and addressing retention across key markets, • Retention rate using enhanced MAPS analytics to understand key drivers RETENTION PROGRESS 38
