SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 2015 A COMMITMENT THAT FLOWS Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT G4-1 With great pride, and for the eleventh consecutive year, I present Aguas Andinas’ Sustainability Report open relations with all our unions based on mutual trust. The second milestone of the year was the early corresponding to 2015 management. Through this annual act of transparency, we reaffirm our commitment retirement program, which a total of 76 workers accepted. to key stakeholders, to account for the company’s performance on economic, social and environmental issues, and to follow the ten principles that promote the United Nations global compact on matters of human #USALOQUENECESITAS (UseWhatYouNeed) rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, an initiative we’ve adhered to since 2009. That said, just as important as producing internal changes or building large projects is educating our customers about responsible water use. In 2015 we did not cease in our efforts to promote new initiatives In 2015 we had to face the cruelty of natural disasters, increasingly frequent in the country. In just over a such as the water dome, or strengthen existing ones, like our Gotagotham educational program. With the year, we were present as 8 catastrophes affected the country. All of us who work at Aguas Andinas are public same objective, and approaching the COP 21 climate summit, we ended 2015 with our recent campaign of servants, and we “go to bat” for our customers, always looking to go further. responsible water use and climate change #usaloquenecesitas (#usewhatyouneed), deployed in central areas of the city, which was received positively by Santiago residents. CLIMATE CHANGE As you will see, all our initiatives are embedded in the heart of sustainability, as they all have a positive impact Climate change and the effects of the drought were felt for the sixth consecutive year. Fortunately, the on the environmental, economic and social performance of our company and the country. Validation of the phenomenon of the “Godzilla” El Niño gave us a break on water availability, recovering a large deficit of water company’s new sustainability strategy, along with the adoption of new policies and procedures on corporate and snow. As a result, today we have greater availability to ensure supplies for the coming seasons. However, governance linked to standard 385, also indicate important progress in this area. as experts warn that dry periods will become more intense and frequent, we defined a strategic plan for the 2015-2020 five-year period and a 2015-2030 drought and climate change plan, with a focus on long-term resource sustainability. The 2015-2020 strategic plan involves not only big investments but also transformations at the organizational and cultural levels, for the company to be flexible in responding effectively to these challenges. Organizational changes involved the creation of new deputy directors, the merging of teams, and the consolidation of a new and more systematic work methodology. Meanwhile, the cultural transformation involved a process of internal reflection of a large percentage of the company’s employees, generating as a result a redefinition of the vision, corporate purposes and principles. In labor news, the major milestone of 2015 was the anticipated collective bargaining with two-thirds of the company’s negotiators. This event was a true reflection of the investment made by the company to maintain 2 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 I can not fail to mention that during the first semester of 2015, as part of an investigation initiated by the Public Ministry, Aguas Andinas was required by the National Prosecuting Authority and the Internal Revenue Service to provide accounting records related to bills and invoices issued in 2010. In that application the company voluntarily provided all the required information, began and internal investigation and decided to rectify its declaration of expenditures to the Internal Revenue Service. Likewise, Aguas Andinas adopted internal measures necessary to strengthen management control. Aguas Andinas has not received any other requirement related to this issue. CHALLENGES 2016 will see new regulations, more demands, and the uncertainty of climate change, on top of an adverse global economic outlook. With responsibility and conviction, we will present our point of view, because sustainable development needs companies that are able to meet their commitments and ours is the most vital of all. Reflected in this work are the awards received this past year, such as our honorable mention in Prohumana’s ranking on corporate sustainability, the award for the company with the greatest value creation in the energy and basic services sector in the ranking done jointly by the Santander Global Banking & Markets and Capital magazine, and our entry into the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for emerging markets and for Chile. Thus, with the same strength and desire to be a better company for our customers, we will continue working for the city’s operations and to bring wellbeing to its people, seeking to become leaders in environmental sustainability in Chile, and ensuring water for future generations. Felipe Larrain President Aguas Andinas 3 2015 Milestones Cap. 01 / Cap. 02 / Cap. 03 / We are Aguas Andinas Aguas Andinas in the Industry Environmentally Efficient and Respectful Context Operations 2015 MILESTONES/ 07 1.1. Company profile 09 2.1. Aguas Andinas in the Industry Context 26 3.1 Major Initiatives 2015-2020 Plan of 39 1.2. Corporate strategy 13 2.2. Enhancing collaboration and dialogue Operations 1.3. Corporate Governance 18 2.3. Comprehensive operations 31 3.2. The integrated water cycle 40 1.4. Transformation Program 21 2.4. Promoting innovation 32 3.3. The Carbon Footprint in the water cycle 44 1.5. Excellence Plan 22 33 3.4. Environmental protection 49 Cap. 04 / Cap. 05 / Cap. 06 / Customer Service Responsibility Labor Practices Supply Chain Responsibility 4.1. Customer strategy 2015-2020 53 5.1. Allocation 68 6.1. Transforming the purchasing function 80 4.2. Service experience 55 5.2. Integrated Talent Management 69 6.2. Supplier Management and Contracts 81 4.3. Transparency, safety and efficiency in 56 5.3. Diversity and equal opportunities 72 6.3. Promoting responsible conduct in the 84 business processes 5.4. Labor relations 74 supply chain 4.4. Perception and customer satisfaction 59 5.5. Health and safety 76 4.5. Quality and continuity of service 61 4.6. Awareness of the value of water 62 4.7. Relationship with vulnerable customers 65 Cap. 07 / Cap. 08 / Cap. 09 / Responsibility to Neighboring Economic and Financial Performance About this Report Communities 7.1. Management of community impacts 88 8.1. Economic Performance 95 9.1. Report scope and profile 99 7.2. Supporting local development 92 8.2. Fines and noncompliance 97 9.2. GRI Index of contents 101 7.3. National Rural Potable Water Program 93 9.3. Letter from the auditor 110 (APR) Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 G4-5 y G4-31 Aguas Andinas S.A R.U.T.: 61.808.000 5 Legal address: Av. Presidente Balmaceda N°1398 Santiago, Chile. Phone: (56-2) 2688 1000 Fax: (56-2) 2569 2777 Management Office: 1537 Santiago. Website: www.aguasandinas.cl If you have questions, comments or suggestions about this report you can contact:: • Sustainable Development Area Mail: reportesostenibilidad@aguasandinas.cl Phone: (+562) 2569 2316 5 2015 Milestones Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report / 2015 2015 MILESTONES Organizational and cultural transformation, with new vision, values, and principles Review of Sustainability Strategy -Corporate governance -Operational continuity and -Labor practices -Responsibility with neighboring • Launch of online ethical complaints channel efficiency • Collective negotiation communities • Compendium of Corporate Governance • Pirque Pond • Variable compensation by objectives (DEO) • Avanza (“Advance”) Program / incorporation of policies and procedures neighbors in supply chain • 2015-2030 Drought and Climate Change Plan • Community strategy • 2015-2020 Investment Plan • Report to the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) -Economic performance -Customer Responsibility -Supply Chain Responsibility • DJSI • New Management for Customer Experience • Bond issuance • New platforms • Redesign of Purchasing Plan • New information and transparency platform for • Collections management: Under 3 types / • Supplier portal investors Decrease in Complaints for service cuts • Open Gecon Day • Inclusion in the Euronext Vigeo Indices 7 Chap 01 We Are Aguas Andinas Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 WE ARE AGUAS ANDINAS 1.1. Company profile G4-3, G4-4, G4-6 The Aguas Group is composed of nine companies all related to the sanitation market.. Aguas Andinas S.A., Aguas Cordillera S.A., Aguas Manquehue S.A. and Empresa de Servicios Sanitarios de Los Lagos S.A. (ESSAL) are all concessionaires of sanitation services, subject to legislation that regulates the sector. These companies provide services including production and distribution of potable water, collection and disposal of wastewater, and other services related to those activities. The four remaining companies offer services related to liquid industrial waste; commercialization of materials and nonconventional renewable energies; laboratory analysis, and the development of energy projects related to the sanitation sector. Aguas Andinas is the largest sanitary company in the country and one of the more important in Latin America. It is responsible for the supply of potable water and sewage collection for the majority of the city of Santiago de Chile. For the purposes of this Report, when reference is made to Aguas Andinas it will include Aguas Andinas S.A., Aguas Cordillera S.A. and Aguas Manquehue S.A. ESSAL is not included in the analysis, nor are the non-regulated subsidiaries. 9 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 1.1.1. Our key figures in 2014 2015 Total customers Number of customers by company 2014 2015 G4-8, G4-9 Aguas Andinas is a company with a workforce of 2013 2014 2015 1,193 professional and dedicated workers who each day strive to guarantee the quality and continuity Potable Water Sewage Service Potable Water Sewage Service of service for all of its customers. The company is responsible for the supply of potable water 916 930 933 Aguas Andinas 1.726.529 1.689.214 1.768.892 1.729.802 and sewage service to the Metropolitan Region, Aguas Cordillera 148.160 145.556 152.464 149.849 especially in the concession zone located in the Santiago watershed, which includes one of the areas Aguas Manquehue 10.960 10.567 12.285 11.832 with the highest concentration of people in the country. 265 278 260 Consolidated number of customers1 In 2015, Aguas Andinas’ clients, broken down by 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 residential, commercial and industrial, reached a Potable Water 1.966.639 1.984.132 2.039.298 2.096.999 2.149.673 total of 2,149,673 for potable water and a total of 2,096,347 for sewage service, with the company Sewage Service 1.913.081 1.943.788 1.999.419 2.045.634 2.096.347 billing a combined 562,187 m3 of potable water and 542,921 m3 of wastewater. 1.181 1.208 1.193 Cubic meters billed 2015 Number of subsidies 2011 117.634 2012 117.009 Potable Water Sewage Service 2013 110.305 Aguas Andinas 455.371 432.841 2014 113.385 Aguas Cordillera 66.313 63.799 2015 113.284 Aguas Manquehue 13.913 12.333 1 Las cifras contenidas en esta tabla consideran los clientes de ESSAL S.A. 10 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report / 2015 1.1.2. Ownership and control of Aguas Andinas G4-7, G4-13, G4-17 Sociedad General de Aguas de Barcelona (AGBAR) is the controlling and strategic company of Aguas Andinas, since it indirectly controls 5,00% 2,47% 56.6% of the assets of Inversiones Aguas CORFO AFP Metropolitanas S.A. (IAM), a company which in 8,54% Til-Til Stockbrokers turn owns 50.1% of the shares in Aguas Andinas S.A. 9,52% Colina With more than 145 years of history, AGBAR is an Others international leader in management of water and Lampa the environment, with a presence in 24 countries, in which it serves 25.6 million people daily. 24,37% Curacaví International Pudahuel 100% of AGBAR is controlled by Suez Shareholders Environnement España S.L., a company María Pinto San José El Canelo belonging to the Suez Group. With more than de Maipo Las Vertientes Guayacán La Obra 120 years of experience and more than 79,000 Padre Hurtado El Manzano employees, the Suez Group is a global leader in 50,10% Peñaflor IAM Malloco Calera de tango water and waste management and is present in Pirque El Monte Talagante more than 70 countries. Alto Jahuel Pomaire Buín Isla de Maipo Linderos Melipilla San Gabriel Maipo Paine 82,64996% 99% 99,03846% 97,84783% 99,99990% 99,99998% 0,00002% IBERAGUAS LTDA. 51% 99,99990% 8,37904% 1% 0,96384% 2,15217% Aguas Andinas 8,971% 2,51% Aguas Cordilleras 0,00043% Aguas Manquehue Disposición de Aguas Servidas For more information on the company’s ownership and financial statements, please review the Aguas Andinas S.A. Financial Report, page 108. 11 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 1.1.3. Tariffs for the 2015-2020 period OECD Tariffs Chile tariffs Current tariffs for Aguas Andinas, Aguas Cordillera Tariffs by cubic meter (potable water and sewage service) in US$/m3 Tariffs by cubic meter and Aguas Manquehue were set in the tariff-setting (potable water, sewage service and wastewater treatment services) process corresponding to the 2015/2020 period, In US$/m3 under the provisions of the Tariffs Law governing the sanitation sector (D.F.L. MOP N°70/1988). The tariff process is technical and considers a series of Seoul, South Korea 1,24 phases, all public knowledge. The first phase is the Maipú 1,06 Rome, Italy 1,36 1,34 formulation of the base level, in which all parties Greater Santiago Santiago, Chile 1,39 Concepción 1,55 that have a direct interest can make observations. Once the basis is defined, both the company and Athens, Greece 1,62 Rancagua 1,64 the Superintendency develop their proposals within Stockholm, Sweden 2,33 La Serena 1,9 an established period, which are then exchanged. Madrid, Spain 2,56 Talca 1,92 The company formulates observations that can Washington D.C., U.S. 2,74 Temuco 1,95 be accepted or rejected by the Superintendency. Mexico City, Mexico 3,23 Valdivia 1,95 The law contemplates a negotiation process and a London, United Kingdom 3,65 Valparaíso 2,02 Committee of Experts in the event the parties do not Arica 2,05 Paris, France 3,88 succeed in resolving discrepancies. Puerto Montt 2,26 Ottawa, Canada 5,12 Punta Arenas 2,3 The current tariff process ended in agreement and Copenhagen, Denmark 5,33 Iquique 2,38 determined that for the 2015-2019 period, Aguas Sidney, Australia 5,93 Copiapó 2,69 Andinas and Aguas Cordillera will maintain the Berlin, Germany 6,6 Antofagasta 2,94 base tariffs for potable water, sewage service and Oslo, Norway 7,09 Coyhaique 3,17 wastewater treatment services, while for Aguas Manquehue tariffs would be lowered by 5%. In accordance with information published by the SISS, the tariffs for Aguas Andinas’ potable water and sewage Source: SISS 2014 Management Report. Dates as of December 31, 2014, 1 Source: SISS 2014 Management Report. Dates as of December 31, services (in cubic meter/ US$) are the lowest at the UF equal to $ 24,627.1 and 1 US$ equal to $ 607.38. 2014, 1 UF equal to $ 24.627,1 and 1 US$ equal to $ 607.38. national level and one of the lowest among OECD countries (Report of Sanitation Sector Management 2014, p. 59) 12 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 Our challenges in 2015-2020 Seven keys for the next five-year period 1.2. Corporate strategy To implement the Strategic Plan, an investment plan was designed where water service will account 1.2.1. 2015-2020 Challenges 1 Strengthening the security and continuity of potable water and wastewater. for 60% of the total, equivalent to US$545 million. Wastewater service will make up the remaining Looking to keep up with changes and new US$345 million. requirements, Aguas Andinas designed a strategic our operations, introducing new technologies into the plan for the next five years, which puts the customer at the center of its work, to seek out and respond to 2 Modernizing management of our operating centers. Major investments in 2015-2020 their expectations and needs. This plan called Our Challenges 20152020 involves investments amounting to US$890 million, 3 Expanding our ability to serve our customers and be closer to them. Potable Water Wastewater which aim to strengthen the security and continuity services services of potable water services; modernize the company’s business processes; enhance its service platforms to provide a more personalized and efficient service; and strengthen teamwork, among others. 4 Improving the skills and competencies of Aguas Group employees. Replenishment and operational US$280 millions US$130 millions improvement plans Growth, security and US$265 US$215 5 Speeding up the company’s response time to customer needs. quality of service millions millions Total US$890 millions 6 Strengthening our links with our communities and neighbors. 7 Consolidating a relationship of trust with our suppliers. 13 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 1.2.2. New vision and purpose Aguas Andinas Vision Aguas Andinas Purpose Become a leader We work for In order to move towards a more efficient and functional structure to the challenges imposed, the company initiated a process of Organizational and Cultural Transformation focused on finding efficiencies through: the modernization process; reorganization of areas that are key and critical to the customer experience and value chain; introduction of new forms of work in environmental the proper better linked to a matrix organization; among the main ones. Culturally, the company launched an internal reflection that sustainability in functioning of culminated in a new corporate vision setting new and greater challenges for the company in terms of business sustainability, both today and for the future. The process was thorough and Chile, ensuring the city and the involved the participation of not only the company’s senior executives but also its employees. water for future wellbeing of its With that, the company’s vision was changed for its workers and internal operations, and the company’s role was redefined in the face of its customers, suppliers, contractors, neighbors and the generations. residents. wider community, thus resulting in the new purpose of Aguas Andinas . 14 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 1.2.3. New sustainability strategy Sustainability Strategy Aguas Andinas In this context, in 2015 Aguas Andinas reflected upon its corporate sustainability policy, where it is The company also initiated a review of its sustainability strategy, with the goal of identifying, Promoting an Protection, Quality, service committed to developing the business managing and mitigating the impacts and risks ethical and development availability and to ensure sustainable development to the company in the new economic, social and transparent and satisfaction for of its major stakeholders, serving a number of premises in the performance environmental surroundings, as well as maximizing culture commitment our customers of their activities. benefits and opportunities for Aguas Andinas and its stakeholders. As a result of the evaluation, during of our talents Sustainability Policy Aguas 2015 a new strategy and sustainability policy was Andinas developed. The company recognizes its role as Among the challenges of this new sustainability a provider of a basic and essential strategy is developing new KPIS and commitments service for the population, and in this linked to the expectations of stakeholders defined Maintaining Efficient and Development sense, understands the importance of by the company, and transforming practices into policies, among the main points. fair and environmenof our integrating its beliefs transversely in responsible tally friendly neighboring all of its day-to-day activities. Through relationships operations communities dialogue and continuous improvement, it will ensure improved quality of life with our to our and the harmonious development of suppliers and operational its employees, customers, shareholders contractors facilities and strategic partners. Both the sustainability strategy and policy of Aguas Andinas were finalized in 2015, but its final validation was postponed to the first quarter of 2016, so that it is the company’s Board of Directors who will issue final approval for both statements. 15 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 1.2.4. Stakeholders and memberships Stakeholder Method of communication Main areas of concern G4-15, G4-16, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26. G4-27 The definition of the company’s primary interest • Bulletin Board groups is based on the influence each of them have • Mailings Career development and training; equal on the company and the impact the company has • Internal Campaigns opportunities; good working conditions and Employees communication; health and safety. on them. • Water TV •Newspapers and institutional magazines The company therefore understands the • Work meetings importance of maintaining regular and transparent communications with its key stakeholders, for which • Contact Center and web platforms Service quality and continuity; customer service, it uses different communication channels that allow • Commercial Agencies attention channels, and , attention channels and it to transmit information along with collecting Customers • Bills complaint management; transparency and accuracy perceptions and expectations. • Perception and satisfaction surveys in collection. The company communication with each of its • Investors website Profitability; investment stability; corporate stakeholders varies depending on the channel Shareholders • People in charge of investor relations governance practices; risk management; available, and the relationship strategy that the • Shareholders meeting transparency. company has defined for that group. • Suppliers portal (web platform) Transparent and fair conditions; timely payment; Suppliers and contractors • Relations with contract administrators growth opportunities. • Relations with risk prevention area • Work meetings Regulatory compliance; collaborative relationships; Authorities • Reports contribution to local development. • Hello Neighbor Neighbor communities Impact management; dialogue and relationships; • Working Groups local development opportunities. • Community relations programs 16 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 Aside from the communications the company Memberships and associations in which maintains with its stakeholders, the company Aguas Andinas participates participates in associations related to water, the sanitation sector, and socially responsible • United Nations Global Pact. development. • National Association of Sanitation Services Companies (ANDESS) • Inter-American Association of Sanitation and Environmental Engineering (AIDIS) • Association of Companies and Professionals for the Environment (AEPA) • Prohumana Foundation • Operational Association of Service Companies (COESE) • Chilean Security Association (ACHS) • Chile Official Spanish Chamber of Commerce • Cordillera Park Association of Municipalities • Acción Foundation: Chile Representative in the World Business Council for Sustainable Development • Sociedad de Fomento Fabril (SOFOFA) 17 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report / 2015 1.3. Corporate Governance Board Member Attendance Aguas Andinas 1.3.1. Description and participation of the Board of Directors G4-34, G4-38, G4-39, G4-40 G4-35, G4-36, G4-37, G4-42, G4-43, G4-44, G4-49, The highest body of corporate governance in Cargo Nombre % G4-50 Aguas Andinas is the company’s Board of Directors, composed of 14 directors, all male, of which seven President Felipe Larraín Aspillaga 100 Regarding the functioning of Aguas Andinas, the are named directors and seven their respective Vice President Josep Bagué Prats 92 Board of Directors sets the strategic guidelines and alternates. In turn, two board members are supervises the administration and management independents, with their respective alternates. None Director Ricardo Escobar Calderón 83 of the company, which managers and executives of them fulfill executive functions in the company. Director Herman Chadwick Piñera 100 are entrusted with. For this, the Board defines the structure of corporate management responsibilities Director Bruno Philippi Irarrázabal 92 It involves board members with experience in the for each and then delegates authority on economic, business world, with various of them currently Director Rodrigo Manubens Moltedo 92 environmental and social matters. holding executive or board positions in other Director Gonzalo Rojas Vildósola 100 companies. The Board also participates in the validation of the Alternate Director Oliver Jaquier 42 company’s most relevant sustainability instruments, Alternate Director Fernando Samaniego Sangroniz 92 such as strategy, policy, and the sustainability report. Alternate Director Xavier Amorós Corbella 83 Meanwhile, managers and executives bring Alternate Director Lorenzo Bernaldo de Quiroz 50 before the Board the most important issues of the company’s management through the Management Alternate Director Jorge Cosme Sagnier Guimón 92 Committee, composed of the CEO and 7 corporate Alternate Director Rodrigo Terré Fontbona 58 managers. Among the issues that the Committee communicates to the Board are relevant investment Alternate Director Jaime Cuevas Rodríguez 67 proposals, questions and concerns expressed by stakeholders. For more information on the structure of the Board, its members and Committees, please see Aguas Andinas S.A. Financial Statement, pages 23 to 25. 18 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report / 2015 Standard N°385 – SVS Some of the practices approved by the board 1.3.3. Management of corporate ethics include the formal induction process for new board On November 25, 2015 the company’s Board of members and the formalization of the processes G4-41, G4-56, G4-57, G4-58, G4-SO3, G4-SO4, G4-SO5, G4-SO6 Directors adopted a series of agreements under of training and updating board members in areas General Rule No. 385 of the Superintendency of like corporate governance, inclusion, diversity, and Aguas Andinas has different regulations and procedures that ensure that the company’s operation is in strict Securities and Insurance (SVS), which have been risk management, among others. This document compliance with the legal framework. In this context, the company has a Board of Directors Code of Conduct collected in the Compendium of Policies and includes the Board’s commitment to submit itself regarding conflicts of interest and a Code of Ethics, instruments that also reinforce the ethical performance of Procedures on Corporate Governance1, which every two years to the assessment of a third party the professionals, executives and managers of Aguas Andinas. includes agreements and practices implemented to identify and implement improvements in its voluntarily. organization and operation The Code of Conduct was adopted in 2013, at which time it became applicable to all directors of the company, in relation to conflicts of interest they may face. This meant defining what the company means 1.3.2. Risk management by conflict of interest, establish procedures to identify and report these potential conflicts, and define mechanisms to prevent and/or manage them. G4-45, G4-46, G4-47 The Code of Ethics is the instrument in which Aguas Andinas establishes its corporate values, and further In 2015, the Board validated the Aguas Andinas states that ethics is a fundamental principle that guides behavior and commits to compliance with laws Risk Map and established, as a risk management and regulations, integrity, loyalty, honesty and respect for all people. In this sense, it is expected that its and control policy, that each management division professionals act in accordance with these ethical principles in all circumstances and whatever their work or will annually conduct a survey of its main risks their degree of responsibility and dialogue. and propose actions to mitigate them, which must be implemented and accredited at the request of The Management Committee of Aguas Andinas is the first guarantor of implementing the Code, promoting internal auditors. The General Manager shall be in the company’s ethical commitment and making it suitable for ethical management structures. This structure charge of determining which of these risks are the includes standards, divisions, procedures and professional practices for ethical management. Supervision lies most relevant, and shall submit monitoring results with the Corporate Manager of People, Organization and Innovation, which manages the appropriate means to the Board will know of these matters at least for implementing the Code of Ethics and exercises the necessary authority to ensure compliance. annually. The company has made available to the internal and external public different reporting channels, among those highlighted being the newly created virtual channel for the company’s own workers. This is an internal complaints mechanism consisting of a form through the intranet or page under an option labeled ‘Hotline.’ All complaints by this channel require the complainant to be identified, in order to track the process online. 1 Available at: https://www.aguasandinasinversionistas.cl/ 19 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 During 2015, Aguas Andinas received a few The model incorporates a reporting procedure National Prosecutor’s Investigation allegations of ethical issues, however they were not which is based on three fundamental pillars: filed through the formal enabled channels. This is timeliness, confidentiality and efficiency. The During the first semester, as part of an investigation partly explained due to the newness of these new reporting channel is anonymous unless the worker, initiated by the Public Ministry, Aguas Andinas was platforms, and the company’s internal organizational partner or supplier expressly wants to be identified. required by the National Prosecuting Authority and culture. However, beginning next year it is expected This channel was incorporated into the company the Internal Revenue Service to provide accounting that the formalization of complaints will be intranet and consists of a pre-established form records related to tickets and invoices issued in 2010. enhanced through formal channels, so as to keep through an option called ‘Aguas Group Complaint In that application, the Company voluntarily gave better track of cases. Line.’ No complaints were received by this means in all the required background and began an internal 2015. investigation. Upon not locating the corresponding The company also has a certified Crime Prevention backups, the company decided to correct its Model, which addresses the crimes of bribery, During 2014 a strong effort was implemented for declaration of expenditures to the Internal Revenue money laundering and terrorist financing, and seeks training and outreach on the Crime Prevention Service (SII) and also adopted the necessary to implement a form of corporate organization to Model and its reporting channel, both for Aguas measures to strengthen its management control prevent the commission of other crimes by some Andinas employees and for suppliers and measures. Aguas Andinas has not received any members of the company. Notwithstanding the contractors. This management also included an other requirement from the Public Ministry or the SII foregoing, the rules, protocols and procedures internal communication campaign of the company’s in relation to these facts. stipulated by the Model also include suppliers and Code of Ethics. Given all the work done, no new contractors. instances of this kind were generated in 2015. For the launch and certification of this Model, the company earned recognition by the Chilean Network of Global Compact in relation to the fight against corruption. 20 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 1.4. Transformation Program G4-13 The Transformation Program was led by the The main changes made during 2015 are presented below: Corporate Management of People, Organization and Innovation, supported by external consultants. • New organizational design for Corporate Management of Operations, in order to align with the strategy and principles of organizational efficiency. Results of this sub-project was a strengthening of the Networks, Equipment Maintenance and Water Quality areas, as well as Organizational changes mainly involved four of defining the corporate needs shared processes between the Corporate Management of Operations and other Corporate Management the seven Corporate Management divisions, which Divisions (Customer Service / Planning, Engineering and Systems), in order to improve coordination of these processes. The main together oversee more than 80% of the company’s milestone was the creation of the Network Management Division, responsible for aligning the operation of the major and minor networks, workers and executives. Given the size of the ensuring streamlined operations. program, a Deputy Director of Transformation was created to be responsible for implementation, • New organizational design of the Customer Service Corporate Management Division, to align with the challenges of the “Customer execution, monitoring of the transformation Strategy Plan.” A new Management for Customer Experience was created that addresses the Commercial Management and Customer programs for each of the involved areas, and at the Service and centralized management of all service channels into a single centralized unit. In addition, the commercial function was same time enhance training methodologies and strengthened, grouping the divisions of New Services and APR into the Business Development Management Division. (More information introducing tools of change, how to ensure that the in Chapter 4) adjustments are effective. • Optimizing the Management Control function so as to align with Management’s specific strategy, through the identification of critical In addition, a Transformation Committee composed and relevant activities and responsibilities and through standardization and automation of reporting systems. As a result, all functions are of the Corporate Management Divisions and the centralized in the Office of Management Control, being divided into three areas: Financial Strategic Control, Management of Reports, Data Deputy Director of Transformation was created, in Models and BI, and Operational Management Control. To do this a Deputy Manager of Operational Management Control was created, as order to review and validate the deliverables set for well as a Controller Business Partner (CBP) entity as an advisor to each of the Corporate Management Divisions, improving analysis of each Transformation Program, as well as support the economic and operational variables. monitoring of the objectives committed to each. • A new operating model for purchasing in order to analyze the organizational the structure, processes and technological tools to enhance the current model. This establishes a strategy for each purchasing category and giving a look at the total cost of ownership, so as to increase the quality and achieve savings. To realize these processes the Manager of Purchasing was created and incorporated new roles depending on the Management of the purchases: Purchasing Manager, Contracts Manager and Platforms Manager. Additionally, an Assistant Purchasing Manager was created and a Manager of Purchasing Categories was incorporated. 21 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report / 2015 Identified economic benefits 1.5. Excellence Plan While the process of transformation has put During 2015 and already in its fourth year of implementation, the company made an effort to reflect on the focus on process improvement, and the its Plan of Excellence, a continuous improvement tool that permits initiating a review process by referring relationship types between different areas within to how it should evolve. There is a need for the Excellence Plan to be aligned directly with Aguas Andinas’ the Organization, it has also managed to identify process of Transformation and its Strategic Plan. In this context, the activities of the areas that today potential cost efficiencies, where the Procurement participate in the Plan continued to be fully developed, but parallel review process regarding the future of the Transformation Project has identified about Plan began. MM$5,400 that can be retained over the next 5 years which are generated from the processes In September 2015 the position of Deputy Director of the Excellence Plan was removed, and its functions of strategic negotiations with various suppliers of become part of the Deputy Director of Transformation. From that point on it began to take action to define products and services. the path which the company’s Efficiency and Cultural Change Program should take, in place since 2012. So far the results delivered have been very good, especially from the perspective of the organization’s culture. In parallel to designing more efficient processes Between the months of October and December 2015, actions were developed afterwards to help develop and adjusting the organizational structure to these this plan, including Brainstorming sessions between the Deputy Director and the various groups involved in processes, potential savings over the next three this dynamic. Also included was the development of a diagnostic Plan by a group of MBA students from the years of nearly $ 600 MM have been identified, University of Chile, which lent an external view of the current status and recommended actions that should which are heavily leveraged in the 2015 early be made in the future. The goal with all of this is to specifically identify the benefits of this program, the retirement project. elements it should involve, and procedures that are not providing value, which should be reconfigured. All of the work in 2015 will make it possible in 2016 to carry out the necessary actions aimed at converting the Plan of Excellence into a platform that strongly drives process improvement and the ongoing strengthening of cultural change in the organization. 22 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report / 2015 Cultural Transformation Aguas Andinas Principles The Cultural Transformation process had as its main objective the initiation of an internal reflection on the I think about the future to serve in the present. vision, purpose and values of the company based on new challenges. To achieve greater involvement of the company’s employees, various divisions I act with honesty and transparency. were considered, including: the Transformation Committee, composed of the company’s senior executives; a Bureau of Culture, composed by executives from different areas; open meetings I go to bat for our clients. with executive officers and leaders; and an internal survey of all company’s employees. From this dialog emerged a new Vision (Being a leading company in environmental sustainability and ensuring water I listen, ask and take action. for future generations), a new Purpose (We work to ensure the functioning of the city and provide wellbeing to its inhabitants) and Aguas Andinas’ Nine I contribute to my team and that of others. Organizational Principles. I say things straight. I am consistent: If I say it, I do it. I seek improvements to innovate. I thank and acknowledge a job well done. 23 Chap 02 Aguas Andinas in the Industry Context Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 AGUAS ANDINAS IN THE INDUSTRY CONTEXT G4-2, G4-EC2 International organizations and various scientific studies indicate that water resources, especially fresh water, will meet increasing global demand, as a result of population growth, socioeconomic development and the effects of climate change. Water is a vital resource for both industry and the public. Nationally, although Chile is considered one of the privileged countries regarding availability of water resources, such availability experiences significant levels of inequality throughout the country 25 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 2.1. Aguas Andinas in the context of the Sustainable Development Goals industry. In November 2015, the member countries of the Additionally, in the same year, the Chilean United Nations (UN), which includes Chile, approved Reduce inequality within and government issued the National Water Resources End poverty in all its forms among countriesindustrialization 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) to end everywhere Policy, aimed, among other goals, to assign a new and foster innovation poverty, fight against inequality and injustice, and role to the State and redesign public institutions, address climate change. End hunger, achieve food security incorporating a greater degree of decentralization and improved nutrition and promote Make cities inclusive, safe, and greater operational capacity for regional sustainable agriculture resilient and sustainable governments. Ensure healthy lives and promote Ensure sustainable consumption Under this global context of concerns about climate well-being for all at all ages and production patterns change and the resulting water crisis that could occur, given increased temperatures and decreased Ensure inclusive and quality rainfall, Aguas Andinas, as well as measuring and Take urgent action to combat working to reduce its carbon footprint, is carrying education for all and promote climate change and its impacts lifelong learning out various initiatives to ensure access to quality potable water and sanitation and hygiene services. Achieve gender equality and Conserve and sustainably use empower all women and girls the oceans, seas and marine As part of its short and long term operations, the resources company has helped increase access to and quality Sustainably manage forests, combat of potable water for residents of the Metropolitan Ensure access to water and desertification, halt and reverse land Area, along with improving sanitation and sanitation for all degradation, halt biodiversity loss substantially increasing the efficient use of water resources. Ensure access to affordable, Promote just, peaceful reliable, sustainable and modern and inclusive societies Major challenges remain, and Aguas Andinas energy for all expects to become a leader in environmental Promote inclusive and sustainable Revitalize the global sustainability at the national level, ensuring water for economic growth, employment and partnership for sustainable future generations. decent work for all development Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation 26 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 2.1.1. Supply continuity and quality To ensure supply continuity and quality, Aguas The plan is furthered by the existence of water reserves, whose importance lies The safeguarding of these reserves is made through the permanent control Andinas has focused on 3 major projects to ensure in ensuring the supply of potable water within Aguas Andinas’ concession area, of the water recharge levels regarding usage needs for water supply, giving the continuity of service and operational robustness particularly in times of water shortage due to drought or rainfall events above priority at all times to the optimal use that ensures the continuity, quality and normal levels. quantity of potable water. Given the nature of being strategic water sources, physical security is monitored with restricted inspections and control. Management of critical points Complementing the above, the company owns the Vizcachas Potable Water Security Ponds, with an operating capacity of 160,000m³, which provide up to The plan aims to eliminate potential risks of quality 2015* nine hours backup supply. and continuity failures. Compliance is defined as 100% for regulations of arsenic, nitrate, and One of the biggest investments planned for 2016 is the construction of improvements in the facilities of seven critical the Pirque pond, a major infrastructure project. Along with increasing our WWTPs. raw water reserves, it will allow us to increase the autonomy of the system from 9 to 32 hours in cases where extreme turbidity requires closure of the Network Renewal independent intake in the Maipo River. 100% renewal of networks resulting from asset management methodologies and the incorporation The raw water pond, which will have a capacity of 1,500,000 cubic meters, is of new technologies into its renovation. in the phase of Environmental Impact Assessment and is expected that the Negra Lagoon public participation phase will take place in 2016. Its entry into operation is planned for 2019. Finally, as an additional safety measure, a loan and purchase Availability and continuity of equipment 600.000.000 m3 of water in the Maipo River is planned to meet potential shortfalls of water from the El Yeso reservoir. The comprehensive maintenance plan aims to reduce the corrective time by 25% and increase availability of critical equipment up to 98%. El Yeso Reservoir 220.000.000 m3 Lo Encañado Lagoon 50.000.000 m3 *The peak volume of water held in the reservoir 2015 was 172.7 million m3. 27 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 These actions have helped maintain the continuity and amount of water required to supply potable water to customers, which is reflected in the steady increase of m3 of potable water billed to customers. In order to ensure Aguas Andinas’ continuity of service, a number of improvements were implemented Potable Water billed to customers (million m3) during 2015 including: 522.960 535.597 Actions under the hydraulic efficiency master plan: Implementation of the plan began in order to 515.368 455.371 minimize uncontrolled water, starting with a process for optimizing the metrology of the meters, a 442.512 434.870 model of subsectors and micro sectors to optimize the location of leaks by controlling minimum nightly consumption, and finally proper pressure management. (More information in the Hydraulic Efficiency Master Plan in Chapter 3). Extended the Vizcachas Potable Water Treatment Plant: In order to increase the treatment capacity in 1600 L/s of surface water, expanded the PWTP, incorporating new filters and improvements to the adduction process. Aguas Andinas Aguas Cordillera Improvement works on Padre Hurtado Potable Water Treatment Plant: a total of $1,450 million was invested to increase the production capacity of the PWPA from 1200 L/s to 1400 L/s Aguas Manquehue Supply of the northern zone from Lo Pinto: The go-ahead was given for the construction of the Chamisero Plant which will supply potable water to concessions in the northern zone (Chamisero and Chicureo), reaching a capacity of 120 L/s. Construction of the Lo Gallo San Antonio discharge: The objective of the project is to provide water from the Maipo River to the Aguas Cordillera system, drawing water from Lo Gallo to San Antonio, with the consequent increase from 250 L/s to 500 L/s. 67.998 67.026 66.313 12.500 13.422 13.913 2013 2014 2015 28 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 2.1.2. Initiatives to mitigate the impacts of drought • Integrated management of Maipo River users. Groundwater recharge, creation Drought went from being a seasonal phenomenon to a structural issue, and of Water Communities. Purchase of water, leasing of rights. as a company, Aguas Andinas must anticipate this, because it has impacts not • Access to new sources: desalination, transfer from neighboring watersheds to only on resource availability but also on quality. Measures to increase the Metro Region, reservoirs for regulating levels. water availability • Intervention in rivers, oversight of illegal withdrawals Today drought affects 60% of the population, which is also where 70% of • Recovery and increased production of groundwater. (Drilling of new drillholes national GDP is produced, and the temperature of the central zone of Chile for a total flow of 600 l/s, equal to an annual volume of 19 hm3). increased between 1 and 2°C over the last century. This situation is complex, considering that it has produced a reduction in the Metropolitan Region’s glacial area, which is what provides 60% of the flow of the Maipo River during drought periods1. • Management of risk loss. Hydraulic Efficiency Master Plan. Global climate forecast models indicate that drought and water shortages will Measures to increase • Management of networks: Reduction in breaks. Estimated recovery of 100,000 continue, and even worse, a water deficit is expected in Santiago of up to 57% efficiency m3 per year. in 2030 and 66% in 2050.2 Against this backdrop, the company has implemented a number of initiatives, grouped into 3 areas: • System for monitoring groundwater levels. Monitoring measures • Climate monitoring. 1 The 2015 2020 Drought and Climate Change Plan 2 The development of scientific studies that enhance knowledge and Emergency decisionmaking on the subject infrastructure • Increase in 25% of potable water reserves 3 User involvement through communications campaigns. 1 Source: What are the challenges and opportunities for a more sustainable, fair and transparent management of water resources? Water and Environment Initiative – ANDESS and CIPMA 2 Chilean Meteorological Directorate Dirección Meteorológica de Chile 29 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 In parallel to these concrete initiatives, a series of studies was begun to continue designing and implementing measures to mitigate the effects of this phenomenon. Development studies associated with the Drought and Climate Change Plan Projections of Demand: Demand Management International Experience in Projection of Water Availability Synergies at the User Level • Analysis of the historical • National analysis of factors Droughts • Analysis of climate change • Project Feasibility for water evolution of consumption that explain residential • Analysis of measures impacts in the watersheds of the exchanges between different and customers consumption and irrigation of of success in drought Maipo and Mapocho rivers for the users of the watershed. • Projected growth in base green areas. management conducted 2015-2030 period. • Agreements with irrigators and demand through 2030 • International review of in California, Sao Paulo and • Quantification of current and hydroelectric users. practical measures to reduce Australia. future availability scenarios in • Reuse of treated water and consumption of water and times of drought and climate swaps with irrigators. irrigation. change. • Third-party treatment for • Quantification of three irrigation of green areas. scenarios of potable water for • Purification of treated water. the 2015-2030 period. 30 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 2.2. Enhancing collaboration and dialogue Aguas Andinas plays a proactive role in addressing It consists of a non-profit Technology Center that It is designed with the main goal of contributing to reality and industry challenges, informing the promotes, conducts and disseminates research, cross-sector dialogue to generate a comprehensive community about the importance of efficient technological development and innovation in water view of water resources and their environmental asresource use and investing in innovation and management. Participants in the initiative include pects, as well as aiming to establish a shared technidevelopment. Aguas Andinas, Aqualogy Chile, the Federico Santa cal basis on which to base public policy instruments. Maria University and the Higher Council for Scientific National Association of Sanitation Services Research. At the end of 2015, the Bureau sent a document to A.G. all sectors related to water and environmental issues, As a member of the National Association Its aim is to generate technological solutions in entitled Water: How much to expect? Manifest of the of Sanitation Services A.G. (ANDESS), Aguas the field of comprehensive water cycles with agreements of the Water and Environment Bureau, Andinas participates in industry discussions on high potential value for the company, through with the main approaches that have come from topics of interest and participates in the National the development and innovation of procedures the dialogue within this initiative as a contribution Congressional Committees when invited to publicize and technologies to efficiently manage resources, in the search for supporting the discussion. With the sector’s vision in various bills. These include minimize risks and ensure the care and proper use this, the Bureau indicated that the current scenario Amendments to the Water Code, the Draft Bill to environment. of growing pressure and conflicts around water regulate collection and disposal services of gray resources requires urgent measures to ensure their water and the Glacier Law, among other topics of Water and Environment Bureau sustainability, and that climate change poses an interest. Since 2011, the Water and Environment Initiative urgent challenge that must be considered together. works to construct an integrated vision of water Chilean Corporation for Water Research resources and its social, economic and environConsidering the challenges facing Aguas Andinas mental implications, under the current leadership of to continue ensuring the quality, quantity and ANDESS A.G. in conjunction with the Department of continuity of sanitation services to all its customers, Environmental Sciences and Natural Resources of the company promoted the idea of establishing the the University of Chile. Chilean Corporation for Water Research. 31 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 2.3. Integrated operations Aware of the importance of anticipating and being Also, given the high dependence that exists today Aguas Andinas in particular worked to develop prepared to take risks that threaten the continuity, with information technologies, which provide support a comprehensive model for infrastructure and security and efficiency of its operations, Aguas for the company’s critical processes, Aguas Andinas applications recovery by service, using the Disaster Andinas has procedures and methodologies in decided to work on developing continuity plans Recovery Plan documents (DRP). The idea of this place to identify and assess risks and prioritize and oriented at technological risk scenarios considering model is to reflect the current operating scenario implement actions to mitigate them. These include the contingency information already available. with a sufficient level of detail to allow recovery its policy of quality, safety and the environment, by competent staff, according to a prioritized and as well as the following certifications: ISO 14001 on Systems in 2015 that were incorporated into the easy-to-understand application structure. This work environmental management; ISO 9001 on quality project scope were Topkapi Scada (Centralized was completed during the second half of 2015, management processes; and OHSAS 18000 on control center), SCT, WSP (Debt consultation), culminating in November and December with model occupational health. Genesys, and email, among others. During 2016 new testing and preliminary results. systems are expected to be incorporated that were Currently the management systems for Aguas not considered in the initial scope. Andinas, Aguas Cordillera and Aguas Manquehue are managed jointly using the three aforementioned Additionally, in 2015 work was reinforced on the certifications. Additionally, Aguas Andinas holds the Management Crisis and Organizational Resilience ISO 22301 certification on Business Continuity and ISO Service (Secro). A major milestone was the holding 50001 on Energy management systems. of a work day among the companies participating in Serco and the management team of the National One of the main challenges in relation to the Emergency Organization (ONEMI). The main management system is achieving integration to objective was to engage their cooperation in crisis generate greater synergies between areas, reducing management and emergencies, in order to become inefficiencies and improving management. For an active player in the National Risk Management this, progress has been made on identifying the System. company’s stakeholders, identifying and evaluating applicable legal requirements, leadership, policies, and training, among other common elements of the systems. This allows generating a global vision of management tools that is not split up for each system. 32 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 2.4. Promoting Innovation Aguas Andinas, as it has done in recent years, allocated a percentage of its investment budget to research projects related to water, which in 2015 reached a total of €335,0001. Completed projects in 2015 Projects initiated in 2015 that will continue in 2016 Production process of biodiesel from waste Predictability study of convective storms in Water consumption scenarios in Estimate the impact of climate change in the and biosolids in the sanitation sector the Andean sector of the Metropolitan Region Santiago for the 2015-2030 period watersheds of the Maipo and Mapocho River for the 2016-2030 period Biodiesel is a biofuel substitute for diesel, whose The study considers an analysis that quantitatively The main objective is to analyze possible future It is a new climate change study oriented around properties have made it widely applicable worldwide. determines the predictability of convective storms potable water scenarios in the city of Santiago, characterizing impacts in the near future, i.e. within in the mountains of the Metropolitan Region. The based on levels of implementation for different 10 to 20 years and not through the end of the The project’s objective is to develop a strategy study uses several data sources, the most important measures for adaptation to climate change. century like studies that are currently available. of biodiesel production from waste fats and being electric discharges of the WWLLN (WorldThe study will focus on use of the latest generation oils extracted in the pretreatment and primary Wide Lightning Location Network). Based on the Thus, it is expected to synthesize analysis of factors of global projections and hydrological modeling treatment of wastewater, generating direct and results, criteria are established for an early warning that serve to explain the consumption of potable systems that are able to take into account all aspects indirect environmental and economic benefits. The system, which have been implemented into a new water occurring at the residential level and for of hydrological levels that could be affected by initiative was held in conjunction with the Pontificia web application that was developed as part of the irrigation of Santiago’s parks and green areas; climate change. Universidad Católica de Valparaiso (PUCV). study. a review of international practices for reducing potable water consumption in cities, which could be implemented in Santiago; and develop three scenarios of potable water for customers supplied by the Aguas Group in the city of Santiago for the period 2015-2030. 1 It should be noted that the indicated amount includes projects that were in development and were completed in 2015, projects in development that will continue through 2016, and finally projects that began in 2015 and will continue in 2016. 33 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 2.4.1. MAPA Project “Maipo: Adaptation The MAPA project “Maipo Adaptation Plan” Plan” Aguas Andinas has, for several years, defined a It is an initiative funded by Canada’s International strategy to address the effects of climate change. Development and Research Center (IDRC) and These effects must be constantly monitored to coordinated by the Center for Global Change of the adapt to the new knowledge we have of this Pontifica Universidad Católica de Chile. It aims to phenomenon and effects that can be identified in coordinate the development of an adaptation plan the future. for climate variability and change in the Maipo River watershed, from an analysis of vulnerabilities to MAPA has helped strengthen that strategy. Also, this different water users. new way of analyzing a problem like climate change, by convening a working group made up of public While the project is funded by an international sector institutions, water users and civil society, organization, Aguas Andinas contributed monetarily allows a shared vision and proposing solutions to the logistics of the meetings held in 2015 in the considering the each stakeholder’s interests. Maipo Canyon. This contribution amounted to the sum of $2,600,000. 34 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 EMERGE: Ideas born from water It is the name and slogan chosen by online voting to nominate the Innovation Management project. The focus of the project is people, solidly supported on 4 pillars: strategy, culture, process and governance. 2.4.2. Outstanding innovative projects in the Emerge Program. In 2015 the EMERGE project made progress in the tracked goal of becoming a process through which, by promoting the talent of people and supporting their ideas, innovative projects that add value to the company To innovate is to work today towards a vision for the future; it is about focusing the talent and knowledge that arise. people have to create products, services or processes, either new ones or by improving existing ones. Thus innovation goes beyond creativity to make new things. For the second consecutive year the project was able to recruit Aguas Andinas employees to join this initiative, inviting them to communicate their innovative ideas with very good results. While the number of Aguas Andinas believes in innovation. That is why in 2014 we decided to launch a management project received ideas is similar to the prior year (134 projects), the difference arose from the quality of the ideas. whose objectives are to capture and promote new ideas related to the water cycle, generate a group of Company workers have learned and understood more about this process, mainly due to the experience innovative projects, promote a culture of innovation, and create value for the company and people. of the previous process but also because of the training scheduled this year, complemented by a series of special workshops. For the 2015 process, the Corporate Innovation Committee, based on the Company’s interests, decided that the ideas would be framed on three challenges: Green Company (G); Friendly Company (F) and Smart Company (S). A total of 47, 46 and 41 ideas for each were received respectively. 12 were pre-selected for further exploration, of which ultimately four were selected to continue with the technical and financial support of EMERGE in 2016. 35 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report / 2015 Selected projects 2015 Emerge Water Membrane (S) Glycerol Montenegro LowMicroturbines (M) In addition, in 2016 two projects will continue which were hatched under Codigestion (S) cost Reuse (F) EMERGE’s wing in 2014. Tool to cut the supply or The co-digestion of Build a project using the To show that the Selected projects 2015 Emerge isolate said water flow WWTP sludge with other best technologies for company is constantly of components found in waste allows an increase the town of Montenegro, looking for new Feasibility of using video surveillance to optimize customer service the distribution network, in biogas generation and seeking to find a solution technologies to processes all in short stretches provides greater stability to the sanitation deficit approach a more without scheduled to the system. The use of and reduce water stress sustainable world, The project uses a software that takes images from cameras located jobs associated with residual glycerol would in the area through the a “GREEN TOTEM” in commercial agencies to obtain quantitative data such as customer customers. enhance this residue reuse of gray and/or powered by a “MICRO counting in the areas of attention, flow of people, and online alerts for resulting in increased black water. TURBINE” will be waiting times and queue length. energy production implemented within a in treatment plants Commercial Agency. The aim is to help improve the service, achieving greater customer without compromising satisfaction. operational safety of the process. Application for mobile devices, mainly equipment like Google Glass, also applicable to smartphones and tablets. It seeks to develop an application for mobile devices that allow users viewing the devices to simultaneously see the reality on the ground with information from the SIG and Siebel through augmented reality technology. Users can receive Work Orders on their devices, be assisted to follow the route of travel, view networks, clients, access work in progress and historical information. 36 Chap 03 Efficient Operations that Respect the Environment Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 EFFICIENT OPERATIONS THAT RESPECT THE ENVIRONMENT G4-14 Environmental Management Pillars The corporate vision defined in 2015, imposes a Aguas Andinas The Integrated Management Policy determines corporate actions on environmental issues and is part of challenge on Aguas Andinas: “Become a leader in the company’s management system that was recertified in 2015 under the ISO 9001, 14001 and OHSAS environmental sustainability in Chile, ensuring water 18001 standards. This system provides for the following activities that are critical to the company, taking into for future generations.” For this, the company has Promote sustainable management of water account the precautionary principle: implemented a series of projects that will generate resources in the medium and long term. large environmental benefits for all residents of the region. Contribute to continuous improvements in quality and quantity of the resource. • Identification of aspects • Plans for emergencies, • Internal and external audits and environmental impact operations, safety, occupational for integrated management assessment. health, environment and system. Strengthen commitment to the environment. business continuity. • Identification of hazards and • Specific actions to prevent and assessment of occupational • Hazardous waste management mitigate significant impacts. hazards. plans. • Identification and evaluation Optimize operating and maintenance • Identification and assessment of • Periodic reviews of of compliance with resources and investment management operational hazards. management systems with legal requirements and upper management. environmental qualification resolutions. 38 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report / 2015 3.1. Major Initiatives 2015-2020 Plan of Operations Comprehensive Maintenance Plan Improvement Plan enclosures · Reduce corrective time by 25% · Improve the Company’s 400 operating enclosures · Increase in Replacement Plan of MM$500/year · Annual conservation plan · Ensure 98% availability of critical equipment · Adequacy of rules for 100% of the enclosures Plan of critical points Strategic Plan of operation · 100% Compliance with regulations on arsenic and nitrate · Backup power and 12-hour autonomy in all facilities · Reduce Critical Points in the treated water Network · Interconnection of systems · Ensuring supply-demand balance for 100% of supply systems · Ensure the existence of backup equipment (condition n+1) in the pumping plants · Migration to hypochlorite or installation of neutralization towers and facilities for chlorine gas Network Automation Plan Plan for potable water quality control · Automation of 100% of the filling valves for ponds and pumping plants · 100% compliance with sampling plan · 99% system availability · 100% availability and redundancy of dosing equipment for chlorine and fluorine · 90% availability of communications · 47 online checkpoints for water quality Network upgrade plan · Accreditation according to ISO 22000 standard · 100% upgrading of networks using asset management methodologies CCO upgrade plan · Incorporation of new network upgrade technologies · 100% upgrades for CCO-based hardware and software platforms Potable Water treatment plant upgrade plan · Lay the groundwork for Resource Management Center · Modernization of processes · Implementation of help tools for operation, information disclosure and data analysis · Automation and remote operation Hydraulic efficiency plan · Renewal of filters in the Vizcachas PWTP · 10% reduction in unbilled water · Recovery of 70 cubic hectometers · Achieve 80% technical performance 39 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 3.2. The integrated water cycle 06 Restitution 01 Raw Water to the environment Catchment The integrated water cycle consists of 6 stages, with Return treated water to natural channels Capture water in its original state Aguas Andinas responsible for proper management from surface and underground in optimum conditions for irrigation, within the concession area. The process begins with contributing to the conservation of the tributaries with minimal the capture of the resource from natural sources, environment and the quality of life for environmental impact. production of potable water, distributing it through future generations. the aqueducts, and afterwards the collection and treatment of wastewater, ending with the return of the resource to the environment. 05 Wastewater 02 Potable Water Treatment Production Decontaminate Produce potable wastewater in facilities water, with quality with advanced and efficiency, leaving technology to meet the it suitable for human standards of Chilean law. consumption. 04 Wastewater 03 Potable Water Collection Distribution Remove the used water through the Carry potable water with continuity sewer with maximum safety for the of service, to every home, business health of people and care for the or industry within the concession environment. area. 40 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 3.2.1. Catchment Major surface sources of catchment in 20151 G4-EN8, G4-EN9 Percentage of water extracted In order to produce potable water, Aguas Andinas Size of the source Catchment from flow captures 84% of raw water from surface sources, Maipo River 2.203.133.731,20 m3 mainly from the Maipo and Mapocho rivers. The remaining 14% is extracted from underground sources in the concession area, formed by 204 deep wells 2014 Total 573.436.604 m3 24% and drains that draw water from three aquifers. Maipo River 528.970.790 m3 58% Mapocho River Catchment source (millions m3) 37.424.470 m3 35% 7.041.344 m3 Arrayán Stream Total 2.341.969.977,6 m3 685,1 2015 Total 620.349.189 m3 26% Maipo River 582.201.262 m3 112 28% 0,5 Mapocho River Aguas Andinas County water Aguas Cordillera supply or from other water company Underground water Superficial water Mapocho River 113.160.499,20 m3 32.143.767 m3 23% Aguas Manquehue 6.004.160 m3 Arrayán Stream Arrayán Stream 25.675.747,20 m3 Maipo River Mapocho River Arrayán Stream 1 During 2015 the total volume (m3) of Mapocho river increase in a 43% and the volume of the Arrayan stream increase in a 40% 41 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 3.2.2. Production 3.2.3. Storage and distribution Hydraulic Efficiency Master Plan (PDEH) Potable Water is produced through two types of G4-EN27, G4-EN30 The management of such an extensive distribution processes: physical processes, where branches, For storage and distribution of potable water, Aguas network presents challenges for all sanitary bark, gravel, sand, etc. are eliminated; and physicalAndinas maintains numerous ponds in Greater companies. In this context, water losses during chemical processes, where water is clarified through Santiago with a capacity greater than 1,200,000 m3, the distribution process for this industry represent coagulation and sedimentation processes. which gives high autonomy to the system. an indicator of the organization’s technical and operational management. In order to transform the raw water into water The ponds are strategically located in different suitable for human consumption, Aguas Andinas parts of the Metropolitan Region and are filled In 2015, Aguas Andinas’ unregistered water (ANR)1 operates the Vizcachas complex, the La Florida every night during low peak hours. From there the was close to 29%. While this figure is below the potable water production plant, and 14 smaller water is delivered through 13,132 kilometers of national average (35% loss) the company aims to facilities, such as Padre Hurtado, Lo Gallo, San underground pipes that supply customers in achieve best practices at the international level Enrique and El Sendero. In addition, the company the Metropolitan Region. where losses border on 20%. Consequently, since has four arsenic abatement plants. 2014 the Hydraulic Efficiency Master Plan (PDEH) At this stage of the cycle, it is one of the critical has been developed and approved which aims points in the efficient management of water to achieve the challenging goal of 80% efficiency resources and therefore Aguas Andinas has by 2022 and reach a level of recovery of 70 cubic implemented a model of integrated management hectometers in 2020. of potable water networks that allowed it to drastically reduce the number of breakages in the The project’s objective is to gradually achieve network, reaching levels below 0.1 failures/km, a operability of the Hydraulic Efficiency Plan starting figure significantly lower than the industry average in 2016. In 2015, implementation of the first stage internationally. began, which consisted of the design of a plan to transform the distribution network, regarding Despite the implementation of this model, in 2015 infrastructure, methodology and organization. For there was an increase of 7.8% in the number of this purpose a series of pilot tests were implemented Production in 2015 breaks over the previous period, reaching 899 cases. that will adjust methodologies, specific technologies and procedures used in future stages. In 2016 the 763 million m3 implementation phase will begin. 1 ANR: Water entering the distribution system the volume of billed consumption 42 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 3.2.4. Collection, decontamination and restoration G4-EN10, G4-EN22 Wastewater from the Metropolitan Region is collected at Aguas Andinas treatment plants through a collection network of 10,651 kilometers. The company’s 14 treatment During 2015, more than 517 million m3 of decontaminaplants (El Trebal, La Farfana and Mapocho Plant), plus 11 plants 1 with smaller operating levels that operate 24x7 and have a treatment capacity of 16,494 cubic meters per ted and safe waters were reintegrated into the system of second, treat 100% of wastewater in the region. natural waterways, thus completing the full water cycle. During the year a total of 526 million m3 of wastewater was billed, slightly lower than reported in 2014. In addition, the process of wastewater treatment produced 321,903.23 tons of biosolids, a byproduct of The treated wastewater is restored to watercourses in compliance with current legislation and under safe and optimal conditions both for the environment and people. the purification classified as non-hazardous waste. Aguas Andinas reuses these solid wastes for fertilization and recovery of agricultural soils. Treated wastewater total discharged 2015 Discharges Quantity (m3) Planned / not Discharges Treatment Water quality Parameters planned method utilized Destination of biosolids for major plants Mapocho-Trebal 6.289.777 Planned Mapocho River Without treatment Raw Water Bypass during rainy season 2015 Mapocho-Trebal 185.362.072 Planned Mapocho River Activated Sludge Water purified in wastewater DS 90 Destination Tons % plants Landfill 68.201,96 21,18 Mapocho-Trebal 16.329.600 Planned Irrigation Activated Sludge Water purified in wastewater DS 90 plants El Rutal La Farfana 284.948.505 Planned Mapocho River Activated Sludge Water purified in wastewater DS 90 Comprehensive 104.822,23 32,56 plants Biosolids Management Center (CGIB) La Farfana 2.830.429 Planned Mapocho River Without treatment Agua Cruda Bypass en período de lluvia Agricultural Use 148.879,16 46,24 La Farfana 29,197.918 Planned Irrigation Activated Sludge Water purified in wastewater DS 90 plants Total 321.903,35 100 Other Localities 27.668.441 Planned Destination depends Varies depending Water purified in wastewater DS 90 depending on locality on plant plants Other Localities 93.185 / Destination depends Without treatment Raw Water Bypass during rainy season depending on locality Other Localities Wthout Registration Planned San Pedro Mine Activated Sludge Water purified in wastewater DS 90 Extended Aeration SBR plants Total 517.434.459 1 The WWTP for Isla de Maipo is not online. 2 EN-24: There were no spills of hazardous substances that may have affected human health or the environment during the period of this report (which only ended with the cleanup of the spill in Talagante produced in 2015). In addition, Aguas Andinas has no discharge points on protected areas and/or areas rich in biodiversity. 43 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 3.3. The Carbon Footprint in the water cycle Total energy consumption by source Total energy consumption by source (in gigajoules) 3.3.1. Energy consumption Energy source 2013 2014 2015 57% 57% G4-EN3, G4-EN4, G4-EN5, G4-EN6 53% The Aguas Group’s Energy Efficiency Plan is Nonrenewable fuel 29.433 48.113 56.074 primarily aimed at reducing operating costs, reducing the carbon footprint of the company, promoting the inclusion of renewable energy 44% technologies in their processes, and training workers Renewable fuel 1.107.108 1.131.263 1.172.084 to become involved and participate actively in this 42% 41% challenge. During 2015 implementation of this plan began Electricity 809.441 805.116 976.447 through a series of initiatives, such as team training and the development of an Energy Management System. However, implementation of the initial phase of the plan considers the application of energy Sale of energy audits to enable the development and monitoring (203.416) (81.300) (138.064) (city and electric gas) of specific projects, and the implementation of a Master Plan, which will progress gradually. In turn, the company continues to promote Total consumption 1.742.566 1.903.192 2.066.541 innovation in this area, promoting the generation and use of non-conventional renewable energy, so as to mitigate emissions from its operations. Specifically, during 2015 the trend in energy use continued in terms of prioritizing renewable fuels as 2% 2% 3% the main source. Renewable Nonrenewable Electricity fuel fuel 2013 2014 2015 44 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 Electricity consumption by process 2015 The 57% of the internal current consumption is concentrated in the wastewater treatment process. Followed by the drinking water production with the 21% and the drinking and wastewater distribution with the 19%. 1% 2% 21% 19% 57% Alcantarillado Edificios Producción de agua potable Transporte y distribución Tratamiento de aguas de agua potable servidas Electric energy intensity1 2015 In 2015, the Mapocho-Trebal Ítem Mapocho Trebal* La Farfana** Ptas Localidades*** Wastewater Treatment Plant Total energy consumption 55.980.465 KWh/year 73.017.825 KWh/year 12.261.613 KWh/año obtained the ISO 50001 certification for energy Specific measure of organization 197.552.927 m3/year 284.948.505 m3/year 31.747.514 m3/año efficiency, as well as generated Intensity 0,283 KWh/m3 0,256 KWh/m3 0,386 KWh/m3 specific action plans to reduce * Includes only domestic consumption. its electricity consumption. ** Considers the internal and external consumption of the biogas plant. This is reflected in its energy intensity indicator, which In turn, the energy intensity expresses the amount of energy required per unit of activity, product, or any other measure that the organization determines. This measure is often considered a standard metric of environmental impact, which facilitates their interpretation and comparison. decreased from 0.295 KWh/m3 in 2014 to 0.283 kWh/m3 treated In other sewage treatment plants, no change was observed in the intensity indicator, remaining at 0.386 KWh/m3 in 2015. in 2015. 1 Denominator for calculation: amount of treated water (effluent). 45 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 Finally, Aguas Andinas is also concerned about tracking its external energy consumption, in order to monitor these numbers and identify opportunities for efficiency. External energy consumption of the company is related to the transport of reagents, biosolids and waste, and in 2015 amounted to 61,968.46 gigajoules, slightly higher than last year’s figure. External power consumption (gigajoules) Carbon Footprint Aguas Emissions by scope Aguas Andinas carbon footprint Andinas (tons CO2e) Transport of reagents 16.554,90 13% Emission Source Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total Direct emissions (Scope 1) Production of potable water 732 20.122 4.307 25.161 Transport of reagents 40.526,26 Transport and distribution of water 6.100 24.507 1.506 32.113 93.275 98.427 104.508 Nonproductive Waste transportation 4.897,29 buildings 494 1.744 54 2.292 Sewage Service 1.798 495 11 2.304 Total consumption 61.968,46 Wastewater treatment 20.130 38.921 98.629 157.681 86.115 84.480 85.790 3.3.2. Emissions Total 29.257 85.790 104.508 219.551 G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN18, G4-EN20, G4-EN21 24.563 28.384 29.253 Aguas Andinas, as part of its commitment to mitigate its environmental impacts, measured its 48% 39% 2013 2014 2015 Other direct Indirect emissions carbon footprint, applying the GHG international emissions (Scope 3) (Scope 2) IPCC protocol methodology. In 2015, the company issued a total of 219,551 tons of CO2 equivalent, Direct emissions which was higher than 2014. This increase was (Scope 1) mainly reflected in the emissions generated in Indirect emissions operations external to the organization (Scope 3), (Scope 2) which suffered a variation of a 6% from 2014. In contrast, direct and indirect emissions only saw Other indirect emissions minor increases of 3%. (Scope 3) 46 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 Following the trend of energy consumption, wastewater treatment is the process that generates the largest In the case of the MapochoTrebal Plant, in 2015 the NOx values decreased compared with 2014, share of emissions with 72% of the total. Therefore, the emission intensity is the only unit measured at this seeing as in the case of cogeneration engines, measured values decreased from 0.14 Kg/ha to stage of the water cycle at the two main treatment plants: Mapocho-Trebal and La Farfana. 0.02Kg/h and from 0.18 Kg/h to 0.016 Kg/h respectively, which caused a considerable reduction in NOx emissions. In the La Farfana plant, in 2015 similar values of NOx and VOC remain, but with a During 2015 the intensity of emissions in the process was observed remaining steady, showing the success strong reduction in SOx. of efficiency and reduction initiatives. Refrigerants gases Emissions intensity in sewage treatment The amount of refrigerant used in Aguas Andinas’ Corporate Headquarters was: 3 Cylinders of R-22 (common refrigerant) Ítem 2013 2014 2015 2 Cylinders of 410-A (ecological refrigerant) Emissions (TonCO2e) 151.763 152.375 157.680 Considering an approximate weight of 13.5 kilograms per cylinder, conversion is obtained by: Intensity MWh/ml 3.71 kg CFC11eq of R-22 (million litres) 0,29 0,28 0,276 0 kg CFC11eq of R410 Other emissions Actual data, Hours of Functioning 24H/354 day Data Tons of NOx Tons of SOx Tons of NOx Tons of SOx Emission source 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Mapocho-Trebal 4,88 0,43 0,17 0,16 8,4 2,33 1,08 1,88 La Farfana 3,84 3,97 4,48 3,67 10,28 10,39 12,26 9,07 47 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report / 2015 3.3.3. Non Conventional Renewable 3.3.4. Co-generation of electricity project in the Mapocho-Trebal Plant Energies (NCRE) The Mapocho-Trebal Plant is Aguas Andinas’ second largest treatment plant in Chile and treats an average G4-EN19D flow of 6.6[m3/s]. An important aspect of the management of this plant is the generation of biogas, which is In 2015, Aguas Andinas achieved significant suitable for use as fuel for co-generation engines of electricity, which is consumed mainly in the same facility; reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases in the and heat energy, which is used for heating and sludge treatment. La Farfana and MapochoTrebal Plants, resulting from the use of biogas generated as a byproduct of The plant opened in 2013, a restructuring process that adopted the concept of energy efficiency as its the process of biodegradation of organic matter in operational standard, a process that culminated with certification under the ISO 50001 standard. the wastewater treatment for energy consumption. The company’s reduced and avoided emissions are due to the use of biogas both in internal operations (heating of sludge and use of cogenerated energy: electricity and heat), and for external operations (sale of biogas and electricity) . 2013 2014 2015 Energy Audit Seal of Energy Certification Efficiency ISO 50001 Annual emissions reductions (ton/CO2/year) Energy Diagnostics made Recognition given to the Aguas Andinas at the MapochoEmission 2014 2015 in 2013 on Plant use and operator of the MapochoTrebal WWTP integrates the Avoided 5.172 7.676 consumption with an external Trebal WWTP by the Ministry of new ISO 50001 standards consultant. Identification of Energy to companies that have into the Comprehensive areas and equipment of higher established an Energy Policy Management System for Reduced 34.563 34.277 consumption, energy saving and initiatives, targets and Quality, Environment, Safety opportunities, etc. indicators of EE. and Occupational Health. NOTE: The calculation includes reduced and avoided emissions that occur only in wastewater plants, thanks to the production of biogas, given that in 2015 the more relevant emissions reductions were Destination Unit 2013 2014 2015 from co-generation of electricity and heat at the Mapocho-Trebal plant. Internal Consumption GJ/año 107.610 142.041 144.710 Regarding the rate of reuse of only biogas in cogeneration, a drop was observed in 2015. The main causes of the drop were the entry into operation of the LOOS boiler, consumption that was not contemplated in the baseline; the unavailability of one of the three motors for most of 2015; and at some points, as in February and November, the simultaneous unavailability of two motors. 48 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 3.3.5. La Farfana City Gas Production Plant 3.4. Environmental protection The biogas generated in the La Farfana and Talagante wastewater treatment plants is used in boilers to heat 3.4.1. Biodiversity the digesters, while unused biogas is flared. G4-EN11, G4-EN12, G4-EN 13, G4-EN14, G4-EN26 Annual reduction in emissions (ton/CO2/year) The company’s Comprehensive Management Policy promotes environmentally responsible Destination Unit 2013 2014 2015 management, avoiding negative externalities Internal consumption GJ/año 241.761 205.800 128.731 generated in its operations and mitigating any impacts, seeking to go beyond the fulfillment of the obligations under the existing regulatory framework. Manufacturing of city gas GJ/año 217.9741 87.1181 135.263 In compliance with this premise, the company has Others (burning torches) GJ/año 453.217 605.244 501.287 not generated negative impacts on biodiversity in 2015, nor does it have discharge points on protected areas and/or areas rich in biodiversity. On the In 2014, 67,143 TMV/year were processed in digestion, whereas in 2015 this figure dropped to 65,007 TMV/ contrary, the company has voluntary conservation year. Specific biogas production for both years was 52% on average, and the reduced biogas production in projects in areas of high biodiversity value that are 2015 was only due to a smaller treated load. This is because with smaller treated loads there is also a lower not safeguarded by the State’s national system of biogas requirement for heating the boilers. wild protected areas. These projects are the Aguas Ramón Natural Park and the La Farfana Plant Regarding the city gas, in October 2014 it stopped delivering gas to Metrogas due to the start of work on Environmental Lagoons, El Canelo and Melipilla. the company’s new Methanation plant. Then in 2015 the plant came online and in the last period of the year In these three areas, the company has operational increased delivered volumes between September and December. This resulted in increased shipping to facilities2. Metrogas in 2015. 1 The 2013 and 2014 values ​​correspond to manufacture energy available for city gas 2 Aguas Andinas has no facilities in or near protected areas that are rich in biodiversity 49 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report / 2015 Name Type of Area Description Investment 2015 In 2014 we proceeded to restore a small wetland at the interconnection Aguas de Ramón Non-protected area in the Created on July 3, 2002 through an agreement between Aguas $ 101.297.236 between the El Yeso reservoir and the Negra Lagoon aqueduct. The Natural Park Metropolitan Region of high Andinas, CORFO, PROTEGE and CONAF. Ongoing investment. success of the initiative has been relative, due to lack of water and biodiversity value. Aims to promote the values of outdoor living, environmental the constant presence of grazing animals and people visiting the 36,000 hectares. education, recreation, sport and nature conservation in the area. Therefore, in 2015 we proceeded to fence off the area and thus inhabitants of Santiago. reduce the possibility of degradation of the sector due to the passage of animals and people. In addition, in late 2015, the company began La Farfana Lagoon that hosts several Designed by the Chilean Ornithologists Union (UNORCH), it aims $42.000.000 a process of reforestation for an 11.75 hectare plot located in the high Environmental species of birds within the to conserve water fowl and maintain a protected ecosystem for life Ongoing investment. mountains, under the Forest Management Plan for the installation of a Lagoon property of the La Farfana that grows naturally in the Santiago Watershed. water pipe leading to the El Yeso reservoir. plant. Carries out permanent monitoring of water quality and diversity 15 hectares. and preservation of species in the lagoon. This monitoring is During 2015 there was a decrease in the amount of water fowl in the performed by an independent entity.. lagoon of La Farfana, from 311 to 233 individuals. Among the species El Canelo Small sub-watershed of the Remains closed to public access, and is a natural area rich in $1.300.000 that inhabit the sector are some classified as “rare” or “inadequately Maipo watershed, which biodiversity (vegetation and birds) that is a source of potable Targeted investment. known,” such as the Cuchara Duck, Gargantillo Duck and Rinconero includes potable water intake. water (Estero El Canelo). Duck. Likewise, the presence of a family of Black Neck Swans, a species 20 hectares During 2015 a survey of the flora and vegetation of the area was listed as vulnerable by IUCN, continued nesting in the sector this year, conducted, covering approximately 40 ha of the basin demonstrating the conservation status of this habitat. Moreover, in September 2015 a monitoring was carried out of the Melipilla Lagoon which hosts several Remains closed to public access, and is a natural area rich in $ 1.700.000 avifauna located in adjacent area to the La Farfana lagoon, reporting a Environmental species of birds, located within biodiversity (birds). total of 32 species of land birds, none of them listed under a category of Lagoon the property of the Melipilla During 2015 monitoring began of the birds present in the protection. wastewater plant. lagoon, finding an important number of birds in the area. 4.3 hectares. 50 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 3.4.2. Waste Dangerous residues G4-EN23 In addition to the products beofre mention such as sludge and biogas , above , in the daily operation of The daily operation of Aguas Andinas generates Aguas Andinas different residues are classified as follows are generated: various byproducts, in addition to sludge and biogas already mentioned. These wastes can be classified Type of hazardous waste (tons) 2014 2015 The decrease in non-hazardous waste in 2015 is as hazardous or non-hazardous, and come from the due to the significant decrease in the chemical various activities the company carries out. Used oil 18,449 26,068 stabilization process of the mixed sludge (limed sludge). Coolant oil 0 0,8 Contaminated fat 0 1,036 Non-hazardous waste Lead Batteries 1,275 1,574 Plants 2014 2015 Oil drums 1,003 3,160 (tons) Containers containing no hazardous substances 7,641 4,459 La Farfana 189.435 197.239 Batteries 0,045 0,025 Mapocho-Trebal 157.699 142.615 Fluorescent tubes 0,985 0,914 Mantenimiento 55,6 31,4 Material contaminated with hydrocarbons and oils 1,464 8,249 Total 347.190 339.885 Contaminated EPP 0,609 0,509 Oil filters 0,14 0,235 Aerosols 0,106 0,07 Chemical reagents 4,707 4,419 Acids (COD) 0,38 0,345 Contaminated glass 0,007 0 Lead washers 0,004 0,005 Toner 0,144 0,123 Spills by chemical inputs 602,065 30,443 Acidic dregs and sludge (Est.IQ) 1.255,568 14,868 Activated carbon 0 51,370 Electronic components 0 0,2 Total 1.895 149 51 Chap 04 Responsibility of Service Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report / 2015 RESPONSIBILITY OF SERVICE Customer strategy Aguas Andinas 4.1. Customer strategy 2015-2020 Availability and quality of service Has to do with the basics of the business, which is potable water and The company is aware that its relationship with its sanitation. If this fails, all other efforts are weakened or simply fail to impact customers is two-fold: from the direct Customer customers. Use relationship; and the city of Santiago, as Citizen Customer. In both areas, the company has the opportunity to create value and give meaning to its Service experience work and business. Relates to the set of customer interactions that complement consumption. This double view of the customer is an essential part of Aguas Andinas’ new Customer Strategy, Perceived benefits which aims to strengthen the bond with customers, Considers actions to carry out for customers and citizens to recognize daily promoting sustainability through three key areas: and in a consistent manner the set of benefits that Aguas Andinas brings to availability and quality of service; service experience, them. and perception of benefits. The strategy, which has a 5-year horizon, began to be implemented during 2015 and is broken down into a total of 52 initiatives to be implemented until 2020. Major advances in the implementation of the strategy related to the development of pay channels, incorporating new survey methodologies, implementation of a new system of cuts and implementation of improvements in the Contact Center platform. 53 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report / 2015 4.1.1. Changes in business structure Under the Transformation project, the organizational structure of the Corporate Management for Customer Service was redesigned. The aim of the change was to identify opportunities for improvement in the Management’s organizational structure and propose further changes to align with the challenges of the new Client Strategy. The Customer organizational redesign will be addressed in 3 phases, of which the first two have already been completed in 2015. Phase I involved multiple and profound changes including: 1 Creation of the Management Division for Customer Experience, responsible for commercial management and customer care. 2 Creation of the Deputy Management Division for Customer Care, and an operating unit for commercial agencies, which centralizes 3 Concentrate the New Services and Rural Potable Water (APR) unites into in the Business Development Management Division, to strengthen the commercial 4 Improved coordination between regional deputy managers for operations and Corporate Operations Management Division, through the definition management of all service channels into a single function. of operating unites with the Management of unit. Networks. Phase II aimed to strengthen the commercial focus of the stages of the process of incorporating customers, with emphasis on the link and closeness to customers/users, to increase non-regulated revenue generated by the Corporate Management for Customer Service. During 2016 the third phase of the restructuring will begin. 54 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 4.2. Service experience New contact center platform The culture of care at Aguas Andinas is based on In mid-2015, Aguas Andinas implemented a new Aguas Andinas’ contractors are also part of the commitment to the community and its customers, Contact Center platform for its customers. This new service experience that the company delivers to knowing that the service provided by the company tool allows greater potential for interactions, with its customers. In this sense, the company seeks, is first and foremost a necessity, and that therefore an excellent and efficient level of care. Specifically, through different mechanisms, to ensure quality it is vital to deliver timely and quality responses this platform can recognize the phone number standards are based on the administrative basis to all customers. The company’s new mission and history of client contacts, so as to facilitate and governing the bidding process. and vision, together with organizational changes expedite their attention. made to the Corporate Management for Customer Some of the requirements established in this first Service, reflect this. They allude not only to the stage has to do with the corporate image in the type role of business in today’s society, but also to the of clothing, vehicles using by the contractors and ID vision of the future that society should have on the cards. Training for the contractor’s workers are also business role, ensuring current and future customer provided, in relation to the care they should give interactions. customers in the field. Finally, compliance with risk prevention regulations and Aguas Andinas’ internal Aguas Andinas seeks to ensure the best service rules of hygiene and safety is required, as well as the experience, taking care of not only the problem company’s Code of Ethics. posed by the client but also any emotional reaction that exists after the request. In this sense, the job is To ensure that services conducted by contractors first to identify and handle the emotions generated and suppliers comply with the standards required on the client, be it anger, uncertainty, pressure or in the realm of customers, site inspections are embarrassment, then generate the best solution to established, as well as monthly phone surveys their problem. following the claims and services requested by customers. Along with this, suppliers and contractors For this, the company has been conducting training are certified to provide quality services to customers and rehearsals with care staff, as well as developing through semiannual assessments in the field of improvements to their service platforms like the service quality, a process that is audited by an Contact Center. external certification company. 55 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 4.2.1. Customer representative Claims admitted by channel Payment Migration Project The figure of Customer Representative is responChannel 2015 sible for promoting mediation between customers In order to facilitate access to customers, the and Aguas Andinas, ensuring that each case has Contact Center 313.950 83% company carried out the Payment Migration project, an answer and mediation, with the main challenwhere it sought to prioritize external collection ge being transforming the contact into a positive Commercial agencies 65.870 17% channels and gradually focus the agencies’ own experience of mutual learning. The Customer Reservices in the search for solutions to the problems presentative serves approximately six to eight daily Total 379.820 100% and requirements of customers. In December requirements arising from the company’s commer2015, 50.8% of payments made by Aguas Andinas cial survey, and claims with high media impact in the customers were made in one of more than 5,000 4.3. Transparency, safety and efficienpress or on social networks. established points (virtual and physical) through cy in business processes external collectors. By acting with impartiality, transparency, confidentiality and independence, the Customer Representative 4.3.1. Billing and collection processes The rest of the payments were made through the fulfills a mission of defending and protecting the Internet (32.3%), through PAC or PAT (11.6%) and in rights of clients arising from the relationship with the G4-PR3 Commercial Agencies that still maintain the Payment company. Aguas Andinas seeks to ensure that the customer Service, which collected just 5.3% of payments. billing process is done transparently and continuously, in compliance with current regulations, In 2015, there was a sudden migration of customers 4.2.2. Claims applying the established tariffs, through investment to electronic means: In December 2014 the company in multiple interconnected systems that deliver had 15,172 accounts with electronic payments, and in During 2015, Aguas Andinas received 379,820 information online and allow a clear answer about December 2015 it reached 32,520 accounts, which claims from its customers, with 63% of them charges made. means it achieved a growth of 114%. related to networks and service provision, and the remaining 37% for business issues, thus following These systems integrate the processes of meter the trend seen from the previous year. This allows reading, consumption analysis, collection, billing, us to estimate that on a monthly basis, only 1.2% of customer care and debt consultation. All of them customers bring a claim against the company. are certified under ISO 9001 and are pending certification under ISO 22301 for business continuity. Aguas Andinas has a wide network of external collectors that allow the expeditious collection of payments of bills and invoices issued to customers. 56 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 Another important measure was the In 55% of collection efforts made during 2015 under implementation of a new management this new model, it was possible to avoid cutting model for service cuts due to debt, which service (27% paid up at the visit to cut service, 72% promotes the regularization of debt in situ paid online, and 1% paid in situ). The cutting redesign without leaving customers without supply. project is still in the implementation period, with final To do this, and taking the principle that the results to be reflected in 2016. service cutting process is an additional tool for managing collections, and not an end, the role of the service cutter migrated to a Viewing bills collection manager, whose new goal is to give the customer payment options to avoid In order to allow customers to verify their bill, Aguas cutting service. Andinas’ mobile site was enabled to provide access to a summary of their account where they can view the debt, payment, payment history and a copy of the last bill or invoice issued. Collection efforts prior to service cuts for debts SERVICE CUT VISIT (NOTIFICATION) WEB PAYMENT PAYMENT IN SITU Offers customers a deadline for payment of the Allows customers to make a payment online from Allows the customer to pay on site by credit card, debt by signing a debit authorization voucher. If home and suspend the cutting of the service, at no credit or debit. This form of regularization will the customer fails to make payment within the cost to the customer. be enabled for the entire company beginning in prescribed period, a new order to cut service is January 2016, but during the third quarter of 2015 it issued automatically. was already enabled in the Mapué Mountain Zone. 57 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 4.3.2. Safeguarding customer information G4-PR8 Project Objective Ensure the safeguarding and protection of customer information is one of the fundamental objectives Double authentication factor for all VPN users / Strengthen security measures for remote access As a result of all the company’s of Aguas Andinas’ Comprehensive Security Policy. Swivel to the corporate network, by requesting a second work done in 2015, there were To meet this goal, the company has various mechanisms such as permanent monitoring password, thereby mitigating the risk that exists no cases or claims of customer when users share their passwords. systems for all transport channels, and has made information leaks or violations specific information and awareness campaigns on of privacy. protection of information. Additionally, in 2015 it Password and Administration Management / Allow safeguarding and control the allocation of implemented projects aiming to protect customer Cyberark credentials to special users in the organization, information, including initiatives to control and limiting the usage time and opportunity through protect access; control activity on servers; and centralized management. protect information. Control of System Administrator Activity / Develop the ability to generate audit logs and video Observe IT recordings of all actions that administrators perform on computer systems, to generate evidence that meets forensic standard File Encryption / Prot-ON Develop the ability to encrypt files and take control of shared documents. Control of Information Leaks/ DLP Network Develop the ability to monitor the information that comes out of the Aguas Andinas network, to detect possible information leaks. Access Protection Protect and control access to the corporate network. 58 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report / 2015 4.4. Perception and customer satisfaction G4-PR5 To measure customer satisfaction, Aguas Andinas has two tools it applies every year. The first is the Opina survey, a quantitative study that measures customer satisfaction on a scale of 1 to 7 for those who have a requirement (claim or request) during the month prior to the completion of the survey, and which the company declared resolved. In 2015, 1,042 telephone surveys were made, of a total of 20,000 monthly requirements. 70,7% 69,1% 71,0% 71,6% 69,7% 72,1% 73,2% 73,4% 76,3% 73,3% 74,9% 69,7% 76,4% 72,1% 75,1% 68,6% 72,5% 71,1% 76,0% 21,7% 18,4% 15,4% 17,7% 17,0% 16,0% 14,4% 13,7% 13,2% 14,3% 13,7% 16,9% 12,1% 14,5% 12,9% 17,2% 14,1% 16,2% 11,7% II Sem I Sem II Sem I Sem II Sem I Sem II Sem I Sem II Sem I Sem II Sem I Sem II Sem I Sem II Sem I Sem II Sem I Sem II Sem 2006 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 2011 2011 2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 2014 2015 2015 Notes 1 to 4 Notes 6 to 7 A continuous line of satisfaction can be seen that exceeds 70%, showing an improvement in the second half of 2015. This positive change has to do with the launch during the first half of 2015 of a new centralized claims attention model. 59 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 The second tool is an imaging study performed % 6 and 7 Emos externally, which aims to measure the opinion, image and brand personality of the company. It consists of Elecciones 600 telephone surveys conducted semiannually to Cortes customers of the Aguas Group, whether or not they 84 80 Farfana Cortes presented requirements. 77 77 77 78 75 72 75 74 72 71 69 70 70 67 67 In 2015 the Aguas Group suffered a considerable 64 64 63 62 64 61 58,6 58 61 61 decline, while Aguas Andinas decreased from 70% 59 58 56 56 57 56 53 to 56% and Aguas Cordillera dropped from 84% to 53,4 52 51 51 51 49 48 48 49 50 49 58%. These declines reflect the company’s internal factors as well as factors specific to the political and social context of the country. Similarly, a detailed 35 analysis of these tools identified opportunities for improvement, which were taken into consideration in the design of the new customer strategy. Aguas Cordillera Aguas Andinas 2001 2002 2003 2002 nov-04 jul-05 jan-06 aug-06 mar-07 oct-07 apr-08 oct-08 may-09 nov-09 dec-10 aug-11 feb-12 aug-12 mar-13 aug-13 feb-14 aug-14 apr-15 dec-15 60 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 4.5. Quality and continuity of service Water quality compliance Water quality indicators Aguas Andinas Aguas Cordillera Aguas Manquehue G4-PR1, G4-PR2 The levels of water quality and sanitation services 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 quality are regulated in the country by the Superintendency of Sanitary Services (SISS) which Bacteriology 99,6% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% monitors daily levels. Within Aguas Andinas, the Turbidity 99,6% 99,6% 100% 100% 100% 100% management of these indicators considers warning levels that are more stringent than the measurement Free chlorine residual 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% standards established under the standards. Critical parameters 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% In addition, for each year of work more restrictive Noncritical parameters 98,7% 98,7% 100% 100% 100% 100% goals are set regarding tolerance for noncompliance of these indicators, in order to move towards quality Summary 99,6% 99,6% 100% 100% 100% 100% assurances with internal breaches approaching zero. Compliance with service quality Service quality indicators 2014 2015 Promedio industria Pressure of potable water service 0,996 0,998 0,991256 Potable Water quality 99,8% 99,9% 97,86% Service continuity of potable water 0,999 0,999 0,994941 Service continuity of wastewater collection (Sewage Service) 0,995 0,997 0,998072 Quality of wastewater treatment 99,8% 99,2% 98,1% Billing accuracy 0,953 0.997 Xx Business response to customer complaints 0,923 0.921 Xx Finally, as part of the changes implemented in 2015, Aguas Andinas has a new system of scheduled cuts involving execution of a special protocol for those cuts affecting 10,000 or more customers. This new protocol specifies that in these cases, the company must provide notice 30 days prior to each affected customer, as well as be present in street markets and places with large crowds with promoters and brochures, and coordinate with the affected municipalities, among other measures. 61 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 4.6. Awareness of the value of water G4-SO1 Gotagotham Kindergartens With the goal of developing a an educational The drought and the effects of climate change are program aimed at generating direct learning for Early childhood education is a fundamental pillar of the formal educational process, as learning experiences issues of great relevance globally, especially for 5th-grade students in the Metropolitan Region that occur in the early years are crucial for further development. Aware of this, Aguas Andinas in conjunction sectors such as sanitation, which bases its operation on environmental issues, in 2011 Aguas Andinas with the Lo Barnechea Foundation developed this program to help kindergartens raise awareness among and sustainability on water availability. implemented the Gotagotham (Gotham-Drop) children about the environment and the importance of taking care of natural resources, especially in educational program for responsible water use. developing habits for the care of water and sustainable and efficient use of water resources. This program will In this context, Aguas Andinas has generated be implemented in 50 kindergartens in the Metropolitan Region in 2015. different investment plans aimed at increasing the The specific objectives of the program are to availability of the resource and ensuring continuity support teachers in teaching environmental content of service. However, these measures will not be through recreational education applicable in the sufficient if not complemented by a cultural change classroom; encourage the educational community around the responsible use of water by the whole of in changing attitudes and creating environmental society. awareness; strengthen the technological education 2013 2014 2015 subsector as the space for development; and In this regard, the company has been part of this promote environmental education into the school. awareness process through various campaigns and Students 4.648 5.801 5.706 educational programs among customers, schools, Gotagotham seeks to create environmental social networks, and others. awareness through a methodology that 71 101 100 complements science subjects of education technology in an entertaining way environmental, Schools strengthening the curriculum content presented by the Ministry of Education. Certified schools 13 31 43 62 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 4.6.2. Guided visits program 4.6.3. Water dome G4-SO1 G4-SO1 More than 10 years ago Aguas Andinas During 2015 and in the framework of the World implemented guided tours to potable water and Water Day, Aguas Andinas held the second Water treatment plants, with the aim of bringing the Dome in Bustamante Park, where a number of company’s work to the school and university activities were carried out, such as projections of communities, as well as neighboring communities. maps showing the entire water cycle, interactive games on touchscreens, and a section where Since 2014 a plan of guided tours focused on children could freely express their commitment to schools in vulnerable communities was established, water. reaching 37% of the schools in these districts. Specifically in 2015, and with the support of the Lo The dome was open to the public for almost two Barnechea Educational Foundation, an educational weeks, offering guided visits to schools during the program was developed that seeks to deepen what morning and for the general public during afternoon they have learned in visits to the Potable water visits. Given the demand from schools in the Treatment Plants and/or Wastewater Treatment Metropolitan Area, the company decided to extend Plants and strengthen and implement what they the activities three days more than planned. learned to other subjects, considering the content of the curriculum at each level and subject. This activity, the product of the size of the project, meant a greater contribution from the company compared to other awareness campaigns of water use, reaching $258,709,779. Participants in site visits Participants in site visits Adults 527 Adultos 2.861 Children 1.523 Children 3.383 63 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 4.6.4. Campaign: #UsaLoQueNecesitas (“UseWhatYouNeed”) EN-27, G4-SO1, E In 2015 Aguas Andinas launched the Campaign for Responsible Water Use and Climate Change #Usaloquenecesitas (“Usewhatyouneed”), an initiative that is part of the company’s 2015-2030 Drought and Climate Change Plan. The plan seeks to raise awareness among the inhabitants of Santiago on the resource vulnerability. The campaign started on November 16 and was presented during a seminar with sanitation industry experts from Australia and Brazil. The four basic messages of the campaign were: “Your grass is just as green with a short watering” “Your hair is just as clean with a 5-minute shower instead of 20” “Your dishes get just as clean washing them as running the tap” “Your teeth are just as white with the tap on or off” The campaign was deployed in monuments located throughout the city, along main streets and bus stops, in the Santiago Metro, on radios, digital displays, social networks, among others. These campaigns were joined by other events, such as the world walk for water, water tasting events at offices, and support for the Mapocho Water of Light display. 64 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 4.7. Relationship with vulnerable 4.7.1. Friendly Billing Program 4.7.2. Plumbing workshops customers G4-SO1 G4-SO1 The performance of all workers in Aguas Andinas One of the solutions offered by Aguas Andinas to delinquent customers in vulnerable areas is the Friendly Another example of the company’s active starts by assuming a fundamental commitment Billing project, which provides payment facilities through a social agreement with split portions (a municipal involvement with residents of the concession to society, which is included in the company’s contribution and customer input), providing the customer with a solution and generating a habit of area, and in particular those living in the most mission to deliver an essential and quality service to payments for the future. vulnerable neighborhoods, was the implementation customers, helping to improve the quality of life for of professional plumbing workshops. The aim of inhabitants in the Santiago watershed. The contract is an agreement to make 36 no-interest installments, with an expiry margin of 8 unpaid the workshops was that graduates could serve as installments, sufficient to generate the habit of payment on the customer and facilitate the regularization a plumber or gas appliance installers, work in areas In this sense, the company is committed to all of debt deadlines, and where the value of the share corresponds to 25% of monthly sales. Once the 36 of maintenance and production of gas networks for of its customers, especially those who belong to installments have been billed, and provided that the customer has paid its share at least 34 times, the home use, and as installers of both potable water low-income sectors, promoting programs and company forgives the difference, leaving the account current. and sewage services. initiatives that support them. It should be noted that approximately 35% of potable water and sewage For customers to get this benefit, Aguas Andinas’ employees, in agreement with municipalities and In addition, of the 33 course participants during services provided by the company are installed and neighborhood associations, conduct operations on the ground directly with customers. As an alternative, 2015, 21 took the certification test conducted on supply residential areas that are inhabited by families cards are mailed for them to access the municipality directly, who then informs the company of the gas network installations Class 3, regulated by the at socioeconomic risk. commitment that is made. Superintendency of Electricity and Fuels, whose results will be available in 2016. During the year 2015, 6,274 agreements were made under this system, 3,074 more than in 2014, and provided effective debt relief to 2,031 clients, for a total amount of $788,508,536. Friendly Billing Year Number of social agreements Amount forgiven 2011 2.197 $ 736.956.396 2012 6.928 $ 2.458.972.898 2013 5.581 $ 1.718.113.296 2014 3.200 $ 1.154.161.749 2015 6.274 $ 788.508.536 65 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT. We are responsible for the water cycle in its full development, taking water from nature, processing it for use in homes and industry, collecting it, and returning clean water to the environment in a responsible manner. Chap 05 Labor Practices Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 LABOR PRACTICES 5.1. Allocation Allocation per company G4-10, G4-LA12 Company 2014 2015 To meet the objectives of the transformation Aguas Andinas / MR 1.068 1.036 project, the commitment of the entire organization is required. For this, having qualified, diverse Aguas Cordillera / MR 121 108 and motivated workers is essential for effective Aguas Manquehue / MR 19 17 management and to achieve strategic goals and objectives. During 2015 we continued to work on Total 1.208 1.193 projects related to quality of working life and the professional development of each employee. 2014 2015 As of 31 December 2015, 98% of Aguas Andinas’ 1,158 workers had permanent contracts. At the end of Category Man Woman Man Woman the period the trend of recent years regarding the gender distribution was maintained, with 78% of staff Nº % Nº % Nº % Nº % male. Executives 51 86% 8 14% 55 87% 8 13% Leader 83 73% 30 27% 78 74% 28 26% Professional 268 67% 131 33% 281 69% 128 31% Technical 199 78% 56 22% 193 78% 53 22% Administrative 31 40% 46 60% 30 45% 37 55% Operational 298 98% 7 2% 296 98% 6 2% Sub Total 930 77% 278 23% 933 78% 260 22% Total 1.208 1.193 68 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 5.1.2. Turnover 5.2. Integrated Talent Management G4-LA1 In 2013 the project of Comprehensive Talent To have the best talent, in 2010 Aguas Andinas approved a selection policy that establishes guiding principles Management began, which through its 4 foci for recruitment, selection and retention. This policy seeks to ensure fair and transparent opportunities for (training, people development, knowledge development, depending on the talent and the best professional practices on the basis of non-discrimination management and system objectives) covered and equal opportunities for all people. all company employees, providing them with the necessary tools to encourage their growth During 2015, total turnover increased by 1.4% compared to 2014, mainly explained by the 75 people who and development and aligning their professional chose to benefit from the voluntary retirement plan. objectives with company strategy. After two years the consolidation phase began. In 2014 2015 2015 efforts focused on selection of staff, improving Turnover Nº % Nº % systems performance evaluation, and generating development plans and career training aligned to Men 79 6,5 89 7,4 business needs and the interests of workers. Women 20 1,7 27 2,2 Total 99 8,2 116 9,6 Under 30 36 3,0 15 1,2 Between 30 and 50 48 4,0 45 3,7 More than 50 15 1,2 56 4,6 Total 99 8,2 116 9,6 Calculation of turnover: N° of departures in 2014 * 100/Total workforce as of December 31, 2015. 69 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 5.2.1. Performance Management 5.2.2. Talent Development G4-LA11 G4-LA9, GA-LA10 As a way to encourage meritocracy and internal The annual training plan had as its main focus Likewise, 60% of employees were the subject of promotion, Aguas Andinas has a map of talents, the development of leadership skills in business, health and safety training, and almost 50% on the complemented by a succession plan and/or critical training in psychosocial risks and strengthening company’s activities, followed by 35% who also positions, which are fed with information collected interpersonal skills. Other areas of training included received training on soft skills. through the comprehensive talent management upgrading legislative and project management plan, and particularly through the annual SGD-Creinformation, together with awareness on CSR issues. Total investment in training during 2015 exceeded cer performance evaluation and technical Assess95% of employees participated in at least one of $315,000,000, which resulted in an average amount ment Center. these programs. per employee of $272,160. Notably, from 2015 the Top Down assessment (SGD-Crecer) was applied to all company employees, developing in parallel a 360° evaluation of the group of the leaders. Meanwhile, evaluations by the Assessment Center, 2014 2015 applied to professionals who have seen outstanding performance and that may be likely successors to Category Nº of Nº of training Average training Nº of Nº of training Average training positions of greater responsibility, have been perforemployees hours hours employees hours hours med for approximately 13.1% of the allocation since it began to apply this methodology. As a result of this, Executives 59 3.662 62 63 5.723 91 over 90% of vacancies of leadership to manager positions have been occupied by internal staff. Leader 113 11.036 98 106 7.533 71 Professional 399 26.728 67 409 35.406 87 Percentage evaluated 2014 2015 Technical 255 8.994 35 246 13.249 54 (SGD-Crecer) Women 95% 90% Administrative 77 6.910 90 67 4.363 65 Men 98% 94% Operational 305 11.343 37 302 16.108 53 Total 97% 93% Total 1.208 68.673 57 1.193 82.382 69 70 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 5.2.3. Knowledge Management Program 5.2.4. Variable Remuneration per Objectives – DEO (GeCon) G4-51, G4-52 y G4-53 The GeCon program aims to identify, preserve and In the Knowledge Domains, an Aguas Andinas has a variable compensation system that allows it to set, approve by the leadership, and evaluate targets share the key and strategic knowledge of people international network of water to remunerate workers annually based on accomplishments achieved. to make it available to the rest of the organization experts and environment of and thus implement new ways of generating the AGBAR Group, successfully This system is based on the definition of three levels of objectives, which are weighted depending on the level of the synergies from teamwork. The program consists integrated more than 170 Aguas employee. of three pillars; Knowledge Domains, Collaborative Andinas professionals, sharing Environments and the Digital Library. As part of this relevant experiences for the program for 2015 the following milestones were whole group. implemented: Sphere of The Comprehensive Collaborative Overall Individual influence Environments and Excellence 2.0 objectives objectives objectives was strengthened. Additionally, three new Collaborative Environments were launched: Unregulated Business Global objectives, Sphere of Influence Individual objectives Community, Emerge Community, aligned with objectives that support set in agreement and the ESSAL Integration the company’s the leverage of each with the leadership, Community, which were born Strategic Plan, management project based on direct from the needs identified by which involve all or group of Influence responsibilities and professionals of the Aguas Group. staff. (may be Business or goals of the employee. Functional). Open Gecon 2015 took place, the first event where suppliers of the Aguas Group were invited to Global participate, with the intention of Sphere of Influence Objectives Objectives generating and strengthening ties, developing new forms of Functional Business Objectives work, and bringing these strategic (Weight) Objectives (Weight) concepts of Open Company and (Weight) Knowledge Management. General Manager 30% 0% Profile 1 70% Corporate Directors 15% 15% Profile 2 Directors/Area Subdirectors and Subsidiaries 50% 25% 25% Leadership Profile 3 30% 35% 35% Professionals 71 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 During 2015, significant changes to the system of 5.3. Diversity and equal opportunities objectives were made, so as to achieve greater alignment between variable remuneration and the G4-LA3 company’s strategic objectives. Aguas Andinas promotes and respects the principles of meritocracy and equal opportunities, recognizing Aguas Andinas has defined a policy, them as essential to the effective management of talents. objectives and an action plan The main challenges of the Comprehensive that addresses the areas of labor Talent Management Plan are: Aguas Andinas’ commitment to equal opportunities was formalized in 2010 with the signing of the participation, access to positions agreement with SERNAM to receive the Iguala Seal (predecessor of the current Iguala Seal-reconciliation), of leadership and decision-making and the creation and implementation of the Equilibra Program. and reconciliation of family, work and personal life, with targets and During 2015 and based on the results of an internal audit of Standard NCh3262, a process of internal work indicators. Training was initiated to comply with the requirements and gaps in order to achieve certification. Likewise, and as a way to strengthen and monitor the measures implemented, the Equality and Reconciliation Committee was Generating greater impact through training, increased created. technical training and incorporating new dynamic training. In 2016 the company will seek to integrate In this context, the company worked on the formalization of an Equality and Reconciliation policy, which is All the work done by the company ESSAL in these initiatives and increase participation responsible for promoting equal opportunities without discrimination by gender, race, political or religious towards enhancing work and family in training programs in Spain. belief, or any personal concept that violates the dignity of fundamental rights. This policy was validated by reconciliation is reflected in 100% of the Management Committee in January 2016. reinstatement of the 22 employees who were absent for their postnatal. Additionally, under the Balance program, the company implemented two other important measures to Development improve the quality of life of its employees: Implementing Telecommuting: helps improve the quality of life of employees, reducing travel times and Consolidation of the talent map as a strategic tool for increasing savings in travel costs, providing flexible hours and greater autonomy. This program began in decision-making. December 2015 with seven employees, it is voluntary and is of limited duration Flexible Schedule:: consists of the anticipation of summer time two weeks before 2014. Beginning Knowledge Management the first week of December and running through the first week of March, this flexible schedule allows workers to end their workday on Fridays at 2:00 PM. Development of new collaborative environments based on strategic needs and promoting greater integration In 2016 work will begin on a communications plan that seeks to disseminate and communicate to all workers of workers in the area. the importance of Standard NCh3263, and then perform the external certification audit during the first quarter of 2016. 72 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 5.3.1. Equal Pay Average 1 base salary ratio of women compared to men G4-LA13, G4-54, G4-55 2014 2015 Category of The company’s compensation policy defines proceBase Base Base Base Executives Salary Salary dures for recruitment, promotion and annual appraisalary salary salary salary sal, which are applied equally without discrimination, ratio ratio men women men women regardless of gender or any other staff distinction. Leader 5.479.811 4.517.819 82% 5.736.302 4.899.351 85% Professional 3.167.347 2.685.277 85% 3.428.602 2.866.942 84% Technical 2.074.517 1.715.646 83% 2.202.779 1.816.850 82% Administrative 1.344.391 1.096.770 82% 1.404.112 1.121.263 80% Operational 1.066.959 1.280.851 120% 1.135.505 1.350.825 119% Category 1.056.741 959.808 91% 1.095.921 1.038.174 95% Total 1.726.636 1.645.418 95% 1.812.724 1.744.766 96% The differences between the incomes of men and women are only due to general differences such as seniority or type of position (regional, shifts, or working on holidays vs. business days). The relationship between the remuneration of the highest-paid person1 at Aguas Andinas and the average salary at the company is 2.8 times. While the increase in average compensation relative to 2014 was 5.3%, the highest salary was 6.2%. 1 Calculation made according to base staff salaries corresponding to general roles. 73 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 5.4. Labor relations G4-LA8, G4-LA10, G4-11 The formal relationship between the company and employees is done through the six unions, which unite Workers covered by collective bargaining 87% of the allocation. Nº of signed As a percentage of all Collective Agreement employees employee payroll 2015 marked a crucial milestone in terms of relations with unions, the result of early collective bargaining with unions 1, 2 and 3 of Aguas Andinas, which in sum accounted for two-thirds of the company’s negotiators. Unions 1 and 2 Aguas Andinas 501 43% This event was of vital importance for the company because, in addition to delivering an immediate end to Unions of Professionals and Technical Staff Aguas 375 32% the conflict, it allowed to unify the benefits for the three unions and anticipate negotiations for a period of Andinas three years. Union 1 Aguas Cordillera and Manquehue 31 3% Union 2 Aguas Cordillera and Manquehue 47 4% Among the most prominent negotiating issues, an agreement on the early retirement program was reached Union of workers and supervisors Aguas Cordillera which is open to all those workers over 62 and women over 57 years of age, in addition to those with 41 4% and Manquehue disabling diseases. People who took early retirement enjoyed economic incentives in their compensation and retained health insurance and payment of social laws until retirement age. During the first year of this Individual Contracts 163 14% program’s operation, a total of 76 workers were welcomed. Collective agreements also include a number of benefits that seek to improve health conditions and safety of workers both inside and outside the company, through complementary health insurance and solidarity funds that cover the costs not covered by the ISAPRES and supplementary insurance. In addition , the agreements establish a minimum of 4 weeks notice to workers and their representatives, before the company implemented significant operational changes that could substantially affect them. 74 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 5.4.1. Work quality of life Aguas Andinas promotes various initiatives aimed at improving the quality of life of its employees. This follows the premise that to attract talent, build commitment and foster a better place to work, we must recognize the needs and interests of the people who make up the place, developing initiatives aimed to improve their well-being and physical and mental health. The main initiatives are associated with the promotion of sport and physical activity through types of sports, agreements with gyms and maintaining a proper sports stadium in La Farfana. To support the balance between work and family life, a flextime policy was established during summer, finishing the work on Fridays at 2:00 PM. Beginning in December 2015, a voluntary pilot telecommute program was launched, which for 6 months will involve five areas within the company, where selected workers develop work from home, following the same work schedule stipulated in their contract. 5.4.2. Psychosocial Risks Monitoring Protocol In December 2015, the Psychosocial Risks Monitoring Protocol was implemented to identify the presence and level of exposure to risks that may affect mental health and improve quality. The measurement was performed through the application of an anonymous and voluntary questionnaire by all workers of companies in the Aguas Group. It is expected that the results of the assessment will be delivered in January 2016. 75 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 5.5. Health and safety G4-LA5, G4-LA6, G4-LA7 Under the company’s Comprehensive Management Identification of hazardous risks or occupational disease System for Quality, Safety and Environment, it developed and implemented a specific Health and Type of Employee Hazard or disease to which they are exposed Safety Management system, certified under OHSAS Potable Water Plant Operator Chlorine gas exposure, work in confined spaces. 18001, and headed by a Corporate Operations and Occupational Hazard Management Division. Chlorine gas exposure, contact with chemicals, lifting equipment, intervention Equipment Maintenance Person with energized equipment, confined space entry. The system consists of a Health and Safety Policy and a Strategic Plan for Occupational Health and Exposure to chlorine gas, contact with chemicals, transportation on public roads Potable Water Transport Operator Safety (PRL), which has as its goals for the 2015 to and confined space entry. 2016 period: Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator Exposure to biological agents, lifting equipment. ü Gradual and progressive reduction in accident Sewage Network Maintenance Operator Harmed by confined space entry and work on public roads. rates. ü Zero tolerance to risk exposure, including for JTogether with the Chilean Safety Association, Aguas Andinas carried out qualitative and quantitative evaluations that determined the main risks the operations could subcontractors. face in emergencies related to exposure to chlorine gas and chemicals. Faced with this risk, management courses were conducted and staff were given specific devices to contain or neutralize leaks or spills. However, it was determined that the risk of exposure to these components is well below the permissible limits set by the Supreme ü Integration of the role of prevention in business Decree 594. activities. As a result of the initiatives implemented during the year and resulting from a culture of safety that has been implemented in conjunction with the system for the fourth Likewise, the entire structure and management consecutive year, the accident rate managed to be reduced, from 1.30% to 0.9% at the end of 2015. During the period there have been no fatal events. dedicated to protecting the health and safety of persons directly complements the activities of the 13 formally constituted joint committees on health and Nº of days lost for accidents Nº accidents with time lost Accident Rate Injury Rate safety, which cover 100% of the workers. Company with time lost 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Aguas Andinas S.A. 12 10 139 500 1,14 0,94 13,20 47,00 Aguas Cordillera S.A. 1 1 223 4 0,81 0,86 18,10 3,40 Aguas Manquehue S.A. 2 0 36 0 10,53 0,00 189,50 0,00 Aguas Group 15 11 398 504 1,30 0,90 33,30 42,00 76 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 5.5.1. Prevention of drug and alcohol consumption In order to develop a sustained and effective strategy for prevention of drugs and alcohol consumption, a tripartite working table was organized, made up of representatives of workers, the company and SENDA. In addition an anonymous and voluntary survey was conducted by employees in eight precincts workers of the company, leading to the initial phase of certification that seeks to make Aguas Andinas a work space that prevents consumption of tobacco, alcohol and other drugs. In late 2015 the draft policy to prevent drug and alcohol was prepared, which will be evaluated in March 2016 based on the results of the evaluation. Along with the above, trainings will be held and a communications plan will be implemented. Precincts surveyed: 1. Corporate Headquarters 2. Lira -Pintor Cicarelli Compound 3. San Enrique Plant 4. Vizcachas Plant 5. Antilco Zone 6. Mapocho Zone 7. Maipo Zone 8. Cordillera Mapue Zone 423 Surveys collected 77 Chap 06 Responsibility in the supply chain Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 RESPONSIBILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN G4-12, G4-EC9 Suppliers in the value chain in business continuity of Aguas Group The relationship of trust between a company and its customers is based on a chain of commitments, Production of Transport and in which suppliers and contractors are key actors. potable water and distribution networks It is for this reason that Aguas Andinas considers it purification of sewage highly important to strengthen the link with their more than 1,400 supplier companies, classified in 32 categories or families of goods and/or services. Customers In the 2015-2020 five-year plan, one of the strategic Efficiency, innovation and operational and process focuses of the company is established as progress engineering. towards the consolidation of trust relationships Water Plant between the company and its suppliers. In this Cross link internal / external customers (stakeholders) Comprehensive quality and hydraulic model regard, and given the strategic importance of this management systems group of interest to the company, in 2015 projects of structural change began that will achieve effective Management indicators (RPI) and generation of efficiencies in procurement processes, increase reports (sustainable decisions) loyalty of suppliers, increase expert suppliers and Performance measurement on the objectives and improve relationship practices with them. strategic goals of Management Wastewater Plant Comprehensive management control over the processes QuickWins Generation (process improvements) Operational maintenance Supplier Management PT Maintenance Sustainability of the operation Network Maintenance Logistics Management Hydraulic Maintenance Quality and Opportunity Infrastructure Maintenance PRL Provider development OPEX / CAPEX Market / Stakeholders 79 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 Suppliers of Aguas Andinas 6.1. Transforming the Purchasing Management 2014 2015 purchasing function Procurement Manager will be responsible for defining and managing the strategy providers through a single policy Procurement Management policy. Nationals 1.509 1.538 As part of the organizational transformation of Aguas Andinas, a Contracts Manager will be responsible for designing and implementing policies and project was launched in June 2015 strategies to ensure recruitment and agile processes that adequately safeguard the Foreigners 25 43 to establish a new Operating Model for purchasing area functions, which interests of the Company. will transform its role into an area of Platform Manager will be responsible for managing the design, implementation and Total 1.534 1.573 strategic sourcing. construction of projects requiring development of the Procurement System. In macro terms, this transformation involved the redefinition of the Additionally the Deputy Manager of Purchasing was created along with the % Expenses on suppliers (by origin) incorporation of the figure of Purchasing Category Manager, who will be responsible Supply Management Division and responsibilities, generating results in for reviewing and definition of needs according to the categories to be managed. 0,48% a Purchasing Management with new Extranjeros dependent roles. 99,52% Nacionales Aguas Andinas contractors 2014 2015 Number of contractor companies 107 114 Number of contract workers 2.212 2.309 80 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 6.2. Supplier Management and Contracts 6.2.1. Transparent and competitive bidding Purchases are dynamic processes, often complex and involving more than a negotiation. With good purchasing management, the company manages to save costs, satisfy internal users, in both time and Along with these organizational changes, the amount, and receive direct benefits. In that sense transformation project meant the company purchasing management should be understood as implemented three changes of magnitude in a key activity for the company to succeed in all its relation to purchases: implementing procurement activities. management by categories and aligning the area with the rest of the organization. In order to strengthen relationships of trust, Aguas Andinas took action to modernize the company’s Fundamental changes Objectives of Change Steps Implemented procurement management and bidding process, which included the review of procurement Management by category Advance towards technical specialization of buyers. Classification of suppliers in 32 categories or families processes and bidding. For this, information of goods and/or services. Timely identify synergies between areas and was provided by executives, professionals and subsidiaries. Alignment with the categories of the group. technicians of the company, as well as various providers serving Aguas Andinas. Identify potential opportunities for improvement in Generation of KPIs by category. the quality and service it provides. This review process allowed us to know the strengths and weaknesses of the relationship Empowerment of the purchasing function Promote planning purchases. Purchasing Development Plan. between the company and its suppliers, and helped Promote planning purchases. improve aspects such as proximity to strategic Identify opportunities for savings. Implementation of processes for proactive search. suppliers and the company’s image, generating long-term relationships with suppliers and improving Foster innovation. efficiency levels while maintaining high standards of Improvements in the supply chain. control. Achieve a greater variety of suppliers and products. 81 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 Additionally, the company is reviewing the administrative requirements for bidding to analyze the 6.2.2. Evaluation and development of suppliers requirements for bidders with the aim of improving economic offers and increasing the number of participants Once a service or delivery of a product has begun, it is necessary to ensure that the quality standards initially requested and offered remain consistent over time. Thus, continuous assessment must be made to ensure Purchasing Process that the provider consistently meets the requirements. The evaluation aims to get the company to work with the best suppliers by eliminating those offering lower quality. Thus, we find that the selected suppliers progressively improve the quality of their supplies, reliability, Request For Evaluation of Planning Analysis of flexibility and pricing. Proposals and offers received purchases needs Budget The frequency of evaluations that Aguas Andinas uses for its suppliers is annual, as are the actions to be taken based on the result obtained. The review of each supplier is recorded in an evaluation form, which contains the results obtained for each of the criteria, maintaining traceability in the system. This process is part of the certification and recertification that are made annually to the Comprehensive Order Request Negotiation of Supplier the conditions selection Management Systems of ISO 9.001, 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Order tracking Evaluation of and agreements suppliers A major milestone in this area was the company’s open exhibition, made during its Triennial Plan 2015-2017 for Potable Water Supply and Sewerage Pipeline Renewal. This exhibition not only experienced a large turnout of new suppliers, but also achieved improved adherence by suppliers to this public tender. As a result, the company awarded the renovation project of potable water and sewerage services under competitive prices and high quality standards, generating shared value for Aguas Andinas and its suppliers. 82 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 In order to promote awareness and use of the Regarding the development of suppliers, the 6.2.3. Processes and controls In this sense, one of the areas that the company Knowledge Management Program (GeCon), the company has a Comprehensive Provider hopes to improve with all these changes is company organized two activities during 2015 to Development Plan, which hopes to be strengthened The Company’s Supplier Portal, operating since 2014, to manage payments to suppliers. Efficient disseminate the tool. in 2016 with the figure of the Supply Manager, in the has as its main function to provide information on management allows for planning and scheduling the context of the changes made by the Transformation the status of invoices to Aguas Andinas suppliers. flows of supplier goods, giving them the opportunity Internally, the GeCon Day sought to promote Project. In addition, since 2015 all bidding processes are to better address their business, labor and financial this tool among all company employees, and published in the Supplier Portal, which helps ensure commitments. To ensure timely payment to externally, Open GeCon is especially focused on Along with this, the 2015 several meetings were held transparency and competitiveness. By 2016, the suppliers, however, it is necessary that all areas strategic suppliers of Aguas Andinas, presenting the with strategic suppliers of the company, in order company expects to add functionality to the of the company involved in this process maintain application as a space of knowledge and exchange to understand their plans for continuity of service website and the ease of acquiring the background a high level of awareness aimed at improving of documents. in the supply chain. This made it possible to know information of the tender through this means, management of the time payment process. their contingency programs in providing strategic paying by WebPay. The goal of Open GeCon was to share experiences products, such as Chlorine, Fluorine, Polymers, In this context, it is expected that changes made in of company innovation and invite them to join this Coagulants, etc. As part of the transformation process, Aguas 2015 will have positive effects during 2016, once all initiative, in order to build loyalty, transparency, and Andinas decided to undergo a technological are fully implementation and operational. generate new channels of communication with its In addition, individual meetings were held with upgrade of the supplier platform, which incorporates suppliers. these providers to collect their concerns, strengthen traceability and automation of existing processes existing links, and improve processes that help and those that should be incorporated. develop and preserve competitive and strategic advantages of both parties. 83 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 6.3. Promoting responsible conduct in Requirements for suppliers Under the compliance specifications of ISO 9001, the supply chain in relation to the Purchasing Process, the company annually assesses a group of relevant suppliers. The G4-EN32, G4-EN33, G4-HR10, G4-HR11, G4-LA14, scope of the assessment is aimed at quantifying the G4-LA15, G4-SO9, G4-SO10 quality of services provided, the compliance with risk For public and private tender procedures, Aguas prevention regulations, and control and minimization Andinas regularly requests, through bidding, a series of environmental impacts. In a timely fashion, in 2015 of background information that seek to ensure the 71 vendors were evaluated as part of re-certification reliability of supply and commercial behavior of the National legislation Internal regulations of the standard. In this evaluation, no significant offeror. actual or potential negative impacts were detected, Law 20,123 on Subcontracting, applying all relevant “Special Regulation for Environment, Work Safety so it was not necessary to implement any corrective In the case of the winning supplier, Aguas Andinas rights under the law and in particular on information and Health for Contractors and Subcontractors of measure in this regard. requires them to comply with regulations and and retention payments. Aguas Group and related companies.” requirements of the national legislation, as well as the company’s internal policies. Along with this, “Regulation Applicable to the Project Construction “Documented Requirements regarding the Special the company also set several conditions to their Stage” in the “Regulations on Prevention of Regulations for Environment, Safety and Health at suppliers, among which is to unrestrictedly meet Occupational Risks” (D. S No. 40). Work”. all payment obligations to its employee pension contributions. Annex “Requirements related to Subcontracting “Aguas Group Code of Ethics.” Law”. 84 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 6.3.1. Health and safety of contractors ü Zero severe or fatal accidents. Health And Safety Indicators Of Company Contractors 2015 In 2015 Aguas Andinas implemented a Contractors ü Compliance with Risk Prevention Policy. Company contractors Permanent company Management Model, which addresses among other Item Employee health and safety ü Improve management control over contractors, contractors issues the health and safety of contractors. As part committee of this implementation, the company contracted avoiding possible findings in internal and external N° Accidents 44 48 the services of CLEVER, a technology services audits. N° Hours worked 1.980.755 2.548.121 and outsourcing company specializing in control processes for contractors, to carry out inspections ü Reduce the Frequency and Severity Index. N° Average of employees 871 1.211 in the field and enable a web platform for document N° days lost 381 422 management. ü Strengthen the operational control of the Frequency Index (IF) 22,21 18,84 company works. Severity Index (IG) 0,19 0,166 Specifically, by 2015 more than 3,000 ground The work of this Committee may be reflected in the Accident Rate (TA) 5,05 3,96 inspections of company contractors were made specifically for health and safety issues. Also, relevant various health and safety indicators for participating Injury Rate (TS) 43,73 34,9 available information was verified and approved contractors, which reflect a better performance than for 128 contractors. Along with this, four training other permanent contractors in this field. Finally, in October of the same year, Aguas Andinas jointly with the Chilean Safety Association and CLEVER, sessions were made for providers in aspects related performed the VII Annual Meeting of the Aguas Group Business Contractors, which focused on operational to this issue. and documented control; strengthening the teamwork in the subcontracting chain; and competitive advantages of preventive management. Additionally, the company created the Committee on Occupational Health and Safety Business for Contracting Companies led by Corporate Operations Manager, which meets monthly with the General Managers of 11 contracting companies. In special session, the Committee meets with Aguas Andinas’ Corporate Operations Manager and/or Prevention Chief, in case of an occupational accident or disease that is severe, fatal or when the situation requires it. 85 A VITAL RESOURCE. We have had an anti-drought plan for 6 years, which has enables us each year to meet supply needs and provide service to residents of the Metropolitan RegionMetropolitana Chap 07 Responsibility with neighboring communities Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 RESPONSIBILITY WITH NEIGHBORING COMMUNITIES In its commitment to develop the business and ensure the sustainable Monitoring and management of impacts in the value chain 2015 development of its stakeholders, Aguas Andinas addresses the management of its impacts on neighboring communities through Objective Impact Method Compliance Objective responsible management that ensures the welfare and development of its Achieved neighbors. Odor Emissions Mitigation: Application of chemicals (catalyst) to minimize emission of Reach a level above legal Yes odorous smells in release and biosolids. 10,460 liters of catalyzer were compliance For this, the company has formal initiatives to bring economic and cultural applied during drying of biosolids development to the most vulnerable areas, helping them to have basic Odor Emissions Mitigation: Agricultural reuse in rural areas, away from the population. Maintain compliance with laws Yes tools to improve their chances of growth and development. 148,729 tons were spread out. or regulations Odor Emissions Mitigation: Using trucks that prevent odor emissions. Contractors utilize 18 Maintain compliance with laws Yes 7.1. Management of community impacts sealed and watertight trucks to transport biosolids. or regulations Odor Emissions Mitigation: Solar and bio drying processes to minimize stockpiles. 104,822 Maintain compliance with laws Yes G4-EC7 tons were entered. or regulations Aguas Andinas is aware of how vital its services are for people and organizations in the metropolitan region. All industrial, business and even Odor Emissions Mitigation: Procedures for biosolids management. In winter bio drying took Reach a level above legal Yes daily activities are positively influenced by the fact of having a reliable and place (incomplete composting) and in summer, solar drying. compliance quality potable water service, as well as collection services and wastewater Odor Emissions Mitigation: Deodorization system in the main emission points of the Reach a level above legal Yes treatment that protects and cares for the environment and health and Mapocho -Trebal wastewater treatment plant. compliance safety of people, allowing them to develop their daily activities. Odor Emissions Mitigation: Roofing pretreatment stage in Mapocho Trebal wastewater Reach a level above legal Yes treatment plant. compliance G4-SO2, G4-SO10 Vectors Mitigation: Annual vector control program through a fumigation plan Maintain compliance with laws Yes However, the management of the water cycle requires different processes, performed by a specialized external company. This program is followed by or regulations which inevitably generate impacts on the environment and surrounding the University of Chile Pests Management Centre. communities. Aguas Andinas has identified and worked to reduce these negative impacts, generating prevention and mitigation measures for Emissions Mitigation: Emission compensation. Permanent PM10 emission evaluation. Maintain compliance with laws Yes each of them. or regulations Emissions Prevention: Truck speed reduction in non asphalted roads. Maintain compliance with laws Yes or regulations 88 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 7.1.1. Relations with neighboring communities Good Neighbor Program 2020 Community Management Model 1 2 3 4 The Good Neighbor Policy of Aguas Andinas started operations in 2005 from working groups implemented to build trust with neighbors of La Farfana and El Trebal wastewater treatment plants. After 10 years of operation, in 2015 the program was evaluated with the aim of generating an assessment Governance Community Feedback Sustainable Operations Creating local value of the activities carried out and identify opportunities Management for improvements to help maintain smooth Internal communication Working Groups Comprehensive Management Local Development Master Plan communications and efficient working relationships, Strategic Alliances Transversal Evaluation FBV Operations and Environment Competitive Funds, Avanza Program, others bringing us closer to neighboring communities. External Communication Local Base Line Survey Community Environmental Monitoring Training Community Leaders Continuous mapping of Measuring Social Impact Stakeholders The diagnosis program was conducted in four stages, from March 2015 to January 2016, in which a secondary characterization of localities was initially performed, followed by fieldwork interviews with 89 key stakeholders, both from the community and the El Trebal, La Farfana and El Rutal plants. 89 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 As part of the diagnostic results, a stakeholder mapping was obtained based on the analysis of relationships and influence, as well as the 2020 community management model. 2020 Community Management Model Pillar Objective Actions Governance The objectives are to enhance and formalize communications with municipalities, and Semiannual Presentation of Community Management at the municipal level. generate strategic alliances with municipalities, utilities and others. Preparation and delivery of Community Relations Semiannual Bulletin to Municipalities, Utilities with a Local Presence, and GORE. Surveying and continuous updating of activities, funds and institutional management. Implementation of annual perception survey on relationships, municipal administration and public services. Community Feedback The objectives in this area are to develop and promote measurement instances of Develop a baseline study using local personnel. perception and social impact among neighboring communities; formalize, validate and Conduct annual measurements of the impacts of Grant Funds, Avanza Program and subensure the representativeness of the Working Groups; and even out and enhance the programs of the Local Development Master Plan. management capacity and leadership of social leaders. Develop training and management protocol for the Work Committee (protocol, accountability, performance scorecard and management report). Implement annual training workshops for community Leaders. Sustainable operations In this area, communications are expected to improve on management of the company's Encourage the use and evaluation of Aló Vecino and door-to-doors. management impacts, thus ensuring operational continuity of the plants Environment and/or operations must report operational actions at the Plants to reduce impacts to the Working Groups Promote the participation of the Working Groups or any environmental audit committees. Local value creation A Local Development Master Plan was developed to strengthen local development Competitive funds initiatives in line with the company's businesses: Basic Social Welfare, Environment and Micro-enterprise Program. Employability. Sub-programs under the Master Plan for Local Development 90 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 With the diagnostic results, a community Working Groups have been implemented within the management model was developed to create a new communities of Rungue, Montenegro, El Trebal, La type of relationship between Aguas Andinas and Farfana, Casas Viejas and Urban Maipú. Among the their communities, under which the company seeks main results is the establishment of a dialogue space to develop “good neighbor” relations with them and methodology to understand and reduce the risk beyond the conventions and existing RCA. of conflict. Under this new lens, joint projects with the Aló Vecino (Hey Neighbor) Line community continued to be developed, seeking Through the Hey Neighbor hotline, communities confidence-building and local development. can make complaints about bad odors. These Specifically, as part of its role as a good neighbor, the are investigated and answered by the National company implemented a project to improve roofs, Environmental Centre (CENMA) of the University windows, doors and sewage systems in houses in of Chile, who conducts site visits to determine the the El Trebal sector. intensity, origin and source of odors, determining whether these are the responsibility of the company Working Groups and relationships or from external sources. The Working Groups are formal monthly instances of a relationship between company representatives and communities, which seek to establish a permanent dialogue, early detection of any Complex N° of calls N° results problems, difficulties or discomfort, and promote La Farfana WWTP 41 100% trust relationships with communities surrounding the wastewater plants. El Mapocho-Trebal WWTP 11 100% CGIB El Rutal 119 100% 91 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 7.2. Supporting local development 7.2.2 ADVANCE Program 7.2.1. Competitive Grants As an initiative that promotes social Products and services financed were: entrepreneurship and innovation, the Avanza Competitive Grants began in 2006 as a condition established by the RCA for each plant. Once the obligation program, developed with the support of the Car wash service expired, Aguas Andinas decided to keep them as a voluntary initiative by noting their positive contribution ACCION Foundation, invites residents of the El to the local development of communities surrounding the facilities of the wastewater and biosolids Trebal community to develop skills and strengths management plants (communes of Padre Hurtado, Maipú, Pudahuel and Tiltil). supported by Aguas Andinas employees. Bakery, confectionery and food products service Since its inception more than 300 projects and 36 individual talents have been funded. In 2015, 37 projects The start of construction of the fourth module of were selected by local organizations and one community organization from the Padre Hurtado sector, which the Mapocho Trebal Treatment Plant, the company’s Uniform and corporate clothing wash aimed to contribute to the quality of life of their community, improving the environment and promoting second most important and largest plant, generated service community empowerment and associativity. the perfect backdrop for Aguas Andinas to submit to the residents of El Trebal Village the possibility of During the period, and within the framework of the implementation of the Crime Prevention Model, the generating business ventures linked to the needs of Clothing repair and embroidery service basis for awarding grant funds were reviewed and a Policy on Generation and Allocation of Grant Funds the plant, thus creating a source of long-term work was developed, which spread among the organizations through the funding website (www. aguasandinas. that transcends the construction. cl/fondos-concursables). This review resulted in a delay in the allocation of the other two funds provided by the company, which were delivered in January and March the following year. By 2016, the situation will be The aim is to promote entrepreneurship in regularized and will once again manage all three competitive funds in the same period. neighbors through co-creation and co-responsibility. For this, the project focuses on giving them tools that allow them to offer services or perfect their craft through seed capital, labor practices, training, and mentoring. All of this is incorporated into the company’s value chain, generating a dynamic of mutual benefit. Of the 13 neighbors who worked during 2015, nine entrepreneurs graduated. 92 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 7.3. National Rural Potable Water Program (APR) G4-EC8 The Rural Potable Water Program is generated Main activities developed in 2015: within the framework of a public-private partnership • Organization and development of various training sessions conducted in coordination with the between the Ministry of Public Works and Directorate of Water Works. More than 800 people participated in the APR Systems. Aguas Andinas, in order to implement solutions • 470 visits of Aguas Andinas teams to committees and cooperatives in the Metropolitan Region to advise that provide access to potable water to rural and assist in managing leaders and workers of APR systems, and help them deal with emergencies in the communities with limited resources, thus improving quality or continuity of potable water service. their quality of life and generating economic • Management of various engineering designs and construction projects benefiting more than 40 development and social integration. In the region, communities in the Metropolitan Region through investments of MM$5,600, exceeding 2014 investments the program has directly benefited more than by 30%. In addition, approvals were obtained from the Ministry of Social Development to develop new 53,000 families from 105 Rural Potable Water infrastructure investments in Rural Potable Water of more than MM $14,000 systems. From progress assessments made by the company in the areas of governance, management, finance and The commitment of the company is to make accounting, and operations and maintenance, a program of visits and training sessions was developed and available to the State of its technical and managerial led to investments in the design and construction of installations and improvements to the APR System experience, assisting and advising directors and of MM$5,000, that forms part of the Prioritized Projects Portfolio of the Division of Hydraulic Works for the employees Systems APR, which are managed Metropolitan Region. and operated by the rural communities in the metropolitan region. This addition to support them Given the good results achieved by the program, it was renewed in 2015 for 2 years. The new agreement in managing investments to improve or build new renews and strengthens the company’s commitment to aim for higher service standards and increase infrastructure for the installation of systems. investments. 93 Chap 08 Economic and financial performance Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 8.1. Economic Performance G4-EC1 The solidity and seriousness in Aguas Andinas’ economic-financial management policies has allowed Aguas Andinas to continue creating value and distributing it among its main stakeholders, despite market volatility and uncertainty. 2014 2015 MM$ MM$ Economic Value Created 446.343.765 $479.983.340 1. Normal Revenue 440.734.172 473.396.705 2. Other Earnings 305.758 4.088 3. Financial Income 5.303.835 6.582.547 Distributed Economic Value 392.724.196 394.162.492 1. Operational Costs 121.656.695 $140.084.245 1.1 Consumption of raw and secondary materials 30.182.683 37.353.766 1.2 Other expenditures by nature 91.474.012 102.730.479 2. Salaries and employee benefits 45.331.445 50.688.949 3. Payment to Providers of Capital 189.747.690 175.283.147 3.1 Financial Costs 30.738.756 27.905.133 3.2 Dividend Payments 124.757.206 120.854.347 3.3 Results of indexed units 34.251.728 26.523.667 4. Payments to Governments 34.580.576 26.174.522 5. Investment in the community (donations) 1.407.790 1.931.629 Economic value retained 53.619.569 85.820.848 95 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report / 2015 The percentage of revenue increase during 2015 is explained by several factors: the higher level of volumes delivered, the application of the new tariff for bringing new works online for potable water supply safety, and the tariff indexation registered past year. The costs of raw materials and consumables increased by MM$7,171, due primarily to the increase in Aguas Andinas Investment in 2015 electricity costs resulting from higher rates and recognition of chargebacks by electric utilities. Additionally, other costs also increased due to more activity, generating higher sales costs for services such as transfer of 4% sanitation infrastructure, increased spending on software licenses, higher customer services costs, increased Unregulated subsidiaries 9% network maintenance activity, and increased expenses in the operation of wastewater plants. Other activities Meanwhile, expenditures for salaries and employees benefits also increased, mainly associated with the early retirement program, with the extraordinary benefits provided to staff at the end of collective bargaining and a higher level of remuneration and compensation related to adjustments for IPC. 36% 20% Disposal of Production of Donations to the community increased by 37%. wastewater potable water In 2015 the Aguas Group invested a total of 127 billion pesos (43% more than in 2014), making this the second year with increased investment in the company’s recent history. Investments were mainly spent on improving production plants potable water and increasing the capacity of the El Trebal-Mapocho treatment plant.. 21% 10% Distribution of Sewage potable water collection works Financial information includes both regulated and unregulated companies. 96 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 To finance the investments of the company and pay 8.2. Fines and noncompliance or prepay its liabilities, the company issued a Series X bond, which was listed as the corporate bond with G4-SO8 the lowest rate in the local market in 2015, realizing In 2015, the SISS fined Aguas Andinas 6 times for the solvency and seriousness in the company’s a total of 596 UTA. 5 of the penalties were paid financial management. Meanwhile in December but were challenged by the company and are in 2015, three new series of bonds (Series Y, Z and AA) the process of resolution. The remaining sanction to be placed in January 2016 were recorded. related to specific inefficiencies in the quality of the treatment and disposal service (75UTA). In addition, As a result of the company’s strong financial profile 3 additional sanctions are currently in process, and the industry’s low operational risk, Fitch and ICR related to unscheduled outages, the chlorination both ratified Aguas Andinas’ risk classification at AA+, system, and the alleged infringement in notifying on which is one of the best categories assigned to a the level of water pressure. private company in Chile. Meanwhile, the SEREMI of Health instructed two Reflecting highlights of Aguas Andinas’ economic sanitation summaries to Aguas Andinas for a work performance is being ranked first place in the Top accident from a contractor at the Til Til Sludge 100 Ranking prepared jointly by Capital magazine Plant, for the lack of transit signage and for the and Santander Global Banking & Markets in 2015, noncompliance of conditions in the first aid room at under the category Greatest Value Creation 2014 for a given work location, respectively the energy and basic services sector 97 Chap 09 About this Report Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report / 2015 ABOUT THIS REPORT 9.1. Report scope and profile G4-13, G4-22, G4-23, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30 This document is the 11th Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report. It covers the management of the company from January 1 to December 31, 2015, and was prepared in accordance with the guidelines of the Guide for Report Preparation by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in its G4 version, according to the comprehensive option. Additionally, the definition of relevant topics and the information contained in the document were subject to an external verification process. As in previous years, the information in this report covers the management of Aguas Andinas’ companies, including Aguas Andinas S.A., Aguas Cordillera S.A. and Aguas Manquehue S.A. As a result, information is excluded regarding Empresa de Servicios Sanitarios de Los Lagos S.A. (ESSAL) and the non-regulated subsidiaries: EcoRiles S.A., Gestión y Servicios S.A., Análisis Ambientales S.A. (ANAM), and Aguas del Maipo S.A. During the analysis period of this report, there were no significant changes in the size, structure or share ownership of the company. The changes to its supply chain, in terms of the relationship of the company with its suppliers among other matters, are discussed in Chapter 6. 9.1.1. Defining the report’s contents G4-18 The definition of relevant topics to include in this report followed the guidelines of the GRI methodology regarding the definition of material issues, which considers the stages of identification, prioritization and validation of issues by senior management. First, a preliminary identification of issues was conducted based on the review and consultation of primary and secondary sources of information, to allow it to put the context of sustainability in which the company operates. Then it continues with raising relevant issues by consulting various primary sources of information such as interviews with senior management and review of stakeholder consultations. Finally, as a result of the process, material issues of Aguas Andinas were defined, which make up the structure and content of this sustainability report 99 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 9.1.2. Material issues for Aguas Andinas G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-48 Within the framework of the Corporate Governance Policies and Procedures approved in November 2015, the definition of material issues and the content of this report have been validated by the company’s Board of Directors. Material issues for Aguas Andinas Relevant issues Where it matters Relevant issues Where it matters Good governance and economic performance Environmental responsibility Management of ethics and anti-corruption Aguas Andinas Comprehensive water management: catchment, production, distribution, Aguas Andinas Effects of climate change on the business and operations Aguas Andinas collection, treatment and restitution Business continuity and efficiency Aguas Andinas Energy efficiency and carbon footprint Suppliers Public-private partnership (participation in public policy) Authorities Non-conventional renewable energies (biogas) Aguas Andinas Technological development and innovation (R + D + i) Aguas Andinas Protection of biodiversity Aguas Andinas Economic performance, profitability and significant fines Aguas Andinas Waste management Aguas Andinas Responsibility to clients Labor practices Quality and continuity of service Aguas Andinas Comprehensive talent management (training and performance evaluation) Aguas Andinas Service experience (satisfaction and claims management) Contractors Occupational health and safety Aguas Andinas Perception and satisfaction of Aguas Andinas customers Contractors Attracting and retaining talent Aguas Andinas Billing transparency and security of commercial information Aguas Andinas Labor relations Aguas Andinas Relationship with vulnerable customers Aguas Andinas Diversity and equal opportunities Aguas Andinas Awareness of the value of water and its responsible use Aguas Andinas Responsibility in the supply chain Neighboring communities Development of suppliers Suppliers Management community impacts Aguas Andinas Evaluation of suppliers and contractors Suppliers Contribution to local development Aguas Andinas Health and safety of contractors Contractors Relations with neighboring communities Aguas Andinas Transparent biddings and timely payment Aguas Andinas High relevance Description of relevance: Medium relevance 100 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 9.2. GRI Index of contents G4-32, G4-33 External Basic general contents Section Verification Strategy and analysis G4-1 LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT 2 G4-2 1.AGUAS ANDINAS IN THE INDUSTRY CONTEXT 25 Perfil de la organización G4-3 1.1. Company profile 9 G4-4 1.1. Company profile 9 G4-5 COVER PAGE 5 G4-6 1.1. Company profile 9 G4-7 1.1.2. Ownership and control of Aguas Andinas 11 G4-8 1.1.1. Our key figures 10 G4-9 1.1.1. Our key figures 10 G4-10 5.1. Allocation 68 G4-11 5.4. Labor relations 74 G4-12 6. RESPONSIBILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN 79 G4-13 1.4. Transformation Project 21 G4-14 1.4. Transformation Project 38 G4-15 1.2.4. Stakeholders and memberships 16 G4-16 1.2.4. Stakeholders and memberships 16 101 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 Basic general contents Section Page Material aspects and scope G4-17 1.1.2. Ownership and control of Aguas Andinas 11 G4-18 9.1.1. Definition of report contents 99 G4-19 9.1.2. Material issues for Aguas Andinas 100 G4-20 9.1.2. Material issues for Aguas Andinas 100 G4-21 9.1.2. Material issues for Aguas Andinas 100 G4-22 9.1. Report scope and profile 99 G4-23 9.1. Report scope and profile 99 Stakeholder participation G4-24 1.2.4. Stakeholders and memberships 16 G4-25 1.2.4. Stakeholders and memberships 16 G4-26 1.2.4. Stakeholders and memberships 16 G4-27 1.2.4. Stakeholders and memberships 16 G4-28 9.1. Report scope and profile 99 G4-29 9.1. Report scope and profile 99 G4-30 9.1. Report scope and profile 99 G4-31 COVER PAGE 5 G4-32 9.3. Index of GRI Contents 101 G4-33 9.2. Verification Letter 110 Report profile G4-28 9.1. Report scope and profile 99 G4-29 9.1. Report scope and profile 99 G4-30 9.1. Report scope and profile 99 G4-31 COVER PAGE 5 G4-32 9.3. Index of GRI Contents 101 G4-33 9.2. Verification Letter 110 102 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 Basic general contents Section Page Corporate Governance G4-34 1.3. Corporate Governance 18 G4-35 1.3.1. Description and Participation of the Board of Directors 18 G4-36 1.3.1. Description and Participation of the Board of Directors 18 G4-37 1.3.1. Description and Participation of the Board of Directors 18 G4-38 1.3. Corporate Governance 18 G4-39 1.3. Corporate Governance 18 G4-40 1.3. Corporate Governance 18 G4-41 1.3.3. Management of corporate ethics 19 G4-42 1.3.1. Description and Participation of the Board of Directors 18 G4-43 1.3.1. Description and Participation of the Board of Directors 18 G4-44 1.3.1. Description and Participation of the Board of Directors 18 G4-45 1.3.2. Risk management 19 G4-46 1.3.2. Risk management 19 G4-47 1.3.2. Risk management 19 G4-48 9.1.2. Material issues for Aguas Andinas 100 G4-49 1.3.1. Description and Participation of the Board of Directors 18 G4-50 1.3.1. Description and Participation of the Board of Directors 18 G4-51 5.2.5. Variable Compensation by Objectives – DEO and Financial Report 71 G4-52 5.2.5. Variable Compensation by Objectives – DEO 71 G4-53 5.2.5. Variable Compensation by Objectives – DEO 71 G4-54 5.3.1. Equal pay 73 G4-55 5.3.1. Equal pay 73 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 1.3.3. Management of corporate ethics 19 G4-57 1.3.3. Management of corporate ethics 19 G4-58 1.3.3. Management of corporate ethics 19 103 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 Basic general contents Section Page Material aspects and coverage G4-50 1.3.1. Description and Participation of the Board of Directors 18 G4-51 5.2.5. Variable Compensation by Objectives – DEO and Financial Report 71 G4-52 5.2.5. Variable Compensation by Objectives – DEO 71 G4-53 5.2.5. Variable Compensation by Objectives – DEO 71 G4-54 5.3.1. Equal pay 73 G4-55 5.3.1. Equal pay 73 Ethics and integrity G4-50 1.3.1. Description and Participation of the Board of Directors 18 G4-51 5.2.5. Variable Compensation by Objectives – DEO and Financial Report 71 G4-52 5.2.5. Variable Compensation by Objectives – DEO 71 Management of ethics and anti-corruption DMA 1.3.3. Management of ethics and anti-corruption 19 G4-SO3 1.3.3. Management of ethics and anti-corruption 19 G4-SO4 1.3.3. Management of ethics and anti-corruption 19 G4-SO5 1.3.3. Management of ethics and anti-corruption 19 Effects of climate change on the business and operations DMA 2. AGUAS ANDINAS IN AN INDUSTRY CONTEXT 25 G4-EC2 2.1.2. Initiatives to mitigate drought impacts 29 Continuidad del negocio y eficiencia DMA 2.1.1. Continuity and quality of supply 27 Internal 2.1.1. Continuity and quality of supply 27 32 Public-private partnership (participation in public policy) DMA 1.3.3. Management of corporate ethics 19 G4-SO6 1.3.3. Management of corporate ethics 19 Technological development and innovation (I+D+i) DMA 2.4. Promoting Innovation 33 Propio 2.4. Promoting Innovation 33 104 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 Basic general contents Section Page Economic performance, profitability and significant fines DMA 8. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 95 G4-EC1 8.1. Economic Performance 95 G4-SO8 8.2. Fines and noncompliance 97 G4-PR9 8.2. Fines and noncompliance 97 G4-EN29 8.2. Fines and noncompliance 97 Quality and continuity of service DMA 4.5. Quality and continuity of service 61 G4-PR1 4.5. Quality and continuity of service 61 G4-PR2 4.5. Quality and continuity of service 61 Service experience (satisfaction and claims) DMA 4.2. Service experience 55 Internal 4.2.1. Customer representative; 4.2.2. Claims 56 Customer perception and satisfaction DMA 4.2. Service experience 55 G4-PR5 4.4. Customer perception and satisfaction 56 4.4. Customer perception and satisfaction DMA 4.3. Transparency, safety and efficiency in commercial procedures 56 G4-PR3 4.3.1. Billing and collection processes 56 G4-PR8 4.3.2. Safeguarding customer information 58 Relationship with vulnerable customers DMA 4.7. Relationship with vulnerable customers 65 G4-SO1 4.7.1. Friendly Billing Program; 4.7.2. Plumbing workshops; 65 Awareness of the value of water and its responsible use DMA 4.6. Awareness of the value of water 62 4.6.1. Gotagotham; 4.6.2. Guided tours program; 4.6.3. Water Dome; 4.6.4. Campaign: G4-SO1 62 #UsaLoQueNecesitas; 4.7.1. Friendly Billing Program G4-SO2 7.1. Management of community impacts 88 105 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 Basic general contents Section Page Management of community impacts DMA 7.1. Management of community impacts 88 G4-SO2 7.1. Management of community impacts 88 G4-SO10 7.1. Management of community impacts 88 G4-EC7 7.1. Management of community impacts 88 G4-EC8 7.3. National Rural Potable Water Program (APR) 93 Contribution to local development DMA 7.2. Contribution to local development 92 G4-EC8 7.3. National Potable Water Program (APR) 93 G4-SO1 7.2. Contribution to local development 92 Relations with neighboring communities DMA 7.1.1. Relations with neighboring communities 89 G4-SO11 7.1.1. Relations with neighboring communities 89 Comprehensive water management: catchment, production, distribution, collection, treatment and restitution DMA 3.2. Comprehensive water cycle 40 G4-EN8 3.2.1. Catchment 41 G4-EN9 3.2.1. Catchment 41 G4-EN10 3.2.4. Collection, decontamination and restoration 43 G4-EN22 3.2.4. Collection, decontamination and restoration 43 G4-EN24 3.2.4. Collection, decontamination and restoration 43 G4-EN27 3.2.3. Storage and distribution 42 G4-EN30 3.2.3. Storage and distribution 42 106 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 Basic general contents Section Page Energy efficiency and carbon footprint DMA 3.3. The Carbon Footprint in the water cycle 44 G4-EN3 3.3.1. Energy consumption 44 G4-EN4 3.3.1. Energy consumption 44 G4-EN5 3.3.1. Energy consumption 44 G4-EN6 3.3.1. Energy consumption 44 G4-EN15 3.3.2. Emissions 46 G4-EN16 3.3.2. Emissions 46 G4-EN17 3.3.2. Emissions 46 G4-EN18 3.3.2. Emissions 46 G4-EN20 3.3.2. Emissions 46 G4-EN21 3.3.2. Emissions 46 Nonconventional Renewable Energies (biogas) DMA 3.3.3. Nonconventional renewable energies (ERNC) 48 3.3.3. Nonconventional renewable energies (ERNC); 3.3.4. Electricity co-generation Project at G4-EN19 48-49 the Mapocho-Trebal Plant; 3.3.5. City Gas production project at La Farfana Protección de la biodiversidad DMA 3.4.1. Biodiversity 49 G4-EN11 3.4.1. Biodiversity 49 G4-EN12 3.4.1. Biodiversity 49 G4-EN13 3.4.1. Biodiversity 49 G4-EN14 3.4.1. Biodiversity 49 G4-EN26 3.4.1. Biodiversity 49 Waste management DMA 3.4.2. Waste 51 G4-EN23 3.4.2. Waste 51 107 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 External Basic general contents Section Verification Comprehensive talent management (training and performance evaluation) 69 DMA 5.2. Comprehensive Talent Management 70 G4-LA9 5.2.3. Talent Development 70 G4-LA10 5.2.3. Talent Development 70 G4-LA11 5.2.2. Performance management Occupational health and safety (biogas) 76 DMA 5.5. Occupational health and safety 76 G4-LA5 5.5. Occupational health and safety 76 G4-LA6 5.5. Occupational health and safety 76 G4-LA7 5.5. Occupational health and safety 74 G4-LA8 5.4. Labor relations Attracting and retaining talent 68-69 DMA 5.1. Allocation; 5.2. Comprehensive Talent Management 69 G4-LA1 5.1.1. Turnover 68 G4-LA12 5.1. Allocation Labor relations 74 DMA 5.4. Labor relations 74 G4-LA4 5.4. Labor relations Diversity and equal opportunities 72 DMA 5.3. Diversity and equal opportunities 72 G4-LA3 5.3. Diversity and equal opportunities 73 G4-LA13 5.3.1. Equal pay Top management of Aguas Andinas has four top executives of nationality G4-EC6 Chilean and four executives of Spanish nationality, which responds to the origin of holding of which the company is part. Provider development 79 DMA 6. RESPONSIBILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN 79 G4-EC9 6. RESPONSIBILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN 108 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 Basic general contents Section Page Evaluation of suppliers and contractors DMA 6.3. Promoting responsible behavior in the supply chain 84 G4-LA14 6.3. Promoting responsible behavior in the supply chain 84 G4-LA15 6.3. Promoting responsible behavior in the supply chain 84 G4-HR10 6.3. Promoting responsible behavior in the supply chain 84 G4-HR11 6.3. Promoting responsible behavior in the supply chain 84 G4-EN32 6.3. Promoting responsible behavior in the supply chain 84 G4-EN33 6.3. Promoting responsible behavior in the supply chain 84 G4-SO9 6.3. Promoting responsible behavior in the supply chain 84 G4-SO10 6.3. Promoting responsible behavior in the supply chain 84 Health and safety of contractors DMA 6.3.1. Health and safety of contractors 85 Internal 6.3.1. Health and safety of contractors 85 Licitaciones transparentes y pago oportuno DMA 6.2.1. Transparent and competitive bidding 81 Internal 6.2.1. Transparent and competitive bidding 81 109 Aguas Andinas Sustainability Report/ 2015 9.3. Letter from the auditor 110
