COP 2014 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2014 Compiled by: Simon Odhiambo For Eastern Produce Kenya Limited Scope This Communication on progress report covers the operations of Eastern Produce Kenya Limited in Kenya. It covers the company’s activities in the year 2014 with a purpose of providing information about our ethical, social and environmental work. It also plays an important role in helping us monitor results step by step as they are achieved, thus, helps us shape our future social, ethical and environmental activities. It sets out the standards that our business strives to achieve, in the interests of all of our stakeholders, in the areas of:  Business Integrity  Workplace  Environment  Consumer  Community Statement of Continued Support Eastern Produce Kenya Limited is committed to implement the United Nations Global Compact as part of our continued belief in sustainable development, responsibility and accountability in our business. We ensure that our operating standards are of a consistently high level, and that our policies are translated into practical actions. Through this report on our progress, Eastern Produce Kenya Limited expresses its willingness to support and advance the ten Principles of the UN Global Compact through our policies, processes, actions and products. Christopher Flowers Group Managing Director ABOUT OUR COMPANY Technical Department that is dedicated to improving ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE all aspects of tea production, soil and leaf analysis, Corporate Social Responsibility is a function of what Eastern Produce Kenya Limited (EPK) is part of nursery practices and fertiliser regimes. The we consider our reason for being: to improve the Camellia Plc., (www.camellia.plc.uk), one of the department is also active in providing Technical quality and sustainability of our business while not world’s largest private producers of tea. The Camellia advice on Environmental, Ethical, Food Safety and forgetting socio-environmental aspects. Doing Group owns tea gardens in India, Kenya, Malawi, and Occupational Health and Safety aspects of the business in a sustainable way is embedded in our Bangladesh producing around 80 million kg of tea business. long term strategy. We are convinced that this is the annually. only approach that can deliver sustainable value, in Eastern Produce Kenya Ltd (EPK) engages in tea Linton Park Regional office situated in Nairobi the short and long term. growing and manufacture in Kenya, with tea estates performs the company’s marketing and promotional centred in the beautiful Nandi Hills area, west of the functions. A team of experienced and dedicated Great Rift Valley. It employs over 9,000 employees at individuals are based at these premises, providing a any one given time. The equatorial climate, good soil solid marketing foundation for the operations. conditions and fairly consistent rainfall means that tea is produced throughout the year and is of a very high STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS quality with well-rounded flavour. Through continuous Our Approach investment in the land, factories and human resources, EPK produces some of the highest quality The board of Camellia Plc. is responsible for teas Kenya has to offer. establishing the group's policy on Corporate Social Responsibility and has given the Executive Photo1: Employee housing units in one of our estates EPK tea estates comprise; Kibabet, Kapsumbeiwa, Committee responsibility for ensuring that the policy is We believe that good management of employment Kipkoimet, Kepchomo, Kaboswa (Managed)*, implemented across the group in a manner and environmental issues is essential in ensuring the Kipkeibon (Managed)*, Siret (Managed)*, appropriate to those countries and sectors in which long-term success of our business. We are therefore Kaprachoge (Managed), Kibwari (Managed)*, our businesses operate. committed to devoting the resources necessary to Chemomi, Savani and Sitoi continually improve our performance with the same In 2009, the board adopted a new Corporate Social vigor that we apply to other aspects of managing our Good agricultural and manufacturing practices and Responsibility Policy to replace the Statement of business. the methodology behind production and quality also Business Principles that had been in place since play an important part in the gradual progression of 2005. The Corporate Social Responsibility Policy is the company. Technical, strategic research and summarized in this report and also available on the development teams have been set up under the Camellia plc’s website. Development 2014 2014 was a good year for our operations. Thanks to Outlook 2015 all the employees, management and all other CORPORATE GOVERNANCE stakeholders that made the year a success. Due to EPK is committed to consistently deliver incremental sustainability measures taken in previous years, we improvements in the areas that drive our sustainability remained fit to tackle the challenges and respond goals. We aim to maintain our leading market The responsibility for managing the Company at the very effectively, whilst remaining focused on our position, both in terms of quality products and top level rests with the Board of directors, which business philosophy. improved service by anticipating consumer and meets every quarter of the year. We have defined industry trends, and remain focused on ethical Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to measure the A key theme in our business is the drive for business, environmental management and product impact of sustainability actions on our operations. environmental stewardship and waste water improvement using innovative programs. Through the board, the Regional Director, Operations management. We are among the leading players in Director, Production and Technical Directors this field and our efforts were rewarded in 2008 and We will continue tracking sustainability indicators determine the detailed actions to be taken in order to: 2009 after we won the Agrochemical Association of monthly and report to the Board quarterly. This will not only improve the reliability and transparency of • Act with integrity, adhering to high standards of Kenya award on Environmental sustainability. In behavior, encouraging leadership by senior 2012 won the Bank M sponsored East African CSR the data, but will also enhance the link to the more frequently tracked operational performance indicators. management, responsible decision making and Award on Environmental excellence at the World dialogue with stakeholders Economic Forum held in Tanzania, followed by We aim to integrate all performance indicators, Unilever Environmental Sustainability Award in 2013. financial and non-financial, into one set of data that • Be proactive in our focus areas of business integrity, will allow us to monitor and manage performance to social responsibility, product and consumer safety, We upgraded the factory machinery in a bid to set targets continuously. We expect to enter the next community involvement and environmental improve on quality and catch up with technological level of awareness of sustainability issues by actively management advancement. Food Safety Management Systems using the data as part of our regular management worked well in all the units with excellent results from review process. • Measure, report and communicate the ISO 22000 external auditors. Housing EPK will in 2015 continue to implement and audit The responsibilities for sustainability issues are improvement in all the units was also given priority. CSR requirements for supply chain as part of total aligned with our organizational and hierarchical quality management. This will be done by sending out structure at the estate level. Corporate Social We fine-tuned our marketing operations focusing on supplier questionnaires and visiting selected suppliers Responsibility Manager coordinates and advises on customer service, “customer intimacy”, and cost premises for verification. all CSR issues, Senior management is responsible for efficiency. Best practice and knowledge sharing was the social and environmental performance of the enhanced by creating teams, focused on finding company. First line management is aware of solutions to specific issues at the estate level. sustainability requirements and is encouraged to integrate and implement the sustainability initiatives in the day to day operations, while living our core values. Risk management and Organizational Engagement Sustainability for us means assurance of long-term success within a stable economic, social and natural environment. We believe that, with the values we have established, and the policies and business practices developed from these, we are well prepared for the move towards sustainability. Our success is greatly dependent on climatic conditions, plant disease, the cost of labour and the market price for the produce. In addition, exports from Kenya are subject to foreign exchange fluctuations as products are priced in US dollars. Developing countries such as Kenya tend to be politically less stable, and there are also long-term issues concerning land ownership over which the company has little control but monitors closely. Our aim is to manage these risks and control our activities cost-effectively. Our precautionary approach enables us to take up profitable business opportunities, avoid or reduce risks that can cause loss, reputational damage or business failure, support operational effectiveness and enhance resilience to external events. We apply the principle that where there are threats of serious or irreversible environmental or social damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not be used as a reason for postponing measures to prevent environmental degradation or negative social impact. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE OUR ECONOMIC FOOTPRINT 2014 availability is sustainable in the long term and that Through the taxes we paid, the jobs we provided and contracts are fair and business relationships are the supply and distribution businesses we supported, mutually beneficial. we were a significant contributor to the economy of Paying taxes the country. The sum total of these positive impacts In 2014, we paid duty and taxes to the government as comprises our economic footprint. required by the countries legislation. In 2012, Siret Estate, one of our Managed estates in Kenya was In the last year we invested capital in factories and recognized as a distinguished taxpayer. In 2013 EPK equipment to ensure the consistent quality of our was recognized as a distinguished tax payer by the products and sustainability of our businesses. Kenya Revenue Authority. Supporting employment Impact on Small Holders Photo3: One of the 15 primary schools constructed by the company for employees and surrounding communities EPK directly supports over 9,000 jobs in a wide children of school going age to prevent child labour Another significant financial impact of our operations variety of positions involving tea plucking and tea on the economy is support to the smallholders that bush management, specialist skills, different crafts supply green leaf and other raw material required by As part of good governance, we encouraged our and the full range of business activities and the Company. suppliers to work towards the same corporate machinery operation in the tea factories. However, citizenship standards as our own business. All major the people depending on our business for their Assistance is provided in the form of training in good suppliers confirmed that they operated environmental, livelihood are much more than listed above. farming practice, extension service provision, roads business ethics and health and safety policies and and other infrastructure improvement and operated a system of performance monitoring to maintenance. We invested last year in increasing ensure continuous improvement. In the coming years farmers’ skills and knowledge in the use of fertilizers, we will be working with smaller suppliers to ensure a pesticides and tea varieties best suited to local similar commitment to corporate citizenship climactic conditions and infrastructure development. principles. Working with Suppliers While focused on the commercial need to procure goods and services of the required specification and quality on the most favorable terms, we work Photo 2: Aerial view of employees housing units in our collaboratively with our suppliers to ensure that estates in Nandi Hills ENVIRONMENT We recognize that our activities have the potential to  Avoid investments where impacts on affect the environment either positively or negatively Environmental Activities co-ordination communities and the environment have not hence aim to improve all environmental aspects of been properly considered and mitigated in Each business unit has a senior manager in charge our business. In addition to using resources wisely, their design. of planning and implementation of measures to we strive to minimize any negative environmental The Company has the necessary processes for follow ensure that stores, factories, living quarters and effects that could be caused by our business up, measurement and analysis, including that of engineering workshops take environmental activities. responsibility seriously. Each unit has its own action We focus our environmental efforts on activities that plan detailing the work towards achieving the goals we believe have the greatest impact. Today we work set for social and environmental training, waste on an overall level in major areas such as reducing management, saving energy and water, as well as carbon dioxide emissions, using alternative energy minimizing environmental impact from transportation. sources, managing waste water, and reducing The operations progressively introduce tougher energy consumption. demands in the area of environmental management, such as energy consumption and waste management. They also demonstrate that they have effective and reliable methods for monitoring progress. There are monthly reviews, focusing on issues related to environmental management set-up Photo 5: Pie chart showing land use within EPK Ltd. Note that more than 20% of the land is covered by forests and evaluation of actual performance. claims by workers or other persons or groups, to Description of our Processes or Systems evaluate the functioning of our social and We support the principle of “wise-use” through handsenvironmental management system. The results of on management and see this as key to sustainability these processes are recorded and incorporated into and the long term preservation of our natural the policies through a continual improvement plan resources. and program. As part of our business objectives we therefore: Furthermore:  Seek the efficient use of natural resources;  We ensure that the environmental effects of  Seek investment opportunities where sound our investments are assessed and economic development is coupled with the monitored in the planning, implementation Photo 4: Cover page of the biodiversity survey report protection and improvement of the and operational stages. conducted in 2011. environment;  The business is designed and operated to environmental management system and its proving that it is effective. Ashes and clinkers comply with national and international programs. The training topics are identified generated from the combustion of firewood are legislation. according to the position, and type of work placed on the compost heap. Solid factory waste i.e.  We do not knowingly support businesses carried out. tea leaves are placed on compost heap for recycling and practices which contravene any relevant  Records are kept that include the i.e used as manure, an alternative fertilizer source.. international conventions to which the participants’ signatures, topics covered and the instructor’s name for each training or Office refuse is sorted and the combustible materials country is a signatory. educational event. The employees attending are burnt in boilers and other material disposed of in a  We assess the environmental standards and the trainings are as part of the normal pit. The metal scraps are collected and sold to a practices for planned projects and achieved workday. scrap dealer. Paper and plastic is disposed of by by operational projects with reference to recycling where possible. Solid factory waste consists local regulations. This is to enhance mainly of tealeaves, plastics, paper, textiles, cotton sustainability and encourage a long term Waste management wool, glass, pieces of wood etc. Litterbins are perspective in the way we conduct our Our operations have an integrated waste provided at each factory for collection of waste with business. management program for the waste products we separation at source. generate. This is based on the concepts of refusing or All existing natural ecosystems, both aquatic and reducing the use of products that have actual or The hospital waste is handled with the due care. terrestrial, have been identified, protected and are potential negative impacts on the environment or Incinerators are available to dispose of tissues and being restored through a conservation program. The human health waste as well as reusing and recycling contaminated combustible material. The ash from the program includes the reforestation of areas within the waste. As part of this program, the sources and types incinerator is buried accordingly. The company has a farms that are unsuitable for agriculture. of waste have been identified and the quantity (weight Licence to operate a waste treatment plant namely an or volume) estimated. The activities of the integrated incinerator.  EPK maintains the integrity of aquatic or waste management program are in accordance with terrestrial ecosystems inside the farms and the types and quantities of waste generated. Waste oils and greases from the factories are do not permit their destruction or alteration collected and returned to Group Central Workshops as a result of management or production We have appropriate treatment systems for all of for disposal by Shell Oil Company (on contract) and activities. wastewaters we generate. The treatment systems greases from the wash down are handled by a  Production areas are located in places that comply with applicable national and local laws and system of oil and grease traps. cannot provoke negative effects on national have the respective operating permits. There are Human waste from management houses and parks, wildlife refuges, biological corridors, operating procedures for industrial wastewater factories are collected in septic tanks. The human forestry reserves, buffer zones or other treatment systems. waste from the village is handled by use of the pit public or private biological conservation latrines, which are properly decommissioned when areas. Our Factory waste water is handled through full. The ‘VIP’ pit latrine types, are well ventilated for  The farms implement a training and Constructed wetlands. These are currently working reduction of bad odour and flies. education program in order to guarantee the well with biological indicators such as fauna and flora effective execution of the social and showing good growth and diversification in species The compost heaps for biodegradable rubbish Households We have maintained riparian vegetation along the generated in the estate villages are built according to rivers and streams in its estates. Areas previously a very specific design from our social/ environmental Within the households the main sources of energy are under Eucalyptus within these areas have been consultant. fuelwood, Kerosene, Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) rehabilitated with indigenous. The wetland sections and coal. The conversion to energy efficient Jiko’s is within the estates are conserved accordingly. No As a further waste management strategy a waste reducing the villages requirements for cooking fuel negative impacts have been reported regarding the classification report has been compiled and the material. Trials have just been undertaken to see how alteration of ground water movement from analysis conducted. much more efficient jikos are than open fire cooking. surrounding communities due to the agricultural Although energy efficient jikos have been installed activities. across the estates, we are looking at the best way of Energy consumption maintaining them, as the clay used in the original The tea production consumes both thermal, electrical design has not lasted as hoped. New designs are energy and energy derived from fuel oils. under review. Our goal is to reduce the energy consumption in Further efforts have also been put to rehabilitate the relation to the quantity of products produced at each sites where clay and marrum for the roads are unit. Energy use is continuously monitored at each mined. factory and estate. Action plans based on these results are made in order to improve efficiency and Water Management raise awareness among workers. We have instituted a water conservation program that Transport ensures the rational use of water resources. The The impact exerted on the environment as a result of program activities make use of the best available transport activities related to our operations cannot technology and resources. Photo 6: Waste water from the factories are handled be overlooked. We invested in acquiring a greater We consider water re-circulation and reuse, by Constructed Wetlands. EPK is known for its effective insight into this relationship, not least to stipulate and innovative waste water treatment systems maintenance of the water distribution network and the environmental criteria when negotiating the future minimizing of water use. We keep an inventory and Monthly water quality analysis is carried out and the provision of transport and goods forwarding services. indicate on a map the surface and underground water verification of the parameters done by External A plucked leafs route from field to Factory can be sources found on our farms. The operations record laboratories. The parameters analyzed for include long. Smart route planning, full utilization of the the annual water volume provided by these sources chemical, physical, Microbiological and nutrient volume capacity in a trailer as well as the filling with and the amount of water consumed. We have composition. A possible source of contamination of the right weight of goods is the most effective obtained the relevant permits for the abstraction of the surface water is the factory wash-down effluents, weapon to reduce the environmental impact and cost water for all extraction points. runoff and the nutrients in the form of the fertilizers of transport. applied in the fields. Fertilizer runoff has been monitored in recent years. No pollution of watercourses or swamps has been detected. The A dust analysis was conducted in the factories by an The Company implemented erosion control measures other possible sources of contamination of the independent consultant and remedial actions to combat the problem in all fields that were replanted surface water are incorrectly established pit latrines implemented as recommended. which included, contours, soak pits, vetiver grass, and spillage or leakages from the underground petrol oats etc. The operating policy of the management is and diesel storage tanks. Regular audits, of fuel Factories use dried eucalyptus wood as a fuel source to leave 30 m from water bodies/courses uncultivated, pumps are conducted to determine deviations and in their operation. The calorific value of the wood is to retain its natural vegetation. This policy has been enquiries done to ascertain whether the storage tanks high and smoke emissions are reduced. Moisture continued with felled areas in riverine areas being are leaking. No extension or upgrading of current content of the eucalyptus is monitored on weekly rehabilitated. Erosion control measures have been water resources is planned in the near future. basis to ensure conversion ratio is optimal. put in place to secure areas that are unstable and on Households within the villages are using improved steep slopes. The management has continually Air Quality management cooking stoves for energy conservation efficiency and carried out rehabilitation of riparian vegetation river ventilation. catchments as a way of conserving the environments The estates emissions into the air include smoke from the boilers, gases from maceration, dust from The use of improved jikos’ has reduced fuel while protecting the riverbanks and hence controlling tractors, vehicle emissions, as well as smoke from consumption and ensured that there is less smoke in erosion and flooding incidences downstream. No within the households (Charcoal stoves) and firewood workers homes. flooding or landslides have been reported on the across the estates. The point sources of emissions estates since the inception of the tea plantation are the generators and the boilers. The total quantity of the different pollutants emitted project. from the factories depends on the production capacity Air pollution may be caused by emission from the and operational efficiency of the factory. This can be All prunings are left in the field as in previous years to combustion of fuel wood. The main pollutants of expressed in terms of specific pollution load ie the improve organic matter, water retention, soil cohesion concern are carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, total quantity of a typical pollutant generated per and fertility. Vegetative protection to prevent soil Sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons, dust, quantity of tea produced. erosion at the edges includes Lemon grass, fly ash, and particulate matter, which are produced Agapanthus and vetiver grass. Sediment traps, during combustion. Indoor pollution may lead to Due to the publication of Kenya gazette supplement spillways and barriers are dug in the gutters to reduce negative impact to occupants and exposed workers. No 74 of 13 October 2006 legal notice 131 Fossil fuel the velocity of water and prevent erosion from the Common effects are respiratory disease including emission control. Vehicle are serviced regularly as roadways into the tea fields. Comprehensive soil allergies and bronchitis. Mitigation measures per Manufacturers guidelines and the fuel usage fertility databases are available on request for each monitored on a monthly basis. field, which is used to monitor changes in soil fertility. including proper ventilations, tall stacks, provision of chimneys in kitchens, and fuel efficient Jikos are Soil management and conservation practiced on the estates. No evidence of any significant air pollution from the factories or vehicles is High rainfall and undulating hills favor erosion. apparent and no complaints have been received. Isolated areas are prone to erosion but these are identified by conducting soil profile analysis prior to fields being uprooted and replanted. Natural resources 2007 and recertified in 2012 to ensure sustainable Audits agricultural practice and sound environmental practices. To prevent any chemical degradation due Annual Environmental audits are done within our to the use of pesticide the necessary precautions are operation and environmental management and taken as per the Premier foods pesticide audit. integration plans developed. The plans have Murram is mined for construction and repair of roads indicators and clear implementation timelines. which is done mostly by contractors. Most of our Any new developments with anticipated major estates have quarries on their land, from which impacts are only implemented after Environmental stones are collected. Blasting for new stones has not Impact Assessment has been done and an elaborate been done for some time but when needed, the environmental management plan put in place. services of a licensed explosives operator are utilized. In addition, we work closely with certification bodies to Photo 7: Aerial view of the tea field intertwined with forestry cover in a bid to enhance biodiversity. develop standards and implementing baseline and pilot studies. Apart from the indigenous forests there are no other natural resources of significance in the area. No In 2012, for example, we worked closely with mineral resources have been found on any of the Rainforest Alliance in developing and piloting the estates. Due to our environmental requirements Sustainable Agriculture Climate Module standard. certification by Rainforest Alliance was obtained in LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Our core value in relation to labour practice and Employee Development decent work is to respect the dignity and well-being of Total workforce by employment type, employment Developing our employees is key for us: we want our all those people who work for us. Looking after the contract, and region employees to continuously grow in their current roles people who work in our businesses, wherever they and responsibilities and develop their potential, skills may be based, is our priority. In 2014 we employed an average of 10,000 and competences. This is reflected in many different Employees, down by 2% compared to 2013. initiatives and aspects of our business. We have As we aspire to be the leading player in the tea invested in our employees capacity building and growing and production arena, we continued to invest Absenteeism training. In 2015 we will roll out our new corporate significantly in our people in 2014. To retain this In 2014 we remained focused on health and safety values through training programs across the leadership position it was critical for us to develop our programs and increased our communication around operations. Another theme that remains important is people by means of formal and on the job training. these issues. Examples include safety training for the continuous development of our leadership Our managers learnt how to lead and not just employees, focusing on physical safety and capabilities, within departments and across the group. manage. In 2015 we will continue to expand our employees’ wellbeing and welfare, and procedures to leadership development and training programs. This, maintain a healthy and safe working environment etc. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are we hope, will make us a more attractive employer, We also focused on absenteeism, casual leave and not provided to temporary or part-time creating a sustainable competitive edge. sick leave monitoring. The figures were monitored on employees, by major operations. a monthly basis and discussed at the various board EMPLOYMENT meetings on a quarterly basis. Temporary and part-time workers (both national and foreign) have the same rights and benefits as In 2014 our farms continued to directly hire the Lost Time Incidents Frequency Rate permanent workers. They have been informed of and workforce, except when a contractor was able to A reduction of the lost time incidents frequency rate are familiar with their rights, responsibilities, salaries provide specialized or temporary services. We (LTIFR) by paying attention to and preventing or pay, work schedule and other subjects normally strongly discouraged use of mechanisms to avoid the accidents remains an important item on our agenda. forming part of a legal work contract. All our direct hiring of workers and the obligations normally We have taken several initiatives including operations do not maintain relations or contracts with associated with labor contracts. Employment of rejuvenating the Joint health and safety committees, third parties in order to avoid directly hiring workers or foreign workers in our operations is subject to a work building their capacities, conducting accident related obligations, such as social security payments, permit issued by the responsible government agency. investigations and instituting recommendations accident and injury insurance and medical services We do not ask for money from workers in return for among other measures. We will continue our efforts that normally are the responsibility of the employer. employment. and focus in occupational safety and health in 2014. All our employees, apart from members of Our Employment Principles make clear our strategy management, are unionisable and are free to join a of ensuring that our reward levels are highly union of their choice. competitive within the local area. We are confident that through regular external benchmarking with legal restructuring is necessary, we are committed to doing good condition and does not pose a danger to human provisions and other players in the field we remain a so in a responsible manner. Where such situations health or the environment. generous benefit provider. In 2014, the salaries and do occur, our companies adopt responsible local wages paid to all categories of our employees approaches and procedures to address each Measures are taken on our farms to avoid the effects exceeded the national legal minima for the various instance, including severance pay and any other of agrochemicals on workers, neighbors and visitors. territories. measures as may be appropriate to the situation and We also conduct risk assessments and identify location, including extensive outplacement support to potential emergencies and are prepared with plans help displaced employees to find alternative and equipment to respond to any event or incident, as LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS employment. well as to minimize the possible impacts on workers Percentage of employees covered by collective and the environment. bargaining agreements OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Percentage of total workforce represented in In all our businesses, all workers have the right to All our farms have an occupational health and safety formal joint management–worker health and freely organize and voluntarily negotiate their working program to reduce or prevent the risk of accidents in safety committees that help monitor and advise conditions in a collective manner as established in the workplace. on occupational health and safety programs ILO Conventions 87 and 98 and local legislation. We have and continuously divulge a policy guaranteeing On our farms all the Joint Health and safety this right and we do not impede workers from forming committees meet on a quarterly basis as a guarantee or joining unions, collective bargaining or organizing that we complies with our occupational health and for ideological, religious, political, economic, social, safety program objectives. The members of these cultural or any other reasons. We periodically provide committees are elected according to an established opportunities for workers to make decisions regarding procedure. The employees elect their representatives, their rights and alternatives to form any type of while the management representatives are appointed organization for negotiating their working conditions. by the Top Management. The representation to the committee is on a fifty-fifty basis and is dependent on Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational the number of employees at each workplace and changes, including whether it is specified in Photo 8: Inside one of the factories. Note the national guidelines on Occupational safety and Health collective agreements housekeeping, marked walkways, guarded machinery Committees. Issues raised in the meetings are dealt and fire extinguishers provision. with by the Management representatives and any As a practice, we formally and regularly consult and policy or capital expenditure issues are forwarded to All workers receive training on how to do their work inform workers and general community regarding any the Top management who gives a response within safely, especially regarding the application of planned technical and organizational changes and agrochemicals and carrying out any hazardous work. Twenty One working days. Our employees confirm their potential social, environmental and economic that they participate, either by direct communication We provide the necessary equipment to protect impacts. with the administration or through the occupational workers and guarantee that the tools, infrastructure, Our Employment Principles make clear that, where machinery and all equipment used on the farms is in health and safety committee, in verifying that policies, procedures and other activities indicated in the through a mix of counseling, outplacement services occupational health and safety program are being and skills retraining. complied with. TRAINING AND EDUCATION All management employees are expected to complete Education, training, counselling, prevention, and Our Principles specifically cover Learning and the performance appraisal process. The approach to risk-control programs in place to assist workforce Development and the provision of opportunities. We performance and career development for employees members, their families, or community members also emphasize the importance of personal in our companies is managed locally. For other regarding serious diseases responsibility for growth. employees, careers are stipulated in the Collective bargaining agreements. These systems enable We have a permanent and continuous training Our training and learning strategy is to build objectives to be set for each employee for the coming program to educate our workers on how to carry out capabilities through a focus on coaching and by year and record achievement against those their work correctly and safely, especially regarding enhancing our ability to connect, collaborate and objectives. The systems also contain development the handling of machinery and agricultural equipment. share. We do not limit learning to ‘off the job’ and career planning information which feeds through Our employees are familiar with the training education activities but we provide comprehensive to our training and administration department. requirements for their job, and must be trained before frameworks for development planning as well as starting work on the farms (induction program). We performance management. also maintain written records of each training session, including its objectives, subjects covered, workers We place considerable emphasis on creating a required to attend, materials used, frequency and coaching culture throughout our operations, as we duration, and a list of those who participated. believe that training and development should take place as close as possible to the work being done We are also good neighbors and relate in positive and that coaching is the right way to develop leaders ways with our neighbors, surrounding communities at all levels, to share knowledge and to build better and local interest groups. We periodically inform the business solutions. surrounding communities, neighbors and interest groups about our activities and plans, and consult We expect any restructuring to be carried out in a with interested parties about changes that could have responsible manner. Any of our companies potential impacts on the social and environmental implementing closure or downsizing are encouraged well-being of surrounding communities. We contribute to make a social assessment and to consider ways of to local economic development through training and mitigating the impact. We expect them to be as employment and try to prevent negative impacts on considerate as possible with severance pay and the areas, activities or services that are important for redundancy support and, wherever possible, to local populations. support employees in gaining alternative employment HUMAN RIGHTS The Company respects the ILO Convention and the make decisions regarding their rights and alternatives  The students have the right to one rest day UN Global Compact Principle on Human Rights. to form any type of organization for negotiating their for every six days worked and rest breaks (Eastern Produce Kenya is among the pioneer Global working conditions. during the workday the same as or more Compact signatories in Kenya having signed on in frequently than contracted workers. 2005). Our business units do not tolerate human Any type of forced labor is prohibited, including  They do not form part of the farm’s rights abuses, and are not engaged or party to any working under the regimen of imprisonment, in contracted workforce. activity that encourages human rights abuse. agreement with International Labor Organization  They must not work at night. (ILO) Conventions 29 and 105 and national labor  They must not handle or apply We have a social policy that declares our commitment laws. We do not withhold any part or all of workers’ agrochemicals or be in areas where agro to complying with labour laws and international salaries, benefits or any rights acquired or stipulated chemicals are being applied. agreements that Kenya is a signatory to. The policy by law, or any of the workers’ documents, in order to  They must not carry heavy loads nor do summarizes the rights and responsibilities of the force them to work or stay on the farm, or as a work that requires physical exertion management and workers, with emphasis on human disciplinary action. The units do not use extortion, unsuitable for their age. rights, labour aspects, living conditions, basic debt, threats or sexual abuse or harassment, or any services, occupational health and safety, training other physical or psychological measure to force  They must be under the supervision of a responsible adult in order to guarantee that opportunities and community relations. The social workers to work or stay on the farm, or as a policy has been approved by the top management they understand how to do their work safely. disciplinary measure. and divulged and made available to the Company’s Our business units do not discriminate in labor and workforce. This policy is clearly displayed on every We prohibit direct or indirect employment of fullor part-time workers under the age of 18 within our hiring policies and procedures along the lines of race, estates main entrance. color, gender, age, religion, social class, political business units. A Register is maintained of any All our employees have the right to freely organize tendencies, nationality, syndicate membership, sexual person on attachment. Students on attachment are and voluntarily negotiate their working conditions in a orientation, civil status or any other motive as guided by the following: indicated by applicable laws, ILO Conventions 100 collective manner as established in ILO Conventions 87 and 98. We have in place and divulge our policy  There must be a confirmation from a and 111, and Global Compact. We offer equal pay, guaranteeing this right and do not impede workers recognized institution that the person in training and promotion opportunities and benefits to question is a student. Procedures are in all workers for the same type of work. We do not from forming or joining unions, collective bargaining or organizing for ideological, religious, political, place to be followed before attachment is influence the political, religious, social or cultural economic, social, and cultural or any other reasons. confirmed. convictions of workers. We periodically provide opportunities for workers to Cultural Diversity employees. This included communication on their by both parties sorted out. The company continued to right to join a recognized workers union, right to a honour the current Collective bargaining Agreements Cultural diversity has proven to be a great advantage, safe work environment and right to be considered for and relevant labour laws. despite the challenge in terms of language, behavior employment without discrimination. EPK enhanced and integration. This has resulted to synergies, which this communication by erecting notice boards at Employment continued to be freely chosen in the have led to a strengthening of the entire company. strategic points for communicating policies related to year, with employees leaving and joining at will. We We employ workers of different tribes and social, environmental and safety issues. Trainings continued to be the leading employer in the regions, nationalities. The cultural diversity in relation to and capacity building for employees on human rights with good remuneration and benefits to employees. gender, age, ethnicity/origin, sexual orientation, issues were conducted and refresher trainings will be disability/illness, religion, ideology, career, lifestyle Sexual harassment policy was reviewed in the year conducted in the coming year. Security personnel and performance not only improves our company’s and communicated to all employees. Copies of the were trained on conducting body searches to image, but will certainly increase the company’s policies were displayed on the notice boards and enhance humane treatment of colleagues. sessions held with employees to discuss its contents potential. Our goal is to increase and take advantage of the potential, which is a result of the differences Awareness creation to the general community and and implementation. and similarities within the workforce. our suppliers was done through trainings, field days We continued the verification of National Identity Card and community outreach programs through the Trainings and Awareness creation as a confirmation of someone being over the age of Managed Clients Department. Suppliers were sent 18 years before engagement into the company. The questionnaires to assess their human rights practices same was applied to all our contractors and service and conformance to national and international providers and their employees. Employees with regulations. Contracts were also reviewed to capture children of school going age encouraged to take their aspect of human rights and environmental children to schools. These schools are constructed responsibility. and equipped by the Company but open to both Human Rights Risk assessment company employee’s children and children from the surrounding community. Bursaries were given to A general human rights risk analysis was conducted bright students from the surrounding community and and areas within our operations with high risk employees children to support their education. identified and mitigation measures put in place. The internal audit department and Technical Departments Education and training of the employees on need to carry out scheduled and ad hoc inspections and co-exist and why we need each other were conducted report to senior management on positive and negative in collaboration with Non-governmental institutions. Photo 9: One of the managers talking to farmers and neighboring communities about food security and findings. As a result of freedom of association policy, All of these courses and trainings were free of charge usefulness of a kitchen garden during one of the field the workers unions remained vibrant, with new to the employees and community and the company days organized by the company. employees being informed of their right to join a even encouraged the staff to go for additional training In all our businesses, employees were trained on union. Meetings between union and employees and courses during working hours. various aspects of Human rights and their rights as union and management were held with issues raised taken to correct and prevent the recurrence of the  Generally improving the company image and issues raised. transferring responsible business practices Grievance Mechanisms and Whistle Blower throughout our supply chain. There is good System working relationship between union and the Eastern Produce Kenya Limited has a grievance company and the employees. Improved procedure in place. The policies established stipulate wages and salaries to employees, which is how grievances are to be raised and handled with the well above the national recommended wage company representatives. The procedures cover for the industry. both internal and external grievances including from  No complaints on forced labour or sexual all our stakeholders. A whistle blower system has harassment received in the year. Monitoring been established where any human rights abuses are continued. raised through a secure and confidential way to the  All the employees and contractors engaged top management who then conduct investigations and by the company have national identity cards. disciplinary procedures instituted. Children of school going age in school.  There were reduced cross-cultural conflicts. We are working with Typhoo foods on piloting a Gold Photo 10: One of the many consultative meetings held by Management for planning purposes, grievance hearing, The cultural differences and the effect on Standard with a strong focus on whistle blowing and and monitoring and evaluation purposes collaboration and contact is portrayed in the reporting. quality and diversity of the products. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value  An increase of innovational ability. Different Monitoring and Evaluation added for our company perspectives of creative problem solving are All human rights aspects are monitored on a daily  Employees’ knowledge on their rights the result of the diversity of the staff. basis and reported by the businesses on a Monthly increased.  A higher level of tolerance in the entire basis. The Technical departments and Internal audit  Improved relationship between management business area. departments carry out impromptu visits, checks and and employees and between the employees audits and raise any issues of concern with the themselves. concerned and reports to the Top management.  Closely working with suppliers to improve Every year external auditors both financial and social their human rights and socio-environmental auditors carry out audits for our operations. practices. Corrective Action Requests are raised and measures COMPLIANCE as well as explaining the requirements, performing The action plan includes a description of the Business integrity monitoring and consultation visits and offering and corrective action, the person responsible and executing training. The auditors have checklists with timelines for each non-compliance issue to be Our Core value: To act honestly, fairly and with detailed criteria on financial management, working rectified. The Top Management and auditors then integrity and respect in all business dealings conditions, including child labour, on the environment follow up to make sure that the necessary corrective and on other socio-environmental aspects. actions have been completed according to the Acting lawfully and honestly is fundamental to our approved action plan and timelines observed. business philosophy. The management of each unit The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Office is responsible for compliance with the company In order to make sure that the same standards are Supplier assessments have been initiated. Our major codes, thereby ensuring that social and followed throughout the organization, Linton Park suppliers are issued with a supplier questionnaire environmental issues are integrated into daily Regional Office, has a CSR Manager. The Manager which checks on various socio-environmental business. The codes are in form of confidential is responsible for calibrating socio-environmental requirements. If one is found to deviate from the standing instructions referred to as Company Blue, assessments in the region, for training and support of requirements, we are willing to work with them to Red, Green, Yellow, white and black books. the auditors and units, and for conducting own rectify the situation. Only if there is no willingness compliance audits. from the suppliers to improve, is the business relationship terminated, within the terms of the Third-party auditors conduct their own audits and also contract verify the results of internal audits by interviewing the employees, checking records and practices to secure Anti-corruption that company policies, local law and standards are followed. The work is done together with the We are a British company and as such subjected to Technical and Internal audit departments. the new Anti-Bribery and Corruption legislation in the UK which is attributable to businesses owned by UK External and third-party auditing companies but not situated in the UK. In order to ensure objectivity and verification, we use external auditing companies to verify our working Various policies and procedures have been rolled out methods and results. These are PwC (PricewaterhouseCoopers), SGS, Africert, Kenya to ensure compliance with this UK legislation. Photo 11: Copy of the certificate awarded to the Company as a distinguished tax payer in Kenya in 2011. Bureau of Standards, government officers etc. We also participated in the development of the Code Corrective actions of Ethics for Business in Kenya and were among the When deviations are found, the auditors require – in pioneer companies to have adopted the code. We have internal auditors (Financial, environmental, writing – an action plan from the unit detailing how the Social and Food Safety Management System) at the non-compliance will be rectified. An action plan must We have developed and adopted a Code of Conduct, units. The auditor’s task is to support the operations, be sent to the Audit department or Technical Departments, within one month following the audit. which complies with the highest standards of integrity, including agreeing on action plans for improvements honesty and ethics in dealing with all our how corruption cases are to be raised and handled stakeholders, including directors, managers, with the company representatives. The procedures employees, customers, suppliers, competitors, cover both internal and external cases from all our shareholders and society at large. stakeholders. The effectiveness and integrity of the whistle blower system is maintained. Cases of The Code also stipulates policies and guidelines corruption are raised through a secure and regarding the personal conduct of employees. All new confidential way to the top management who then staff receive a copy of the Code and a presentation conduct investigations and disciplinary procedures on the Code as part of the induction process. They instituted. are required to sign a declaration stating that they have received it, have read and understood it, and will In the year 2014, there were no cases of fraud comply with it. detected or reported. A general corruption risk analysis was conducted and areas within our operations with high risk identified and mitigation measures put in place. The internal audit department and Technical Departments carry out scheduled and ad hoc inspection and report to senior management on positive and negative findings. All our business operations have a whistle blower procedure in place. The policies established stipulate PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Overall Product quality and Safety respectively, to ensure the promotion of awareness of designed to assess product safety and also responsibilities legal, regulatory and customer requirements participate in voluntary initiatives. throughout the organization. Product safety is paramount in all operations from farm, transportation, processing, packaging and Senior Management in all our operations are freighting to customers destinations. The Operations responsible for allocating the necessary resources Director has the overall responsibility for ensuring that and infrastructure to ensure the effective performance the objectives on food safety are met. This of our business and to ensure product safety and responsibility has been communicated to the quality is maintained. management in charge of the units. Every individual employee of Eastern Produce Kenya All our tea factories have attained ISO 22000:2005 Ltd is responsible for meeting agreed requirements certification. and for conducting themselves in accordance with our principles and the code of conduct. Quality and Food Safety Management Systems Our programs are designed to reduce and manage Photo 13: Safety signage within the factories promotes awareness and enhances food handling practices. risks, and to promote the safe production, distribution, use and disposal of waste. Using an internationally recognized risk assessment methodology, our products are evaluated and As a manufacturer and marketer of black tea, we prioritized for potential adverse effects, and riskgenerally do not provide products to end-users, but to reduction and mitigation practices are implemented at other players in the industry who later extracts all stages of production. constituents, blends or repackages the products for the end user. We therefore base our advertisements We have documented our product stewardship Photo 12: Hygienically packed teas with correct labeling on word of mouth backed by strong evidence of process which assesses health and safety impacts of and all relevant information indicated. business integrity, ethical trade, and safety with our products and we conduct ongoing analysis and The Marketing and Technical Department represent assured quality. We comply with legal requirements, tests to assure quality and product safety. Through the Company on all quality and food safety matters. sector regulations and customer requirements, the marketing and technical departments, we provide They report to the Operations and Regional Directors services to process owners and customers. For internal requirements and in association with maintaining FSMS and QMS certification, the Marketing department conducts annual visits to buyers annually, reviews the results of these visits, and identifies opportunities to improve products and services. All our products are transported in packaging material labeled with product information that follows the legal, regulatory and customer requirements. In 2014, we did not receive any documented noncompliance concerning our products and services or health and safety impacts associated with our products. In this regard, there were no fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of our products. We did not receive any complaints from customers regarding breach of their privacy or lose of customer data. This Page was left blank intentionally
