EPHRAIM STRONGTOWER LIMITED 70D ALLEN AVENUE IKEJA, LAGOS. NIGERIA. TEL: +234-703-165-4175 Email: estrongtower@yahoo.com RC 474369 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PARTICIPANT ID: 19682 YEAR: JULY 8, 2015 – JULY 8, 2016. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS This is the third Communication on Progress (COP) for Ephraim Strongtower Limited (RC 474369 and UN Global Compact Participant ID: 19682). Submission of this report is part of our obligation as a United Nations Global Compact Participant. The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact: At Ephraim Strongtower Limited, we are committed to align our operations and strategies within our spheres of influence with the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti – corruption. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI – CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. STATEMENT OF EXPRESSION OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE TEN PRINCIPLES The period covered by our Communication on Progress is between July 8, 2015 and July 8, 2016. Ephraim Strongtower Limited and its management even to the highest – level governance body have supported and will continue to support the ten universally accepted principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti – corruption by taking the following steps: We have made the ten principles of the UN Global Compact part of our day – to – day business strategies and operations within our spheres of influence. Our commitment to responsible business is incorporated in our business agenda through our Purpose and Vision. We have incorporated the UN Global Compact and its ten principles in our Organizational decision making. We will continue to support the UN goals and issues including the Sustainable Development Goals. We will continue to do our best to create awareness about UN Global Compact and its ten principles amongst our stakeholders, clients, customers, partners and the general public at large. We have and shall continue to work against corruption in all its forms especially in Africa where corruption is endemic. We hereby reaffirm our commitment to the UN Global Compact and its principles. This statement and commitment is endorsed by the management of Ephraim Strongtower Limited and the Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Funmi Ajibawo (CEO & Contact Person) TEL: +234-703-165-4175 Email: estrongtower@yahoo.com The Communication on Progress (COP) would be shared with all stakeholders including employees, customers and at all public presentation of the company. It would be made accessible to all interested parties on company website when fully developed and operational. UN GLOBAL COMPACT The following table provides an overview of how Ephraim Strongtower Limited has implemented the Ten Principles across our business operations. Principle Assessment, Policy Implementation Measurement and Goals of Outcomes HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should Ephraim Strongtower Ephraim Strongtower Implementation support and respect Limited respect and Limited implements has increased the protection of support the universal the United Nation’s employees’ internationally Declaration of Human Protect, Respect and morale and has proclaimed human Rights and the guiding Remedy Framework. motivated them rights; Principles on Business positively. and Human Rights. Advancing human 2. and make sure that rights across our An incident has they are not complicit Company Policy operations with our encouraged a in human rights stated in Employee Suppliers. victim to get abuses. handbook. counseling and Creating awareness the matter ESL has strongly among staff members. reported to the advised all relevant appropriate law stakeholders to Conducting trainings enforcement comply with the UN to update members of agency. Global Compact staff. Principles and A team of senior international Effective system in management declaration on human place to address staff staff will rights. grievances like continue to suggestion boxes. monitor, review and improve on Effective monitoring the and evaluation implementation mechanisms of strategy of the human rights human rights integration. policy of the Company. Principle Assessment, Policy Implementation Measurement and Goals of Outcomes LABOUR STANDARDS 3. Businesses should At Ephraim Ephraim Strongtower We have been uphold the freedom Strongtower Limited Limited will not engage in, getting positive of association and our commitment is or support discrimination result amongst the effective very strong in respect in hiring, compensate, our staff from recognition of the of upholding all the accessing, training, the feedback right to collective relevant international promotions or and bargaining; labour laws and termination of questionnaire declarations employment based on report on the 4. the elimination of all concerning race, national origin, changes put in forms of forced and discrimination, child religion, disability, gender place through compulsory labour; labour, and freedom on sexual orientation. suggestion of association, boxes. 5. the effective working hours and CHILD LABOUR: Documented abolition of child employee grievance. ESL will prevent the use of grievance labour; and child labour and forced procedure is Commitment to labour. detailed in the 6. the elimination of fairness, dignity and employee discrimination in integrity. HEALTH AND SAFETY: handbook. respect of ESL is committed to employment and ESL has a social providing a safe and Awareness occupation. Accountability Policy healthy working training on Document signed by environment for our labour rights and the Chief Executive employees in accordance civil policy. Officer and made with the Health and Positive available to all staff Safety at work act 1974. cooperation members and from all relevant relevant stakeholders. stakeholders. A copy of the Company Social Accountability Policy is included in the Communication on Progress (COP). Principle Assessment, Policy Implementation Measurement and Goals of Outcomes ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should Ephraim Strongtower ESL will continue to work Ephraim support a Limited is committed with local community by Strongtower precautionary to promoting initiating environmental Limited will approach to awareness by issues and encourage continue to environmental informing and reporting on work with all challenges; motivating all our environmental issues of relevant staff and encourage public interest. stakeholders 8. undertake initiatives them to play an active towards to promote greater role in adhering to the ESL will continue to achieving our environmental company policy on promote, develop, and environmental responsibility; and environment. implement waste policy aims. prevention reduction, re9. encourage the We are constantly use and recycling in a We have put in development and consulting with all systematic and cost place awareness diffusion of relevant stakeholders effective manner. training on environmentally about the company’s environmental friendly environmental policy ESL is committed to issues and technologies. and commitment. supporting more ecoefficient energy efficient products, public usage. ESL purchasing policy policy to tackle Climate is to favour change and reduction of We have set Manufacturers and gas flaring. specific Contractors that improvement adopt best targets, monitor environmental progress and practices. communicate results internally. ESL ‘s Environmental Policy is included in the Communication on progress (Cop). Principle Assessment, Policy Implementation Measurement of and Goals Outcomes ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should At Ephraim At ESL, we are Ephraim Strongtower work against Strongtower Limited, constantly organizing Limited has a system corruption in all its even to the highestin-service training to of intervention in forms including level governance create awareness and place under the extortion and body, we are sensitize our supervision of the bribery. committed to members of staff Audit department. achieving a high about the company standard of ethical policy regarding antiESL retained external behavior in everything corruption. Auditors for checks that we do. and balances. ESL policy on antiImprovement on the At ESL, integrity is one corruption is clearly internal system by of our core values. written in the plugging leakages employee hand book. thus translating to ESL’s policy on antiincrease productivity corruption is clearly Zero tolerance for and profit. detailed in the corruption in all our employee handbook. dealings. ESL has also set a special team of We have advised all ESL will continue to senior management relevant stakeholders dialogue with all staff that will to support and adhere relevant stakeholders continue to monitor, to the UN Global about our policy in review and improve Compact antirespect of antithe system to corruption principle. corruption. achieve the company policy regarding antiReporting system in corruption. place to handle complaints and suggestion boxes. GC SCOPE: TAKING ACTION IN SUPPORT OF BROADER UN GOALS AND ISSUES As a Participant of the UN Global Compact and a Responsible Business Organization, we are committed to upholding its Principles across our business operations by taking actions in support of advancing broader UN Goals and lssues. CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY, GOVERNANCE AND LEADERSHIP At Ephraim Strongtower Limited, we are ready to align our business strategies to the implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We believe and subscribes to Corporate Sustainability, Governance and Leadership by our approach through our board’s adoption, oversight and stakeholders engagement. The COP describes the commitment of our CEO and the Leadership of the company to the Principles of the UN Global Compact and advancing broader UN Goals and lssues. The Communication on Progress (COP) would be shared with all stakeholders including employees, consumers, clients, vendors and at all public presentation of the company. Also, it would be made easily accessible to all interested parties on company website when fully developed and operational. For: Ephraim Strongtower Limited Mr. Funmi Ajibawo. CEO & Contact Person. Ephraim Strongtower Limited’s Environmental Policy Ephraim Strongtower Limited is a major supplier and service provider. We are committed to delivering quality products and services. As a specialist, we are committed to the protection of health and environment and determined to minimize any adverse impacts as a result of its activities. Ephraim Strongtower Limited is committed to addressing the following issues: Promote awareness We will inform and motivate all our staff and encourage them to play an active role in Ephraim Strongtower Limited’s commitment to its environmental policy. Environment and the Community We will continue to work with the local community by initiating environmental initiatives on-site and encouraging local environmental initiatives and reporting on environmental issues of public interest Continuous Improvement We will set specific improvement targets, monitor progress and communicate results internally. Property Management We are always improving our buildings. We will construct, refurbish and manage our buildings in a manner that will reduce the associated environmental impacts and be sympathetic with the external surroundings. By addressing the issue of energy efficiency in our buildings, we will contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in line with national and international agreements. Procurement We will use Ephraim Strongtower Limited’s purchasing policy to favour manufacturers and contractors that adopt best environmental practices. Waste Management We will continue to promote, develop and implement waste prevention, reduction, reuse and recycling on-site in a systematic and cost effective manner. We will use appropriately regulated waste management contractors to ensure safe management of hazardous and non-hazardous waste sent off-site in accordance with best environmental practice. We will work with our manufacturers and customers towards achieving our environmental policy aims. For any issues related to Environmental Policy linked to this business, please contact: Mrs. Folashade Familola Director of Administration.
