UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2016 2 CONTENTS >> CEO Statement 3 >> About Sovereign 3 >> Human Rights  4 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. -Our Commitment -Policies and processes to support our commitment -Achievements >> Labour Principles  7 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. -Our Commitment -Policies and processes to support our commitment -Achievements >> Environment  9 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. -Our Commitment -Policies and processes to support our commitment -Achievements >> Anti-Corruption  12 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. -Our Commitment -Policies and processes to support our commitment -Achievements Sovereign UNGC Communication on Progress 2015-2016 2 3 CEO STATEMENT Statement from the Interim Chief Executive Officer expressing continued support for the UN Global Compact and renewing Sovereign’s ongoing commitment to the initiative. In 2015, we were proud to declare our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. By making this commitment, Sovereign has worked to integrate the ten principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption into our business, with the goal of making the Global Compact and the principles part of the strategy and operations of our company. As New Zealand’s largest life insurance company, Sovereign has a role to play in helping to make a difference to the lives of both our customers and wider New Zealand communities. As a values-based company, we understand that by integrating the ten principles into our day-to-day business, we are nurturing a climate of responsible, social and ethical principles in all that we do. In this, our first annual Communication on Progress, we outline our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business, and our ongoing commitment to the initiative. Sharron-Moana Botica Interim Chief Executive Officer Sovereign Sharron Botica Sovereign Interim Chief Executive Officer Sovereign UNGC Communication on Progress 2015-2016 3 4 ABOUT SOVEREIGN At Sovereign, we help to build and protect the lives, health and wealth of New Zealanders. As New Zealand’s leading life insurer we have been taking care of New Zealanders for the past 25 years, there when they need us the most, in life’s moments of truth. As a values-based company, we believe in putting people first. That means not only our customers, but also our staff and the wider community. We have a focus on supporting New Zealanders to take charge of their health by encouraging healthy lifestyles, so they may enjoy a better quality of life and prevent health problems before they occur. We also have an important role to play where we can make a difference at a global level. In February 2015, Sovereign was proud to became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative. This communication on progress outlines our commitment and progress in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Sovereign UNGC Communication on Progress 2015-2016 4 Sovereign UNGC Communication on Progress 2015-2016 6 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our commitment status, disability, religion, sexual orientation or age, and to reduce bias and drive equality in the workplace. This statement affirms our responsibility and commitment to respect In 2010 our diversity programme began with an initial focus toward human rights. women in leadership. We recognised that while more than 60% of Human rights are universal and fundamental rights that preserve our workforce was female, we had poor representation of females the inherent freedom, dignity and equality of all human beings. The in leadership roles. To improve these statistics, we implemented basis of international human rights law and norms are set out in a range of programmes that would focus on mentoring, leadership the International Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour development, maternity leave reviews and having company-wide Organisation Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at conversations around what mattered to women in the workforce. Work. Our commitment to respect human rights is guided by the Sovereign is a member of the Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, as Trust, a signatory to the United Nations Women’s Empowerment well as the New Zealand Human Rights Act 1993. According to these Principles (UNWEP), and is dedicated to providing an inclusive work principles, governments possess the primary duty to protect human environment for all employees. Our Diversity and Inclusion policy rights; our responsibility is to respect human rights. ensures that all employees enjoy a working environment free from harassment, bias and discrimination. We seek to understand and improve human rights impacts throughout the extent of our reach within New Zealand. As part of our We have embraced diversity and inclusion to enable our people to existing feedback channels, we maintain employee, customer and bring their whole selves to work and reach their full potential. Our external stakeholder grievance mechanisms and acknowledge our practices related to diversity and inclusion include hiring based responsibility to ensure that they are fair, accessible and transparent. on merit, fairness at work, flexible working options and continuing Where we are made aware of adverse human rights impacts, and to build a culture that is respectful of all customers, suppliers and where appropriate, we will actively support their investigation and business partners along with staff members. These practices relate to resolution. all aspects of employment including recruitment, remuneration and other rewards, career development and work conditions. Policies and processes to support Unconscious Bias Training our commitment To help us achieve our diversity and inclusion strategy, Sovereign has rolled out unconscious bias training sessions to the Senior Leadership Diversity and Inclusion Team, and subsequently made the training available to the wider Sovereign recognises the value of diverse backgrounds and abilities. organisation. The sessions focus on building an inclusive culture that We work actively to show zero tolerance for discrimination on the values differences in employees and raising awareness of how natural grounds of race, colour, ethnic or national origin, gender, marital bias can influence views and decision making. Sovereign UNGC Communication on Progress 2015-2016 6 7 LGBTI for receiving, investigating and resolving complaints, including alleged discrimination in breach of the Human Rights Act 1993. Approximately 3% of Sovereign staff have self-identified as LGBTI (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex). We have In 2015 Sovereign raised awareness of the international Human Rights established relationships with the LGBTI communities of our Day through our internal communication channels, providing staff shareholder, CBA (The Commonwealth Bank of Australia) and our with the opportunity to learn more about the birth rights of all human sister company ASB Bank. We are partners with ASB’s LGBTI support beings. group in order to provide Sovereign’s internal LGBTI community with a support network. Overall, our aim is to create and maintain Overall, Sovereign stakeholders, including customers and staff, have an inclusive workplace that is free from bullying, harassment and access to a range of external sources of information on their rights discrimination. and obligations, including the Human Rights Commission, IFSO (the Insurance and Financial Services Ombudsman), the Citizens Advice Sovereign recently introduced the gender definitions MX and Gender Bureau, Community Law Centres and the Privacy Commissioner. X into our recruitment system. MX is a salutation used by those who do not wish to identify as Mr, Miss, Mrs, etc. Gender X is now a gender option available for applicants who do not identify as M or F. Sovereign is working on introducing these gender definitions across our internal and external systems, which will allow our existing staff to update their information if required. Age In 2015, Sovereign established an intern programme in partnership with AUT (Auckland University of Technology) as part of the focus on valuing all generations, leveraging diverse thinking from younger workers, and building a younger talent pool. In April 2015 a ‘transition to retirement’ initiative was launched, designed to support employees who are considering retirement by offering access to planning tools and resources. Opportunity exists to improve Sovereign’s employee age spread in both the younger and mature worker groups. Complaints Processes At Sovereign, our customers, employees and the wider New Zealand public have access to meaningful, legitimate and effective complaints mechanisms. If a human rights complaint is made, we follow a robust process to investigate and resolve the complaint. Our customers have access to an unbiased complaint resolution Lion Dance Group performing for Chinese New Year celebrations process, which provides an opportunity for the customer to articulate at Sovereign concerns in a staged process. Throughout any liaison with our customers, ensuring their personal information remains safe and secure is of the highest priority for every Sovereign staff member, and our customers can be confident that their situation and details will remain confidential and handled with care. In terms of employment issues, Sovereign follows a standard process Sovereign UNGC Communication on Progress 2015-2016 7 8 Achievements WOMEN REPRESENT Sovereign resolves 98.7% of customer complaints at the frontline, in total 99.7% of complaints are resolved. The small number of customers whose complaints are unable to be resolved by Sovereign can approach the Insurance & Financial Services Ombudsman (IFSO) for an independent review of their concerns, completely free of charge. 63% 55% 47% of total of Manager of Senior workforce and above Leadership Sovereign has achieved well with gender balance in governance, 81 with 30% or greater levels of women on key governance groups at Sovereign and almost 50% representation of women in Senior Rainbow Tick Leadership roles or higher. Positive results for women have been achieved around inclusivity and flexible working practices, tracked Our people range In August 2015, Sovereign became the first insurance company in in age from: New Zealand to be awarded the Rainbow Tick. The Rainbow Tick is a PE through Sovereign’s Employee Engagement Survey. In the 2015 survey, 87% of female employees agreed that their manager allows them the certification mark awarded to organisations that complete a process Youngest which tests whether a workplace understands, values and welcomes WO 18 PAR flexibility they need to achieve their work goals and personal needs. sexual and gender diversity. White Camellia Award In September 2015, Sovereign was awarded a 41 Within the audit report, WOMEN REPRESENT % White Camellia Award for leading gender equality initiatives, such as years Rainbow Tick said “We 82 the Rethinking Leadership programme. The White Camellia Awards believe Sovereign is a celebrate New Zealand organisations who implement the UN Women’s Oldest of our p 63% 55% 47% company that is showing of people a have an % Empowerment Principles (WEPs), a joint initiative of UN Women and the UN Global Compact aimed at empowering women to participate fully in economic life across all sectors. Sovereign was upheld a leading example of a New Zealand organisation that promotes of total as workforce 72 of Manager and above years of Senior Leadership true leadership andbackground commitment to thisNew in the New Zealand people are and Zealand ideal regardless oth a fairlyEu ethnicity, d 81 workplace. We know that education, training and professional development for women in the Rainbow Tick Director Michael Stevens when people can be or sexual or 3F Average PEOPLE workplace. presenting Sovereign with the Our people range Rainbow Tick themselves at work 39 in age from: “It’s clear Sovereign is without fear of negative programme engaging in a Youngest to actively empower This wasyears WORK reactions they are better able to work, happier and more productive. not just a box-ticking exercise, but a reflection of Sovereign’s 18 female employees. There were a number of strong years PART TIME culture. Sovereign has set a great example for others to follow.” Rainbow Tick Programme Director, Michael Stevens. entries in this category, 82 FIRST 89 but Sovereign Oldest of people agree that demonstrated its In August 2015, Sovereign 72 % people are treated equally % Interim Sovereign CEO Sharron Botica commitment through its became the and fairly at Sovereign receiving the White Camillia Award from Auckland Chamber of Commerce CEO training and the regardless of gender, age, years Michael Barnett programmes embedded in ethnicity, disability, religion, the business that work to or sexual orientation Average deliver tangible outcomes for the company and its people.” Dr Gail member of the judging panel. 39 Pacheco, Director of AUT’s New Zealand Work Research Institute and years insurance company in New Zealand to receive of employees feel their them the flexibility t the Rainbow Tick works goals and pe Sovereign UNGC Communication on Progress 2015-2016 In August 2015, Sovereign 8 became the 9 Sovereign UNGC Communication on Progress 2015-2016 9 10 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our commitment and Safety Lead who have all completed NZQA approved health and safety training. The purpose of the Health and Safety committee is Sovereign is committed to the health, safety and wellbeing of our to complete monthly and six monthly hazard checks across their people. We monitor and treat occupational health and safety issues business units to identify, minimise or eliminate any risks or hazards as a priority and encourage all our staff to participate in the many in their areas; as well as to generate new, innovative and fun ways health, safety and wellbeing initiatives that take place throughout the of educating our people of important aspects of Health, Safety and year. Our Health and Safety Policy, Harassment and Discrimination Wellbeing. Free Workplace Policy, Code of Conduct and Flexible Work Policy Protecting the Health, Safety and Wellbeing of people at Sovereign is a are designed to keep our workplace safe, healthy and free from joint responsibility and it is important that everyone within Sovereign discrimination. plays their part. All new employees must complete a mandatory health and safety learning module upon joining Sovereign to ensure Policies and procedures to support they are aware of emergency response procedures and their Health our commitment and Safety responsibilities as a Sovereign employee. Sovereign is continuously monitoring and reviewing Health and Safety performance to identify improvement opportunities. Health & Safety Policy Sovereign is committed to the Health, Safety and Wellbeing of our Safety Week people, customers and visitors. This commitment is reflected in not The purpose of our annual Safety Week is to build collective only our Health and Safety policy but also in the various other policies understanding of Health, Safety and Wellbeing as a concept, which and procedures that have been created and implemented to protect encompasses not only physical health and safety but also mental, the Health, Safety and Wellbeing of all Sovereign people. Sovereign emotional and behavioural wellbeing. The topic of Safety Week in 2015 is an ACC accredited employer which allows us to take direct was Physical and Mental wellbeing. We continued to use the ‘Five responsibility for the case management of ACC work injury Claims. Ways of Wellbeing’ to promote initiatives that would have a positive This allows us to provide fit for purpose Health and Safety solutions for our people. FIVE ways to wellbeing effect on our employees physical and mental health. The Sovereign Health and Safety Network consists of Health and Safety representatives and champions, first aiders and fire wardens. The Health and Safety committee is made up of 12 dedicated Health and Safety Representatives, the Chief Fire Warden, and the Health Introduce these five simple strategies into youR life and you will feel the benefits. © MENTAL HEALTH FOUNDATION OF NZ 2014 Sovereign UNGC Communication on Progress 2015-2016 10 11 Sovereign staff at the New Zealand EEO Trust Diversity Awards The Five Ways of Wellbeing are an evidenced based model designed Remuneration Band & Salary Reviews to improve the wellbeing of individuals, communities and nations Sovereign uses remuneration bands to ensure fairness. The system through five key behaviours. Initially constructed by the New standardises salary processes to remove any bias or unfair advantage. Economics Foundation (United Kingdom) and later incorporated by Sovereign also reviews salary levels annually for any gender based the New Zealand Mental Health Foundation, the five ways relate to discrepancies and is committed to removing any bias that may occur simple everyday actions that individuals can take to improve their in determining fair pay for all employees. A 2015 analysis of employee own wellbeing. In 2014, Sovereign adopted the model as part of the wages has ensured that all employees receive a living wage. framework for our wellbeing strategy. The Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) Sovereign Tri Series The Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) is an expression of A highlight on our Five Sovereign’s continuing interest in the wellbeing of its employees Ways of Wellbeing and represents recognition of the reality of issues in and out of the calendar is the workplace. It gives employees the opportunity to obtain professional Sovereign Tri Series. help in an atmosphere of privacy and confidentiality. Employee’s Our partnership immediate family members (spouses, children) can also use this with Triathlon New service. Zealand gives our staff the opportunity to connect, be active and Collective Bargaining take charge of their Sovereign upholds the freedom of association, complying with wellbeing. relevant legislation around union participation and collective Sovereign staff competing in the bargaining. Sovereign currently has one union operating within the Sovereign Tri Series business that is covered by a collective agreement. Flexible work policy Procurement Policy Sovereign supports the principle of flexible working practices to Sovereign is committed to sustainable procurement, meaning the improve business outcomes and to support work/life balance for labour conditions of the producer and the human rights of the employees. workforce are considered as part of the evaluation and decision making process. We use The United Nations Environment Programme We are committed to the wellbeing of all employees and all eligible Finance Initiative (UNEPFI) questionnaire to assess potential vendors, employees are able to apply for flexible working arrangements. which includes questions around workforce policies and human rights. Sovereign’s leadership programme champions an approach of ‘Start with Yes’ as a mind-set for all leaders when considering flexible Achievements working arrangements within their teams. Starting with ‘yes’ encourages leaders to think about ‘how could flexibility work’ instead of starting with a mind-set of ‘it won’t work’. Work Life Balance Award In August 2015, Sovereign was awarded the Work-life Balance award Sovereign regularly conducts employee surveys on our Parental Leave at the New Zealand EEO Trust (Equal Employment Opportunity Trust) policy and benefits. Key findings indicate our employees place high Diversity Awards in recognition of our effort toward building an value on flexible working arrangements, especially new parents. As a inclusive work environment with a focus on wellbeing and diversity. result of these findings, Sovereign is rolling out further enhancements The EEO Trust Diversity awards celebrate organisations across New to our Flexible Working Policy and Parental Leave Policy. Zealand that are leading the way in workplace diversity. Sovereign UNGC Communication on Progress 2015-2016 11 12 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our commitment Paperless where possible To help reduce the amount of paper being used at Sovereign we To ensure the efficient, effective and ethical use of resources, we carried out an analysis of the business to see where we could make embrace social and environmental sustainable procurement where changes and as a result have an entire business unit that is now practicable. This means Sovereign must consider long-term economic ‘paperless’. viability, minimising environmental impact and being socially responsible when procuring products and/or services. Active commute Sovereign’s environmental initiatives are targeted at supporting Over half of our staff live on Auckland’s North Shore. With our head our health and wellbeing focus. For example, we know it is just as office also being based on the North Shore, we encourage our staff important for Sovereign volunteers to be active while planting trees, to actively commute by walking or riding to work. Sovereign signed as it is for the tree to be planted. up to the Auckland Bike Challenge that runs for the entire month of February. The challenge is to get more people riding bikes to work, Our policies and procedures to which will have a positive effect on their health and carbon emissions. support our commitment Sovereign House Sovereign House is our Head Office in Smales Farm. Sovereign Sustainable Business Network (SBN) Membership House was the first commercial building in New Zealand to use The Sustainable Business Network (SBN) is a membership-based multi-service chilled beam technology rather than conventional air social enterprise. There are four key pillars of focus for the SBN, these conditioning, creating a massive reduction in energy consumption and are renewables, community, mega efficiency and restorative. As a a substantially healthier environment for staff. member of the SBN, we are provided with a platform where we can collaborate, learn and get involved. This allows Sovereign to play a Achievements role in making New Zealand a more sustainable nation. An analysis of our 2015 and 2014 environmental reports show Sustainable Business Council (SBC) Membership decreases in our total energy consumption, paper consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and company air travel. Opportunities still As a member of the SBC, Sovereign seeks to actively demonstrate exist to improve on company fuel consumption and waste levels. business leadership in sustainable business. Our membership with SBC shows our commitment to the balanced pursuit of economic growth, ecological integrity and social progress. Sovereign UNGC Communication on Progress 2015-2016 12 13 Community Partnerships a group of 20 Sovereign staff members travelled to Odisha in India to spend time with Indian women who hold EWR (Elected Women Representative) roles. In 2016 the leadership programme will take Happiness Matters – Community Partnership Programme another group to India. In 2012 we established a community partnership programme with twin Sweet Louise objectives. Sweet Louise was established in 2005 to support people living with Firstly, the programme was designed to make a difference to New secondary breast cancer. Of the 2500 New Zealanders who develop Zealand communities in the area of mental health and wellbeing, with breast cancer each year, around 400 will advance to secondary a specific focus on youth. Secondly, the programme was designed cancer, for which there is currently no cure. The impact of this to help our staff better understand the different challenges faced by diagnosis is overwhelming for families. Through partnership with diverse individuals and groups. Sovereign, Sweet Louise is able to provide children with resources to As a life and health insurance company, Sovereign is there for help explain the disease, counselling and access to a team of nurses. customers in ‘their moment of truth’, when they need us the most. Sovereign’s partnership with Sweet Louise allows us to be there in a While these events usually occur to our customers and their families moment of truth by helping provide support to the mental health of later in life, our community partnerships aim to encourage the families going through difficult times. younger generation to take charge of their health and wellbeing, with the overarching goal of equipping them better to deal with the challenges they may face throughout their lifetime. The Hunger Project The Hunger Project works to break the cycle of poverty. In partnership with affected communities, the Hunger “Having a parent with an incurable disease can have a huge impact on Project provides leadership and support children. With the support of Sovereign, Sweet Louise will be able to so empowered individuals can feed offer psychosocial support to children of Sweet Louise members via themselves and their families. counselling, retreats and peer support,” says Sweet Louise CEO Fiona For The Hunger Project, leadership development is at the heart of Hatton. who they are and what they do. Every single day their village partners Sovereign employees also contribute to Sweet Louise through around the world are making the courageous transformation from fundraising, volunteering activity and participation in a dedicated hunger and dependency to self-reliance. Through a pioneering Sweet Louise week in August. methodology their Vision, Commitment, Action programme shifts pervading mind-sets from “I can’t” to “I can” to “we can”, mobilising Youthline entire communities to take ownership and change. Youthline has been supporting New The Hunger Project is a unique partnership where the financial Zealanders for over 42 years and contribution made by Sovereign provides us with a McKinsey & is a first point of contact for young Co backed leadership development programme. The leadership people in New Zealand where they can access a wide range of youth programme is a critical component to drive and support the development and support services. The organisation works alongside achievement of our organisational goals and achieve our vision and young people assisting them to achieve their goals, from adolescence purpose. In addition, Sovereign is afforded the opportunity to take to adulthood, from disengagement to engagement, transition through a group of staff to one of the countries in which the Hunger Project challenges and transition into leadership roles. operates (including Bangladesh, Malawi and India). In March 2015 Sovereign UNGC Communication on Progress 2015-2016 13 14 Youthline provide the 24/7 youth helpline (telephone, txt and email), Child Matters & Buddy Day counselling services, personal and leadership development programs, mentoring, an alternative school where mainstream schooling has Sovereign want to make a difference to the wellbeing of young New failed, conduct research, inform policy development and deliver Zealanders and ensure that our most vulnerable are protected. social enterprise activities. Buddy Day is centered around life-size cardboard children – ‘Buddies’ – which are decorated by school children and then ‘adopted’ by Working alongside Youthline allows Sovereign to help make adults, who look after the buddies for the day – taking them into their meaningful changes to the mental and physical health of adolescents communities and workplaces to raise awareness about child abuse in New Zealand. “The Youthline whanau is excited about the and how every adult can play their part in protecting our children. opportunity to partner with Sovereign and we believe it takes a village to raise a young person. This is an amazing opportunity to strengthen community through our shared passion in developing healthy, resilient and creative young people.” Stephen Bell, Youthline CEO. The Sovereign Wellbeing Index In 2012, Sovereign partnered with AUT’s (Auckland University of Technology) Human Potential Centre to produce the Sovereign Wellbeing Index, the first survey designed specifically to measure the The partnership helps to raise awareness of the significant economic, wellbeing of New Zealanders. Traditionally, the success of a nation social and environmental impacts on our communities, businesses has been measured using economic indicators such as GDP and and individuals caused by child abuse. Together Sovereign and Child productivity. However, these provide a narrow and limited view of how Matters work to show communities that everyone can play a role in society is functioning as a whole. speaking up for New Zealand kids. Volunteering at Sovereign By giving time through volunteering an individual not only helps The Sovereign Wellbeing Index reveals a snapshot of how New others, they also improve their own personal wellbeing and those Zealanders are faring on a personal and social level. It delves into the of their families and workmates. Volunteering also provides team key issues of employment, health, community, money and vitality to building and personal development opportunities. Our operational determine what makes people “awesome” and give us insights into staff has the opportunity to volunteer for Look Good Feel Better; how we can improve. Look Good Feel Better is the only worldwide cancer support charity, providing free, practical support to women undergoing treatment A national wellbeing index can help to show what it is to ‘be well’ for cancer. Sovereign also partners with Conservation Volunteers, across the entire population. We want to use this information to Volunteering Auckland, Volunteering Canterbury and Hurrah to advocate change to ensure that New Zealanders are getting the most provide a wide range of opportunities for our staff to get involved in. out of life – to help them take charge of their health. As a nation, we need to understand better what helps bring out the best in New Christmas Appeal for De Paul House Zealanders and how a changing society can adjust to achieve the goal of wellbeing for everyone. This new information will be vital in shaping De Paul House provides housing and family support services for policy at all levels, from community organisations to business to homeless families. The amazing work they do empowers families government. to re-establish themselves in the community. Through Volunteering Auckland, we connected with De Paul House. Throughout the year All reports and data from the Sovereign Wellbeing Index can be Sovereign staff have volunteered at De Paul House facilities, we located at www.mywellbeing.co.nz continued this relationship with our 2015 Christmas Appeal. Our staff generously donated toys and food items which were formed into hampers for the families of De Paul House. Sovereign UNGC Communication on Progress 2015-2016 14 15 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our commitment Sovereign provides a range of channels and services to aid the business in identifying and preventing any form of corruption. Our Sovereign recognises that bribery and corruption have an adverse investigation services team provides independent support and advice effect on communities wherever they occur. If endemic, they impede to the wider organisation where integrity or physical security issues economic growth and undermine accountability, threaten laws, arise. They coordinate and manage investigations around incidents of democratic processes and basic human freedoms, impoverishing misconduct or suspected fraud. As part of the CBA Group, Sovereign states and distorting free trade and competition. Corruption is employees have access to a 24-hour, dedicated phone line for the often associated with organised crime, money laundering and, on purposes of reporting suspicions around unethical or fraudulent occasions, the financing of terrorism. behaviour. Sovereign use an Operation Risk Management Framework called RiskInSite, this allows for any compliance incidents, including We are committed to securing the financial wellbeing of people, corruption or bribery, to be captured. Sovereign have an internal audit businesses and communities by embedding a culture of zero tolerance system which can focus on any aspect of the business at any time. to bribery, corruption and facilitation payments across all areas and Sovereign are audited externally by Pricewaterhouse Coopers. levels of the business. Achievements Policies and procedures to support our commitment Training Every staff member who has worked at Sovereign for over three months has completed a training module on anti-bribery and Our anti-bribery and corruption policy supports our zero tolerance corruption. approach to bribery and corruption. Recruitment Our policy serves as a single and consistent anti-bribery and Our recruitment processes mean that every Sovereign employee corruption standard across the Group. It is designed to comply with with access to employee or customer financial information has gone the New Zealand Crimes Act 1961; the Australian Criminal Code Act, through both criminal and credit checks. 1995; the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, 1977 and the UK Bribery Act, 2010. Sovereign’s Code of Conduct, Procurement Policy, Whistleblower Protection Policy, and Gifts and Entertainment Policy play a supporting role in preventing corruption across our business operations. Our staff are required to complete a mandatory learning module on AntiBribery and Corruption. All staff are required to complete this module in the first three months of employment, with a refresher course if any of the content is updated. Sovereign UNGC Communication on Progress 2015-2016 15
