2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT contents About Our Report 2 Message to Our Stakeholders 3 about our report Corporate Profile 5 Kordsa Global in Figures 6 As Kordsa Global, we are proud to present our second sustainability Products, Sectors and Markets 7 report that reflects our economic, environmental and social performance Highlights of the Reporting Period 9 in 2015. With this report we would like to give our stakeholders the Strategy and Governance 10 opportunity to evaluate our efforts to measure, monitor and manage Sustainability Management 11 the impacts resulting from our operations. We would like our Corporate Governance 18 sustainability reports to be one of the major communication tools with Business Ethics 19 Economic Performance 21 our stakeholders to share our best practices in our excellence journey Contributions to the Economy 22 of being a sustainable company. R&D and Innovation 23 Procurement and Suppliers 25 Customer Privacy 26 The Scope and In the process of identifying our strategic Social Performance 27 sustainability aspects, we took into Limitations of Our Report consideration the GRI principles of Labor Practices and Human Rights Management 28 Unless otherwise stated, the data in this materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, Training and Education 31 report cover Kordsa Global’s activities sustainability context and completeness, Occupational Health and Safety 32 from January 1st 2015 to December as well as the principles set out in the UN Environmental Performance 34 31th 2015. This year, we expanded our Global Compact we signed in 2014, and Environmental Policy 35 environmental data scope and included the International Finance Corporation IFC’s Indonesia and Thailand facilities. Our Performance Standards on Environmental Energy and Emissions Management 36 company’s other investments take place and Social Sustainability that were Materials Management 38 in the corporate profile of this report. established to pinpoint, assess and Waste Management 39 Stakeholder engagement with employees manage social and environmental risks in Water Management 40 and customers cover all our international project finance. Biodiversity Conservation 41 operations. (G4-17, G4-23) www.globalcompact.org Performance Indicators 42 Economic Performance Indicators 43 The Principles of Our Social Performance Indicators 44 Report Our Next Report Environmental Performace Indicators 49 We have prepared our report based on the We plan to publish our next report, where we Annexes 53 GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Guidelines aim to share our sustainability performance Awards 53 and in accordance with GRI G4 Guidelines of 2016, in the second half of 2017. Memberships 54 Core option. UN Global Compact Principles 55 www.globalreporting.org IFC Sustainability Standards Compatibility Index 55 GRI G4 Content Index 56 Contacts 57 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 message to our stakeholders Distinguished Stakeholders, As Sabancı Group, we are committed to make a difference in the society and the environment around us. We strongly believe that as our business grows, so does our responsibility to reduce our footprint. Our goal in Turkey and all of the geographies we operate in is to grow while creating long-term value for all our stakeholders. Our brands also represent our commitment to responsible business practices. We are proud to share the second sustainability performance report of Kordsa Global and I would like to express my sincere gratitude to the people who are the source of our success, to all the executives and employees who have played a significant role in the corporate sustainability success of the company. This report reflects the work we are doing to responsibly manage our business. It also includes some of the groundbreaking initiatives our brand is leading in sustainable improvement. Being among pioneers of its industry globally and the innovation strategy champion in Turkey supported by its awarded R&D Center, Kordsa Global is tackling the challenges that face our industry in creative ways. It will continue its sustainability journey by creating value today and in the future, with its leadership in the implementation of technology, innovations and investments like the Composite Technologies Center of Excellence that will be inaugurated in August 2016. The Center will transform industries from aeronautics to automotive, primarily meeting domestic demand as well as serving overseas customers. This report represents the early stages of our sustainability journey. We are committed to operating as a responsible company and to building on the successes of 2015. Looking ahead, we will continue to further integrate sustainability into our business. This is a starting point, and we welcome your input in our efforts to continuously improve the world around us. Zafer Kurtul CEO Sabancı Holding 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 message to our stakeholders Ensuring equal opportunity for women and diversity are The strategy survey and workshops revealed that among our labor priorities. As Kordsa Global, we are a business ethics, human rights, occupational health and signatory to the United Nations Women’s Empowerment safety, employment and labor practices and as well as Principles as well as the Equality at Work Declaration training and education are the sustainability aspects and we are determined to continue supporting similar that had priority for our company and stakeholders. platforms. As a result of all the risk assessments, preventive In spite of the global and regional volatilities in the measures and safety projects like Safety Experience markets we operate, Kordsa Global continued to grow Center that we introduced in 2015 at Indo Kordsa plant, and managed to close the year with increasing profits. we are pleased that there have been no fatal accidents Operating our second factory in Indonesia with full since the day of our establishment, and continue to capacity in 2015, we became one of the top players produce with a goal of zero accident. in our industry in the Asia-Pacific market. We also started benefiting the outcomes of our investments in We constantly support the personal and professional composites and construction industries. development of our employees and long term employability of our team through initiatives like KEEP In 2015, Sabancı Holding decided to offer 20% of and All Stars, detailed in our report. Kordsa Global’s shares to qualified investors and the publicly quoted shares were increased to 29%. With an At Kordsa Global, environmental management in increased trading volume our company took its place in production comes first among our operational priorities. We proved our commitment to global the Borsa Istanbul 100 Index. 2015 was a remarkable year in many Throughout the report you can read about our various responsible business principles by signing aspects for Kordsa Global. Improvements initiatives and projects regarding materials, energy, the UN Global Compact in 2014, that covers In our adjacent growth areas, preparation for the in safety, quality and productivity and emissions and waste management along with water the areas of human rights, labor, environment opening of Composite Technologies Center of the continuous improvement programs efficiency and biodiversity conservation. Excellence continued to be a unique open innovation nourished by innovation principles in our and anti-corruption in ten principles. model for industry & university collaboration in Turkey. With our awarded R&D Center and our innovative pipeline guarantee a sustained product and As the technology leader of the sector, Kordsa Global’s approach we started the ‘Green Products’ program in R&D center is selected as the best R&D Center among service performance for the future. The new Kordsa Global. Our resorcinol-and formaldehyde-free Distinguished Stakeholders, all industries according to the 2014 R&D Centers wave of TPM activities will further accelerate ‘green’ dip solution is considered as a revolutionary Performance Index conducted by Turkish Ministry of our operational excellence. innovation in our sector. By developing an auxiliary It is a pleasure for me to share with you the second Science, Industry and Technology. In 2015 Turkish agent that poses no human or environmental health sustainability performance report of Kordsa Global. Exporters Assembly selected our company as the risks, we achieved compliance with REACH regulations, Conscious of our responsibilities, we have been Innovation Strategy Champion of Turkey. Esteemed Stakeholders, and gained the appreciation of our customers at the managing the economic, social and environmental same time. impacts of our operations in line with the Ethical At Kordsa Global, we aim to increase our profitability in We are proud to share with you our second sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Principles of our current business lines in 2016 as well. In this journey, report covering our 2015 performance. With this annual Our aim for 2016 is to reinforce our stakeholders with the the Sabancı Group since the day our company was we will continue to develop innovative technologies; performance report, we present you our management power of our innovative technologies, our sustainable founded. generate value for all our stakeholders, notably our approach to material sustainability issues and the management approach and our sustainable growth employees and customers; and develop environmentrelated best practices we have introduced to improve rate. We proved our commitment to global responsible friendly projects. the way we manage our impacts, as well as our future business principles by signing the UN Global Compact plans and targets. It would help us create more value for you if you share in 2014, that covers the areas of human rights, labor, Kind Regards, with us your questions as well as comments and environment and anti-corruption in ten principles. We Mehmet Hacıkamiloğlu In 2015, we continued to grow with our new product suggestions concerning the information covered in this consider the promotion of these universal principles all Chairman lines and capacity increase in our current markets and to report. throughout our corporate organization and among all extend our reinforcement areas by our new investments Kind Regards, our stakeholders as part of our corporate responsibility. in composite and construction reinforcement markets. In Cenk Alper the course of sustaining our economic strength we also CEO worked on improving our company on environmental and social aspects. 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 corporate profile As the global leader of tire reinforcement market, our company enlarged its reinforcement areas to composite and construction markets as well. We provide high quality and end-to-end solutions with our high level of technical competence in order to guarantee sustained product and service. Today, Kordsa Global, reinforces every 1 in 2 automobile tires and every 2 in 3 aircraft tires in the world. Gold Award 2nd Place LACP League of American Communications Professionals 2014/15 Vision Awards Annual Report Competition Chemicals and Materials Sectors 5 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Kordsa Global in figures ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY PROFILE PROFILE PROFILE PROFILE PROFILE PROFILE 1.735 59 3,745 27 %* 41,187 TRY Million % Operating Employees Women USD 69,790 Number of Turnover Profit Growth 73Men%* Total Savings Resulting from the Reused Paper Tubes Reuse of Materials Regional Revenue Split 30 % 42 0 Emission Management 39 % Fatal Occupational 5 Europe, Middle East and Africa Years Accidents and Diseases 40% Waste Recycling Continents 30% 173,250 7 Countries Asia Pacific USD 14% Waste Disposal 17% Environmental 9 North America 114 to 119.5 Average Number of Investments 14% Production Plants 192,440 Training Hours Consultancy 14% Training Hours for Female Employees South America 2 % 15 % Increase Training * Data represent white-collar employees. Among all employees the rate of women is around 11%. 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 products, sectors and markets Kordsa Global is the leading global supplier of highSince 2014, we decided to employ our experience and Consequently, we entered the construction market with density Nylon 6.6 and polyester industrial yarns as well leadership in tire reinforcement materials of over 40 years our concrete reinforcement material Kratos, and the as single end cord products. Our major customers in new markets that we define as adjacent markets. composites market by producing carbon fabric and are manufacturers of automotive tires and mechanical prepreg solutions. rubber goods. TIRE REINFORCEMENT TECHNOLOGIES CONSTRUCTION COMPOSITE REINFORCEMENT TECHNOLOGIES TECHNOLOGIES NYLON AND POLYESTER YARN SINGLE END TIRE CORD NEXT GENERATION INDUSTRIAL FABRICS AND MACRO-MICRO CORD FABRIC FABRICS FABRICS PREPREGS FIBER Mechanical Rubber Automotive Component Industry; Mechanical Rubber Automotive Buildings Goods Goods Cars Aerospace Tunnels Hoses OTR Hoses Sports V-Belts Aircrafts V-Belts Equipments Conveyor Belts Light Commerical Vehicles Conveyor Belts Wind Turbines Heavy Vehicles Automotive Component Industry Agricultural Vehicles 7 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 products, sectors and markets Revenue Split by Product Segment 6% 18% 76% Tire Cord Fabric Nylon Yarn Adjacent Regions Products North America NY6.6, TCF South America PET, SEC, TCF EMEA NY6.6, PET, SEC, TCF, SnFR Asia Pacific NY6.6, PET, TCF North America South America Europe, Middle East, Africa Asia Pacific 302 MILLION TRY 250 MILLION TRY 669 MILLION TRY 513 MILLION TRY 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 highlights of the reporting period Kordsa Global and Inter • Marketing and Sales teams are Kordsa Received ISO 50001 organized based on customer Certification segment structure, Energy management policies issued at Kordsa Global and at • Profit and Loss is managed at Inter Kordsa have been awarded regional level, the ISO 50001 certification. Kordsa Global became one of the few • Global and regional supply Kordsa Global is Listed in Turkish companies owning ISO chain teams are managing all Istanbul Stock Exchange 100 50001 certificate through passing procurement, capacity planning and Index the audits made by Bureu Veritas scheduling, inbound and outbound Sabancı Holding decided to sell up Quality Investigation (BVQI). The logistic activities, to 10 percent of its shares in Kordsa certificate will remain valid until Global Endüstriyel İplik ve Kord 2018. • Kordsa Global Izmit acts as Bezi Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş., with a mother plant, and coordinate nominal value of TRY 19,452,907 Meanwhile, Kordsa Global’s standardization, deployment, on the wholesale market of the Germany plant, Inter Kordsa auditing and technical assistance Borsa Istanbul on May 15th 2015. also passed the audits made by requirements for SHE, Lean With this sale, Kordsa Global’s float TÜV International Certification, Management, Quality activities increased from 9% to 29% in Borsa and also received ISO 50001 and operations networks globally. Istanbul. certification. ISO 50001 certificate Respective Global functions are standardizes the efficiency of eliminated. Consequently, Kordsa Global has energy consumption, systems and entered for the first time in the processes while improving energy • Composite and construction BIST 100 index and is listed in BIST performance among organizations. businesses are managed as 100 from July 1st to September separate P&L’s in the start-up and 30th. Increased investor interest in growth phase. In line with these Kordsa Global’s growth was one Kordsa Global’s Operating changes, the new appointments of of the key factors in this success. Model Changed ELT and other managers have been Trading volume and continuous In order to align our operating model effective as of July 1st 2015. growth in the past six months, and organizational structure with in addition to volume and pricing our long term goals, we have made stability, Kordsa Global aims to take distinctive changes in our operating its part in Istanbul Stock Exchange model. 50 index. 9 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 strategy and governance At Kordsa Global, with the strength and efforts of our employees, we continuously improve our operational processes, balance the use of our global resources, and focus on growth that creates sustainable value for all our stakeholders. Kordsa Global Ethical Practices EDMER (Association of the Ethical Values Center) ETIKA Turkey Ethics Awards 2012 2013 2014 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 sustainability management MISSION: Deliver high value added reinforcement solutions globally. VISION: Agile Kordsa Global in high value businesses for sustainable growth. Companies doing business in today’s rapidly changing and competitive OUR VALUES OUR SUSTAINABILITY ASPECTS (GRI G4) OUR VALUES world are expected not only to create economic value, but also to create Safety, Health, and Environment Occupational Health and Safety value for their stakeholders managing Energy and Emissions (Climate Change) We believe that all occupational and their social and environmental environmental accidents can be Materials responsibilities. In Kordsa Global we prevented. Our target is to create a 100% Water Results-Driven execute all our activities in such a accident-free and safe work environment and to manufacture with 0% waste Effluents and Waste As being The reinforcer in the manner that they facilitate continuous production. Biodiversity global reinforcement market, and improvement and create value for our a company that continuously stakeholders. creates value for its shareholders, Commitment to Ethical Values Compliance and Anti-Corruption we provide our customers with the The ethical values we are 100% Supplier Assessments highest quality services. Our corporate values support the committed to regulate our relationships Human Rights foundations of our vision and strategic with employees, shareholders, Non-Discrimination customers, suppliers, business partners, initiatives. Our priority aspects competitors, the environment, and Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Open-Minded we identified while shaping our society. Diversity and Equal Opportunity sustainability strategy match perfectly Innovation runs in our genes. Building on years of experience, with Kordsa Global’s corporate values we continuously develop innovative we based our growth strategy on. Customer-Focused products, technologies, and We grow together with our customers processes at our technology center. who regard us as the strategic technology Customer Privacy We believe that the corporate core partner of their choice, and offer them values that our employees take innovative, accurate, and tailor-made into consideration in their day-tosolutions. Global Collaboration day business decisions will function Our strength stems from as a road map in the expansion of collaboration; we replicate best practices observed in one plant in all our sustainability strategy, and will Continuous Improvement Training and Education other locations. facilitate its implementation by our We continuously improve all processes Employment and Labor Practices employees. in the organization in line with our customer-focused approach and total Economic Performance quality management. (G4-19) 11 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 dialogue with our stakeholders We define our stakeholders as people and The communication platforms we employ for our organizations that are influenced by our activities, employees and other key stakeholders, together and at the same time, have an impact on our with their content and communication frequency, 72% of our employees who responded to the company’s efforts to achieve its business targets. are given in the table Communication Platforms While striving for sustainable growth at Kordsa with Our Stakeholders in our report. sustainability assessment survey think that… Global, we aim to render the benefits we create for all of our stakeholders sustainably as well. Sustainability Communication with “The regular communication platforms Kordsa Global With that in mind, we conducted a sustainability Our Customers employs to find out about the ideas/suggestions or strategy survey during the first reporting period. Within the first year of our stakeholder Then, at one-on-one interviews with ELT members expectations of priority stakeholders (excl. employees) engagement activities around sustainability we and during the sustainability workshop held with have interviewed two of our major customer are adequate.” STF (Sustainability Task Force) members, we representatives and received their feedback reviewed all our key stakeholders that had an about our performance on sustainability. We have intensive economic, social, and environmental also asked their concerns on which other issues interaction with our company in light of our Kordsa Global should focus on. Both customers strategic aspects. (G4-25) brought up the issue of supplier assessments on social and environmental impacts. We grouped our key stakeholders by the extent they were influenced by our company’s activities We took this feedback into consideration and Students/ and their impact on our company’s efforts to again took actions regarding better managing Potential Employees achieve its business targets. We plan to review this issue. The details of our actions take place our stakeholders every second year as we review under Supplier Assessments topic. In 2015, Governmental our priority aspects. we conducted a survey with the participation and Regulatory Employees Families of of 50% of our major customer representatives. Institutions Customers Employees Sustainability Communication with Results showed that the top priority issues for Our Employees our customers are business ethics, occupational Group Companies Local The goal of the sustainability assessment survey health and safety, human rights and customer Communities and we conducted with the participation of our privacy. Governments Professional employees, who are our number one stakeholder Trade Unions Chambers group, was to raise their awareness on this issue. Regarding our target to be listed in the BIST Suppliers About 200 white-collar employees including Sustainability Index next year, we also included Press Members engineers, specialists, supervisors, managers, biodiversity as one of the focus areas of Kordsa Investors directors, and ELT members, nearly 38% of Global this year. (G4-27) Non-Governmental Research which had been working for Kordsa Global for Organizations Shareholders Institutions more than 15 years, participated in the survey we carried out for the second time. Through this Financial Institutions survey, we collected our employees’ opinions on Universities our company’s sustainability performance, and (Academics) (G4-24) shared them in the relevant sections of our report. 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 dialogue with our stakeholders Our Stakeholders Communication Platforms Objective/Content of Communication Communication Frequency Survey Sustainability Strategy Once in 2 years Reinforcer Magazine To share developments about the company, sector, and technology Twice a year Annual Report To review the previous year of the company Once a year Press section on website To announce new developments about the company through press releases Continuous Customers Magazines and newspapers To announce new developments about the company through press releases and interviews in both national and international publications Continuous Sustainability report Progress report of the company’s sustainability performance Once a year Social Media To share news about the company, products and developments Continuous E-Newsletter To share developments about the company or collaborations exclusive to Big 6 segment 4 times a year Trade fairs To establish contact with existing and new customers Several times a year Assessment survey Sustainability performance Once a year Plant newsletters such as the Kordsa Magazine To announce important developments about the company Several times a year People Clip To make notifications about the company Continuous E-mails by CEO To share important developments As needed Employees Yammer CEO communication Continuous Intouch CEO communication Four times a year All Stars To select the best projects and most successful activities within the company Once a year GLS To review the previous year and share the vision of the next year Once a year Social Media To share news about the company, products and developments Continuous Face-to-face contact To discuss business issues At least once a month Trade fairs To discuss business issues Several times a year Suppliers E-mails To discuss business issues Continuous Factory visits To inspect, to discuss business issues Several times a year Social Media To share news about the company, products and developments Continuous Meetings To announce annual results Once a year Shareholders E-mail by request Conveying information on e-mail for those who request Several times a year Newsletters To announce important developments about the company through the media Continuous TV programs To announce important developments about the company Several times a year Magazines and Newspapers To announce important developments about the company Several times a year Website To announce important information Continuous Investors To publish the report of the CMB (Capital Markets Board) Four times a year PDP – Public Disclosure Platform To announce special situations As needed Telephone/e-mails To respond to investors’ request for information about the company Upon request from an investor Social Media To share news about the company, products and developments Continuous Newsletters To announce important developments about the company through the media Continuous TV programs To announce important developments about the company Several times a year Local Communities and Governments Website To announce important information Continuous Kordsa Magazine To announce important developments about the company Several times a year Newsletters To share news about the company, products and developments Continuous Sabancı Holding Newsletters To announce important information Continuous Group Companies SBU Spot Action To share a quarterly self-assessment of Kordsa Global with the SBUs (Strategic Business Units) of the Sabancı Group Four times a year Governmental and Regulatory Newsletters To announce important developments about the company through the media Continuous Institutions Non-Governmental Institutions TV Programs To announce important developments about the company Several times a year Prss Members Trade Unions Financial Institutions Website To announce important information Continuous (G4-26) 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 our priority sustainability aspects We reviewed our strategic sustainability brought up by our major customers last year, aspects with a sustainability strategy survey also took its place in the matrix. conducted with the participation of the Kordsa Kordsa Global Materiality Matrix Global Executive Leadership Team (ELT) and The upper right-hand part of the graph displays the Sustainability Task Force (STF). aspects that are of high importance for both Consequently, we conducted a customer our customers and Kordsa Global, and engagement survey with the participation of influence our company’s performance directly 50% of our major customer representatives and significantly. These aspects constitute and considered their opinions as our key the main headings of the relevant sections stakeholders while preparing our materiality of our report, and data on our company’s HIGH • BUSINESS matrix. performance in those areas are extensively ETHICS covered in the report. • CUSTOMER In the matrix, aspects that we place under PRIVACY Business Ethics are compliance and antiThe main objective of creating such a matrix • HEALTH AND SAFETY corruption. Equal remuneration for women was to clearly identify aspects important to and men, as well as diversity and equal both our company and our key stakeholders, Influence on Stakeholders’ • HUMAN RIGHTS opportunity are disclosed under Employment and to develop our plans and set our targets and Labor Practices and non-discrimination is around these aspects. In the coming period, • ECONOMIC disclosed under Human Rights. we aim to exchange ideas with a higher PERFORMANCE number of stakeholders, and to further Considering the BIST Sustainability Index develop the aspects we will focus on and our • SUPPLIER ASSESSMENTS requirements, we have added biodiversity related targets. (G4-18, G4-19) • EMPLOYMENT AND and climate change in the evaluation process LABOR PRACTICES this year. Supplier Assessments, as an aspect • TRAINING AND EDUCATION (Assessments and Decisions on the Company) • MATERIALS • WATER • ENERGY AND EMISSIONS • WASTE • BIODIVERSITY LOW Significance of Impacts on Kordsa Global (Reputation, Regulatory, Financial, Operational) 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 aspect boundaries and limitations MATERIAL Aspect Boundaries Limitations on Reporting ASPECTS Internal External Internal External Figures are not country specific and represent Economic Performance All of Kordsa Global Shareholder/Investor No limitations the company as a whole. Customer Privacy All of Kordsa Global Supplier/Subcontractor No limitations No data was collected in the reporting period. Compliance All of Kordsa Global Supplier/Subcontractor No limitations No data was collected in the reporting period. Anti-Corruption All of Kordsa Global Supplier/Subcontractor/Customer No limitations No data was collected in the reporting period. Occupational Health and Safety All of Kordsa Global Supplier/Subcontractor No limitations No limitations Employment and Labor Practices All of Kordsa Global N/A No limitations N/A Training and Education All of Kordsa Global Supplier/Subcontractor No limitations Data includes subcontractor OHS trainings. Human Rights All of Kordsa Global N/A No limitations N/A Suppliers Assessments All of Kordsa Global N/A No limitations N/A Energy and Emissions Management All of Kordsa Global N/A Turkey, Thailand, Indonesia N/A Materials Management All of Kordsa Global N/A No limitations N/A Water Management All of Kordsa Global N/A Turkey, Thailand, Indonesia N/A Waste Management All of Kordsa Global N/A Turkey, Thailand, Indonesia N/A Biodiversity All of Kordsa Global N/A No limitations N/A (G4-20, G4-21, G4-23) All of Kordsa Global: Plants in Turkey, Germany, Brazil, USA, Thailand and Indonesia. In 2015, environmental data is added for Thailand and Indonesia. Compliance, and anti-corruption management approach covered all Kordsa Global sites. N/A: not applicable 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 our sustainability targets and commitments Strategic Aspect Our Targets and Commitments Performance in 2015 / What is achieved? Target for 2016 Achieve, the Techno Park will be ready starting from Continue start up of Composite Technologies Center of Excellence Economic Performance Make the Composite Technologies Center of Excellence operational by 2016 second quarter of 2016 operational Maintain our company’s performance of ZERO complaints from customers about Maintain our company’s performance of ZERO complaints from customers Customer Privacy Continuous information security about information security Maintain our performance of ZERO anti-compliance cases at all locations Continuous Maintain our performance of ZERO anti-compliance cases at all locations Compliance Revise ethical rules and adapt them to current legislation if needed by following the Revise ethical rules and adapt them to current legislation if needed by Continuous latest developments in the Turkish legislation following the latest developments in the Turkish legislation Maintain our performance of ZERO corruption cases at all locations Continuous Maintain our performance of ZERO corruption cases at all locations Anti-Corruption Prepare an Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy in 2015 Achieved Distributing Anti Corruption and Bribery Policy to all sites Total recordable case are decreasing compared to Achieve a ZERO accident rate at all our locations Achieve a ZERO accident rate at all our locations 2104 but we did not achieve zero Occupational Health and Safety Extend the Finishing Machinery Safety Project to include all plants abroad that have dipping units (Indonesia, Egypt, Thailand, USA, Brazil), make the risk analyses of Risk analyses; finished at all sites Implementation phase of Machinery Safety Standard for all dipping unit sites these plants in 2015, and start implementations in 2016 Reduce the high-potential employee turnover rate in all our companies Continuous Reduce the high-potential employee turnover rate in all our companies Continue to offer equal opportunity to women and men in recruitment, placement Continue to offer equal opportunity to women and men in recruitment, Continuous Employment and Labor Practices and remuneration placement and remuneration New Target Monitor the suggestion systems that are being implemented at site level Internalize and implement the principles of the Equality at Work Declaration Continuous Internalize and implement the principles of the Equality at Work Declaration Expand the Global Mentoring Program, increase its effectiveness, and ensure its Expand the Global Mentoring Program, increase its effectiveness, and Continuous continuity ensure its continuity Start special training programs developed by specialists at the Global Training and Education Start special training programs developed by specialists at the Global Technology Planning phase Technology Center for technical and production engineers as well as sales Center for technical and production engineers as well as sales teams in 2015 teams Improve the online platform and increase the number of KEEP training hours in In progress Improve the online platform and increase the number of KEEP training hours 2015 Human Rights Maintain our performance of ZERO discrimination cases at all locations Continuous Maintain our performance of ZERO discrimination cases at all locations Supplier Assessments New Target Establish the supplier management policy Increase the scope and effectiveness of the ISO 50001 Energy Management Continuous / In 2015 TIK and IK data are collected Continue data collection. In 2016 KBR, CH and LH will be added. System Energy and Emissions Management Reduce our natural gas consumption per production/ton Continuous Reduce our natural gas consumption per production/ton by 2% (Climate Change) Achieve ZERO emissions at all locations Continuous Emit an emission that under national regulation TLV standard Start data collection from all sites for CO2 calculation. 2016 will be the base New Target line year for all global sites Increase the amount of reused materials at all our locations Continuous Increase the amount of reused materials at all our locations by 2% Materials Management Increase the amount of recycled materials at all our locations Continuous Increase the amount of recycled materials at all our locations by 2% Reduce the amount of material we use per unit product manufactured at all our Reduce the amount of material we use per unit product manufactured at all Continuous locations our locations by 2% Water Management New Target Monitor water usage of all global sites Achieve ZERO waste at all locations Continuous Initiate the project of global waste data reporting Waste Management Reduce Kordsa Global Turkey’s domestic waste amount by 20% in kg/ton of Not achieved / Target revised Reduce total waste disposal by 5% product in 2015 Biodiversity New Target ISO 14001 gap analysis in 2016 and certification within the following years 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 sustainability task force With the participation of specialists and managers from different disciplines and departments, we established Kordsa Global Sustainability Task Force (STF) in 2014. With the new members from production departments the number of task force members increased from 11 to 16 in 2015. Members of the team are selected in accordance to our projected sustainability impacts. Sustainability Task Force played an important role in establishing the sustainability strategy of our company along with the ELT members and also contributed to develop our second sustainability report. Members Job Title Atike Kökbudak Legal Consultant Burçin Harlak SHE Specialist Can Demir Procurement Specialist Elif Göksel Yılmaz Lawyer Emel Eren Project Coordinator – Laboratory Leader Emre Aksu TCF Dipped Fabric Production Engineer Hande Korkmaz Quality Assurance Manager Mehmet Tetik TCF Greige Fabric Production Engineer Miray Gönülşen Human Resources Specialist Nevra Aydoğan Gürsoy Brand and Corporate Communication Leader Özge Sekmen Finance Specialist Selden Demirkaya Technical Specialist Sinan Örengül TCF Electrical Maintenance Engineer Ümit Coşkun Finance Manager Yoga Mardiansyah Global SHE – Sustainability Manager The names of the members are given in alphabetical order. 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 corporate governance 92% of our employees who responded to the sustainability assessment survey think that… “Kordsa Global manages all its business processes according to its corporate governance principles of transparency, fairness, accountability and responsibility.” Committees Responsibility Responsibility on Women Responsibility on Key Stakeholders Reporting to the on Economic Environmental Members Social Impacts Represented Board Impacts Impacts • Employees Kordsa Global realizes its operations in conformity Board Practices • Economic performance • Compliance • Shareholders with the Corporate Governance Principles Our Board of Directors, which is responsible for published by the Capital Markets Board, and the Audit Committee 0% • Materials • Anti-corruption • Customers ensuring that Kordsa Global’s operations comply corporate governance principles of transparency, with the legislation, the articles of association, • Energy and • Customer privacy • Suppliers fairness, responsibility and accountability. The emissions internal regulations and identified policies, as well • Investors Corporate Governance Compliance Report is as for protecting the long-term interest of our therefore included in our annual report along with company by way of the strategic decisions it takes, our company’s policies on human resources, consists of seven members in total, two of which Corporate • Employees donations and aid, as well as dividend distribution, are women and two of which are independent. Governance • Compliance • Shareholders and covers details on ethics and responsibility. Only the President and the Vice President hold Committee Economic • Anti-corruption • Investors 50% executive functions. (Nomination performance • Employment • Local Having complied with all compulsory and Committee and • Labor practices and communities optional regulations in the Corporate Governance Wage Committee) human rights and governments Our annual report includes details on the Principles in all twelve months of 2015, as Kordsa structure of the Board, its working principles, Global we publish these issues in detail on the members’ positions, internal and external websites www.kap.gov.tr and www. kordsaglobal. • Employees commitments, responsibilities and the terms • Energy and com for the information of shareholders and of office. Committees that are composed of • Compliance • Shareholders emissions beneficiaries. In 2015, our employees’ perception Board Members are the Audit Committee, • Customers Early Risk • Anti-corruption • Water of Kordsa Global’s good corporate governance Corporate Governance Committee and Early • Suppliers Identification 50% • Occupational performance raised by 8% since 2014. • Waste Risk Identification Committee. Audit Committee Committee health and safety • Investors has two independent Board members. The • Materials • Customer privacy • Local responsibilities these committees have with communities regard to sustainability and the key stakeholder and governments groups they represent are given in the following. 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 business ethics Once they are hired, all employees sign the In 2013, we established the Compliance Business Ethics Compliance Form stating that Management System, which is reviewed every they have read and understood it. New recruits year and approved by the Board of Directors, of white-collar employees receive a half-an-hour in cooperation with the Compliance Division of 81% of our employees who responded to the online training on ethics on KEEP training platform Sabancı Holding, and started implementation in supported with videos, cases and questions, 2014. The Compliance Coordinator is responsible sustainability assessment survey think that… whereas blue-collar employees receive classroom for the coordination of compliance management, trainings for about four hours. The Business whereas all Kordsa Global employees are Ethics Compliance Form is considered as a risk responsible for its management. “The activities Kordsa Global carries out to inform, assessment tool and filled in by each employee train and raise the awareness of its employees about whether blue or white collar. The objectives and targets of compliance management are based on ensuring the ethical business practices are adequate.” The Global/Local Code of Ethics Consultants are company works in compliance with the legislation, responsible for informing employees about ethical international law, and the rules governing the rules, deliver regular trainings to ensure policies group of companies and the company itself. The and rules are understood, and to communicate goal of the management system, on the other continuously with employees regarding this issue. hand, includes identifying the risks associated The Code of Business Ethics that regulates recommendations received from the Code of On the other hand, in Intouch Seminars organized with compliance; taking necessary measures; Kordsa Global’s relationships with its customers, Ethics Consultants, and once approved by the every three months with employees, our CEO monitoring 10 key risk indicators (two of which employees, shareholders, suppliers, business CEO of Kordsa Global, are announced to all always brings business ethics issues on the table are optional, and eight are required by law and partners, competitors, the environment and employees. and reminds employees our company’s zero regulations); and managing the risks proactively society covers four main headings, namely legal tolerance around this framework. by way of identified thresholds. obligations, integrity, confidentiality and conflict of Stakeholders who would like to report an incident interest. While protecting the rights of beneficiaries, or file a complaint can find the names, e-mail Compliance Management Compliance risk types concerning Kordsa Global Kordsa Global abides by the Code of Business address (etik.tr@kordsaglobal.com) and phone The Legal Obligations heading under the Kordsa are defined as follows: Legislation on Labor and Ethics, approved by the Kordsa Global Board numbers of our Code of Ethics Consultants on Global Code of Business Ethics governs the Social Security, Legislation on Environment and of Directors on September 15th 2009, in all its our company’s website. The Code of Ethics principles of compliance management in our OHS, Trade Legislation, Financial Legislation operations and relationships. Consultant and/or Ethics Board is responsible company. We realize all our domestic and Information Security Policy, Agreements and for investigating and resolving complaints and international operations and transactions in line Other Legal Arrangements. The Kordsa Global Code of Business Ethics reports the violations of ethical rules through developed by Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding and Ethics Investigation Forms, in line relevant policies with national legislations and international law, and provide accurate, complete and clear information At the end of every quarter, the Compliance revised to suit Kordsa Global is available in the within the context of the Kordsa Global Code of to the regulatory bodies and institutions in a timely Coordinator shares the key risk indicators and native languages of the countries we operate in Business Ethics. manner. the results as Compliance Management Criteria (7 languages Turkish, English, Arabic, German, and Results with ELT members and responsible Bahasa, Thai, and Portuguese) and is published Reporting to the Chairman of the Board of The priorities of our company include establishing departments. In addition to that, compliance on our website. Directors, the Ethics Board of Sabancı Holding a management system that is needed to comply management and practices are among audit items is composed of persons holding the following with both the requirements, laws and regulations throughout the company in audits conducted by In order to manage the Code of Ethics, a Code positions: Chairman Head of Internal Audit of the sector we operate in; defining relevant the Internal Audit Department. The Committee of Ethics Consultant responsible for the correct Department, Member Head of Department in policies; communicating findings, risks and evaluates the outcomes of the audit, and shares implementation of the Code has been appointed charge of Legal Affairs of H. Ö. Sabancı Holding new regulations on a regular basis, and making the results with the Board of Directors. Moreover, to each plant. The Code of Ethics and all Member Head of Department in charge of Labor necessary controls; and monitoring and managing every year, Sabancı Holding makes a periodical relevant policies are reviewed and revised by Relations of H. Ö. Sabancı Holding. our compliance management performance. Compliance Management assessment and the Ethics Board of Sabancı Holding in line with prepares a report. 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 business ethics No monetary or administrative penalties were our Code of Business Ethics. Ethics Committee imposed on Kordsa Global in Turkey during and Internal Audit functions monitor cases on antithe reporting period for breach of any laws or corruption, whistleblowing being also in charge of regulations, including those on the environment. sanctions and reports to Sabancı Holding Ethics There was not any case brought to our attention Committee. through conflict resolution mechanisms, either. Our employees cannot engage in any business Our goals are to further increase the positive impact relationship with family members, acquaintances of 2015, and continue with the ‘zero negative or third persons that would result in mutual or impact’ performance in 2016 in accordance with unilateral benefits. They cannot earn or enable our compliance management criteria. others to earn any money by engaging in trade, including trading securities on the stock exchange, Anti-Corruption using insider information. The rules mandate that Anti-corruption is one of the ten fundamental employees cannot manage an enterprise, neither principles of the UN Global Compact that Kordsa directly nor indirectly, and that they cannot work Global signed in 2014. We keep an equal distance to for a third person and/or organization during or all public agencies and institutions, administrative outside of working hours in return for a certain fee bodies, non-governmental organizations and or comparable gain. political parties, without expecting any benefits, and realize our obligations with this responsibility In 2015, we published Kordsa Global Antiin mind while carrying out all our operations and Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy, covering all our transactions. employees, suppliers and customers. It is publicly available on our web site. We communicate our We comply with Article 3.5.2 of the Corporate approach to all our stakeholders. Governance Principles that stipulates, “Corporation shall be sensitive to its social In the reporting period, there were not any responsibilities and comply with the regulations confirmed corruption or bribery cases concerning and ethical rules with regard to the environment, our operations in Turkey; any cases where an consumers, and public health. Corporation shall employee was dismissed or given a disciplinary support and respect internationally recognized penalty on charges of corruption; any contract human rights. Corporation shall fight against any with business partners that was terminated or kind of corruption including bribery.” failed to be renewed due to violations related to corruption; or any public lawsuit opened against Communication and trainings on anti-corruption in our company or our employees because of Kordsa Global cover all our employees in line with corruption. 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 economic performance Through our new products we developed with our know-how, we export technology as well as the knowledge and experience of Turkish engineering to the world. We are the leader of the global Nylon 6.6 yarn and cord fabric market with 34% of market share in sales, and the 4th player in the polyester market with a share of 10%. Kordsa Global Innovation Strategy Champion Turkish Exporters Assembly (TIM) Turkey Innovation Week Innova League 2015 Kordsa Global Best Performed R&D Center of the Year Best R&D Center in All Categories 2014 Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology 2014 R&D Centers Performance Index 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 contributions to the economy Total Product Maintenance (TPM) our strategic plans. For instance, TPM activities will Integration definitely impact occupational health and safety, Overall Equipment Efficiency-OEE, productivity 76% of our employees who responded to the TPM Project is regarded as one of the most and margin targets. essential initiatives launched in 2015 under sustainability assessment survey think that… sustainability management because of the positive Economic results and gains economic, social, environmental and corporate Labour and machine loss (reduction in benefits it generates. technological and failure originated stops, product “Kordsa Global creates significant economic value to TPM Integration is designed to reach zerowith quality defect, reduction of response time and failure numberfrequency, elimination of recurring its key stakeholders.” accident target and to identify root causes of failures), cost reduction due to high production recurring failures and develop stable solutions to based on machine efficiency increase, employee eliminate them. It is launched at Kordsa Global productivity increase caused by effective use of Turkey facilities in May 2015 under the guidance labour time. of Cord Fabric Production and Lean Management Department as a feasibility tour and awareness Social results and gains training. Positive working environment induced by zeroaccident and zero quality defect, preferred We aim to improve our staff’s knowledge, skills and place to work, increased communication among At Kordsa Global we increased our profitability in competences in monitoring, analysing and taking employees, mutual perception, strengthening of our core business by %59 in 2015 and ensured 3.2% timely action about their responsibilities; elevate team spirit, sharing and owning responsibilities, sustainable growth. On one hand, we focused on 1.1% 6.3% the level of employee engagement at the factory improvements in personal skills and competencies. efficiency in production and competitiveness in in order to reach zero-failure target that will boost efficiency and thus, sustain customer satisfaction Environmental results and gains cost, and on the other, we improved our economic 13.6% in this ever accelerating competition. Effective waste management (disposal, defects, performance with our differentiation strategy. We lesser production time shortages), increased continued to offer value to our stakeholders both Including methods trainings and consultancy perception of waste, increase in environmental with the economy we created and our investments services, we invest around 100 to 200 thousand sensitivity due to motivation created by contributing in 2015. US dollars annually for our each facility that we to environmental protection. implement TPM. The practice started in July 2015 with in-class trainings of the Autonomous Corporate results and gains The Value We Distribute to Our Maintenance – AM teams composed of Stronger corporate culture, perceiving and owning Stakeholders 75.8% production, maintenance and affiliated entities staff corporate goals at the operator level, corporate in seven pilot locations and continued with pilot image, marching towards the future in confidence In direct proportion to the increase in profits in trainings. Planned Maintenance – PM trainings for with the cultural climate created by the company. 2015, our community investments rose by 35%. Maintenance Teams started in December 2015. We donated more than TRY 6.94 million to Since then, integration of pilot practices continued Our Future Plans educational institutions notably Sabancı University to become our way of doing business at the Our future plans include; two days detailed as well as Kocaeli University, İzburs (Association of selected locations. The projection of AM and PM training to increase awareness and engagement Government & Community to be deployed to all staff in entire machine park is of the management team at the plant with TPM Scholarships in Izmit) and the Turkish Educational two to three years. All 1,200 blue and white collar information, foundations and expectations; Foundation. Just like the previous years, our Providers of Capital employees at our Izmit plant take active part in operationalizing all TPM main carriers and suppliers received the highest share of the integration process according to relative topics. mobilizing committees to manage processes; to Kordsa Global (Retained earnings) launch global sharing platform to deploy Kaizen, value we distributed to our stakeholders in 2015 by 75.8%. On the other hand, our employees’ TPM integration will positively impact our Kordsa Improvement Groups (KIG) projects, to Employees performance to reach our corporate goals that participate in TPM excellence award process and perception of our company regarding the value have been cascaded to supervisor level in line with publish TPM activity book. created for our stakeholders increased by 8% Suppliers since 2014. 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 R&D and innovation Together with operational excellence, R&D and Our goal in the projects we work on at the innovation is an integral part of our business R&D Center is to develop new products and strategy in product and service development. technologies that increase energy efficiency and Thanks to our technology function which enables reduce carbon dioxide emissions with a focus more effective conditions for production through on the environmental impact. For instance, while its research and development activities on we developed a novel concept in the dipping materials, processes and equipment, we manage process thanks to the advantages provided by to be the market and technology leader, and offer new technologies in Project Minidip, we achieved our customers more competitive and innovative 10 to 15% energy savings in twisting machines in products. Project ABC. At our R&D Center, under the leadership of the In addition to 39 ongoing projects related to Chief Technology Officer, who is also a member material, process and product development, of the Executive Board, we execute our activities our R&D center launched 43 new projects and effectively by identifying the needs of the enterprise completed 15 projects in 2015. The mid-term at the highest level with our 75 employees and audits of four TÜBİTAK-TEYDEB Projects, and the driving force of the senior management. As a final audit of an internationally funded projects result of our efforts at our R&D center, where we are completed. Three new TÜBİTAK-TEYDEB aim to create dynamism in the sector with new Projects are approved and three TÜBİTAK brands, in 2014, we made 176 patent applications applications reached assessment stage. in Turkey and abroad. Having allocated an average TRY 16.5 million annually in the last four years to R&D activities, as Kordsa Global we cooperate with institutions such as TUBITAK MAM (Marmara Research Center), Sabancı University, Boğaziçi University, Koç University, Bilkent University, University of Strong Focus on R&D Akron and the Tokyo Institute of Technology, 150 and make use of the qualified expertise in Sales From New Products related fields and technological facilities at the universities in the context of our joint projects as well as consulting and infrastructure services we receive. In subject matters that come up in (USD mn) our projects but are outside the scope of our 52 own area of expertise, we contact universities if 41 needed, and work together with relevant experts 28 and competent academics. All projects are under 10 the protection of confidentiality agreements; and we are scrupulous about the ethical components 2012 2013 2014 2015 2018 as well as intellectual property issues. 23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 R&D and innovation Product Innovation: Investment: The Green Tire Cord Fabric By Kordsa Global Composite Technologies Center of Excellence Treatment of the cords with ResorcinolIn addition to the positive environmental and We continued our investment of Composite Social results and gains Formaldehyde-Latex (RFL) solutions to reach social implications of the project, there will be Technologies Center of Excellence, which We used an innovative Industry-University satisfactory adhesion to rubber is the general potential corporate and economic gains. We we started establishing in Istanbul Teknopark collaboration model for the first time in Turkey practice in our industry. Among the ingredients, plan to introduce the product first to markets in the second half of 2014 in cooperation to establish a platform that hosts a synergistic Formaldehyde is the simplest but highly where environment-friendly products are with Sabancı University, in 2015. We plan to structure covering basic research, technology reactive and toxic organic compound. RFL supported and incentivized with many new complete it in the first half of 2016 with a total development and production based on R&D adhesives are coated on the cord fabric in the regulations such as Europe, USA and Japan. investment of USD 30 million. activities supported by the university for last processing stage of cord fabric production the production of an advanced technology that is called ‘dipping’. Despite increasing Kordsa Global is now ready to reinforce the The factors that triggered the decision to material. In addition to that, we aim to make environmental and safety concerns, no other tire industry with its sophisticated green dip make the investment were to position Sabancı a significant contribution to solve the qualified adhesive system had so far been developed formulation; not only to create value for its Holding in time to seize the opportunity human resources shortage in this field. as an alternative to Resorcinol-Formaldehydecustomers but also to create value to the of profitable growth in the rapidly growing based adhesives, which have been widely community it belongs to. composites market; to offer high valueEnvironmental results and gains applied since 1935. added products and services to the aviation, One of our objectives is to give priority to automotive, maritime and energy sectors; and developing environment-friendly technologies To meet future regulatory requirements, Kordsa to contribute to our country’s targets for 2023. at the Composite Technologies Center of Global developed a new RF-free adhesive dip Our aim is to increase our market share in the Excellence. solution system under the “Green Products” EU to 4% in 10 years as a consequence of this program. Instead of toxic Resorcinol and investment. Corporate results and gains Formaldehyde, the new formula uses greener We aim to enter the composites sector as a chemicals, which are in conformity with REACH Economic results and gains manufacturer of intermediate products, to regulations. We lead the initiation of projects geared towards prepare for future growth options, and to minimizing Turkey’s dependence on foreign position Kordsa Global as the technology and The new adhesive system we developed at product development and manufacturing innovation leader. Kordsa Global is a FIRST in the tire industry. capabilities in strategic areas in the shortand We made two patent applications for this medium-term. new adhesive solution, and our international application process is under way. Properties of the adhesive dip we developed are the following: • No waiting time • The only formulation that is fiber-independent • Free of hazardous and toxic chemicals • Complies with REACH regulations • Does not require pre-activation of PET • Zero formaldehyde consumption/emission • Less consumption of dip solution 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 procurement and suppliers Shares of Purchasing Functions Improvement, People / HR and Safety & Environment. Safety evaluation includes availability of OHSAH 18001 occupational health and safety management systems certification. Environmental 74% of our employees who responded to the evaluation includes availability of a ISO 14001 sustainability assessment survey think that… 31% environmental management system certification. During the audits, additionally our teams question our suppliers on compliance with the principles “Kordsa Global’s policies, trainings and audits on laid down by the ILO concerning health and safety, working hours, wages and disciplinary practices, human rights concerning its suppliers are adequate.” 69% freedom of association and collective bargaining, non-discrimination, and prohibition of child labor and forced labor. They also ask for activities to reduce any negative effects on the environment and to reduce waste and packaging throughout their products’ life cycles. The global purchasing function, located at our As Kordsa Global produces nylon and polyester Global Purchasing Local Purchasing headquarters in Istanbul, is responsible for the yarns, cord fabric and single end cord, our main In 2015, as a result of our evaluations, five suppliers procurement of the raw materials used in at least procurement items consist of raw materials. Supplier Assessments fell in ‘need to improve’ class and received two of the seven plants in six countries and/or During our sustainability strategy works in 2015, we corrective action requests. Our Global and Site whose supply is considered critical, in addition to were engaged with our customers and employees Purchasing Teams decided and planned to audit service procurements above USD 500 thousand, Breakdown of Purchasing Expenditures regarding our priority issues and performance three of these suppliers in 2016. On the other side, as well as the service procurement of our relatively. Selected customers addressed supplier we stopped working with one of our materials headquarters. screening on social and environmental issues suppliers as a result of its low performance on 3% and we included this aspect of sustainability in the general evaluations. Local purchasing departments are responsible 3% for the supply and follow up of all services and 2% our 2015 sustainability report. raw materials other than the above-mentioned 8% As Kordsa Global we require our suppliers and items once global purchasing has reached an In the selection of our suppliers, our Global and business partners to operate in accordance with agreement with the suppliers with regard to price Site Purchasing Teams conduct supplier audits. the principles in the code of business ethics 13% After the selection process we conduct supplier published on our web site. The Code of Business and other trading terms. evaluations for our selected global suppliers Ethics outlines our company’s expectations for The number of suppliers Kordsa Global Turkey by each site annually. We aim to reach every the undersigned conduct regarding labor and 57% supplier at least every four years. The suppliers human rights, health and safety, environmental has active procurement of more than USD 10 thousand is around 80 where 70% are local. 14% who receive 60 points and below during the protection, ethics, and management practices. evaluations are generally audited on site, regarding Additionally, in the reporting period, we decided to all improvement areas in the following year. We committed to incorporate our human rights manage products and services that are of critical policy in contracts with our major suppliers starting importance to Kordsa Global by dividing them into The list of audit and evaluation criteria includes; from 2015. Three main suppliers have already segments in line with the ‘category management’ Leadership and Quality Commitment, Process signed our Statement on Code of Business Ethics Raw Materials Chemicals Packaging and Product Design Quality, Supplier Quality and we aim to include all our suppliers sign the concept, and thus formed two categories by FDPE (Finished Products Distribution Expense) Energy Materials Management Management, Production Quality Management, code by the end of 2017. expenditures and ‘Packaging Material’, and appointed the Other products & services Customer Quality Management, Continuous human resources to manage these categories. 25 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 customer privacy Supplier Evaluation Procedure Global and Site Purchasing Teams, Site asked for corrective actions which are followed Technical Departments, Site Production Teams by GS. QA shares final evaluation results with and Quality Assurance (QA) are responsible GS. GS is responsible to share results with Site for the implementation of Global Supplier Purchasing Leader, Operations Directors, ELT Evaluation Procedure which, defines principles and the Supplier. of Global Supplier Evaluation. Quality Assurance is responsible from the coordination of Global Global Sourcing informs a supplier, if the score Supplier Evaluations. is lower than 60 points. In this case supplier is put on hold by GS in the means of supply. Every year until November, Global Sourcing But if there is no alternative supplier, GS will (GS) defines the suppliers and evaluator sites. demand to the supplier their corrective action Evaluations are performed during the time period and they will follow the results. Supplier which they specify because, due to the nature of the tire system. Our employees’ perception of our declared by GS and QA. Site QA manager we communicate the areas of improvement industry, customer requirements vary according to company’s effectiveness on preserving customer has the responsibility to gather the necessary through a report, should take counteractions their own production know-how and technology. privacy has increased by 4% in 2015. information from relevant persons in import/ according to the evaluation. The counteractions As our main customers are competitors in the purchasing, technical/engineering, warehousing and improvements should be shared with tire industry, it is critical that the productionThe CRM Customer Relationships departments, to fill the evaluation form. GS so that further supply could be available product standards and technical specifications Management program used by all locations under follow up and controlled conditions. This supervises and monitors all customer complaints our customers require are kept confidential. Evaluations are monitored based on a defined procedure is reviewed by GS at least once in online. Kordsa Global has no written policy on This is safeguarded with both the confidentiality scale. Suppliers who score between 60 70 are every two years. customer privacy other than its general policy agreement we sign with our customers, and the fact that the security of this category of within the scope of ISO 27001 standards on information falls under the responsibility of the information security. whole senior management team and all staff in contact with customers. Rules concerning the Since there have not been any confirmed 92% of our employees who responded to the protection of customer privacy are included in complaints concerning violations of customer the code of business ethics signed by all Kordsa privacy or loss of customer data for the last five sustainability assessment survey think that… Global employees. years, Kordsa Global has a good reputation among its customers with regard to confidentiality. Feedback on customer privacy is elicited from Moreover, the fact that we engage in special ‘Joint “The practices, audits as well as employee awarenessour customers through satisfaction surveys Development Projects’ with our customers who raising activities Kordsa Global realizes to ensure and conducted on a regular basis in writing or in faceare major players in the tire market further proves that they consider our company reliable. protect customer privacy are adequate.” to-face settings, and the results are reviewed and evaluated by the senior management as well. In addition to that, customer privacy is also Information security in our company is not only examined in customer audits (external audits) and significant because of our customers, but also As one of our values that support our strategic equal distance to all of them and strive for a “zero quality audits (internal audits), and practices are for our technology and R&D activities. Therefore, initiatives, being ‘customerfocused’ includes not complaints” target in order to make sure they are checked against customer expectations. Kordsa Global has a dedicated IP (Intellectual only offering innovative, accurate and tailor-made satisfied. Property) department. solutions to our customers, but also protecting Complaints concerning any violations of customer the privacy of these solutions. In that context, we At Kordsa Global, we manufacture tailor made privacy and loss of customer data are handled ensure the privacy of our customers, and keep an products for our customers with the properties through the customer complaints management 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 social performance At Kordsa Global we act in full awareness of our responsibility to our people and the society in compliance with our Code of Business Ethics, and we are care about the traditions and cultures of countries we operate in. Diversity in human resources and sensitivity on human rights make up the foundation of our strong corporate culture. Kordsa Global Human Resources 1st Place Investing in People Category Sabancı Holding Golden Collar Awards 2015 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 labor practices and human rights management 80% of our employees who responded to the sustainability assessment survey think that… “The communication channels for employees to share their ideas and opinions with the management at Kordsa Global are adequate.” At Kordsa Global, we view our 3,745 people workforce, The average employee tenure across Kordsa Global including subcontractors, in seven countries across plants is close to 12 years. In Turkey, the figure is over five continents as an integral part of achieving our 10 years. Our 3.4% employee turnover rate in 2014 strategic goals, and implement human resources became 3.6% in 2015. Detailed data on employee practices with a global strategy. turnover for all our plants can be found in the social performance tables. Employment and Diversity Our Human Resources Department is in charge of We provide overseas assignments to ensure the creating and executing our global strategy of diversity. personal development of employees, defined as We undertake activities such as recruitment and ‘talents’, and to develop a common culture across all placement, wages and fringe benefits, performance Kordsa Global plants. There are 11 ex-pat employees management, organization and human resources working on long term assignments at Kordsa Global’s review and succession planning, leadership and plants overseas as of 2015. employee development, overseas assignments, strategic operations related to the organizational climate and similar processes in line with the sustainability and business targets of our company. We organize various activities to expedite the orientation of our new recruits, and to promote relations with their coworkers, managers and the upper management. Some of these activities are: breakfasts with operations directors, a welcome gathering once a year to bring together the upper management and new recruits, roundtable meetings with the CEO and ELT, to get employees’ opinions and feedback, whitecollar / blue-collar interaction meetings, and actions from focus group discussions following the employee engagement survey. 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 labor practices and human rights management 81% of our employees who responded to the sustainability assessment survey think that… “Kordsa Global’s recruitment, placement, and remuneration practices are adequate to guarantee employee diversity and gender equality.” All Stars At Kordsa Global, successful projects, employees who take part in these projects, and high performing organizations (country -plant) are rewarded globally each year under ’All Star Awards’ scheme since Equal Opportunity and Equal evaluate applications and make job interviews. Our 2006. Remuneration for Women and Men employees’ perception of our company on creating At Kordsa Global, one of the first companies to equal opportunities increased by %8 in 2015. We pay utmost attention to implement a fair, inspiring Kordsa Global Investing in People recognition and rewarding strategy since we know Golden Collar Awards provide an equal working environment for men and At Kordsa Global, besides the fair working it is critical to retain the skilled, talented employees women, we mainstream equality from recruitment environment for hiring, working, and career planning at all levels. All Stars is a Global Recognition and Golden Collar Awards has been organized since to retirement. We support our approach with the for women, we also offer private health insurance Rewarding practice run by Global HR on top of 2009 to reward successful employees and principles contained in international initiatives. that covers childbirth, and lactation rooms for their Local Recognition and Rewarding processes companies of Sabancı Group and to encourage convenience in Izmit plant and Sabancı Center. A managed by each county’s HR teams. best practice sharing among companies. Kordsa Global is signatory to the Equality at Work Declaration announced to the business world by the total of 70 employees from all plants, eight of which were women, who earned maternity leave during the Each employee is encouraged to participate with Kordsa Global which had received honourable Platform’s CoChair Ms. Güler Sabancı, the Chairman reporting period used their leaves fully and one of the any project of her taste. The process starts at the mention in 2014, won the first prize for Investing in and Managing Director of Sabancı Holding, under the female and 62 of male employees returned to work at end of each year. After evaluation by judging team, People category in 2015. This category rewards the auspices of United Nations Women’s Empowerment Kordsa Global for at least another 12 months. ELT reviews the results. Submission of projects company with the best performance in preparing Principles and the Ministry of Family and Social and evaluation take approximately two months. and managing the human resource of the company Policies. Through www.isteesitlikplatformu.gov.tr All employees are invited to awards ceremony that by anticipating the present and future needs. The www.weprinciples.org platforms we support work takes place in the following year. companies in this category are investigated in to fight against gender inequalities, encourage women’s participation to change the otherwise maleLocation Number of Employes two dimensions: process and result. The process Last year, 124 thousand US dollars rewarding dimension for the priority processes of the Sabancı dominant business life, empower women in decisionis encountered with a 30 thousand Euros Group is evaluated by the maturity model created making mechanisms, and ensure that women enjoy South America 405 organizational budget. In 2014, 750 individuals by the project team; and the result dimension is opportunities and resources equally. participated in the scheme with different projects. evaluated by the performance indicators. North America 301 With its regularly reviewed Disciplinary Procedures, All Stars is very popular across all of our premises By evaluating performance indicators such as Kordsa Global Turkey also meets the requirements Asia 1,562 due to its engaging and encouraging scheme. turnover rate of high-potential employees, the of Article 25 of the Labor Law. The disciplinary In the last two years, the award ceremony was results of employee workplace assessment survey procedures and ethical procedures are integral in our Europe 1,233 broadcasted live through video conference which loyalty index, resign ratio and ratio of management company. We practice absolute equality in recruitment elevated the excitement and engagement by positions fulfilment internally, Kordsa Global received and placement based on our recruitment and everyone at each country. the first prize among all Sabancı Group companies. placement procedure. We do not make discriminatory Africa 244 job postings, and we prioritize women when we 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 labor practices and human rights management We do not accept discrimination in our business relations on the basis of language, race, gender, political views, philosophical beliefs, religions, sects or other similar attributes, real or perceived disability, and other legally protected attributes. Employees who feel or suspect a 83% of our employees who responded to the violation of our Fair Working Environment Policy, which is a part of our Global Ethics Code, must notify their line sustainability assessment survey think that… managers, other managers, the Local Code of Ethics Consultant, the Global Code of Ethics Consultant, or the Ethics Committee. We have not received any complaints about discrimination from our employees in 2015. “Kordsa Global’s policies, trainings and audits on As there has been no such incident, we aim to maintain human rights in its locations are adequate.” the current situation of a respectful, healthy and safe working environment for employees in conformity with all relevant laws and regulations, and to boost employee achievement, development and engagement. Protection of Human Rights strictly prohibited across all Kordsa Global locations. Hiring Working Career Planning At Kordsa Global, our approach towards our Like all our employees, our security staff is also people is honest and fair, and we commit to a nontrained on code of ethics including our human rights discriminative, safe and healthy working environment policies upon recruitment. Human rights risks and We strictly implement our We do not compromise for all. We make sure our people enjoy their employee complaints in the company are audited both internally non-discriminatory code of ethics and externally by third parties. We have not received We do not the principle of equality in rights fully and properly, and we invest in their personal education and development. We respect their work-life balance, and any complaints about human rights violation from our discriminate in the employees at any of our locations, in 2015. hiring process development support the volunteer work they do for appropriate We provide social causes acting with social responsibility. In regular training on ethics order to maintain these tenets in a rapidly changing The number of employees under any type of social and economic context, we adopted the ethical collective agreement increased from 578 to 589 in principles of Sabancı Holding, a principal shareholder Turkey, from 732 to 770 in Indonesia, and 328 to 357 We employ the principle of of Kordsa Global, and we train our people about our in Brazil. Our employees in USA, Germany, Egypt, We run an ethics survey each year equality in code of ethics which includes principles on human Thailand and China are not unionized. Kordsa Global career planning rights protection so that they can exercise their rights supports freedom of association and there have been We do not post We take measures based on our and responsibilities within this framework. no incidence in violation of the rights for freedom of association in 2015. Our activities do not bear any discriminatory disciplinary procedures apparent risk concerning these issues. announcements Kordsa Global Code of Business Ethics is our company’s guiding policy for human and employment We warrant rights. The policy is valid for all Kordsa Global With designated lactation rooms, equality in our locations, companies and suppliers. UNGC’s first two Non-Discrimination lockers, and restrooms for women, we performance system principles, signed by Kordsa Global, are concerning Kordsa Global is an equal opportunity employer. provide a proper working environment human rights protection. The UN Global Compact At Kordsa Global, our priority is to maintain a fair labor principles come from The ILO Declaration working environment for our people. We make on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. sure that employment practices including but not We do not ask female candidates if they plan to We respect work-life balance We employ the principle of Additionally, Kordsa Global’s employment and labor limited to recruitment, placement, promotions, practices are in compliance with all applicable laws marry or equality in the transfers, rotations, cancellation of employment assignment of employees and regulations in countries it operates. contracts, dismissals, leaves, wages, extra payments, have children We provide equal pay for to new positions social rights, and training are carried out in a nonequal work In line with our Code of Business Ethics and company discriminatory way based on our human resources policies, forced or involuntary labor and child labor are policies. 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 training and education Talent Management at Kordsa Global Kordsa Global offers various talent management and life long learning programs to improve competencies of employees in the talent pool 71% of our employees who responded to the and to facilitate long-term employability. Alongside internal global development programs, trainings, sustainability assessment survey think that… and mentorship, we also provide financial support to our employees for MA/MB, PhD, and certification programs they wish to attend depending on the type and institution of training as laid down in our “Kordsa Global’s personal development and training Keep procedures. programs for its employees are adequate.” (Kordsa E-Learning & Global Development Programs: There are three different levels of development programs available Empowerment Platform) to develop employees in the talent pool. These are trainings organized by Sabancı Holding, and are Since 2010, KEEP (Kordsa E-Learning & as follows: Generation Next for specialist/engineer Empowerment Platform) serves as an easily level; Leadership Fundamentals for middle-level accessible and individualized training program management; and, SALT Sabancı Leadership Team Human Resources Department at Kordsa Global Among the tools and platforms, we use as feedback tailored to our company, and to cascade the technical for upper-level management. Global Development uses many different resources and practices to align to improve our training and development processes expertise of the world leader in the industry to all Programs focus on developing technical expertise training and education activities, to bring a uniform are the employee engagement survey, training our employees in a more efficient, quicker and timeand leadership; and are carried out by the Global perspective alongside local requirements and needs, assessment results, post-training development effective manner. All employees with a corporate Human Resources Department. Employees from and to support employees’ attainment of career goals evaluations, trainer feedback, and performance e-mail address can access the e-learning sessions different countries and of different levels join these as they perform their duties safely and effectively evaluations. delivered over the KEEP system in local languages programs, held on global scale, depending on their across all plants of our company. on various categories anytime they want, in or area of expertise and needs. The total hours in training increased by 9% reaching outside company premises, on all our locations. Our Training and Development Policy, the related 192,439 hours in the reporting period. The majority of Mentorship: Starting in 2014, we completed procedures to identify and measure the effectiveness training was career development with 67%. Our employees can join personal development, our activities to extend the mentorship system of training standards, training needs and targets, and technical development, corporate integrity, and practiced in the Turkey plant to other countries. We all relevant forms are available on the global intranet Detailed information about training can be found in other development trainings over the KEEP system, implemented the first ‘Global Mentorship Program’ accessible to all employees. Moreover, we inform the social performance tables. as well as managing their training plans, apply for with ‘mentees’ as specialists/engineers and newly our employees on the training and development classroom trainings, and suggest new trainings. appointed managers, and ‘mentors’ as upper level management processes at ‘Meet with HR’ sessions Breakdown of Trainings As the classroom training-planning module has managers in 2014. In 2015 we expanded the program and regularly share our new practices using different been designed to run over the KEEP system, so as to include more participants. The mentorship tools. 1% employees can manage all training development program implemented across all Sabancı Holding activities over the system in a ‘self-service’ mode. companies also accepts as ‘mentees’ Kordsa One hundred percent of Kordsa Global employees 12% We regularly share all updates and notices with our Global talents at specialist/engineer or managerundergo performance and career development employees since the launch of the system through level. evaluations. Although the principal training and e-mails, videos, and posters hung up in our plants, screensavers, intranet announcements, and various Training: Employees in the talent pool are welcome development process-owner is the Human Resources Department, every employee at Kordsa Global is in 20% rewarding activities. to join all trainings organized by our company that cover their personal, technical or functional charge of his/her own development process. As we put greater weight on classroom training in needs. Requests for training may be lodged by the reporting period, which we believe to be more the employee him/herself, his/her line manager, We use performance and competency evaluation 67% effective, 753 hours of KEEP training was delivered or the Human Resources Department. Besides results, employee development and career plans, in 2015 with 28% increase since 2014. internal training programs, we also encourage our and similar resources to identify employees’ training employees to take part in development programs needs and devise training plans; and we always organized by Sabancı Holding for specialist/ consider company needs and legal requirements engineer level such as the Young Sabancı program besides employees’ individual requests. Career Development Personal Development or Group Mentorship program. Health and Safety Other 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 occupational health and safety SHE Completed Completed Process 2015 Training Hours Risk Analysis Hazard Analyses Turkey 14 20 3 90% of our employees who responded to the Egypt 8 2 1 sustainability assessment survey think that… Thailand 15 4 1 USA-Chattanooga 30 6 2 “At Kordsa Global, the measures taken to oversee and USA-Laurel Hill 14 2 1 secure occupational safety and employee health are Germany 10 2 2 adequate.” Indonesia 16 121 4 Brazil 20 2 2 Health and safety of our employees comes first among Performance Evaluation System. Occupational safety Management-Worker Health and Safety Committees our company’s strategic sustainability priorities. The performance evaluation criteria for the blue-collars common and only goal of all our people, locations are found in the Performance Management System. Name of Definition Legal Participants and departments in charge of occupational safety is to Mechanisms used to monitor the effectiveness of Committee Status attain zero occupational accidents and diseases. the company’s management approach are internal Emergency occupational safety inspections, external ISO 14001 Response Organized for all shifts in the plant. Legal Blue-collar employees We implement “The 10 Golden Rules of Occupational and OHSAS 18001 Management Systems certification Team Safety” we identified to prevent employee injuries and audits, insurer audits, second-party occupational diseases across all our plants. There has not been safety ınspections across companies of Kordsa Global, Energy Monitors energy use and ISO 50001; prepares energy White-collar employees, and Legal any occupational disease or fatal accidents in any of and performance benchmarks between our plants. Committee reports and manages energy savings projects. Maintenance Manager as Chair our plants or subcontractors before and during the We issue monthly global OHS reports to communicate Electrical Lays down all rules and standards on electricity reporting period. our performance. Company Mostly white-collar, but also blueSafety hazard in the plant; makes inspections and delivers initiative collar members Committee training. In addition to the Occupational Health, Occupational Kordsa Global plants, due to a specific occupational Safety and Environmental Safety Policies approved hazard, there has been no increase in the frequency Process Carries out activities and inspections for explosions, Company by our CEO and in force since 2001 at Kordsa Global of accidents or illnesses. Nevertheless, employees Safety fires, leaks and occupational accidents that may arise initiative White-collar employees Turkey, the Kordsa Global Commitment to SHE Safety working in areas where hazardous chemicals are Management from the production process. Have annual targets. Health Environment published in 2008 and updated used are subject to periodic medical screening at the Official meeting of the representatives of the employer Employer representatives, union yearly is applicable across all Kordsa Global plants. Occupational Diseases Hospital depending on the OHS and employees. All legal decisions are made on this Legal representatives, managers, These policies and commitments are associated with chemicals in question and the working conditions. Committee committee. subcontractor representatives the OHSAS 18001 Management System Standard. Medical screening is done annually, in order to identify Meets to improve SHE (Safety Health Environment) early on the potential effects of chemicals. There is no SHE All department managers and performance, disseminate SHE culture, manage Company All employees are responsible for their own and their employee at Kordsa Global, who has been diagnosed Management representatives, and Operations improvement and development activities, and review initiative fellow employees’ occupational safety. It is the CEO with an occupational disease through medical Committee Director as Chair performance. and the Vice-President in charge of Operations, who screening. In charge of identifying hazards wherever chemicals bear the responsibility for occupational safety on Hazardous are used, conducting risk analyses, maintaining Company behalf of the management. It is the Global SHE (Safety We have Management-Worker Health and Safety Chemicals White and blue-collar employees signage in proper condition, and providing training on initiative Health Environment) Manager, who is responsible for Committees in all our facilities with the same operating Committee chemical hazards. coordination. It is the Operations Directors and people structure. The total workforce represented in these Established to encourage blue-collar employees’ in charge of SHE at the plant-level who bear these committees is 10.8%. Data on the OHS performance SHE Star participation. Holds simple inspections and instructive Company Participants from all units. Enables responsibilities in the plants. of the entire plants can be found in the social Team sessions in the field. Joins occupational safety initiative communication in the workplace. performance tables. Globally we are executing two equipment trials in the field. Occupational safety targets range from strategic to projects on OHS; Safety Experience Center and Safety individual, and are evaluated by the Kordsa Global Dipping Machine. 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 occupational health and safety Improving Safety Culture in Safety Experience Center Kordsa Global In 2013 we initiated the project named “Improving As SHE department, we established Safety Safety Culture in Kordsa Global” with the objectives Experience Center in our Indonesia facility between August and November 2015. This project is aligned of enabling the Management Commitment to make with our Total Production Management (TPM) Project feel in all Kordsa Global plants among all employees, that we launched globally. Safety Experience Center improving the performance of plants to achieve is series of training simulators, that is developed to 100% incident-free and safe work environment and make people “experience” the accidents and “feel” its aftermath when it occurs. At the end of training, building a sustainable Global SHE Management every member will be assessed and evaluated for infrastructure based on technical expertise. their understanding. When expected understanding has not been achieved, the member will need to be SHE Network Team established performance retrained. Our aim is to train 1,200 people in two years in order to achieve our injury-free days and indicators in order to follow and recognize the as a result create indirect economic impact for our progress in safety performance and also defined company due to reduced lost days. best achievable free injury hours to have 100% Thai Indo Kordsa Reached its incident-free and safe work environment. Training simulators include; Target of Completing 2 Million 1. Reflection Room (Maze or Labyrinth) As a result of the project, best achievable free Hours of Work Without an Accident! 2. Fire Emergency Evacuation injury hours are as the following: 3. Behavior Oriented Safety (BOS) After accomplishing their target of reaching one Safety Project for Dipping Machines million hours of work with no accidents, Kordsa • In Turkey plant reached 1,964,071 hours with The safety project for dipping machines initiated to 4. Rotating Machine and Working with Roll Simulator Global’s Thailand plant reached its second target 1,021 employees, prevent accidents at dipping machines has emerged 5. Confined Space Entry Simulator of completing 2 million hours of work without an as a result of the statistical analysis of occupational 7. Working at Height Simulator accident. There has not been a reported accident • In Egypt plant reached 672,113 hours with 244 accidents, and has become the top priority project 8. Safety Goggles Simulator since the 28th of April, 2014. Employees’ efforts, employees, for occupational safety targets. Our aim is to reduce 9. Working with Chain block and Slings Simulator management’s support, trainings and auditing were all essential contributions to create a safe working occupational accidents and injuries, and to prevent • In Indonesia plant reached 2,258,670 hours with environment and to enhance the performance. 1,179 employees, machine-related accidents. Whereas this project falls Thailand plant’s new goal is to complete 3 million within the scope of EN 12100 Safety of Machinery hours of work without an accident. • In Germany plant reached 213, 250 hours with 82 Standard and other related industrial EN standards, employees, it is entirely voluntary. • In North America Laurel Hill plant reached 312,500 In our Turkey plant we started the pilot risk analysis hours with 117 employees, and the implementation of the project will continue until 2016. We expanded the project scope to • In North America Chattanooga plant reached cover all overseas plants with dipping units as of 500,666 hours with 184 employees, 2015 (Indonesia, Egypt, Thailand, USA, and Brazil). In 2015, we completed risk analyses for all global • In Brazil plant reached 1,252, 333 hours with 405 plants, which will start the installation of mechanical employees. and instrument devices in 2016. 33 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 environmental performance Environmental protection is among the six values underlying the Kordsa Global’s strategy. Our priority in all our activities and investments we carry out is to prevent environmental pollution, reduce energy consumption and emissions, and make efficient use of water, through investing in clean technologies and waste management. Kordsa Global ABC Project Best Environmental Innovative Application 2nd Innovative Sustainability Practices Competition Business Council for Sustainable Development Turkey (SKD) 2015 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 environmental policy 85% of our employees who responded to the sustainability assessment survey think that… “Kordsa Global is a company that protects the environment/natural resources and prevents environmental pollution, from the viewpoint of local communities neighboring its locations.” We have published Kordsa Global Commitment to Stakeholder Engagement on SHE Safety Health Environment in 2008. We update it every year and is applicable across all Kordsa Global Environmental Priorities plants. In 2015 we updated it again and by added our new sustainability aspects, naming it Kordsa Global Our employees, who responded to the sustainability Commitment to SHE and Sustainability. With targets assessment survey, we have conducted in 2015, state such as zero waste and zero emissions, the policy that Kordsa Global must primarily deal with managing contains our commitments on efficient use of energy the following environmental impacts: and natural resources, preservation of biodiversity and combatting climate change. It has been approved • Energy management (reduction of energy by our CEO and is associated with the ISO 14001 consumption, and energy efficiency): 82% Environmental Management Systems Standard. Kordsa Global facilities in Turkey, Egypt and Germany • Wastewater and solid waste management have ISO 14001 certification and we plan to obtain it (reduction of environmental pollution): 88% in Indonesia and Thailand facilities in 2016, US and Brazil facilities in 2017. • Water management (reduction of water consumption and efficiency): 61% At Kordsa Global we carry out our operations and projects with people and nature at the core. Thanks • Reduction of GHG gas emissions (combat climate to this approach, we won many awards in Turkey and change): 44%, and abroad. • Biodiversity conservation: 26%. We conducted Environmental Impact Assessments during the reporting period in Indonesia and in the This year our employees’ perception of neighbor first half of 2016 we plan to conduct one in Turkey. At communities on our company’s sensitivity regarding our Brazil and USA facilities we can not conduct EIAs environmental protection has increased by 9%. because they are located within organized industrial regions. In Izmit facility we invested over USD 170 thousand for environment protection in 2015. 35 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 energy and emissions management at Kordsa Global Turkey plants in the reporting period ran with full capacity we needed more energy for and compared them to baseline 2013 figures. Our more products. In Indonesia, natural gas consumption natural gas and electricity consumption increased as a increased parallel to an increase in dipping. In Kordsa result of production efficiency in our dipping machines Brazil, we did not have a significant increase in energy in Turkey facility. As the facilities in Turkey and Thailand consumption in 2015. 68% of our employees who responded to the sustainability assessment survey think that… Steam & Electricity 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Reductions in Turkey “Kordsa Global’s investments and projects to assure Dipping NY 100 104 98 87 93 energy efficiency are adequate.” Dipping PE 100 120 111 88 89 Energy is one of the main inputs of production. encouraged and cascaded to other Kordsa Global Among Kordsa Global’s strategic goals are achieving plants. Comparisons are made across Kordsa Global energy efficiency, and reducing energy use per ton of plants for energy results and amounts of energy product, alongside other energy saving activities. consumed. Energy efficiency project teams are awarded at recognition events. It is the Operations Director, who approves the Energy Management Policy applicable in all Kordsa Global Kordsa Global plants act in line with the energy sites prepared by the Energy Committee in 2014 in regulations of the country they are located. Whereas accordance with ISO 50001 Energy Management some countries oblige an Energy Management System System. The Policy is reviewed annually along with to be installed, others have not set any legal targets other policies. ISO 50001 Energy Management for energy use or energy efficiency. Owing to the ISO System is only available in Turkey. 50001 Energy Management System certification, Kordsa Global Turkey plants are systematically audited It is the Chief Operating Officer and Energy internally and externally each year. Management System Coordinators, who are in responsible for the management of this area. There To see the data trends in the reduction of energy are corporate strategic targets as well as country, (i.e. electricity, steam, natural gas) consumption plant, unit, and individual targets in this area. The achieved through savings and efficiency initiatives in effective and efficient use of energy is a continuous the reporting period, we calculated reductions in the target. The Chief Operating Officer reviews energy manufacturing processes at individual plants taking efficiency results each month alongside plant-specific 2011 as the base year. The calculation is based on business results. the ISO 50001 Standard. We have achieved 3-27% reductions in 2015 compared with 2011. All related Kordsa Global supports projects for the efficient data can be found in the environmental performance use of energy, and reduction of energy use per unit tables. of production; undertakes to provide the necessary budget, manpower and technology; and inspires To monitor the reductions in the energy required by teams. Projects with proven success and payoff are products, we calculated the energy reduction rates 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 energy and emissions management 65% of our employees who responded to the sustainability assessment survey think that… “Kordsa Global’s initiatives and efforts to monitor and reduce emissions are adequate.” Climate Change giving priority to those that may present the greatest Among Kordsa Global priorities are management and potential risk to health or the environment.” This is reduction of emissions including GHG emissions. the common target of the entire workforce of Kordsa Our goal is to act in compliance with regulations on Global in all departments across all locations. greenhouse gas emissions mainly in Turkey and other Project ABC for Energy Savings different dtex-based observations of average For the first time in 2014 we calculated our greenhouse savings. facilities, and file the necessary reports. gas emissions in Turkey, approved by the Ministry in at Twisting Machines line with the GHG Regulations. We started calculating In order to expand the scope of Project ABC to All our plants act in compliance with legal limits ABC Project is an energy saving project and monitoring our direct emissions in 2015 at cover all 218 twisting machines, we started the and regulations in the countries they operate and whereby the outer yarn (balloon), driven away Indonesia and Thailand facilities. At Kordsa Global, we Project in four other Kordsa plants as of 2015. do not create a significant negative impact. In our by centrifugal force, is drawn with the help of a aim to continue emissions management, monitoring Completion of the project in all Kordsa Global SHE Commitment, we explain our emissionrelated step motor controlled by an additional electronic and measurements, and to make systematic plants is expected to take two to three years, targets under the heading of Goal of Zero Waste and card so that the outer yarn becomes narrower, improvements for emission reduction. making it a medium-term action. Emissions: “We will drive toward zero emissions, resulting in less air friction and elimination of yarn wound around the disc. The average return on investment as three to five years in various sites. The total annual energy ABC is a systematic and permanent energy use savings in Kordsa Global sites is 17,331,800 project. Our aim in the project started in March kWh, which equals to about 11,543 tons of less Energy Reductions in 2014 at Kordsa Global Turkey plants is to obtain CO2. Turkey (kwh/ton product) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 on average 10 20% savings, and we make Average Energy Savings PES Yarn 100 92 83 79 74 TURKEY BRAZIL THAILAND INDONESIA USA 13% 10% 20% 18% 16% 37 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 materials management Project to Reduce Use of Materials As a result of monitoring our performance in the use The reason for the increase in the Salt Ratio at Kordsa of materials and our efficiency efforts, we achieved Global Turkey in 2014 is that there was a planned improvements of 2 to 78% in the use of chemicals and overhaul at our plant, and more salt was used during 73% of our employees who responded to the flake rates at our plants since 2011, our baseline year. the start-up stage. (The Nylon Yarn plant in Turkey The table below shows the percentages of reduction undergoes a planned overhaul for maintenance every sustainability assessment survey think that… in materials and chemicals used at various plants. three years.) Material (Plant) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 “Initiatives and efforts towards raw material efficiency at Kordsa Global are adequate.” Salt Ratio (Kordsa Global Turkey) Line 1 1.22 1.18 1.18 1.22 1.17 Consumption Rate of Chemicals 1.14 1.12 1.11 1.12 1.13 (Kordsa Global Turkey NY Side) Consumption Rate of Chemicals 4.70 1.70 1.00 1.04 (InterKordsa) The selection and use of materials and raw material In addition to these targets, we work on the efficient use Consumption Rate of Chemicals rank among the top indispensable elements of our of materials, producing the same quality product with (Kordsa Brazil) 1.19 1.13 1.15 1.16 1.14 company’s production. Materials and raw material less material, enabling reuse of materials if possible, expenditures constitute about 75% of our total and using, transporting and disposing of materials so Consumption Rate of Chemicals procurement. that their environmental impact is minimized. (Kordsa USALaurel Hill) 1.09 1.06 1.04 1.03 1.03 The way to reach operational excellence, which is Our commitment to manage impacts by the use Flake Rate one of our core strategies at Kordsa Global, involves of materials and raw material is covered under (Kordsa USA Chattanooga) 1.26 1.19 1.18 1.19 1.19 ensuring quality in products and services. Thanks to the continuous improvement heading in the joint the importance we attach to the materials management Commitment for Occupational Safety, Environment system, our systematic approach and our policies, we and Sustainability published by Kordsa Global for all can satisfy our customers and achieve our targets. its facilities. Project to Reuse Paper Tubes The targets we set with regard to materials In addition to the need for financial and human management include improving materials handling resources to realize projects that will help us achieve In this project that we developed for Kordsa Global to contribute to the corporate budget and natural systems, enhancing warehouse organization, these targets, we also have to plan on the development Turkey plants in order to increase the reuse of paper resource savings. Our goal is to reuse 100% of the conducting field audits of the contracts concluded of special software and technological systems to tubes our yarn products are wound around we aim tubes that enter our plants. with suppliers, and improving the system established monitor and review our targets. NY Number of PES Number of for just-in-time delivery of raw materials. Yarn Reused Tubes Savings Yarn Reused Tubes Savings 2013 85,760 51,456 USD 2013 20,000 12,000 USD 2014 28,692 17,215 USD 2014 30,000 18,000 USD 2015 35,467 20,593 USD 2015 34,323 20,594 USD 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 waste management Use of the Recycle Chip Machine According to 67% of our employees who At Kordsa Global Turkey, we make sure that waste accumulated at Nylon 6.6 yarn responded to the sustainability assessment manufacturing plants during the manufacturing process is regenerated into Nylon 6.6 chips to survey think that… be used in engineering plastics industry. We have been using the recycle chip machine for manufacturing since 2013. The idea was selected “Kordsa Global’s efforts to manage waste and among innovative ideas as an R&D project. The wastewater and to prevent environmental pollution are total investment cost of the 400 kg/hr.capacity adequate.” regeneration system project was USD 800,000. Economic and Environmental Impacts and Gains: • Manufacturers of engineering plastics in Turkey now import less Nylon 6.6 raw materials, Disposal, recovery and reuse of wastes, including At Kordsa Global Turkey we recover and use at least and they were able to increase their profitability by decreasing raw material costs. wastewater, arising in Kordsa Global plants as 25% of the water treated at the Wastewater Treatment • We turned Nylon 6.6 yarn waste into a high value-added product, thus increasing its profitability. specified by law are among Kordsa Global’s regular Plant, a priority investment according to feasibility and activities like manufacturing. environmental impact calculations. • We contributed to the preservation of natural resources thanks to the use of recycled Nylon 6.6 raw material. Our Commitment to SHE (Safety, Health, Environment) Mechanisms to ensure efficiency of wastewater • In 2014, recycled 687,628 kg and saved USD 1,582,400. contains targets regarding reduction of waste at its management are Ministry of Environment and • In 2015, recycled 816,331 kg and saved USD 1,632,000. source, reuse or recovery of materials, and proper Urbanization inspections, Kordsa Environment Unit disposal of waste. These are the common targets and Environmental Officer audits in addition to ISO of the entire workforce of Kordsa Global in all 14001 audits, ISO 14001 internal audit, and daily departments across all locations. dumpsite controls. We also make benchmarking studies with other companies of the Sabancı Holding. Project to Reduce Conversion Costs We continuously monitor and have set an improvement Our company’s strategic targets include using The graphs below show the improvements we target for the recovery and reuse of water we consume energy efficiently in production, manufacturing made in three product groups in Turkey, as a result in manufacturing. We follow technological research the same quality product with less raw material of our efforts in the reporting period, the baseline and investment opportunities to take wastewater and chemicals, and curbing production costs by being 2012. recovery even further. reducing the amount of scrap production. Kordsa Global Turkey Other priorities include reduction of hazardous Hazardous Waste (ton) waste, increased recovery rates, and creating reuse Conversion Reduction Rate 2012 2013 2014 2015 opportunities. At least 65% of wastes arising in Kordsa 1,330 Cost Rate Compared to Baseline Global Turkey are either recoverable or re-usable. 1,240 Cord Fabric 100 95.65 92.49 91.49 8.5% In waste management, the responsibility for legal 1,005 compliance and inspection lies with the Operations NY Yarn 100 96.00 94.00 92.00 8% Director, and for implementation and coordination, with the Energy Committee Member and SHE department. Projects on waste management, and improvement PE Yarn 100 88.40 81.15 80.00 20% efforts are the responsibility of all departments. Waste management plans range from strategic to individual, 2013 2014 2015 Calculation of reduction rates is made according to the baseline year 2012. and are evaluated by the Kordsa Global Performance Evaluation System. 39 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 water management 67% of our employees who responded to the sustainability assessment survey think that… “Kordsa Global’s efforts to manage and efficiently use water resources are adequate.” The World Economic Forum (WEF) lists water scarcity targets of the entire workforce of Kordsa Global among its 10 Global Challenges. It gets ever more in all departments across all locations. In water critical to access safe and reliable water resources. management, the responsibility for compliance and Water use is of paramount importance for the inspection lies with the Operations Director. Projects manufacturing processes at Kordsa Global plants and on water management and improvement efforts are auxiliary operations. Water quality, accessibility and the responsibility of all departments. We ensure the preservation of usable water resources are essential efficiency of the water management system through for the sustainability of our work and costs. At Kordsa ISO 14001 Environmental Management System audits Global we monitor how water is used at nine plants by internal and external bodies in Turkey. across five different locations, pay efforts for a more efficient use of water, and encourage industrial reuse From 2013 to 2015 our water withdrawal dropped of treated water. gradually by %7 in 2014 and by 8% in 2015, due to the increase in recycled water use. From 2013 to 2014 our We invest in reducing water consumption, and recycled water usage increased by 16% and dropped increasing the share of wastewater reuse at Kordsa by %6 in 2015. Global Turkey plants. These are the common Wastewater Recovery Project Kordsa Global Turkey Kordsa Global Turkey In the previous year, the amount of treated and Ground Water Withdrawal We decided to reduce water used at Kordsa Global Turkey plant, and to gradually increase reused water was 131,490 m3/year in the Yarn Recycled Water Use 525 the amount of wastewater recovered. Directorate Plant and with the new investment planned in of Maintenance and Energy, and the SHE 2016 with a 50 thousand Euro budget, the total 488.2 the reused amount of waste water will be over Department started the project in 2014 to be 200,000 m3/year. The water produced by the (thousand m3/year) completed in three years. Within the scope of (thousand m3/year) 448.5 166.4 the project, advanced treatment and reverse new RO will be used as make-up water in cooling 156.5 osmosis (RO) systems have been constructed in towers. 143.3 the plant. 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 biodiversity conservation 60% of our employees who responded to the sustainability assessment survey think that… “Kordsa Global’s initiatives to conserve biodiversity in and around its facilities are adequate.” During our first sustainability strategy works at Kordsa the construction of our new plant. The report states Global in 2014, biodiversity has not brought up by any that there are no endangered species under risk of our stakeholders as a priority issue. Nevertheless, as a result of Kordsa Global’s production activities. in 2015 biodiversity risks took place among other new Nevertheless, as all flora and fauna have to be issues as a global sustainability issue. preserved, we moved about 110 trees outside the construction area and planted them in and around the Since our first factory’s establishment in Turkey we facility. We plan to conduct EIAs in other countries of have conducted three EIAs; one in 2006 and two in operation within the coming years. 2010 after capacity increases in our facility. In 2015, we conducted a new EIA as a result of a new production These reports clearly show that as Kordsa Global capacity increase. As the project area is located in an we do not have negative impacts on biodiversity industrial region, the report revealed that it does not and although we did not have to take rapid actions have any negative impacts on the environment. concerning biodiversity, it is our commitment to protect biological diversity, and the sustainable As the new investment, just like the previous projects, use of biological resources as stated in our SHE is not adjacent to any protected areas like national Commitment policy. On the other hand, we also nature and wildlife parks, any water resources and protect and preserve biodiversity by managing our areas of high biodiversity value, we did not need to discharge and waste in all our plants. involve with NGOs or other conservation organizations in developing biodiversity action plans (BAPs) or other Our commitment on reducing environmental impacts biodiversity initiatives in our Izmit facility. also covers our suppliers. The management of environmental risks of suppliers take place under the We have also conducted an EIA in our Indonesia topic Supplier Assessments Management. facility in 2013. The EIA was conducted because of 41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 performance indicators 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 economic performance indicators Economic Value Generated and Distributed Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI Economic Value Generated (Revenues) TRY 1,000 1,626,458 1,811,782 1,873,693 EC1 Economic Value Distributed to Stakeholders Operating expenses TRY 1,000 1,354,901 1,479,798 1,419,689 Employee wages and benefits TRY 1,000 218,452 221,590 253,929 Payments to government TRY 1,000 14,406 10,671 16,164 EC1 Payments to capital providers TRY 1,000 0 0 60,615 Community investments TRY 1,000 59 5,150 6,942 Retained economic value (profit) TRY 1,000 38,640 94,573 116,354 Financial Subsidies Received from Government Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI Turquality TRY 1,000 1,795 1,693 1,041 Tax relief/credits TRY 1,000 0 24,073 8,381 EC4 Incentives TRY 1,000 20,645 25,326 17,335 43 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 social performance indicators WORKFORCE By Gender Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI People 3,328 3,336 3,336 By Employment Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI Men Ratio 88.77% 88.98% 89.08% White-collar Women People 211 206 208 LA12 People 421 413 409 Women White-collar Men People 573 529 530 Ratio 11.23% 11.02% 10,92% Blue-collar Women People 210 207 201 G4-10 By Other Groups Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI Women 0 1 0 Blue-collar Men People 2,755 2,807 2,806 Ratio 0.00% 0.03% 0,00% Expats TOTAL People 3,749 3,749 3,745 Men 15 15 11 By Location Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI Ratio 0.41% 0.41% 0.30% LA12 Turkey Women People 79 87 105 Women 1 2 1 Turkey Men People 979 1,034 1,046 Ratio 0.03% 0.05% 0.03% Persons with disabilities IndonesiaWomen People 67 66 65 Men 30 32 33 Ratio 0.80% 0.85% 0.88% Indonesia Men People 928 1,086 1,114 By Management Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI Thailand Women People 115 111 112 Women 1 2 1 Thailand Men People 260 262 267 Ratio 0.03% 0.05% 0.03% Egypt Women People 1 4 4 Executives (ELT) Men 5 5 9 Egypt Men People 287 244 240 Ratio 0.13% 0.13% 0.24% BrazilWomen People 31 33 36 Women 3 4 4 G4-10 Brazil Men People 364 365 369 Ratio 0.08% 0.11% 0.11% USA Women People 93 90 71 Director Men 22 20 12 USA Men People 288 276 230 Ratio 0.59% 0,53% 0.32% Germany Women People 20 19 13 Women 20 24 29 Germany Men People 78 68 69 Ratio 0.53% 0.64% 0.77% Manager China Women People 4 3 3 Men 83 78 102 China Men People 2 1 1 Ratio 2.21% 2.08% 2.72% Argentina Women People 11 0 0 Women 91 94 101 Argentina Men People 142 0 0 Ratio 2.43% 2.51% 2.69% Engineer & Specialist LA12 By Age Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI Men 214 216 210 Women 54 51 59 Ratio 5.71% 5.76% 5.60% Women 4 4 7 Ratio 1.44% 1.36% 1.58% 30 years and below Ratio 0.11% 0.11% 0.19% Men 593 840 837 Supervisor & Technician Men 125 113 131 Ratio 15.82% 22.41% 22.35% Ratio 3.33% 3.01% 3.49% Women 364 263 278 Women 92 79 76 Ratio %9.71 7.02% 7.04% 30 50 years LA12 Ratio 2.45% 2.11% 2.03% Men 2,087 2,043 2,042 Officer (White-collar) Men 110 114 81 Ratio 55.67% 54.49% 54.52% Ratio 2.93% 3.04% 2.16% Women 103 73 72 Women 206 198 191 Ratio 2.75% 1.95 % 1.92% Ratio 5.49% 5.28% 5.09% 50 years and above Operator Men 548 479 457 Men 2,773 2,798 2,791 Ratio 14.62% 12.78% 12.68% Ratio 73.97% 74,63% 74.45% 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 social performance indicators WORKFORCE By Age Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI Recruitment and Turnover People 233 403 289 Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI 30 years and below New hires (All of Kordsa Global) Ratio 61.80% 75.75% 54.32% New hires Women People 29 45 27 People 238 178 145 Dismissals Women People 66 44 59 30 years and below Dismissals Ratio 38.45% 42.48% 34.61% New hires Men People 348 487 332 People 119 104 62 Dismissals Men People 553 375 296 LA1 30 50 years New hires Ratio 31.56% 19.55% 11.65% TOTAL Dismissals People 619 419 355 People 245 177 143 LA12 TOTAL New hires People 377 532 359 30 50 years Dismissals Ratio 39.58% 42.24% 34.13% By Location Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI People 25 25 8 People 87 231 198 50 years and above New hires Turkey New hires Ratio 6.63% 4.70% 1.50% Ratio 23.1% 43.4% 37.2% People 136 64 67 People 318 226 197 50 years and above -Dismissals Turkey Dismissals Ratio 21.97% 15.27% 15.99% Ratio 51.4% 53.9% 47.0% By Gender Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI People 104 223 112 Indonesia New hires People 348 487 332 Ratio 27.6% 41.9% 21.1% Men New hires Ratio 92.3% 91.54% 92.48% People 87 65 52 Indonesia Dismissals People 553 375 296 Ratio 14.1% 15.5% 12.4% Men Dismissals Ratio 89.3% 89.50% 83.38% People 42 7 24 LA12 Thailand New hires People 29 45 27 Ratio 11.1% 1.3% 4.5% Women New hires Ratio 7.7% 8.46% 7.52% People 36 17 25 Thailand Dismissals People 66 44 59 Ratio 5.8% 4.1% 6.0% Women Dismissals Ratio 10.7% 10.50% 16.62% People 46 35 3 Egypt New hires Ratio 12.2% 6.6% 0.6% People 45 24 7 Egypt Dismissals Ratio 7.3% 5.7% 1.7% People 52 9 9 LA1 Brazil New hires Ratio 13.8% 1.7% 1.7% People 86 26 7 Brazil Dismissals Ratio 13.9% 6.2% 1.7% People 40 21 11 USANew hires Ratio 10.6% 3.9% 2.1% People 38 41 56 USA Dismissals Ratio 6.1% 9.8% 13.4% People 6 6 2 GermanyNew hires Ratio 1.6% 1.1% 0.4% People 8 18 11 Germany Dismissals Ratio 1.3% 4.3% 2.6% People 0 0 0 China Office New hires Ratio 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% People 1 2 0 China Office Dismissals Ratio 0.2% 0.5% 0.0% 45 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 social performance indicators Turkey Egypt HEALTH AND SAFETY Women Men Women Men Unit 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 GRI Kordsa Global 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.83 0.91 0.73 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.12 0.00 0.43 Accident frequency rate Rate Contractor 0.00 0.00 0.00 2.65 2.23 2.36 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.92 0.00 0.00 Accidents Kordsa Global 0.00 0.00 0.00 4 LWC 4 LWC 9 LWC 0.00 0.00 0.00 2 LWC 0.00 1 LWC Types of accidents Number Contractor 0.00 0.00 0.00 5 MTC 4 MTC 6 MTC 0.00 0.00 0.00 1 LWC 0.00 0.00 LA6 Kordsa Global 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.11 20.84 19.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 16.33 0.00 21.91 Rate of lost day because of accident Rate Contractor 0.00 0.00 0.00 7.96 19.05 7.91 0.00 0.00 0.00 38.93 0.00 0.00 Lost Days Kordsa Global 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 3.1% 2.2% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 4.1% 3.3% 0.0% Absentee rate (Illness) Rate Contractor na na na na na na na na na na na na Unit USA Chattanooga USA Laurel Hill GRI Kordsa Global 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.45 1.26 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.80 0.00 Accident frequency rate Rate Contractor 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 6.61 9.14 0.00 Accidents Kordsa Global 0.00 0.00 0.00 1 MTC 3 LWC 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1 MTC 0.00 Types of accidents Number Contractor 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1 MTC 1 LWC 0.00 LA6 Kordsa Global 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 10.08 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Rate of lost day because of accident Rate Contractor 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 45.68 0.00 Lost Days Kordsa Global 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 1.5% 1.7% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 1.4% 3.9% 0.0% Absentee rate (Illness) Rate Contractor na na na na na na na na na na na na Lost Workday Case (LWC): When the worker cannot return to work the first workday following an occupational accident resulting in injury this is classified as LWC. Medical Treatment Case (MTC): When an accident occurs that require medical treatment and the injured person can return to work the first workday following injury this is classified as MTC. Restricted Workday Case (RWC): When the injured can return to work the first workday after injury, but is asked to work on another task, as he cannot perform his/her regular task due to his/her status this is classified as a RWC. Other Causes: include lactation and maternity leaves, sickness reports, occupational accidents and unpaid leaves. na: Data not available 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 social performance indicators Germany Thailand HEALTH AND SAFETY Women Men Women Men Unit 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 GRI Kordsa Global 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.66 3.83 5.78 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.77 0.73 0.25 Accident frequency rate Rate Contractor 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Accidents 3 LWC 1 LWC Kordsa Global 0.00 0.00 0.00 1 LWC 3 LWC 4 LWC 0.00 0.00 0.00 1 MTC 1 MTC 2 MTC Types of accidents Numbers Contractor 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 LA6 Kordsa Global 0.00 0.00 0.00 25.55 21.72 2.16 0.00 0.00 0.00 33.14 7.30 0.00 Rate of lost day because of accident Rate Contractor 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Lost Days Kordsa Global 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 8.4% 8.3% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 1.0% 1.0% 0.0% Absentee rate (Illness) Rate Contractor na na na na na na na na na na na na Unit Indonesia Brazil GRI Kordsa Global 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.57 0.30 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.24 0.46 0.73 Accident frequency rate Rate Contractor 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.15 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.82 0.00 Accidents 3 LWC 1 LWC 2 RWC Kordsa Global 0.00 0.00 0.00 3 LWC 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1 LWC 1 MTC 1 RWC 1 LWC Types of accidents Number Contractor 0.00 0.00 0.00 na 1 LWC 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1 LWC 0.00 LA6 Kordsa Global 0.00 0.00 0.00 4.87 3.81 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2.52 1.25 Rate of lost day because of accident Rate Contractor 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2.20 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 49.18 0.00 Lost Days Kordsa Global 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 1.4% 1.9% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 1.3% 1.0% 0.0% Absentee rate (Illness) Rate Contractor na na na na na na na na na na na na Lost Workday Case (LWC): When the worker cannot return to work the first workday following an occupational accident resulting in injury this is classified as LWC. Medical Treatment Case (MTC): When an accident occurs that require medical treatment and the injured person can return to work the first workday following injury this is classified as MTC. Restricted Workday Case (RWC): When the injured can return to work the first workday after injury, but is asked to work on another task, as he cannot perform his/her regular task due to his/her status this is classified as a RWC. Other Causes: include lactation and maternity leaves, sickness reports, occupational accidents and unpaid leaves. na: Data not available 47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 social performance indicators TRAINING AND EDUCATION INVESTMENTS By Employee Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI Executives (ELT) Man/Hour 3.0 6.0 13.0 Director Man/Hour 89.5 117.1 97.4 Manager Man/Hour 149.3 67.9 150.1 LA9 Engineer & Specialist & Officer Man/Hour 230.6 173.2 232.0 (White-collar) Supervisor & Technician Man/Hour 145.9 186.5 214.3 Operator Man/Hour 227.2 257.3 250.2 By Gender Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI Men Man/Hour 239.9 255.5 262.7 LA9 Women Man/Hour 98.7 104.4 119.5 MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE Board of Directors and ELT Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI Women Ratio 0.03% 0.05% 0.03% 30 years and below Ratio 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 30 50 years Ratio 0.08% 0.11% 0.11% LA12 50 years and above Ratio 0.08% 0.08% 0.13% Expats Ratio 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Persons with disabilities Ratio 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 48 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 environmental performance indicators MATERIALS Turkey ENERGY MANAGEMENT Primary Raw Materials Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI Direct Energy Consumption Turkey Adipic Acid Ton 14,317 27,051 Non-renewable Direct Energy Sources Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI HMD Ton 13,943 21,225 Chips Ton 25,376 28,262 41,241 TEP 13,128,691 14,715,821 18,101 Natural Gas EN3 Formaldehyde Ton 213 227 254 EN1 GJ 549,672 616,122 757,886 Resorcinol Ton 168 160 152 Indirect Energy Consumption Turkey Ammonia Ton 273 310 340 Secondary Energy Purchased or Consumed from Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI Latex Ton 3,783 3,957 4,357 Non-renewable Energy Sources Renewable Raw Materials and Auxiliary Materials Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI kWh 160,584,000 169,119,000 176,229,000 Electricity TEP 13,808 14,541,616 15,153 Wooden pallets Ton 1,027 897 304 GJ 578,102 608,828 634,434 Stretch wraps Nylon Ton 177 270 188 EN3 kWh 33,582,000 31,264,000 34,110,000 Paper reels Ton 2,712 2,037 2,156 EN2 Steam TEP 2,888 2,688 2,933 Cardboard boxes Ton 670 620 409 Estimated amount of paper reels reused* Ton 1,517 697 233 GJ 120,895 112,550 122,796 * Reels not suitable for use in yarn plants are first sent to fabric plants and then to recycling plants. WATER MANAGEMENT Turkey EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT Total Water Withdrawal and Discharge by Source Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI Greenhouse Gas Emissions Turkey Water (Source: Ground) m3/year 525,000 488,204 448,516 EN8 In compliance with GHG Regulations and Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI approved by the Ministry Water (Source: Municipality) m3/year 25,000 82,246 86,154 EN8 Direct CO2 Emissions t CO2 30.533 36.695 EN15 Total Water Withdrawal Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI Significant Air Emissions Turkey Water m3/year 550,000 570,350 534,670 EN8 By type Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI NOx kg 9.734 3.032 3.032 Recycled Water Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI SOx kg 0.220 0.621 0.621 Water m3/year 143,275 166,440 156,450 EN10 POP kg 0 0 0 EN21 Total Wastewater Discharge Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI VOC kg 0.319 0.904 0.904 HAP kg 0 0 0 Wastewater m3/year 190,500 200,580 267,378 EN22 PM kg 0 0 0 49 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 environmental performance indicators WASTE MANAGEMENT WASTE MANAGEMENT Total Waste Turkey Total Waste Turkey By Disposal Method Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI By Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 GRI Recycling Hazardous Waste Waste bobbin Ton 1,195 1,340 1,328 Accumulator waste Ton 1.98 18.62 0.58 Waste paper Ton 388.1 370 392 Sludge Ton 798.59 964.12 1,026.97 Waste nylon Ton 125 126 136 Fluorescent lamps Ton 2.13 0.96 1.025 Waste wood pallet Ton 761.58 872.6 895 Grease oil Ton 1.28 1 0.376 Waste Iron Ton 202.16 225.79 322 Cable waste Ton 6.32 0 0.74 Waste Alüminnium Ton 6 2.22 0 Carbonisable polymer Ton 10.54 7.4 7.12 Waste plastic Ton 16 22 29 Toner-cartridge Ton 0.77 0.12 0.22 Waste chip Ton 15 28 12.72 Waste condenser Ton 0.22 0 0 Reclamation Chemical laboratory waste Ton 1.23 0.85 1.81 Accumulator waste Ton 1.98 18.62 0.58 EN23 Waste monoetilenglicol Ton 4.03 22.9 11.74 Sludge Ton 798.59 964.12 1,026.97 Battery waste Ton 0.15 0.15 0 Waste oil Ton 4.74 11.8 9.5 Waste oil Ton 4.74 11.8 9.5 Grease oil Ton 1.28 1 0.376 Electrical Electronic Ton 24.45 15.9 10.82 Cable waste Ton 6.32 0 0.74 Waste adibic acid Ton 1.59 2.8 1.68 Carbonisable polymer Ton 10.54 7.4 7.12 Contaminated packaging Ton 84.1 106.97 179.473 Toner-cartridge Ton 0.77 0.12 0.22 EN23 Contaminated waste Ton 63.33 86.73 78.911 Waste condenser Ton 0.22 0 0 Waste monoetilenglicol Ton 4.03 22.9 11.74 TOTAL Ton 1,005 1,240 1,330 Battery waste Ton 0.15 0.15 0 Non-Hazardous Waste Electrical Electronic Ton 24.45 15.9 10.82 Waste bobbin Ton 1,195 1,340 1,328 Waste adibic acid Ton 0.88 2.8 1.68 Waste paper Ton 388.1 370 392 Contaminated packaging Ton 80 106.9 105.99 Waste nylon Ton 125 126 136 Contaminated waste Ton 12.4 86 72.48 Waste wood pallet Ton 761.58 872.6 895 Landfill Waste iron Ton 202.16 225.79 322 Fluorescent lamps Ton 2.1 0.9 1.03 Waste aluminium Ton 6 2.22 0 EN23 Incineration Waste plastic Ton 16 22 29 Isolation insulation materials Ton 15 0.00 3.4 Waste chip Ton 15 28 12.72 Chemical laboratory waste Ton 1.23 0.85 1.81 Isolation Insulation Materials Ton 15 21 3.4 Waste adibic acid Ton 0.7 0 1.68 Contaminated packaging Ton 2.5 1.98 73.48 TOTAL Ton 2,724 3,008 3,118 Contaminated waste Ton 50.9 33.6 6.45 TOTAL WASTE Ton 3,729 4,248 4,448 EN23 Total Disposed Waste Ton 3,729 4,248 4,448 EN23 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 environmental performance indicators WASTE MANAGEMENT WASTE MANAGEMENT Total Waste 2015 Total Waste 2015 By Type Unit Indonesia Thailand GRI By Disposal Method Unit Indonesia Thailand GRI Hazardous Waste Recycling Accumulator waste Ton 2 0 Waste bobbin Ton 1,365 0 EN23 Sludge Ton 155.3 78 Waste wood pallet Ton 101 0 Fluorescent lamps Ton 0 0.05 Reclamation Toner-cartridge Ton 0.4 0 Waste wood pallet Ton 101 0 Chemical laboratory waste Ton 1 1 Accumulator waste Ton 2 0 Battery waste Ton 1 0 EN23 Sludge Ton 155.3 78 Waste oil Ton 10 4 Waste oil Ton 10 4 Electrical electronic Ton 0.8 0 EN23 Toner-cartridge Ton 0.4 0 Contaminated packaging Ton 138 0.73 Battery waste Ton 1 0 Contaminated waste Ton 0 60.6 Electrical electronical Ton 0.8 0 Total Ton 309 144 Contaminated packaging Ton 138 0 Landfil Non-Hazardous Waste Fluorescent lamps Ton 0 0.05 EN23 Waste bobbin Ton 2,163 0 Incineration Waste paper Ton 343 5 EN23 Chemical laboratory waste Ton 1 1 Waste wood pallet Ton 101.9 0 Contaminated packaging Ton 138 0.73 EN23 Total Ton 2,608 5 Contaminated waste Ton 116 60.6 Total Waste Ton 2,916 149 EN23 Total Disposed Ton 2,130 143 EN23 51 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 environmental performance indicators Energy Consumption Reduction 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 The rates of energy savings as a result of efficiency initiatives broken down into manufacturing processes Dipping NY TR and plants are give in the following table, with 2011 as NG (kwh/ton product) 100 86 71 74 78 the base year. Other (Steam & Electricity) 100 104 98 87 93 Dipping PE TR NG (kwh/ton product) 100 99 92 90 93 Other (Steam & Electricity) 100 120 111 88 89 Dipping LH USA NG (kwh/ton product) 100 100 98 90 78 Other (Steam & Electricity) 100 93 99 92 92 Dipping CA BR NG (kwh/ton product) 100 93 96 93 95 Other (Steam & Electricity) 100 93 99 92 96 Dipping Indo K IN NG (kwh/ton product) 100 91 85 88 92 Other (Steam & Electricity) 100 102 95 92 79 Dipping TIK THAI NG (kwh/ton product) 100 118 73 80 81 Other (Steam & Electricity) 100 157 97 88 73 NY Yarn TR Energy (kwh/ton product) 100 92 84 98 109 NY Yarn CH USA Energy (kwh/ton product) 100 93 78 86 83 PES Yarn TR Energy (kwh/ton product) 100 92 83 79 74 PES Yarn CA BR Energy (kwh/ton product) 100 82 83 82 83 PES Yarn Indo K IN Energy (kwh/ton product) 100 105 98 93 97 52 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 annexes AWARDS NAME AWARD INSTITUTION Economic İTKİB Platinum Award Istanbul Textile and Apparel Exporter Association Export Champions Bronze Award Turkish Exporters Assembly Most Effective 50 CFO Mrs. Arzu Ergene Fortune Turkey Environmental Energy Efficiency in Industries Award Republic of Turkey Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources Environmentalist of the Year Cenk Alper Kocaeli Newspaper Social ETİKA Turkey’s Most Ethical Companies EDMER İstanbul Internal Audit Awareness Award The Institute of Internal Auditors (TİDE) Kal-Der Excellence Delegate Turkish Quality Association Sustainability Report Award LACP Vision Awards Chemicals Industry Golden Award League of American Communications Professionals (LACP) Sustainability Report Award LACP Vision Awards Materials Industry Golden Award League of American Communications Professionals (LACP) Sabancı Golden Collar Awards Investing in People Category First Prize Sabancı Holding 3rd Place at Best Employee Competition Yogo Bayu Aji Pardini West Java Province PT Indo Kordsa Safety Workplace Ministry of Labour Thai Indo Kordsa Innovation Best R&D Centre of Turkey General Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Best R&D Centre of Turkey Textile Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Best Environmental Innovative Application Award Business Council of Sustainable Development Turkey (SKD) Innovation Strategy Champion InnovaLeague Turkish Exporters Assembly Doç Dr. Süha Atamer Award İbrahim Yıldırım ODTÜ Chemical Engineering Department Sabancı Golden Collar Awards Synergy Category First Prize Sabancı Holding Sabancı Golden Collar Awards Innovation Category First Prize Sabancı Holding 53 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 annexes MEMBERSHIPS MEMBERSHIPS TURKEY INDONESIA ACC Legal Consultants Association The Employers’ Association of Indonesia (APINDO) Composite Industry Association HIPERKIBRA Association of Companies Surrounding Branta Mulia DEİK Foreign Economic Relations Board Indonesian Public Listed Companies Association EFQM European Foundation for Quality Management THAILAND Equality at Work Platform Thai Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) Importer & Exporter Association IMA Institute of Management Accountants The Federation of Thai Industries (FTI) İSMMMO Istanbul Chamber of Certified Public Accountants The Thai National Shippers’ Council (TNSC) İTKİB The General Secretariat of Istanbul Textile & Apparel Exporter's Associations Department of Foreign Trade, Ministry of Commerce (DFT) İTHİB Turkish Textile Employer's Associations Ayutthaya Personnel Management Group KALDER Quality Association BRAZIL Kocaeli Chamber of Industry Brazilian Human Resources Association (ABRH) Kocaeli Chamber of Commerce Industrial Foment Committee of Camaçari COFIC LES Turkey Technology and License Executives Society FIEB/CIEB PERYÖN Personnel Management Association of Turkey Brazilian Association of Producers of Artificial Synthetic Fibers (ABRAFAS) TBCSD Turkish Business Council of Sustainable Development American Chamber of Commerce TİDE The Institute of Internal Auditors USA TKYD Corporate Governance Association of Turkey AFMA American Fibers Manufacturers Association TTSİS Turkish Textile Industry Employers’ Union ISIFM International Society of Industrial Fabric Manufacturers TÜBİYAD Finance and IT Executives Association Turkish American Coalition TÜRMOB Turkish Chamber of Certified Public Accountants Tennessee Chamber of Commerce TÜSİAD Turkish Industry & Businessmen Association UN Global Compact 54 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 annexes UN Global Compact Principles Kordsa Global is a member of UN Global Human Rights Labor Standards Environment Anti-corruption Compact. Global Compact is an innovative Principle 1: Principle 3: Principle 7: Principle 10: corporate responsibility initiative that lays Businesses should support and respect Businesses should uphold the freedom of Businesses should support a precautionary Businesses should work against corruption down universal principles to establish a common culture of development for the protection of internationally proclaimed association and the effective recognition of approach to environmental challenges; in all its forms, including extortion and businesses in constant competition. Being human rights; and the right to collective bargaining; bribery. party to Global Compact is voluntary. Its Principle 8: vision is “Sustainable and inclusive global Principle 2: Principle 4: undertake initiatives to promote greater economy.” make sure that they are not complicit in the elimination of all forms of forced and environmental responsibility; and human rights abuses. compulsory labor; While enhancing their economic gains Principle 9: in the medium term, companies who are Principle 5: encourage the development and diffusion parties to the UN Global Compact enjoy the effective abolition of child labor; and of environmentally friendly technologies. the prestige and pride that comes from fulfilling their social responsibilities in the Principle 6: most mindful and useful way in the shorter the elimination of discrimination in respect term. of employment and occupation. IFC Sustainability Standards IFC IFC Performance Standard Relevant Section in our Report Pages Compatibility Index Environmental Performance IFC Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability PS 1 Assessment and Management of Energy and Emissions Management 36-37 Environmental and Social Risks and Impacts These are performance standards prepared by the Energy Management 36 International Finance Corporation (IFC) to manage PS 3 Resource Efficiency and Pollution Prevention environmental and social risks and impacts of any project Waste Management 39 from the investment phase to the launch of operations via an Environmental and Social Management System. Our Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable IFC Standards Compatibility Index regarding the strategic PS 6 Water Management 40 Management of Living Natural Resources issues discussed in detail in our report can be found in the table below: Social Performance PS 2 Labor and Working Conditions Occupational Health and Safety 32 PS 4 Community Health, Safety, and Security Supplier Assessments 26 PS 5 Land Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement As our plants are established and operating in industrial zones, these PS 7 Indigenous Peoples impacts are not among our priority issues. PS 8 Cultural Heritage 55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 GRI G4 content index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 (Stakeholders engaged) Page 13 G4-25 (Identification of stakeholders) Page 12 G4-26 (Engagement methods and frequency) Pages 12 and 13 G4-27 (Key topics of stakeholders) Pages 12 and 14 REPORT PROFILE GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-28 (Reporting period) Page 2 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-29 (Previous report) Page 2 G4-1 (CEO Letter) Pages 3 4 G4-30 (Reporting cycle) Page 2 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-31 (Contact point) Page 57 G4-3 (Organization name) Page 9 G4-32 (GRI Info) Page 56 G4-4 (Brands, products and services) Pages 7 8 G4-33 (External assurance) Not externally assured. G4-5 (Location) Page 57 GOVERNANCE G4-6 (Countries) Page 57 G4-34 (Governance structure) Page 18 G4-7 (Legal form) Incorporation G4-8 (Markets) Pages 7 8 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-9 (Scale) Page 6 Material Aspects DMA and Indicators Exclusion G4-10 (Employee profile) Pages 44 45 Economic Performance Pages 21 25 None G4-11 (Collective bargaining) Page 30 Customer Privacy Page 26 None G4-12 (Supply chain) Pages 25 26 Materials Pages 38 and 49 None G4-13 (Changes) Page 9 Energy and Emissions Pages 36 and 49 None G4-14 (Precautionary approach) Pages 35 41 Effluents and Waste Pages 39, 50 and 51 None G4-15 (External principles) Page 55 Water Pages 40 and 49 None G4-16 (Memberships) Page 54 Biodiversity Page 41 None IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Employment Pages 28 and 45 None G4-17 (Entities reported) Pages 2 and 57 Training and Education Pages 31 and 48 None G4-18 (Process of aspect boundaries) Page 14 Occupational Health and Safety Pages 32 33 and 46 47 None G4-19 (Material aspects) Pages 11 and 14 Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Page 29 None G4-20 (Aspect boundaries within) Page 15 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Page 30 None G4-21 (Aspect boundaries outside) Page 15 Non-Discrimination Page 30 None G4-22 (Restatements) Management approaches are restated. Compliance Page 19 None G4-23 (Changes in scope and boundaries) Page 15 Anti-Corruption Page 20 None 56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 contacts HEAD OFFICE EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST and ASIA PACIFIC NORTH AMERICA SOUTH AMERICA Contact Information for the Report: AFRICA Sabancı Center Kule 2, Kat: 17 Indonesia USA Brazil Yoga Mardiansyah 34330 4.Levent Beşiktaş / Istanbul Turkey PT Indo Kordsa Tbk PT Indo Chattanooga Kordsa Inc. Kordsa Brazil S.A. Global HSE and Sustainability Manager P. +90 212 385 86 57 Kordsa Global Endüstriyel İplik ve Kordsa Polyester 4501 North Access Road Rua Eteno, No 3832 Polo Yoga.Mardiansyah@kordsaglobal.com F. +90 212 282 00 12 Kord Bezi Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Jl. Pahlawan, Desa Karang Asem Chattanooga, Industrial de Camaçari Camacari, Nevra Aydoğan Alikahya Fatih Mahallesi Sanayi Timur, Citeureup, Bogor 16810 TN 37415-9990 Bahia/Brazil Brand and Corporate Caddesi No:90 41310 Izmit / Kocaeli P. +62 21 875 21 15 P. + 1 423 643 8300 GSM: 42810-000 Communication Leader P. +90 262 316 70 00 F. +62 21 875 39 27 F. + 1 423 643 2726 P. + 55 71 2104-4500 Nevra.Aydogan@kordsaglobal.com F. +90 262 316 70 70 F. + 55 71 2104-4701 Thailand USA Sustainability and Germany Thai Indo Kordsa Co. Ltd. Laurel Hill Kordsa Inc. Reporting Consultant Interkordsa GmbH Am Alten Rojana Industrial Park, 1/61 Moo 5 17780 Armstrong Road SERCOM Consulting Bahndamn 7, 99974 Mühlhausen Khanham Subdistrict, Uthai District Laurel Hill, NC 28351 Elif Özkul Gökmen P. +49 3601 884 0 Ayutthaya 13210 P. + 1 910 462 2051 elif@sercomconsulting.com F. +49 3601 884 123 P. +66 35 330 221 to 9 F. + 1 910 462 5040 P. +90 533 648 07 40 F. +66 35 330 230 Egypt Design Nile Kordsa for Industrial Fabrics China T2 Tasarım Industrial Area B1 10th of Ramadan Sales and Marketing Office Tarkan Erbek City P.O. Box 549 Room 1103 A Pacheer Commercial tarkan@t2tasarim.com P. +20 15 364 592 Center 555 Nanjing West Road, P. +90 532 424 21 54 F. +20 15 367 081 200041 Shanghai P. + 86 021 62555910 F. + 86 021 62555911 (G4-17) DISCLAIMER The information and analyses contained in the KORDSA GLOBAL sustainability report The company, its managers, employees, and other persons and organizations who Our report is prepared in digital environment and is not printed. (hereinafter “report”) have been compiled from resources and information deemed as contributed to the drafting of this report cannot be held responsible for the damages accurate and reliable within the timeframe the report was prepared for informative that may arise from the use of the information contained herein. purposes only, and not to be used as a basis for any investment decision. All rights of this report belong to KORDSA GLOBAL. 57 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 www.kordsaglobal.com
