SUTEKS TEKSTİL GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 Message From The President Dear Stakeholders, It is with great pleasure to present to you all our first annual sustainability report. Although this is our first Communication on Progress on implementation of the CONTENTS: universal principles of the UN Global Compact we have been particularly active in the area of social development, human rights and gender equality in particular, going back as early as 1990. As SUTEKS Group we are committed to advancing our positive impact and diminishing our negative timpact in the area of Human Rights, Gender Equality, Labor Rights, Environment, Anti-corruption at our core •Message from The President• business level and through our supply chain through our daily operations, corporate strategies and policies and company culture. •About SUTEKS• Gender Equality has been and will continue to be the cornerstone of our •Vision-Mission-Values• company foundation. This year, we played an active role in the global •Our History• consultations in the lead up to the launch of the Sustainable Development Goals and will continue to work hard to reach these global targets. In particular, we find •Our Team and Governance • that we are well positioned to continue to play an active role on advocating for the attainment of Sustainable Development Goal 5 on Gender Equality. SUTEKS •Principles• Group can make transformative changes in the labour intensive sector and serve as an example to other SMEs -the backbone of the global economy on the •Human Rights (Principle 1-2)• corporate up taking of the related targets. •Labour (Principle 3-6)• It is with great pleasure to also share with you intention to play an even more so active role on the scaling and taking-up of the UN Women’s Empowerment •Environment (Principle 7-9)• Principles within my voluntary and honorary role as Business Advocate. My company, SUTEKS Group is one of the first SMEs globally to join the initiative and •Anti-Corruption (Principle 10)• has made a voluntary financial commitment to the UN WEPs Secretariat over the next three years from a proceed of sales from our brand BRAEZ and Selçuki&Ali. We intend to share this report with all our stakeholders within our commitment on public disclosure. We welcome your input and comments to this report NUR GER Founder –President Our Mission & Vision •Satisfaction of Stakeholders and Customers •Perfection in Production Quality •Achievement of Ultimate & Sustainable Gender Equality In Workplace •Commitment to the UN Global Compact & Women’s Empowerment Principles About SUTEKS Our Values SUTEKS is an Istanbul based high-end international fashion producer founded in 1986 that is working mainly with partners in Belgium, Denmark, France, Netherlands, Sweden and the U.S.A through boutique chains, designers, brands and fashion •Value given to the human-beings retailers. Founded by prominent business executive and gender equality advocate Ms. Nur Ger, the company has established a •Creativity customer base of very well known brands around the world annually. SUTEKS is also the first medium sized company in Turkey •Teamwork to join the Women’s Empowerment Principles (2012) and was awarded by the Turkish Ministry of Labor and Social Security as •Professionalism a best practice in the category of ”Gender Equality in Work Life” the subsequent year. In 2013, as the Founder and President of •Reliability SUTEKS, Ms. Ger received an honor roll designation by the WEPs Leadership Group. The company continues to grow based on •Transparency notion to exceed the dreams of the clients, customers, collaborators, investors and employees while never compromising core •Sustainability values and ethics based on the pillars of humanity, creativity, teamwork, professionalism and reliability. Furthermore, given the labor intensive aspect of the fashion industry, SUTEKS has integrated labor and human rights policies in it’s core business and is committed to advance the up-taking of the principles around the world. SUTEKS group has two brands under its umbrella; BRAEZ and Selçuki&Ali Selçuki&Ali turns fibre art into products of unique fashion and living space with its modernist production methods. 100% handcraft works made from natural fibers that are turned into nature friendly designs with the charmed touch of Selcuki&Ali. The brand has adopted the notion of the green and slow fashion movement and has achieved timeless elegance with its personal and environment-specific solutions. Launched in 1998 in Amsterdam, Netherlands, BRAEZ is an international confection brand, known for its collections consisting of the best natural colored fabrics in its industry. The brand provides comfort, freedom and elegance at all hours of the day, almost integrating with its customers' body with the clothes formed from lightweight fabrics. It meets up with fashion lovers particularly in the Netherlands, Switzerland, Greece, Spain, Sweden, Norway, Germany, Australia and USA markets. Our History 1986 SUTEKS was established by Ms. Nur Ger, producing and exporting knitted garments. Nur Ger's mother Mrs. Sevim Ger has been the biggest inspiration since its foundation.. 1989 Present-day main facility in Istanbul Kağıthane was purchased. Our Team and Governance 1997 We re-strategized and re-launched the company as a ready-made manufacturer in the high-level fashion field Our Group has a non-hierarchical structure where employees work as a team. Our employees make up our 2004 management team and makes all the strategic decisions together in which Ms.Nur GER’s support as the team’s We began to add very thin and sophisticated woven goods into its production, alongside with its specialization in weaving and coach. emerge into one of the most important companies in the industry. Integrating and personalizing universal values have achieved quality and perfection throughout our business life. 2009 Furthermore, Gender Equality has formed the basis our Group as a continuation of Human Resources management. We expanded our presence in European and US markets with our private special design collections. SUTEKS’ modus operandi has track record of success and would set a model for other companies. 2012 SUTEKS We were awarded by the Turkish Ministry of Labor and Social Security as a best practice in the category of “Social Gender Equality in Work Life”. TEAMS 2013 Our Founder and President, Ms. Nur Ger receives an honour roll designation by the UN WEPs Leadership Group. 2015 SUTEKS TEKSTİL SUTEKS With the incorporation of the Selçuki&Ali brand that transforms traditional handcrafts into tailor-made wearable art and living BOARD OF DIRECTORS COMMITTEES space specific to the environment and the Netherlands based readymade brand BRAEZ, the SUTEKS Group is formed. 2016 Due to her active involvement in women’s empowerment, Ms. Ger has been appointed as the Business Spokesperson of WEPs SUTEKS between 2016-2018. WORKING GROUPS SUTEKS Human Rights (Principle 1-2) WORKING GROUPS SUTEKS COMMITTEES Companies plan a vital and integral role in supporting and respecting the protection of Human Rights. We are aware and have policies in tact to protect and observe our contributions to human rights. At SUTEKS Group, we go beyond ensuring that we are not complicit in human rights abuses through the monitoring and evaluation of our operations at all activity levels. As a major supplier to high-end brands and boutique designers, our clients expect us to provide our goods and services with exceptional quality while also measuring all our social development, environmental and corporate governance associated risks and opportunities. We undergo continuous social compliance audits by our clients who expect us to carry out a risk assessment of potential areas SUTEKS TEAMS of human rights abuses. The safeguarding of human rights is imbedded in our corporate DNA, culture and working environment. Over the decades, we have witnessed the transformation on the expectations by business to business and by civil society to business on ensuring this safeguarding and rather than a burden, we have found this as an opportunity for our company to trade responsibly and ethically in international markets across a broad range of countries and regions with very different and complex environments. Our early engagement and compliance accordingly enabled us to sustain a comparative advantage over the years to other producers and countries. The Ten Principles We understand the shared value and co-creation potential of participating in sector-wide as well as non-sector business initiatives. We are considered a one of the pioneers in the textiles industry in Turkey with regards to our organization, contributions and participations in nation-wide efforts. In regards to international efforts, we recently began to utilize innovative Human Rights monitoring tools such as the HIGG 2.0 index that has enabled us to manage this risks and opportunities in a more compreBusinesses should: hensive manner. • Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards Businesses should uphold: • Principle 3: the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. Environment Businesses should: • Principle 7: support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Furthermore, we also play an active voluntary role in supporting and respecting the protection of international proclaimed At the global value chain level, we recently launched our “Responsible and Ethical Trading” Code of human rights. In particular, we have been a major advocate of achieving Gender Equality and broader sustainable developConduct and supporting Corporate Policy Statement that we developed based on the Ethical Trading ment goals. Since our inception, we have engaged closely with civil society organizations and our president Nur Ger as an Initiative (ETI). Here, we included a separate and additional article on non-discrimination as well as active member of various CSOs, is a role model for both our company, the textile industry and for the women entrepreneurs in gender equality. Essentially, rather than a separate Human Rights policy, we have consciously included it Turkey. We actively collaborate with several civil society organizations, some of which are TÜSİAD, TÜRKONFED, KAGİDER, in our Responsible and Ethical Trading corporate policy and statement instead because we want to TESEV, Haklı Kadın Platformu. continue to play an active advocacy role. We also engage closely with international non-governmental organizational level initiatives such as the UN Women’s Next year, we are hoping to begin a series of roundtable meetings and trainings with our main business Empowerment Principles (UN WEPs). We are one of the first SME signatories globally and the first in Turkey to the UN WEPs, a partners and suppliers to ensure that they are also in compliance with our Code of Conduct. We joint initiative of UN Women and the UN Global Compact. We understand the role that such enterprises can take in promoting understand the cultural, social and economical complexities of Turkish enterprises, especially family the empowerment of women in the workplace, marketplace and community at the core business level within the value chain owned SMEs as well as micro-enterprises and are committed to voluntarily inviting our business of the apparel industry. Beyond serving as a leading good-case example domestically, we bring added value to major global partners to join our efforts as we continue in our sustainability journey. Our ultimate aim is to ensure brands and designers whom we supply to because we are conscious of our potential gender equality impact. The textiles and that our suppliers and partners also uphold universal principles, but rather then forcing this adoption apparel industry is human labor intensive and impacts directly the quality of life of employees and their immediate household upon them, we seek to create a channel for mutual experience sharing and capacity development. members. Beyond ensuring safe working conditions and equal pay for equal work, we continuously invest in our employees Moreoever, we are a leading example on gender equality engagement with other groups within our through professional, vocational as well as non-formal educational trainings and empower them to develop themselves. We sphere of influence such as industry and trade unions, local communities, customers as well as have a strict non-discriminative policy and dedication for supplying equal opportunities. We respect the fundamental human government and society more broadly. rights of our employees, suppliers and partners and ensure that there are systems and mechanism in place for open commuAt SUTEKS Group, we understand that a strong commitment to human rights from senior leaders is a nication and dialogue. We also provide discounted and pro-bono access to legal services to all our employees to ensure that pre-requisite for embedding human rights into a company’s operations and activities. In addition to the they are aware of relevant laws and regulations. Founder and President, Ms. Nur Ger’s leadership on achieving Gender Equality, we have an “Employee We understand that a corporate policy statement sets our direction and gives the overall goals for a company in a certain area Management Committee” , “ Quality Management Systems Committee” and an “Ethics Counsel” in of activity. We uphold our commitment publically through our “Human Resources and Employee Management” and “Ethical which any human rights related issues and matters can be raised directly. Management” corporate policies for which we provide training on to all our employees in their on-boarding period. We are in We ensure all employees are paid fairly and in industry standards. We ensure that all employees work in continuous consultations with all our employees during this phase and request their input on any changes in these main safe and sanitary work conditions with minimum health risks. All employees receive a private health policies. Should any changes be made, we discuss these matters from the on-set in our weekly management meetings before insurance plan along with the national social security plan. We have policies and trainings to avoid a proposal is made to a Board Member. We included a reference and statement of support to upholding the UN Declaration of workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, Human Rights within our “Human Resources and Employee Management” corporate policy. abuse or threats. The decision-making structures as well as complaint boxes create the necessary whistle-blowing channels for reporting human rights concerns or seeking advice and follow-up mechanisms. We have made the necessary initial investments such as sourcing the necessary expertise from outside the Group. In 2014, we hired an independent management consultant to conduct a corporate policies and processes needs assessment. In 2015, we conducted a Human Rights training to members of our Social Compliance and Corporate Sustainability Committee by an independent expert. Through a “train the trainers” model, members of the committee than trained the entire staff. Beginning of 2016 all our employees received training on “labor laws and legislations”. Next year, we will continue to improve processes and ensure that necessary corporate procedures exist and are communicated accordingly. Our Employee Management Committee monitors that a checks-and-balances system is in place to ensure consistency with human rights commitments and obligations. Social compliance audits also ensure that we continuously monitor and improve our processes. The benefits package involve a private health insurance plan and a sharing of the SUTEKS’s In 2015; annual profit. The Profit Sharing System is outlined in our policies and communicated to Total number of employees: 49 all the employees in quarterly SUTEKS Number of Women employees: 23 Management Meetings, which all company employees participate. All decisions regarding Number of Male Employees: 26 the work place and working regulations are taken with the employees’ participation. Total number of Female employees received training : 23 Training is of high importance in SUTEKS Total number of Male employees received : 26 company culture. Our employees are given Workers received training: 8 regular trainings on health and safety, legal laws and legislations, human rights, Total Nr of training hours for workers: 136 hrs anti-harassment and team building. We ensure Total Nr of training hours for employees :336 hrs Labour (Principle 3-6) our employees receive necessary practice and guidance to improve their knowledge and Total number of hours for female: 23 x 75 hrs =1,725 hrs capacities, stay coherent with the industry We support fundamental labor principles and the decent work framework in our company and in all countries we work with. standards and have a chance to develop their Total number of hours for male: 26 x 75 hrs = 1,950 hrs Our core policy upholding the labor principles can be found in the “Human Resources and Employee Management” corporate skills. Trainings such as health and safety, legal legislations, human rights and trainings policy which all employees are required to read, receive an orientation training on and sign during their on-boarding. Subject of trainings: (in hours) related to job requirements and performance As specified in our Ethical and Responsible Trading Corporate Policy and Code of Conduct, the equal and fair treatment of our are exclusively funded by SUTEKS. For other Effective communication: 14 employees and that of our business partners is central to our existence. It also ensures no forms of forced and compulsory trainings regarding personal development, labor occurs. SUTEKS compensates a significant amount Import-Export: 16 that is necessary. Basics of Textile: 42 Our dedicated Employee Management Committee meets monthly and is responsible for raising and addressing any concerns or recommendations from our employees. This Committee works closely with the Sustainability Committee. SUTEKS HR Policies state the amount SUTEKS Resilience: 3 As per ILO’s adoption of Convention No. 182 in 1999 consolidated the global consensus on child labor elimination and as per would compensate and employees are our Ethical Code of Conduct, in no way we allow child labor. We have clear policy in place to ensure that it doesn’t happen and encouraged to take this opportunity and 75 hours of trainings in 2015 a policy that guides us to act in the best interests of the child if it should. develop their skills as part of company’s life long learning approach. Especially for English We respect and support freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, though we currently do not have any language learning courses, SUTEKS commits In 2016 we are going to enhance these numbers, adding employees that are members to any union. We associate this fact with our ability to firstly provide a pro-employee to covering 90% of training costs and favors more variety in our corporate trainings, ever empowering women employees. environment where views can be vetted and secondly due to our attractive numeration and benefits package. our team with the necessary tools. SUTEKS is committed to sustainable textile industry and in minimizing the impact of its activities on the environment. We This includes vigilance in purchasing, using and storing chemicals, necessary information and regulatory awareness. On this understand the importance in reducing the environmental footprint of textile products both for the sustainability of our business we follow the lead of our customer, H&M, for following and updating ourselves with the current regulations and lists of and for the future of our planet. We are committed to making constant improvements in this continuous road to sustaining our hazardous chemicals. resources. We measure our electric, water, natural gas consumptions on regular basis. We declare these measurements through the Our environment policy actively promotes recycling both internally and amongst our customers and suppliers. In our supply chain HIGG Index each year to our customers and try to improve these numbers annually. We also have our three main production we pay special attention to the impact on the environment and communicate it thoroughly with our suppliers. units track their energy consumptions and follow the same reporting procedure, making sure we install a value chain approach in our environmental policies. We comply with all relevant environmental laws and legislations and follow international legal frameworks for guidance on improvements. In SUTEKS, we source and promote a product range, taking the environmental impact into account, of both Our offices have been undergoing renovations We have made and are making necessary changes to decrease our energy production and distribution. We are willing to reduce our negative impact to the environment and are vigilante in our operations. consumption such as LED lighting systems, inverter Moreover, in accordance with our customers, we have in place policies and due diligence measures that will enable us to We pay special importance to recycling in our offices, making sure our environmental commitment exceeds our production reasonably assure that products and components supplied to us contain conflict minerals that are Democratic Republic of Congo processes and is followed in all areas. Starting from 2016 we started tracking the amount we recycle in our offices. In (DRC) conflict free. The mining of these minerals and the metals created by them, such as tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold, has following years we plan to organize trainings on environmental impact, delivering our environment commitment to all our been partially co-opted by militant groups which are reported to engage in human rights abuses to mine these materials and use employees. the proceeds to finance armed conflict in the region. In our supply chain, we prefer local suppliers as to support the local community and lower our carbon footprint related to Our environmental policy also includes the use of hazardous chemicals in sense of Best Chemical Management Practice. To avoid logistics. Both on an employee level and in company logistics, we plan our business in a manner to avoid excessive travelling the use of hazardous chemicals in production and minimize their adverse impact to our environment, we implement a chemical and transportation. We understand that each effort in attaining a low carbon footprint is vital for sustainability. management system in our operations. Anti-Corruption (Principle 10) We refrain from and commit to work against all forms of corruption within our direct and indirect areas influence. We have a zero tolerance policy, which is stated in our Code of Conduct. Approved by our Board, after an extensive consultation with our entire team that conducted an expansive review of the Ethical Trading Initiative’s Base Code (ETI Base Code), our Code of Conduct provides the foundation for which we remain more committed than ever to be a responsible company with the highest standards of ethics in the global fashion and apparel industry. As a high-quality producer company, we realize that our impact goes far beyond our core business operations and that we can also play an integral role in raising the capacity of our own suppliers and their subcontractors in advancing universal principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. Given that SUTEKS is an established, well-known and respected enterprise, we realize that by leading by example and leveraging our broad network, we can spur collective action not only in the domestic textile industry which is Turkey’s second largest sector but in the broader context as well. We have extensive know-how on the sector and a deep understanding of the dynamics of the international trade systems and global value chains. In important emerging markets like Turkey, the SUTEKS Group is a rare gem that has voluntarily committed to working with smaller suppliers. As a flagship SME, we pride ourselves in pioneering such efforts. Our Code of Conduct outlines the requirements we place on all our suppliers and their subcontractors for which we expect them to work toward full compliance with the Code in its entirety. We plan to fully disseminate this information to our subcontractors over the coming years and employ a value chain approach. We also pay special attention that our employees understand and learn about our Code of Conduct starting from their orientation trainings. Our Code of Conduct covers the nine areas of the ETI base code, with the addition of the following; Legal Work Authorization, Environment and Ethics. Moreover as one of the first signatories of the Women Empowerment Principles in Turkey, we commit to enforce these principles in all our affairs. We have established Ethics Council and an ethics complaint mechanism. We also have suggestion boxes. As such, employees can raise any concerns or blow the whistle through of any channels. SUTEKS has never been involved in or received any indication of being involved in corrupt activities. CONTACT Kemerburgaz Street No : 16 34406 Kağıthane İstanbul / TURKEY +90 (212) 294 0909 (Pbx) General Inquiry: info@suteks.com.tr For sustainability and social compliance: sosyaluygunluk@suteks.com.tr For UN WEPs: unweps@suteks.com.tr
