Sustainability When it comes to the implementation of strategy, policy and every other aspect of our operations, one factor is at the heart of everything we do: corporate social responsibility. 1 Business ethics Strict compliance with ethical principles Anti-corruption We communicate openly with internal and external stakeholders, The anti-bribery guidelines are a vital component in our efforts to informing them of our commitment to moral and ethical principles stamp out corruption in any form. The international nature of our in every aspect and at every level of our business. We support the operations inevitably means that we are present in certain countries policies and principles set out by the UN Global Compact, which where corruption is rife, so it is vital that we provide our people unites us with other companies prepared to align their operations with clear, objective instructions on how to deal with corruption and strategies with universally accepted principles on human rights, should they be confronted with it. In 2015 u-blox was not affected labor, the environment and corruption. We report yearly on progress by investigations or legal procedures relating to corruption or made in implementing the ten principles. The Communication on human rights. Progress (COP) can be viewed at www.unglobalcompact.com. Insider trading Overarching Code of Conduct u-blox has implemented a policy for all employees prohibiting the Our employees come from widely differing backgrounds. Such trade with u-blox shares in case of insider knowledge of facts diversity makes the importance of a set of common values even which could have an impact on the share price if they were more important. Our Code of Conduct is based on the UN Global publicly known. Under the policy, employees are prohibited from Compact and, together with other related information, can be trading with u-blox shares in case of insider know-how. found on the corporate intranet in seven languages. It clearly defines the standards, business ethics and behavior we expect Political organizations of our employees and others acting on our behalf. In 2015, we No political parties enjoy funding or subsidies from u-blox. initiated an e-learning course on our Code of Conduct and Antibribery Guidelines, which employees are obliged to take every year. Strict confidentiality and data protection As part of its compliance with all relevant data protection legislation, u-blox makes every effort to ensure that its employees’ personal data is treated in the strictest confidence. 2 Employees The keyword in u-blox's recruitment policy is diversity. We can We gather feedback on employee satisfaction through annual maintain our strong position only by employing the very best performance review meetings. Performance and compensation are people at locations all over the world. At the end of 2015, we had assessed using both Group and individual targets. Every other year, 750 employees, 25.2% of them at Thalwil headquarters in we also conduct a detailed employee satisfaction survey. The next Switzerland. The remaining 74.8% were employed at 14 R&D one is scheduled for 2016. centers and 15 sales and marketing offices around the globe. Our expanding market activities necessitated an increase in the number u-blox has a set of guidelines relating to compensation and of employees from 117 to 140 FTEs in sales, marketing and promotion that are based on clearly defined individual and support. R&D saw numbers grow from 428 to 509, while Logistics corporate goals. Assessments of employee performance are carried and Administration FTEs increased from 69 to 87. out once a year. u-blox's reputation as an attractive employer is well known and the company is regularly cited as one of u-blox: creating a place people want to work Switzerland’s top 100 employers. Staff turnover in 2015 stood at Our ambitious growth and development plans call for the best 8.7% (2014 8.6%). people. u-blox is prepared to find and, more importantly, to retain them. We have a vested interest in fostering a culture that Life and work: getting the balance right encourages employees to develop their professional and leadership The quality of our employees’ lives is all-important to their skills. We have an annual appraisal process that helps our well-being. We actively strive to achieve this balance by offering employees define and stay on track towards their personal goals, flexible working hours and specially tailored work/ pay/ vacation and our policy of filling vacant management posts with our own programs. Our people are also entitled to a sabbatical after five people opens up attractive promotion prospects. Last year, our years’ employment with the company. Interactive, real-time internal salaries and social benefits spend amounted to CHF 59.0 million communications are accessible to employees worldwide and the (compared with CHF 48.0 million in 2014). workforce receives regular updates on the state of the company. Despite a fair and non-discriminatory employment policy, u-blox's workforce at the end of 2015 comprised 13.7% women (2014: 14.6%). There are no women in Executive Management and the Performance indicators 2014 2015 Board of Directors comprises one woman and six men. The main Total headcount (end of the year) 625 750 reason for the discrepancy lies in the predominance within the Jobs created 80 126 company of engineering positions, for which only a relatively small Women in overall workforce 14.6% 13.7% pool of women is suitably qualified. Recruitment potential is thus limited. In non-product functions like logistics, administration, HR, Part-time employees 7.2% 7.3% etc, the ratio of women exceeds 70%. We support various activities Fluctuation 8.9% 8.7% to attract women to engineering education at high school level. Employees per region (end of 2015, FTE based) Employees per function (end of 2015, FTE based) APAC Logistics, admin 20% (148) 12% (87) Americas 7% (53) Switzerland 25% (185) Sales, Research & marketing, development 69% (509) support 19% (140) Rest of EMEA 48% (350) Sustainability | Page 45 3 Community u-blox has a presence in many countries around the globe. One of A busy October for San Diego our main concerns is to demonstrate our commitment to the u-blox employees in San Diego were involved in two separate regions where we have commercial interests by giving something volunteer and corporate events to help local people. One group back. We harness the human, financial and technical resources at teamed up with Ronald McDonald House Charities to provide a our disposal to make significant, tangible changes that makes home-cooked meal for more than 150 seriously ill children and communities stronger and less dependent. As in previous years, we their family members. A few days later, employees represented the have continued to support health and educational programs, but in company in the 2015 Bike the Coast century ride (100 miles, to 2015 extended our range to support employees who are involved be precise) that took them along Highway 101 from Oceanside to in charity work as a means of eliminating some of the problems Del Mar. facing the people in the communities to which they belong. A global effort for children at Christmas Doing our best to ease the refugee crisis Unlike their more fortunate counterparts, thousands of financially In a concrete push to support the Slovenian Red Cross in its efforts disadvantaged children and orphans worldwide do not receive gifts to handle the thousands of refugees straining its resources, u-blox's at Christmas. To alleviate the problem, u-blox ran a global campaign office in Italy organized a donation and clothing collection. With embracing Italy, Greece, Singapore, Korea, Sweden, Pakistan and winter approaching, refugees were in dire need of suitable Switzerland that encouraged employees to donate Christmas garments to keep out the cold. Our colleagues quickly collected presents such as toys, games and food for distribution to children in funds and used clothing, and participated at a second-hand winter need. Site managers gave employees precise information about local market. projects, specifying the organization(s) receiving assistance and the kind of gifts that could be donated. Thanks to our people, scores of An employee summer event with a difference children around the world got a surprise visit from Santa Claus for In 2015, u-blox's team in Greece organized their annual summer Christmas 2015. event at the community home run by the Smile of the Child welfare organization. As their way of contributing, our people in Greece donated the money they had saved for their summer event, contributed money out of their own pockets and gave personal gifts, mainly books, to the children. Donating presents to children in need in Pakistan Employee summer event in Greece Page 56 | Sustainability Page 46 | Sustainability 4 Supply chain responsibility 5 Environment Ensuring the safety of the supply chain Taking responsibility for the world we live in Since initiating its Sustainable Supplier Program in 2012, u-blox has As part of its efforts to ensure effective control of our environment spared no effort to maximize the safety of working conditions in and sustainability objectives, u-blox works closely with key contract the supply chain, ensure that workers worldwide are treated with manufacturers and suppliers to tighten up and improve an already respect and consideration, and minimize the impact of its operations impressive set of measures. We expect the same exacting on the environment. u-blox's in-house program is based on the sustainability standards from all our suppliers as we impose on Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct, ourselves. Over the years, we have closely supervised potentially which applies to labor and human rights, health and safety, harmful materials used at all stages of the manufacturing cycle. environmental factors, ethics and management systems. The Conflict minerals from any source are absolutely prohibited. We sustainable auditing of our supply chain is done internally. Each year liaise closely with our partners to identify the provenance of all the we inspect a subset of chosen suppliers’ factories. In 2015 we metals used in our products and to ensure that tantalum, tin, defined improvement actions together with suppliers. No evidence tungsten and gold come from acceptable sources. was found that made a formal audit necessary. As a fabless semiconductor company, we insist that all our key manufacturing partners comply fully with legal, industrial and customer-specific environmental requirements. Ensuring that these standards are met and maintained is a complex and laborious process. We therefore make ongoing efforts to improve the collection and storage of all essential data while monitoring compliance. Carbon dioxide emissions Our contribution to reducing CO2 emission starts at headquarters in Thalwil and manifests itself the entire way along the value-added chain and in our products. In Switzerland, we cover the cost of our employees’ journeys to and from work by public transport, thus discouraging the use of their own vehicles. We have taken further steps to reduce our CO2 footprint by introducing a videoconferencing system at all our major offices worldwide, thus reducing the need for employees to travel to meetings. And we have a manufacturing model that lowers our own CO2 output by outsourcing production to third-party manufacturing partners with ISO 14001 certification. In compliance with our strict environmental requirements, they too have their own CO2-reduction programs in place. Finally, the actual products we make can lead to a significant reduction in CO2 emissions. Sensors used in vending machines, for example, eliminate unnecessary journeys to replenish stocks. In cars and trucks, they cut fuel use and emissions by calculating the shortest and quickest routes from A to B. Used by utility companies, they remove the need for visits to read meters. Sensor-activated street lighting systems massively cut the power bill for municipalities. Every day, new ways of using our products contribute to this global effort. employees | Page 57 SustainabilitySustainability 53 Sustainability | Page 47
