Corporate responsibility report 2015/16 Overview This sustainability report aims to inform stakeholders of Danish Crown about our sustainability performance in a transparent and accountable manner. T hrough this report, we also hope to identify op­ Reporting process portunities for improvement to our sustainability Danish Crown's Group Executive Board directs the prepara­ management, as well as issues that are integral tion of the report. The Board endorses the contents of the to our business in order to address them effectively and report, supported by a strategic CSR Group Steering Com­ appropriately. Together with relevant partners within the mittee. Information for this report is collected from various supply chain, we hope to explore ways to improve sustaina­ departments and business units, which are required to bility across all aspects of our operations. confirm the accuracy and authenticity of their data through documentary evidence or past operational performance. Reporting period We aim to improve on this process continually to ensure Danish Crown's Corporate Responsibility Report is published that our data collection is effective and robust. in November on an annual basis. This report covers the fi­nan­ cial year 2015/16 from 1 October 2015 to 30 September 2016. Feedback The previous report was published in November 2015. Our stakeholders' views are important to us and we welcome feedback on this report and any aspect of our Reporting scope sustainability performance. The information and figures in this report refer to Danish Crown A/S and all subsidiaries. Danish Crown is a limited Please address all feedback to: company but is owned by the cooperative company 'Leve­ sustainability@danishcrown.com randørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA' which has an elected management consisting of cooperative members. 2 — Overview Overview — 3 Contents Throughout our report for 2015/16 you will find various case studies highlighting best practice contributions throughout our operations. Message from our Group CEO 6 Danish Crown – this is how we create value 8 How CSR relates to our business 12 Our material issues 14 Year at a glance 16 Responsible business 18 People 22 Communities 28 Responsible agriculture 34 Environment 40 Products 48 Index of Global Compact Principles 53 Contents — 5 Message from our I'm passionate about innovation and sharing Group CEO knowledge to work in an integrated way – T he Danish Crown Group is a global meat-processing I'm passionate about innovation and sharing knowledge to it's great to see company and among the largest in its field. As such work in an integrated way – it's great to see our function­ we recognise the impact of our global activities – al experts working together on projects to help address our functional on the animals in our care, on our own workforce, on the issues in our supply chain together; understanding human environment and on the communities in which we operate, rights risks in our global supply chain, developing products and we recognise our responsibility for seeking to make with improved health impacts, innovating to reduce energy experts working that impact positive. As a farmer owned cooperative, we are constantly reminded of our obligations and respon­ and water use in factory, and designing new packaging concepts that help reduce food waste for the consumer. together on sibility towards our surroundings; a responsibility which is underlined by our position as one of the largest meat-­ Overall, we are pleased—but not satisfied—with our pro­ projects to help processing businesses in the world. gress and the milestones we have reached. We acknowl­ edge that there are opportunities for improvement in address issues in We are making improvements towards our overall corpo­ the years to come and we are ensuring we have the right rate responsibility ambitions in each of our business units. building blocks in place to manage our responsibilities our supply chain . Different areas of our business are at different stages of across the group. their sustainability journey. However, we recognise that focusing on the output from our factories alone is not Our new group strategy 4WD has recently been launched enough to address key sustainability issues in our supply and we will ensure that our sustainability strategy is aligned chain. In this regard I'm pleased to report that we are work­ and integrated with this, to embed sustainability deeply — Jais Valeur ing hard to manage our wider impacts in the supply chain. with our business. Danish Crown will continue to support the UN Global Compact and we are committed to aligning To help embed this approach, we have taken the decision the ten basic principles of the Global Compact to our group to move away from centrally set targets to a more inclusive strategy. This report serves as our annual communication on model, whereby a central expert steering group sets the progress and underlines our commitment to transparency direction and each business unit defines its own specific when it comes to sustainability. actions and targets to improve their operations, in line with group policy. We have decided to operate in this way to As we keep moving forward, we welcome your input and ensure local ownership from all parts of the business. look forward to hearing from you. Randers, Denmark, November 2016 Jais Valeur Group CEO 6 — Direktørens beretning CEO Letter — 6 Message from our Group CEO — 7 Danish Crown Business units – this is how we create value Supervisory Board AmbA Audit Committee Danish Crown is an international meat-processing company with a leading market position in northern Europe and global sales. Supervisory Board A/S Nomination/Renumeration Committee We are a cooperatively held company owned by 7,600 Danish pig When relevant and cattle suppliers, who also supply our raw materials. Executive management Local Supervisory B Board Board y always listening to our customers and understan­ We are Europe's largest pork business, one of the world's ding their needs – and through organic growth, largest pork exporters, Denmark's largest beef business, exports, mergers and acquisitions – we have, since Europe's largest supplier of organic meat, Europe's largest the first cooperative slaughterhouse was established in meat-processing company and the leading global supplier 1887, achieved a unique position. of natural casings. Local Supervisory Boards DATTulip Plum Danish Crown is a market leader in Denmark, Sweden, By constantly focusing on consumers and on what makes Beef Pork KLS Tulip FC Sokolow Other Bussiness Schaub Ltd -rose Poland and the UK, has significant exports to China and a good culinary experience, we create maximum value Japan – and has market access to a total of 136 countries. for our owners and our future. This is what we mean by Senior Management Group Dansk landbrug – kød i verdensklasse , meaning Danish ESSAgri-Norcold Based on supplies of pork, veal and beef, 26,000 employees agri­culture – world-class meat , as emblazoned on our FOOD work every day to produce premium products and high-quality transport vehicles. And that is why our international foods for consumers all over the world. Our focus is on proslogan reads It's all about food . Daka Denmark ces­­sing and producing products which in every way meet the needs and wishes of consumers and of our business customers. All other subsidiaries, including sales offices SPF Denmark Value chain Products Farmer Slaughterhouse Food processing Sales Consumer The good quality of our We operate some of the Based on our raw mateDanish Crown is keen to Our products are enjoyed products starts on the world's most modern and rials, we create products work in close partnership and appreciated by confarm and at the slaughtertechnologically advanced of the same high quality with the retail business and sumers all over the world. house. Care and respect for slaughterhouses. The as the ones prepared by the foodservice sector, and It is food we produce, and the animals and nature are requirements regarding consumers in their own often does so. Whether food we sell to consumers crucial for ensuring that we hygiene, animal welfare, kitchens. Our products are talking about fresh meat or worldwide. In supermarcan produce high-quality quality, logistics and the sold all over the world. To processed products, about kets, in restaurants, at products and create value working environment are the finest gourmet restauour own branded products hotels, in canteens and for our customers and high – and inspectors from rants and to supermarket or concepts produced as at hot-dog stands, our for consumers – and at the independent food cold counters. As fresh private-label products for products must stand out the end of the day for our authorities are looking over meat and processed meat. specific customers, then through their quality and owners. our shoulders all the time. And as ingredients for the cooperation, customer value. industry. focus and innovation always come first. 8 — Danish Crown – this is how we create value Danish Crown – this is how we create value — 9 2015/16 Cooperative members More than 900 million slices of bacon from Tulip Food Company 10 million litres of Mou soup in figures No. of cooperative members in the Danish Crown Group Enough soup to fill the Olympic swimming pool 7,605 in Rio almost three times The many slices of bacon would cover a total area corresponding to 1,300 soccer fields Revenue in DKKbn 60 Employees 25,977 No. of employees in the Danish Crown Group Share of revenue 1.4 million kilometres of hog casings produced Fresh Meat Foods 75 million pig's trotters to China by DAT-Schaub in a year 54% 40% Delivery: Pigs and sows That is more than twice as many as the 33 million This is enough to reach around the globe at the 22 Pigs and sows per year in millions pig's trotters shipped to China in 2012 Equator 35 times 6% Ingredients Delivery: Cattle 0.7 Cattle per year in millions Share of EBIT Fresh Meat Foods 4,000 kilometres of Pork Meat Snack Sticks from Sokołów 64% 27% Laid out in a straight line, Minced beef corresponding the snack sticks would cover the distance from to 150 million beefburgers Processing Randers to Rome and back 928 Processed products in thousands of tonnes 9% Ingredients 10 — Danish Crown – this is how we create value Danish Crown – this is how we create value — 11 How CSR relates Our business strategy to our business I n our new group business strategy for the period 2016 As a result, specific CSR targets, and programmes to achieve to 2021, CSR is for the first time integrated within the them, will be updated in 2017, in line with our business main business strategy setting process, rather than strategy process. as a standalone activity. Corporate responsibility governance Committees I n our global organisation, CSR is part of our business An expert CSR Steering Committee then reviews the progress strategy, overseen by the Group Executive Board, and is made under each of our six themes and makes recommen­ the designated responsibility of management throug­ dations for further actions. Finally, our Group Executive Board Group Executive CSR Group Steering Business Unit hout our business operations. (Group CEO and Group CFO), reviews overall progress, consults Board Committee Management Teams with stakeholders and ensures that the plan is an integral We monitor progress at three levels. Initially a quarterly review part of how our business operates. Next year, we plan to build Role Role Role is made of action plans and key performance indicators for on the progress made by standardising processes across our • To own the development and • To support the development • To own the local each business unit. business units and through the benchmarking of performance. implementation of the Danish and implementation of the improvement plan. Crown CSR strategy, and enDanish Crown CSR strategy. sure the plan is an integral part of how the business operates. Our Code of Conduct Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities O • Provide leadership on CSR issues • Provide leadership on CSR issues • Define key issues and develop a ne of the ways we do this is through our Code of therefore inclusive of the UN Global Compact's ten principles across the business and ensure across the business and ensure plan, consistent with group Code Conduct, a set of clear, simple principles that guide in the areas of human rights, labour rights, the environment there is a joined up and conthere is a consistent approach to of Conduct and strategy priorities our day-to-day actions as we strive to improve and and anti-corruption. sistent approach to delivering delivering progress. • Review progress against the build a sustainable business and to take it into the future – progress. • To provide leadership on CSR issues plan and report to group on a we call this 'Growing Responsibly'. Our Code of Conduct is a work in progress and is currently • To ensure the business has the across the business and ensure quarterly basis. being used internally to help each business unit define their right resources and governance there is a joined up and consistent • Provide KPI data and ensure Danish Crown's Code of Conduct must ensure that the own priorities for action. The document will be finalised in to deliver the strategy. approach to delivering progress. robust data collection is in place. company lives up to internationally recognised principles for 2017 and updated as we progress. • To ensure the CSR strategy is • To define priorities and decide the corporate social responsibility (CSR). Danish Crown joined the aligned with wider business high-level targets to which the UN Global Compact in 2011, and our CSR Code of Conduct is Our Code of Conduct is based around six overarching themes: strategies, and wider business business will commit. strategies support the delivery • To provide the Board with an overof the CSR strategy view of the environmental, social • To approve outputs from the and ethical impacts of our activities Communities CSR Group Steering Committee, and how they are being managed. including annual CSR report, CSR • To seek external stakeholder Code of Conduct, CSR strategy views on overall performance and and action plans. maintain an overview of external • Review progress through a benchmarking of our performance. quarterly meeting. • To support the Board in ensuring that all parts of the business: Responsible Environment have assigned clear roles and Sourcing responsibilities; have a resourced plan for deliverValuing people Products ing each element of the strategy; have robust data and evidence to support progress claims; benchmark performance and reAnimal Welfare port on progress on a regular basis. 12 — How CSR relates to our business How CSR relates to our business — 13 Our material issues Materiality matrix – defining key issues to address (external priority) (shared priority) High Danish Crown's CSR Group Steering Committee conducted a materiality assessment in 2016, to help identify areas of interest for both internal and external stakeholders. A long list of potentially relevant sustainability issu­ the business) through risk analysis. This process will be es was compiled through consultation with internal periodically repeated and reviewed with external stakehol­ experts. The CSR Group Steering Committee revie­ ders to ensure we are focussing our attention on the right wed the finalised list of issues to determine the material issues. This process helped us identify and prioritise our ones (the most important issues to our stakeholders and key areas of focus. Interest to external stakeholders (emerging priority) (business priority) Medium Interest to internal stakeholders High No. Key focus area No. Global policy/Standard No. Locality managed 1 Supply chain for human rights 1 Animal welfare 1 Raw material risk 2 Healthy products 2 Product safety 2 Packaging 3 Food waste 3 Climate change & carbon 3 Water 4 Sustainable procurement 4 Business conduct 4 Pollution control 5 Health & safety 5 Employee wellbeing No. Indirect influence 6 Diversity 6 Learning & Developement 1 Antibiotic use 7 Community complaints 7 Social integration 2 Animal feed sustainability 8 Community support 8 Waste 14 — Our Material Issues Our material issues — 15 Year at Below is an extract from our corporate responsibility report, in which we report on our adherence to our Corporate Re­ We are satisfied with what we have achieved, while we acknowledge that there are opportunities for improvement The report can be found on the Danish Crown website http://www.danishcrown.com/Danish-Crown/CSR.aspx. a glance sponsibility Code of Conduct. We have detailed the commit­ in the years to come. The report also serves as our annual Communication on ments made in our Code of Conduct which will be finalised Progress to the UN Global Compact. In addition, it meets during 2017. Our 2015/16 Corporate Responsibility Report contains more our legal obligation for CSR disclosure under section 99a information on progress. of the Danish Financial Statements Act. Responsible People Communities Responsible Products Enviroment business agriculture Commitments Commitments Commitments Commitments Commitments Commitments We conduct our business lawfully We create workplaces where We are a positive partner We support research and inno­ We seek positive solutions to We put all waste to positive use and with integrity, respecting people feel valued and give in society. vation which seeks to improve reducing the salt, sugar and fat by maximising the re-use, recy­ internationally proclaimed human their best. animal welfare. content in our products. cling and recovery of materials. rights. We are respectful of and colla­ We proactively ensure the he­ borate with the communities we We work closely with our far­ We consider life-cycle sustaina­ We actively measure, monitor We map our supply chain to hig­ alth, safety and wellbeing of our work within. mers, and we support sustai­ bility and waste at the product and target reductions in water hlight any sustainability hotspots people. nable farming practices. development stage. and energy consumption. for further action. We focus our charitable efforts We strive to create a workplace on three areas: food poverty, We work with our customers and We motivate, train and involve We ensure transparency in our that reflects society and its education and supporting the suppliers to develop improved our staff in continuous improve­ business conduct and communi­ diversity. local communities in which we sustainable packaging solutions. ment projects. cations. operate. Progress Progress Progress Progress Progress Progress Ethical sourcing policy within Tulip Health and wellbeing program­ Continued support for charitable New animal welfare policy in the UK Launch of a number of products Group-wide energy audit to identi­ Ltd, monitoring our supply chains mes for staff Equipped organisations. defines our commitment to driving focusing on healthier living fy opportunities for improvement. to prevent labour exploitation. for Life and Commit to Fit . up animal welfare standards. through reduced fat and salt Continuing donations of surplus content. Solar panels produce energy for Embedding our global procure­ Innovation projects to improve food to food charities. Continuing work to ensure the sites in the UK. ment policy. the health and safety of staff. responsible use of antibiotics in Introduction of life-cycle sustai­ Supporting the teaching of Da­ farming. nability factors in the new product Water-saving project, focusing nish children about cooking and development process in the UK. on 30 per cent reduction in water healthy eating. Actively promoting the food and use by factories. farming industry among young Focus on packaging solutions to people. reduce food waste in households. 16 — Year at a glance Year at a glance — 17 Responsible business Business conduct Our goal: Whether we are dealing with customers, D anish Crown operates around the world, and in We are actively working to prevent facilitation payments, several markets where corruption and facilitation and our policy is being impressed on all employees through suppliers or our own people, integrity and trust payments can occur. We do not accept either corrup­ regular risk analysis, particularly in regions where facilitati­ are the ties that bind us. Our goal is to continually tion or facilitation payments. on payments are widespread. grow our reputation as a business that deals honestly, transparently and with integrity, both in PRIORITIES: FIVE-YEAR STRATEGY PLAN PROGRESS the marketplace and throughout our value chain. Bribery and corruption; implement a bribery We launched a global procurement code of and corruption policy in Danish Crown and conduct in relation to responsible business affiliated companies conduct, including bribery, corruption and corporate gifts. The policy is adhered to within the central procurement team, but requires roll out to all business units. Zero fraud and bribery tolerance No material fraud cases reported within the reporting period. Communication; communicate openly We are starting to embed communications policies and transparently throughout our business, to ensure a formal structure for communication is in place across the whole group. One such example is our collaborative intranet; given the geographical diversification of our operations, the intranet was redesigned, aiming to strengthen ties between employees. The tool, under this new format, started to encourage the spread of best practices and exchange of experiences between internal stakeholders. • Not achieved • Behind plan • On plan • Achieved Responsible business — 19 INTERVIEW INTERVIEW Human rights and responsible sourcing D anish Crown puts a lot of focus on human rights, Suppliers of consumables and subsidiary materials that both regarding how the companies within the come into direct contact with foods must, as a minimum, Danish Crown Group treat their own employees and comply with the principles of the UN Global Compact, of the group´s ability to influence suppliers' focus on human continuously reducing their environmental impacts and Duncan Amps Charlotte Thy rights. We recognise and protect basic international human having a robust food safety system. Danish Crown is inHR Business Partner, Senior Sustainability rights, including labour rights. We want to ensure that corporating these requirements in a Framework Agree­ Tulip Ltd Manager, Danish Crown human rights are not violated within Danish Crown compa­ ment (FWA) as and when we conclude new agreements nies, and we demand the same of all our business partners. and renegotiate contracts. With the introduction of the Modern Slavery Act We are heavily involved in a European Commission legislation in the UK, the outlook on ethical issues in project to define a standardised method of calcula­ the supply chain has become very high profile. The ting the environmental footprint of products, in our 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Act is one of the most far reaching pieces of legisla­ case red meat. Total number of supply contracts above 1 million (live animals excl.): 333 252 345 322 tion in the world addressing issues of slavery in the Number of supply contracts based on Framework Agreement or similar 251 205 250 175 21st century. The Act includes the Transparency in The project is now entering the testing phase to see Number of supply contracts based on Framework or similar in % 75% 81% 72% 54% Supply Chains Clause , which requires companies how consumers react to product labelling, however, to publish an annual slavery and human trafficking the finalised footprint for pork has been produced. statement, publicly disclosing the steps taken to We have included climate change as one of 15 en­ ensure slavery and human trafficking are not taking vironmental impact categories. place in any of its supply chains or in any part of its own business. Our statement will be published in This shows the key climate change hotspot relates March 2017. to on farm emissions, and specifically feed. PRIORITIES: FIVE-YEAR STRATEGY PLAN PROGRESS We (Tulip Ltd) have been working on this agenda Implementing practices to prevent labour There is considerable work ongoing in this area, with for a number of years and already taken many steps exploitation in the supply chain. our UK business leading the agenda, to address the to address potential labour rights violations within requirements of the Modern Slavery Act. our own business, including implementing practices to prevent labour exploitation (Stronger Together Embed sustainability into our procurement process. We have started this process centrally, and need to practices and whistle blower helplines), carrying Incorporate sustainability requirements into all work now to embed the same principles throughout supplier contracts for all companies. each business unit. out audits on agency labour providers including interviews with workers, and running staff surveys Supplier risk assessment; ongoing re-evaluation of This process has not begun as yet. for both our employed workers and agency workers the method as well as the extent of the Supplier and further checks through payroll and personnel Risk Assessment, including disseminating the records. method to relevant business units. Our focus will now begin to move towards our supply Identifying supply chain hotspots; map our supply We understand our overall impacts and the key chain to highlight key sustainability hotspots for hotspots in our supply chain. Historical studies we chains, and not just Tier 1 suppliers, but looking further action. have participated in and those for the industry as a through the whole supply chain, with the ambition whole help us to highlight key sustainability to ensure that every worker in our global supply hotspots. However, more work is being done to understand specific areas in greater detail. chain is treated fairly. Our objective is to ensure that all suppliers (including farmers) within the Tulip Ltd supply chain treat their workers fairly, honestly Assess and review the sustainability of key raw This process has not begun as yet. materials through life cycle assessments. and with respect for their basic human rights and wellbeing. Moving forward, we are in the process of writing an updated ethical sourcing policy for Tulip Ltd in the UK, determining how we will review and • Not achieved • Behind plan • On plan • Achieved monitor labour rights in our supply chains. 20 — Responsible business Responsible business — 21 People Our workforce TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Our goal: A workforce that is safe, healthy and always learning; we strive 28,000 for positive workplaces where people 27,000 26,000 feel valued and give their best. 25,000 24,000 23,000 22,000 21,000 20,000 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 (Total number of emplyees – Full Time Equivalent (FTE) average) 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Total number of employees (FTE) average 26,655 27,178 26,231 25,980 25,873 26,276 Total number of employees leaving Danish Crown Group (FTE) 5,025 4,945 4,738 4,771 5,350 6,041 Number of employees leaving the group in % 19% 18% 18% 18% 21% 23% TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Pigs and sow slaughterhouses Cattle slaughterhouses Live animal production Deboning pork and retail pack Deboning beef retail pack Processing plants Trading activities DAT-Schaub Scan-Hide Central function People — 23 Diversity Health, safety and wellbeing D T iversity in all levels of the business is an important Danish Crown is working continuously on balancing the diver­ he health and safety of our employees is a high prio­ occupational health and safety organisations and groups that issue for us. Both when it comes to nationalities, sity and is very aware of this matter also when it comes to rity for the Danish Crown Group. The group companies are continually being trained and updated on the latest working ethnicities and gender. We measure the percentage top management. in Denmark, Germany, the UK, France and the US have environment know-how. New technology that can completely share of women within management positions; this has implemented health and safety management systems. remove the risk of accidents for the individual employee is remained static at 27 per cent. tested, tried and introduced where practicable. These management systems ensure that the companies follow uniform procedures for handling health and safety issues It is with deep regret that we need to report on a fatal accident and continuously improve the working environment. The pig within this reporting period. In September 2016, a 43-year old SHARE OF WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS IN PERCENTAGE slaughterhouses and casings cleaning facilities in Denmark are Danish truck driver lost his life in a traffic accident, near Ring­ certified according to the OHSAS 18001 health and safety stan­ sted in Denmark. The accident was tragic, but accidental, and dard. Danish Crown's employees are involved in the work via has not given us reason to review our policy and procedures. 0.28 0.21 HEALTH AND SAFETY 0.14 0.07 48 19 Injuries per 1,000 employees Absence per accident at work 0.00 36 18 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 24 17 12 16 0 15 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 PRIORITIES: FIVE-YEAR STRATEGY PLAN PROGRESS All factories reduce the number of accidents at Health and safety performance is measured in the work that lead to a full day of absence. At company number of lost time accidents occurring, converted or division level, the aim is to reduce the number of to an incidence rate, based on injuries per 1,000 work-related accidents by 20 per cent (4 per cent employees. a year). The incidence rate (injuries per 1,000 employees) remained relatively static, increasing marginally from the previous year. To motivate and inspire employees to adopt Employee wellbeing programmes have been healthy exercise and eating habits and to ensure introduced in several operating companies with health initiatives at all workplaces. good success, and now require rolling out to the whole group. • Not achieved • Behind plan • On plan • Achieved 24 — People People — 25 CASE STUDY: Wellbeing programme Employee development E Equipped for Life is a staff wellbeing programme, run mployee development is an important area of We train our managers to be aware of factors influencing by Tulip Ltd in the UK. It is designed to support staff in all investment to ensure our long term competitiveness. the wellbeing of the employees. We carry out a staff survey aspects of life – in, around and beyond the workplace. We provide a range of programmes to support and CHECK on a regular basis, thereby gaining input on working strengthen our workforce's knowledge and skills. Com­ conditions and satisfaction with management. The survey is The programme offers staff the opportunity to get the petence development is an important element in imple­ completed annually for management, and bi-annually for all most out of the workplace, benefitting them, their family menting Danish Crown's policy of ensuring a more equal staff. As a result of the survey, all managers have to present and in many cases the local community. In 2015/16, we distribution of men and women at all management levels. an action plan for their own department. The number of undertook 1,226 health surveillance checks. employees participating in the CHECK survey has been Danish Crown puts massive focus on monitoring the well­ expanded, making it much easier for Danish Crown to point being of our employees. out where to focus in order to improve working conditions. CHECK employee survey 2016 4,467 (salaried employees only) Staff wellbeing Communication Health and safety 2015 (all staff) 9,364 • Commit to Fit programme • DAT-Schaub in Poland ensures • Shock sensors on forklift ma­ launched by Plumrose in the great levels of communication chines – mounting shock sensor US, focussing on health and with staff through workshops systems to monitor driver be­ wellness. The campaign focuses to discuss targets, processes haviour has increased the focus on monthly wellness topics and ideas, as well as new on safe driving. such as nutrition, fitness and approaches to business and the self-improvement. marketplace. • Employee Appreciation Lunch, for Plumrose in the US, to help • Daycare facility for children – in Oldenburg, Germany, a colla­ celebrate going three months with no accidents on site. 2014 (salaried employees only) 2,123 boration with local businesses has led to the foundation of a daycare facility for children. 26 — People People — 27 Communities Communities W e are keenly aware of the responsibilities we Our community investment programmes focus on three Our goal: Beyond providing employment, have to contribute to the communities our bu­ target areas: hunger, education and supporting local com­ siness serves. Our prime concern in this area is munities. The majority of our charitable contributions are we want to be a force for good in the with regard to being a good neighbour, and monitoring this directed to important causes and non-profit organisations communities in which we operate. through the recording of complaints we receive. that are working in these three areas. We seek to forge positive, long-term relationships with our neighbours, local PRIORITIES: people, businesses and other organisati­ FIVE-YEAR STRATEGY PLAN PROGRESS ons in order to contribute to sustainable Reduction in complaints from local communities We currently only collate information on com­ plaints received at a local level. As a result, we are unable to report on progress local development. against reducing overall complaints, although we do ensure that all complaints received are logged at individual site level, and actions taken to alleviate any issues. Focus charitable support on: hunger, education Each of our business units has historically developed and supporting local communities its own community investment programmes. As a result, progress is primarily communicated through individual case studies of action at a local level. Key performance indicators are not in place as yet for us to be able to track progress as a group, across all business units. Support actions on food poverty Numerous actions are ongoing at an individual business unit level, with many sites supporting local charitable organisations with donations of surplus food. However, this is not co-ordinated across the group as yet, and as such, we are unable to communicate specific progress. • Not achieved • Behind plan • On plan • Achieved 28 — Tekst Communities — 29 Supporting food education CASE STUDY: KLS Ugglarps, Sweden I n Poland, Sokołów has been running workshops from A further series of workshops was dedicated to supporting their Academy of Taste . The first series of workshops people with diabetes. Cooking workshops co-organised by was dedicated to older people, where chefs were on Sokołów help people to prepare meals suitable for a dia­ hand to support in the preparation of delicious, inexpensi­ betic diet. They are part of a project Menu for Diabetics , ve and nutritional meals. Recipe ideas are published on a implemented jointly with the Coalition to Combat Diabetes, dedicated website, entitled The Flavours of a Good Life , and are held in selected locations around Poland. presenting practical tips for healthy eating. KLS Ugglarps established their own education program for In addition to education in the butcher profession, the stu­ young people. The program was started to help provide peop­ dents are taught about ergonomics, health, safety and food le who have difficulty entering the labour market an opportu­ quality. The students are offered a three month internship, nity for education that could lead to a job. It also helps ensure which can lead to employment in KLS Ugglarps or other the training of skilled positions as production increased. companies in the industry. During the seven years that the education has been running, 64 per cent of the students The education program is carried out during a period of 20 were employed full time following the programme. weeks and is finalised with an exam. CASE STUDY: Food Surplus accommodation for two legged creatures. Besides the special sleeping arrangements, the guests are also treated with Youth unemployment food from Danish Crown and a lot of entertainment, and as a result there is a lot of interest in these pig housing units. This year we raised 300,000 DKK to Madskolerne , a Movement to Work is a voluntary collaboration of UK charity which focuses on teaching young children to cook employers committed to tackling youth unemployment healthy food. Additionally, any food surplus from our acti­ through provision of high quality vocational training and vities at the festival was collected by a food bank charity work experience opportunities for young people. In the UK, fødevareBanken , this amounted to 250 kg of donations. we provided training for over 60 young people, 19 of whom 300,000 DKK raised to stayed on in permanent roles. For a number of years, Danish Crown has given visitors at the Danish music festival Smukfest in Skanderborg the pos­ sibility to spend the festival in an outdoor pig housing unit. Madskolerne this year These pig housing units have been modified to provide luxury 30 — Communities Communities — 31 CASE STUDY: Production surplus ends up with charity Charitable fundraising T ulip Ltd has raised over 24,000 GBP for charities They are working towards their goal of raising a total of supported by the business, including 16,000 GBP 25,000 GBP by the end of March 2017. All sites have played 59,874 so far this year for their corporate charity, Shelter, the housing and homelessness charity. their part in fundraising through taking part in a wide range of activities. handed out on five continents Surplus from the production at the three Tulip Food Food Company has supported Fanny for 10 years. Since Raising a total of 25,000 GBP Company factories in Germany (situated in Oldenburg, 2003, Fanny has travelled around with the world's most Schüttorf and Dinklage) ends up every week at the local travelled hot dog stand, where she and many volunteers Tafels a special social movement in Germany which have been giving out free hot dogs and raising money for literally translates as (dinner) table. It collects excess food many different charities. Fanny has handed out approx. and distributes it to people in need. In 2015/16, this 59,874 hot dogs for free on five continents and many amounted to approximately 36,000 kg of products. people around the world have been inspired and coinvested in social change. Social change with the world's most travelled hot dog stand Among other activities they have supported children with In more than 16 countries and 5 continents, Fanny Posselt arthritis, built an orphanage in China, established micro has travelled around the world with her mobile hot dog businesses in South Africa and India through start up stand, to help contribute to positive social change. Tulip capital and skills training. 32 — Communities Communities — 33 Responsible agriculture Responsible agriculture H ow animals are treated on the farms, during The Code of Practice for cooperative is a dynamic tool, which Our goal: For us, responsible agriculture transport and in the slaughterhouse is of primary is updated to reflect current best practice. Danish Crown importance to us. The from farm to fork principle identifies animal welfare requirements in primary production means more than great practice in animal is dynamically integrated in every process, from educating together with our cooperative members. welfare, we will scrutinise and seek to our pig producers, regulating pig breeding and animal health procedures, enforcing policies on animal feed and Danish Crown has a special responsibility for ensuring that improve every part of the process that minimising transportation time to the slaughterhouse. the collection, unloading and slaughtering of animals are carried out as gently as possible and performed within goes into raising our livestock. Danish Crown meets all statutory animal welfare require­ reasonable time limits. Employees engaged in handling live ments and also provides a wide selection of products that animals therefore receive special training so they under­ meet special consumer requirements, with respect to stand the animals' behaviour and physique. Danish Crown quality and animal welfare. Our Danish pig suppliers must also strives to make the time of transportation from comply with a Code of Practice for animal welfare on their farmer to slaughterhouse as short as possible. farms. Similar schemes are found in the UK, and we continuously investigate the possibility of introducing This year, we have set up an Agricultural Committee, similar schemes in other business units. Current coopera­ comprising experts from around the business to review tive members sign to confirm acceptance of the Code of standards across countries and share best practice. Practice, and all new members are required to do the same. INTERVIEW Farm animal welfare is increasingly becoming a topic of animal welfare topics which will contribute towards Danish interest with consumers, retailers and industry. We are Crown's overall BBFAW score. Ultimately, we would like to proud to have been able to pull together all of the excellent have an animal welfare policy publication for each country things that we do relating to pig welfare into one easy where Danish Crown operates, but in reality the value of reference point, the Tulip Ltd Animal Welfare Policy. such a document lies in what the individual business units are doing over and above industry and legislative require­ Welfare topics including how we manage animal welfare, ments, so creation of these policies, where appropriate, will what production systems we have in our supply chains, most likely be rolled out on a country by country basis. We pre-stunning of pigs, farm assurance standards that our are also looking to consolidate this into an overall Danish supply chains operate to, pig traceability, pig health, antibio­ Crown animal welfare policy document in the future. tic use, genetic engineering, feed and pig mutilations are all covered. The policy is intended to give readers a flavour of Specific areas of animal welfare interest which members of the standards we operate to in key areas of animal welfare, BQP (part of Tulip's farming division) are currently working and summarises the work that goes on behind the scenes on include the responsible pig health program a key driver to ensure that animal welfare is always at the forefront of of which is to reduce antibiotic use where possible without what we do at farm, logistics and slaughterhouse level. compromising pig welfare and a sustainable soya supply initiative which focuses on developing more local non-GMO Danish Crown takes part in the Business Benchmark on soya sourcing options for the pig feed that is used within Farm Animal Welfare (BBFAW). The annual BBFAW assess­ the BQP. We hope to be able to communicate progress on ment provides a summary of participating businesses' pra­ both of these topics in more detail in the future. ctices and reporting of farm animal welfare and is acknow­ ledged globally as a clear indicator of a business' position Andrew Saunders on key animal welfare issues. The Tulip Ltd Animal Welfare Tulip Agriculture Director & Chairman Policy provides a clear summary of Tulip's stance on key Danish Crown Agricultural Committee 34 — Tekst Responsible agriculture — 35 CASE STUDY: Denmark takes leading role PRIORITIES: FIVE-YEAR STRATEGY PLAN PROGRESS in limiting antibiotic usage for pigs Develop KPIs which we can be used to monitor our Across the Danish Crown business we are progress in specific areas of pig welfare beginning to put in place KPIs which can be used to monitor our progress in specific areas of pig welfare. The Danish pork industry and the Danish Veterinary and These include KPIs for dead on arrival at slaughter­ Food Administration (DVFA) have been commended by the house (DOA), percentage of pigs affiliated to farm assurance schemes and average travel times to European Commission for the measures they have taken abattoir. In the future we hope to be able to also to limit antibiotic usage for pigs. roll out KPIs for percentage of pigs' tail docked and percentage of pigs pre-stunned prior to slaughter. The latter two KPIs can in most countries already Between 2009 and 2015 antibiotic usage for pigs in Den­ be reported on an individual country basis but more mark was reduced by around 22 per cent, and the Danish needs to be done to ensure that reporting across Parliament has agreed a plan to reduce antibiotic usage by countries is completed consistently. a further 15 per cent between 2015 and 2018. Update our animal welfare policies to provide clear The Tulip Ltd Animal Welfare Policy provides a clear Danish antibiotic controls continue to be refined and the information on animal welfare management summary of Tulip's stance on key animal welfare latest development to the Yellow Card scheme, which practices topics. Ultimately, we would like to have an animal welfare became effective from July 2016, sets new threshold levels policy publication for each country where Danish for antibiotic usage for pigs and incorporates a more tar­ Crown operates, but in reality the value of such a geted focus on usage of those antibiotics that are deemed document lies in what the individual business units are doing over and above industry and legislative to be important in human medicine. requirements, so creation of these policies, where Antibiotic usage 22 per appropriate, will most likely be rolled out on a country by country basis. We are also looking to consolidate this into an overall Danish Crown animal welfare policy document in the future. reduced by around cent Collaborate with the wider industry on sustainable BQP recently announced the introduction of animal feed programmes responsibly sourced non-GMO soya for animal feed from Europe. BQP brought in its first shipment of soya grown in the Danube Region of Europe to be used in pig feed rations. However, when it comes to the wider UK and EU meat and livestock supply chains, the reality is that alternatives are not yet there on a large scale. The CASE STUDY: All natural pork free from antibiotics EU continues to be heavily reliant on imported protein crops to fulfil its protein requirements. Danish Crown has launched an all natural pork range, where the pigs are raised without the use of antibiotics. The pigs are born and raised on Danish family farms, by • Not achieved • Behind plan • On plan • Achieved dedicated and experienced farmers, with a high focus on animal welfare. The pigs go through life without being given any antibio­ tics or growth promotants. Raising all natural pigs without antibiotics requires more work with and care of the individual pig. 36 — Responsible agriculture Responsible Responsible Agriculture agriculture — 37 Antibiotic usage reduction CASE STUDY: Staff holds the key to pig farm sustainability within our UK farming business T Most successful pig producers will say that skilled, enthu­ he use of antibiotics in agriculture is a key issue data for all farms. For breeding farms they calculate this siastic and committed staff is the most important part for us. A misuse can lead to the development of as amount of antibiotic used per piglet produced, and for of their businesses. Yet for many, finding and retaining antibiotic resistant bacteria and critically important growing farms they calculate it so that we know how much employees is the toughest challenge they face. antibiotics (CIAs) must be safe guarded for human medici­ antibiotic was used per kg produced. ne. Our UK farming division, BQP, now has antibiotic usage For Danish pig farmer Asger Krogsgaard, his approach to staff development and retention has been instrumental in helping his 100-sow business grow to one that pro­ ANTIBIOTIC USAGE REDUCTION WITHIN THE UK FARMING BUSINESS duces 22,000 piglets and 33,000 slaughter pigs a year. Part of the approach was to implement systems that were designed with efficiency in mind. In addition to automated weigh scales, which make it easier for staff to track pig growth, he installed automated feeding systems and an easy loading system that allows truck drivers to collect the pigs without staff being present. But it is not just the investment in infrastructure that BQP's 100th New Build BQP is the dedicated agricultural operation of T makes it an appealing place to work: their approach to staff ulip's Dalehead division. BQP were on hand to help ensure young farmer David Bird got off to a flying start when he took delivery of his first batch of pigs at development, management and providing facilities for his newly constructed pig farm buildings in Suffolk, UK. This was the 100th them is key, too. I couldn't operate my business without my new build unit to come on-stream during recent years. workers, says Asger Krogsgaard. I can't be on the farm all the time, so I have to give them responsibilities so I know someone is there every day and doing the job well. I know that to have the number of pigs I produce, and to run the business the way I do, I need to have excellent conditions. Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 2013 2013 2013 2014 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 2015 2016 2016 2016 What have BQP done to achieve this reduction? • Improving the health of our breeding herds: Some of our of medicating a group of ill pigs. All our farms will have a lower health herds we practice a programme to depopulate devise, if required delivers an accurate an accurate dose our lower health pig herds and then repopulate with high of medication to pigs via their drinking water. health breeding stock'. 'The adoption of new vaccination programmes on our breeding herds has helped us to • Improving drinking water quality: The spinoff of fitting improve and control the PRRS virus.'then continue with water dosers is that it has allowed us to use water wording This virus depletes the immune system of pigs and disinfection products to improve water quality. makes them susceptible to other infections that they would just normally fight off. It is the major cause of disease in our • Stopping the use of critically important antibiotics (CIA) growing pigs, and although we only started this programme to human medicine: It is important that we reserve at the end of last year, already we are seeing huge benefits. certain antibiotics for human health only, and so at BQP we have put in place a voluntary ban on these antibiotics. • Removing antibiotics from the pigs feed: Giving healthy animals antibiotics is obviously not a good practice, and • Dedication and good stockmanship by our farmers: is now regarded as unacceptable in the fight to prevent The greatest influence on the health of the pig is how it antibiotic resistance. is looked after. The systems we use, outdoor breeding herds and straw based growing farms is of the highest Moving stable – A FRILAND farmer, Hans Henrik Thomsen from Hallund, Denmark, wanted to have his organic pigs out in the fields rather • More precise medication of ill pigs: We are investing in welfare, and we ensure we only work with farmers who than in a stationary stables. The answer was the development of a rolling barn tracked feeder for up to 150 pigs. The portable stable can be new technology that will allow a much more precise way demonstrate high levels of stockmanship. moved every day, limiting the impact on ground conditions. 38 — Responsible agriculture Responsible agriculture — 39 Environment Climate change and energy use D anish Crown focuses on the overall climate change Our efforts have focused on individual site energy Our goal: As a leading food producer, from impact of our products. We are therefore wor­ management projects to work towards a 3 per cent year– king to reduce the environmental impact of the on-year improvement. In absolute terms, our total energy farming to packaging, every stage of our group's activities. Efforts are being made to reduce energy has increased 6 per cent on the previous year, however, process has the potential for significant consump­tion at our facilities are concentrated on the most energy-intensive processes. The temperature in Danish with production increasing by 5 per cent for the same period, our relative energy performance ratio saw a minor impact on the environment. We aim to Crown's factories is critical to food safety, and consequent­ ly process cooling for rooms and for freezing products is increase in energy intensity (use per tonne produced) of 1 per cent. reduce that impact wherever possible, the primary source of energy consumption. actively seeking opportunities to continually reduce waste and our use of natural ABSOLUTE ENERGY (MWH) ENERGY INTENSITY (MWH PER PRODUCED VOLUME) resources. Mwh Mwh/ton produced volume 1,470,000 0.6 0.5 1,352,000 0.4 1,235,000 0.3 0.2 1,117,500 0.1 1,000,000 0.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 /11 /12 /13 /14 /15 /16 /11 /12 /13 /14 /15 /16 PRIORITIES: FIVE-YEAR STRATEGY PLAN PROGRESS Reduction in the consumption of energy (electricity Our energy intensity (MWh/tonne) saw a minor and fuel) to the group's best practice level within increase of 1 per cent on the previous year. the strategy period. We aim at a reduction of 3 per cent per year per produced volume. Defining environmental KPIs and developing tools We have increased our reporting frequency from all for benchmarking between production facilities, business units and collate and benchmark site KPI strengthening data collection and follow up on KPIs. data quarterly. This information is shared across the group to highlight areas of best practice, and also areas for improvement. Quarterly reviews of utility reduction performance We have a strong programme of site based reviews across all production sites. in place for our largest business units, and review all our divisions' performance quarterly. However, individual site reviews have not been rolled out to all business units as yet. • Not achieved • Behind plan • On plan • Achieved Environment — 41 CASE STUDY: Energy audits Water We are involved in a public/private multi stakeholder project called DRIP (Danish partnership for resource and water efficient industrial food production). DRIP is focused We are taking measures to reduce our overall water footon water efficiency in the food industry with 19 different As part of demonstrating compliance to the EU Energy ­print. Danish Crown uses water to clean our production partners, including other food manufacturers, technology Efficiency Directive, this year we have undertaken energy facilities, for disinfection, and to cook our products. Some providers and universities, with the aim of developing new of the water evaporates in connection with cooling, cleaning sustainable water and production technology solutions audits at a broad range of sites across the group. and drying, but most is discharged as waste water. that can reduce water consumption in industrial food production by 15-30 per cent. The partnership was launched We are continually looking to reduce the group's water in March 2015 and will run for five years. We do not have consumption and the volume of organic material, which is specific results to communicate as yet, but have begun Specific findings included: discharged to the drains. These efforts include changing improvement projects, including detailed water use behaviour as well as implementing technical solutions. mapping at various sites. Reuse of heat to generate hot water Our energy survey in Oldenburg, Germany, showed the Our efforts have focused on individual site projects to opportunity to reuse heat from exhaust pipes in the work towards a 3 per cent year–on-year improvement. In compressed air system and exhaust from the smoke absolute terms, our total water use has increased 3 per ovens. This heat can be used for heating water for cent on the previous year, however, with production cleaning purpose. increasing by 6 per cent for the same period, our water Water use in factory is a key issue for us. We monitor our intensity saw a reduction in water use per tonne produced usage very carefully and have reduced our water use of 2 per cent. This is a result of our efforts to enhance significantly over the years, but our improvements have awareness amongst our employees, as well as investing in begun to plateau. As a result, we needed to look at step the efficiency of our manufacturing water performance. change projects to help us to keep reducing. Drying efficiency The install of an intelligent system for drying has led to an energy reduction of 90 per cent for that specific pro­ ABSOLUTE WATER (M3) cess. The installation at three Danish slaughter­houses (situated in Horsens, Blans and Sæby) measures how M3 Solar power forcefully hot air should be blown into a production area 12,300,000 Tulip in the UK installed roof mounted solar panels at for drying. Historically, fans would run at full intensity three sites, resulting in the production on renewable full time, whereas the intelligent system reduces the 9,475,000 energy equal to approximately 5 per cent of the sites load when it is no longer required. daily energy use. 6,650,000 3,825,000 1,000,000 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 'Utility saver assessment' benchmarking Salami production Tulip in the UK have produced a tool to help sites WATER INTENSITY (M3 PER PRODUCED QUANTITY) Tulip Food Company identified a significant energy benchmark themselves against potential utility saving reduction during the production of salami. The salami is opportunities and maintenance activities. The tool M3 per ton produced cured in special fermentation ovens for a week, prior to defines specific tasks that can be completed in each area volume storage in a climate controlled zone for a further three of the factory, such as the boiler house, and the sites 5.00 weeks. ends up with a percentage score for how well they perform. 4.00 The controls were changed to ensure tighter control of 3.00 the temperature and also to use filtered ambient air for This has been a really useful tool in comparing sites drying. Overall, the projects resulted in an annual against each other and giving our engineers a focus for 2.00 reduction in energy consumption of 958,000 kwh. improvement. 1.00 0.00 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 42 — Environment Environment — 43 CASE STUDY: REUSE OF COOLING WATER As part of our partnership programme, DRIP, our Esbjerg TOTAL TOC IN WASTE WATER site in Denmark is reusing cooling water used in the pro­ Ton duction of soup. The water is fresh water that historically would run to a separate piping system and, after cooling, 11,000 the water would run directly to sewer. The reuse water now runs to a separate buffering tank instead of to sewer. The 9,250 water is now recovered and reused for cleaning purposes. The saving is approximately 15,000 m3 fresh water or 25 7,500 per cent of the total site water consumption. 5,750 4,000 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 TOC IN WASTE WATER PER PRODUCED VOLUME Ton per ton CASE STUDY: WATER RECYCLING produced volume 0.0045 DAT-Schaub in Poland is putting a lot of effort into reduc­ 0.0040 ing water use; all major usage areas in factory are fitted 0.0035 with water meters to help identify key usage areas. This 0.0030 helped identify the potential to recycle water within the 0.0025 production process through the introduction of special­ 0.0020 ised sieve tanks, leading to a 25 per cent reduction in the 0.0015 volume of water required. 0.0010 25 per cent 0.0005 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 less water required PRIORITIES: FIVE-YEAR STRATEGY PLAN PROGRESS Reduction in the consumption of water to the Our water intensity (m3/tonne) saw a reduction in group's best practice level within the strategy energy use per tonne produced of 2 per cent. period. We aim at a reduction of 3 per cent per year per produced volume. Reduction in the organic strength of wastewater, Our total TOC in wastewater increased by 1.8 per CASE STUDY: 17 PER CENT WATER REDUCTION per produced volume. cent, but with production for the period increasing by 6 per cent, TOC per produced volume decreased 783,000 by 2.8 per cent. Tulip Ltd in Westerleigh, UK, reduced water use on site by 17 per cent (a total of 783,000 litres), following the • Not achieved • Behind plan • On plan • Achieved introduction of water sub metering to target major water use areas. Improvements included; reducing the operating times of key machinery, addressing excessive cooling tower water use, conducting out of hours audits to identify leaks, litres of water saved and regular progress reporting to the site senior team. 44 — Environment Environment — 45 Waste We aim to put all waste to positive use by maximising the exploiting the differences that exist in global food cultures, CASE STUDY: LEAN MANUFACTURING PROGRAMME re-use, recycling and recovery of materials from our we can sell more of the pig and the cattle for consumption, operations. thereby reducing the loss of animal proteins. Danish Crown is focusing efforts on increasing the degree Non-organic waste is generated mainly through redundant to which waste is sorted into recyclable waste fractions. packaging, either transit or product packaging. The This applies to plastic and cardboard. We also want to use majority of this is plastics and cardboard of which the as much of the animal as possible for food. By strategically vast majority will be recycled. TOTAL NON-ORGANIC WASTE (TONS) Ton 37,000 32,750 28,500 24,250 20,000 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 NON-ORGANIC WASTE PER PRODUCED VOLUME Ton per ton produced volume 0.016 Plumrose in the US continues to implement lean man­ All plants showed improvements in 2016 with an average 0.014 ufacturing concepts and practices to reduce waste and scores improving by 60 per cent across the supply chain. 0.012 improve efficiencies. The lean programme consists of Each year, the audit and zone champions are reviewed to three key areas: cost saving, 6S and a 26-week educational increase the understanding of lean and 6S. 0.01 program based on Lean Six Sigma principles. The focus 0.008 on 5S Sort, straighten, scrub, standardize, sustain is the The Lean Six Sigma educational programme selected two 0.006 foundation for lean manufacturing. The 5S process helped three individuals from each facility. The course curriculum 0.004 identify operational waste and identified opportunities to is based to provide yellow belt certification for the partic­ 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 improve workplace optimisation and supply management. ipants. The course content is focused on identifying our A standardised, disciplined approach for 5S training, audit­ customers, defining value and waste, the importance of ing and driving continuous improvement was implement­ standardisation, team building and reducing variation. ed across supply chain. The results clearly show a more organised operational/distribution operation that has The programme also includes problem solving, project PRIORITIES: employees focused on low cost production. The next step management to drive out waste and increase efficiency FIVE-YEAR STRATEGY PLAN PROGRESS was to include safety into the 6S programme and drive and effectiveness. Reduction in the volume of non-organic waste, per Absolute levels of non-organic waste rose by 1.2 per improvement with employee safety. produced volume. cent, although due to a 6 per cent rise in production levels, the non-organic waste intensity reduced by 3.4 per cent. The 6S programme (sort, straighten, sanitize, standardise, sustain and safety) is in its second year. Each facility is Reducing waste and divided into zones with champions accountable for the area. Scheduled audits are used to reinforce and provide feedback improving efficiency • Not achieved • Behind plan • On plan • Achieved for driving and sustaining continuous improvement. 46 — Environment Environment — 47 Products Products Food safety Danish Crown requires that our European suppliers meet Our goal: Products which maintain the The quality and safety of the group's products are given EU food safety requirements. We are also working to extremely high priority. We impose strict requirements in ensure that non-EU suppliers meet these requirements. highest standards in food safety, which regards to cleaning, our own checks and traceability, and An important aspect of food safety is identifying any include healthier options for consumers and are continually working to improve our internal procedures. product contamination or defects before products leave production and are shipped to customers. This principle is clear information to allow informed choices. Production takes place at facilities certified by independent third parties in accordance with the requirements and rules guarded by a strict own control system that identifies potential food safety issues. applicable in the countries where the products are marketed. Danish Crown's facilities are primarily certified Food health on the basis of the following standards: GRMS (Global Red Improving consumer health is an important topic for us, Meat Standard), SQF (Safe Quality Food), IFS (International and every year we launch new products where our focus is Food Standard) and BRC (British Retail Consortium). both on flavour and on fat and salt content reduction. We ensure that our products carry nutritional labelling so that In addition to our own checks and external auditing in consumers have a genuine choice. Consumer preferences connection with the certifications, our products are and demands vary at different markets, and we therefore checked by local authorities as well as by our customers. supply products tailored to different tastes and economies. PRIORITIES: FIVE-YEAR STRATEGY PLAN PROGRESS Maintaining withdrawal of products at the lowest Against a total product delivery of 3,354,519, 65 possible level tons of products were recalled in 2015/16. Increasing the number of products with a reduction Every year we launch new products where our focus is in salt and sugar levels both on flavour and on fat and salt content reduction. However, we are not currently gathering detailed information at group level on the number of products where salt and sugar levels have been reduced, and therefore we are currently unable to report progress. Packaging innovation; delivering environmental Individual business units are making progress on benefits, freshness and reducing food waste packaging innovation, with a focus on recyclability and resealability of packaging. However, we are not currently gathering detailed information on the number of projects implemented and therefore we are currently unable to report progress. • Not achieved • Behind plan • On plan • Achieved 48 — Tekst Products — 49 Food waste and packaging Food waste along the supply chain is a significant issue As a result, our packaging innovation agenda focusses on three key areas; product freshness, environmental benefits CASE STUDY: SPREADING KNOW-HOW within our industry. Waste occurs at each stage of the and food waste reduction, areas which are well aligned to supply chain, including within consumers' homes. In the our wider CSR objectives. Therefore, we are taking action UK, WRAP (Waste & Resources Action Programme) led a on a range of projects to help reduce consumer waste. For household food waste study (Household food and drink example, offering a range of different pack sizes to cater waste: A product focus, WRAP, 2014) to find that the pork for the varying size households; and introducing re-seal­ category comprising ham, bacon, chops, sausages and able packaging systems. spare ribs generated household avoidable waste levels of approximately 12 per cent of pork sales. The study also Further work may also be undertaken to review the product life found that the main reason for consumer level waste was for all protein products to ensure the right guidance is given to failure to consume the product before it perished. consumers, without compromising product safety or quality. INTERVIEW My focus is on delivering packaging solutions that help We have had some great wins this year and have some fulfil our packaging innovation strategy focusses on deliv­ exciting projects in the pipeline, including increasing the ering environmental benefits, freshness and reducing food recyclability of our packaging in over 40 product lines ena­ In the UK, the Oxford, Cambridge and RSA examination The qualification, which is the equivalent of an A' level, will waste. bling recycling by the consumer, and further work to launch board, have launched a new qualification, Science for Tech­ ask students to plan a factory layout for the production of re-sealable packs for cooked meat, bacon and sausage, nicians, with the assistance of three employees from Tulip a number of new products, including new species and new Tulip in the UK were named winners in the 2015 Co-op­ enabling the consumer to keep the product for longer in Ltd, Alex Clementson, Inga Krievane and Emma Wilkinson allergens, for a retail customer. The emphasis will be on erative Own Label Awards, scooping Winners of Leading the fridge and help prevent waste in the home. – all technical graduates. food safety. in Packaging Reduction. We were acknowledged for our packaging development strategy, which includes projects Our packaging development is gaining traction and deliv­ aiming to reduce food waste, increase the use of recycled ering real added value to our customers' current and future packaging material and provide future solutions which can packaging needs. be recycled. One project has worked towards removing PVC from packaging with substantial progress having been made during the past eight months. Another milestone has been a first-to-market re-sealable packaging innovation for large wafer thin ham, making it easier for consumers to use the amount of chilled cooked meats they require at any given time. It offers consumers a convenient way of using just the right amount of product they need; they can then reMatt Richards seal the pack for later use, with the use by date remaining Tulip Ltd, UK, Packaging clearly visible. Innovation Manager 50 — Products Products — 51 Index of Global Compact Principles Malnutrition Danish Crown has engaged with a series of research activities with hospitals and scientific institutions, exploring the effects of the intake of meat based Salt reduction in Keyhole nutritional label products ingredients and the impact on the nutritional status Tulip Food Company in Denmark has approximately 80 of specific population groups, especially older people. products carrying the Keyhole label. With the addition of reduced salt as a factor in the nutritional assessment of products, we have been working hard to reduce salt in our products. Reducing salt levels in cured products is always difficult, as any reduction has the potential to cause knock High protein products on impacts to shelf life, taste and consistency of product A broad range of population groups need to have a higher quality. Therefore, significant product development has protein intake. DAT-Schaub France has developed some to be undertaken as part of the process. hyper protein products with 20 per cent more protein than a regular product. All these protein mixes are developed to BUSINESSES SHOULD: DANISH CROWN EXAMPLES: PAGE: obtain a good assimilation and good chemical index. Human rights 1. support and respect the protection of Business conduct 19 internationally proclaimed human rights; and Human rights 21 2. make sure that they are not complicit Responsible sourcing 21 in human rights abuses. Communities 28 Food safety 49 Development of finger food Food Health 49 The need identified was to develop a product with specific textures, adapted for dysphagia problems (discomfort in swallowing), which can lead to malnutriti­ Labour 3. uphold the freedom of association and the effective People 22 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Diversity 24 on. With this observation, DAT-Schaub France has 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and Health, safety and wellbeing 25 developed a range of products which are easy to handle, compulsory labour; Communities 28 swallow and with a high protein level. 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Fat-reduced bacon for Germany Tulip Food Company's fat-reduced bacon dices with 75 Environment 7. support a precautionary approach to Responsible agriculture 34 per cent lesser fat than other relatable products on the environmental challenges; Climate change and energy 41 market has been launched in Germany. The product has Product innovation 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater Water 43 been on the Danish market since January 2016, and now Sokołów in Poland has developed the Naturrino brand, environmental responsibility; and Waste 46 the product has been launched in Germany. The product a premium range of products. These products have been 9. encourage the development and diffusion is packed in a two-pack solution to fit smaller house­ inspired by nature and are characterised by a delicate taste, of environmentally friendly technologies. holds and a fat content of only 3.5 per cent reduction underlined by herbs and spices; with low salt, low fat and in energy consumption of 958,000 kwh. no preservatives, phosphates or sodium glutamate. Anti-corruption 10. work against corruption in all its forms, Business conduct 19 including extortion and bribery. 52 — Products Index of Global Compact Principles — 53 Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA Marsvej 43 DK-8960 Randers Tel. +45 8919 1919 dc@danishcrown.com www.danishcrown.com CVR no. 21643939 5041 0008
