TELEPLAN CSR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 1. INTRODUCTION Teleplan provides integrated end-to-end after-market supply chain service solutions for the computer, communications and consumer electronics industries. Lifecycle care ranges from simple manual repairs to highly sophisticated technological and electronic hardware and software solutions from a suite of six core service segments. Headquartered in Amsterdam/Schiphol, the Netherlands, Teleplan supports customers from more than 95 countries and operates from service center locations in Europe, North America and Asia Pacific with some 5,000 employees. Teleplan has a vital role in mitigating the environmental impacts of electronic devices through the provision of repair services and, in the instance when a repair cannot be made, the recovery, reuse, recycling or safe disposal of components and materials. Leading brands are looking for partners who add value and provide efficient and cost-effective services whilst maintaining strong ethical and sustainable practices. Teleplan enables its customers to manage faulty, damaged and waste products thereby prolonging the life of the product and reducing waste. Teleplan has identified the social and environmental impacts of its business. Principally these are: 1. Conducting our business with the highest ethical standards 2. The recruitment, employment, training and development of some 5,000 people across multiple sites and geographies 3. The health and safety of our people and the facilities in which they work 4. The use of energy in the heating/cooling and lighting of facilities and the operation of test and repair equipment 5. The recovery, reuse, recycling and disposal of waste 6. The disposal of hazardous spare parts and substances such as batteries and florescent bulbs. 7. Supporting the communities in which we operate Teleplan manages these impacts through systems and procedures which are integral to the day-to-day management of the business. In line with this approach, the company is working towards certification to internationally recognised standards at each of its service centers. In 2013 the company initiated the collection and management reporting of environmental and health and safety data. The Teleplan Management Board agrees objectives and annual targets to ensure that the social and environmental impacts of the business are managed appropriately. A report on progress towards the achievement of these targets is made to the Management Board annually. The annual CSR report is published on the Teleplan website. 1|P a g e 2. HIGHLIGHTS 2015  Teleplan joins UN Global Compact  Three sites EICC/SMETA audited  100% of eligible employees participated in annual performance review  Reduced levels of energy consumption  Increased rate of recycling  Ethical supply chain engagement strategy developed and initial stage of evaluation completed  Community engagement programs underway in all major sites 3. TELEPLAN JOINS THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT In 2015 Teleplan became a signatory to the UN Global Compact. This is an important milestone in the Teleplan CSR programme which is focussed on ensuring that we meet our customers’ expectations as a business with the highest ethical standards. The UN Global Compact is an initiative of the United Nations which supports companies to do business responsibly by committing to 10 fundamental principles which address human rights, labor practices, environmental issues and anti-corruption. By signing the UN Global Compact, Teleplan is making a public commitment to operating the business in accordance with the 10 principles. Many of Teleplan’s customers are also signatories to the UN Global Compact and expect Teleplan to uphold the same high standards as they do themselves. 4. TELEPLAN CODE OF CONDUCT SETS THE COMPANY STANDARD Teleplan’s Code of Conduct is published on the corporate website and communicated to employees when they join the company. The Code includes information on how to raise concerns, issues or suspected violations of the Code. Employees confirm their understanding of the Code and compliance to it through a written sign-off process which is managed by the global Human Resources function. The Code is translated into the seven principal languages used across Teleplan’s operations. Awareness and understanding of the Code and its importance to the business are promoted through a program of employee training and communications and form an integral part of the induction of new employees. Teleplan has an established whistle blowing policy and procedure which ensures that any individual can report in confidence and without fear of reprisal, actual or alleged breaches of the Teleplan Code of Conduct. 5. TELEPLAN WORKING TO INDUSTRY-WIDE STANDARDS Many of Teleplan’s customers are members of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), a coalition of the world’s leading electronics companies which works with a common code of conduct to improve social, ethical and environmental responsibility in the global electronics supply chain. Teleplan recognizes the importance of meeting customers’ requirements to ensure an ethical supply chain and has set the EICC Code as the standard it works to. To ensure that Teleplan has appropriately trained people to lead the process of assessment and audit to the EICC Code three members of the Quality Management team are trained and qualified as EICC Labor and Ethics Lead Auditors EICC and SMETA audits were conducted at three Teleplan facilities this year. 2|P a g e In addition Teleplan participates in the social and environmental assessment survey operated by EcoVadis, the leading and highly respected organization in this field. As the result of a comprehensive and continual improvement program, Teleplan has a Silver rating which compares well with its industry peer group. 6. DEVELOPING TALENT DRIVES BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Teleplan employs some 5,000 people across multiple service centers and geographies. The recruitment, employment, training and development, health, safety and well being of these employees are integral to the prosperity and success of the business. Teleplan is committed to developing and maintaining a workplace and working environment in which employees are treated fairly and with respect and have the opportunity to develop and prosper. The after sales service and supply chain industry in which Teleplan operates is highly competitive, fast changing and demanding. Talented leadership and high performing individuals and teams are accordingly critical. Teleplan places a strong emphasis on further development and continuous learning. Employees are encouraged to take up training opportunities which are available through a variety of channels including elearning, on-the-job learning and coaching. Teleplan operates a Leadership Academy to foster and develop leadership talent within the business. Regular programs engage participants from across the business and in addition to developing leadership skills facilitate and contribute to the building of effective relationships between colleagues working in different geographies, cultures and functions which are essential in a global organisation. 7. HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE CONTINUES TO IMPROVE Teleplan began collecting health and safety data in 2014 and can now analyse trends in the number of accidents and lost-time injuries. In 2015 the number of Lost Time Cases per 100 employees (as defined by OSHA) significantly improved to 0.77 per 100 employees (2014: 1.67 per 100 employees). This was primarily driven by improvements in the America’s Region which achieved a rate of 0.02 per 100 employees. The Severity Rate also improved to 3.8 days in 2015 (2014: 4.2 days). This means that for every recordable incident in 2015 an average of 3.8 days were lost due to work related injuries and illnesses. Teleplan’s Roseville, US facility became the eighth service center certified to the international health and safety standard ISO 18001. In 2016 plans are in place to further extend ISO 18001 certification to additional service centers. 8. ONGOING REDUCTIONS IN ENERGY CONSUMPTION Teleplan began collecting energy consumption data in 2014 and can now analyse trends. Teleplan has also participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Supply Chain program for the last two years. Electricity consumption decreased by 12% in 2015 to 40,251 MW/h (2014: 45,793 MW/h). Natural gas consumption decreased by 11% to 242K/m3 (2014: 272k/m3). These reductions in energy consumption were the result of a reduction in the volume of products processed that required the use of test equipment which uses a large amount of electricity. The figures 3|P a g e also reflect that the company operated two fewer facilities. In addition all major sites undertake energy management activities and engage employees in the judicious use of resources. Investment in energy efficient lighting has been made and several facilities have improved alignment of energy usage to working hours. Employee awareness programs encourage turning off of equipment when not in use. Electricty Consumption Natural Gas Consumption 50,000 300,000 40,000 250,000 200,000 Meters 3 30,000 EMEA EMEA MHw 150,000 APAC APAC 20,000 100,000 AMER AMER 10,000 50,000 2014 2015 2014 2015 9. RECYCLING RATES CONTINUE TO IMPROVE Teleplan has a vital role in mitigating the environmental impacts of electronic devices through the provision of repair services. When a repair cannot be made, the recovery, reuse, recycling or safe disposal of components and materials is integral to Teleplan’s customer proposition. Teleplan has well established programs to recover, reuse and recycle electronic waste at all its sites. Other types of waste handled include cardboard and paper, metals and plastics, hazardous spare parts and substances such as batteries and florescent bulbs all of which are managed through recycling programs. In 2015, Teleplan recycled over 7.3 metric tons (2014: 6.5 metric tons) which represents an increase of 3% in the recycling rate compared to 2014 of its own and customer-owned materials, parts and equipment. Teleplan works to regional standards such as WEEE regulations in the EMEA region. Waste Streams Recycled 4,000 3,500 3,000 2,500 Tons 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 4|P a g e 10. INITIATING ENGAGEMENT ON ETHICAL PRACTICES IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN Teleplan provides its customers with service solutions which range from simple repairs to highly sophisticated technological and electronic solutions. The units and components required to undertake these service solutions are purchased primarily from the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) or from a supplier designated by the OEM. In these instances (the bulk of Teleplan’s activity) Teleplan does not determine the supplier or source of the component. In other instances Teleplan purchases industry standard parts. Teleplan does not subcontract the manufacturing of any units or components. Whilst a material part of the supply chain is determined by the customer, Teleplan nonetheless expects its major suppliers to be aligned with and meet the social, environmental and ethical standards of the EICC Code of Conduct which has been adopted by many of its customers. With the objective of engaging with suppliers to ensure that its ethical standards are met, Teleplan has an ethical supply chain policy. In 2015 the ethical supply chain engagement strategy has been further developed and the initial stage of evaluation focussed on the positioning of its major suppliers on CSR has been completed. Major suppliers are those which represented 75% of total spend in 2015. Membership of the EICC, certification to international health, safety and environmental standards such as OHSAS18001 and ISO14001 and the location of operations in high-risk countries are all considerations which have been included in the evaluation. In 2016 Teleplan will undertake further engagement with its major suppliers in the implementation of its ethical supply chain policy. 11. COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT CELEBRATED Teleplan employees are encouraged to get involved individually and together in fund-raising activities and volunteering initiatives in support of the good causes important to them and to the community in which they operate. Community and charitable activities are publicised and celebrated company-wide through INTOUCH, the employee newsletter. In 2015 some of these were:  Fund raising drives for Ronald McDonald House and Carlisle Salvation Army in the US  Support of La Casita, an institution that cares for children with special needs, and Technical High School #32 in Mexico with computer equipment, desks and other much needed equipment.  Providing scholarships at an electronic high school in Poland for students with hearing and speech difficulties.  Mental Health Awareness, Local Food Bank and Cancer Nursing fundraisers in the UK 5|P a g e 12. OBJECTIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND TARGETS To ensure continual improvement in the management of the environmental and social impacts of the business the table below details Teleplan’s CSR objectives, progress made in 2015 and targets set for 2016. CSR Objectives Achievements 2015 Targets 2016 Effective management of Maintained existing ISO 14001 Maintain existing certifications and environmental impacts certifications extend certifications to new sites Manage use of energy in Energy consumption analysis has identified Devise and implement an energy major sites efficiently highest usage sites efficiency program at highest usage sites To build and maintain high Employee engagement survey action plans Complete performance appraisals for all levels of employee followed up and results reported to the employees. engagement Management Board Ensure a safe workplace and Maintained existing OHSAS 18001 Maintain existing certifications and minimise workplace accidents certifications and added Roseville, US as a extend certifications to new sites certified site Meet customer expectations Completed EICC self-assessments of: Continue site self assessments and in social and environmental Jakarta (Indonesia) and Suzhou (China) undertake customer requested management of our business and customer requested EICC/CSR audits EICC/CSR audits. of Mexicali (Mexico), Penang (Malaysia) and Prague (Czech Republic) Participant in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact Ensure the highest ethical One hundred managers completed Skillsoft Update Teleplan’s Code of Conduct to standards in the conduct of “Introduction to Workplace Ethics” course EICC 5.0 standards, translate into seven our business languages and communicate to On boarding process for all new employees employees. included review of the Code of Conduct with written acknowledgement of Create a CSR Policy Statement, compliance translate into local languages and post in all sites To facilitate employee charity Fund-raising and volunteering initiatives Share best practice and celebrate fund-raising and volunteering undertaken in support of good causes achievements across the business by individually and at site level celebrated ensuring that employee newsletter throughout the organization via the includes a round-up of community company newsletter activities Effective and timely Published Annual CSR report and posted Publish Annual CSR report on Teleplan communication of social and on www.teleleplan.com website and COP (Communication on environmental management Progress) in line with membership of the performance to key UN Global Compact stakeholders Continually improve CSR metrics agreed and facility level Regular CSR reporting by operational management of social and reporting of CSR metrics to CSR Director management to the Management Board environmental impacts established Engage with and assess target suppliers’ Risk analysis of supply chain completed social and environmental impacts. and target suppliers identified 6|P a g e 13. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Period covered by COP: January to December 2015 Statement of continued support from Francois LaCombe CEO Teleplan I am pleased to confirm that Teleplan reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this our annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders by publishing this communication on our website. The table below summarises our actions and provides a reference for further information. Francois Lacombe CEO Teleplan th 12 November 2016 INDEX OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES SUPPORTED IN FINANCIAL YEAR 2015 Principle Action Further information/reference Human Rights Principle 1 The Teleplan Code of Conduct is Page 2 section 4 of this report published on the Teleplan website Businesses should support and and is integral to the new employee Teleplan Code of Conduct respect the protection of induction process. internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Teleplan has an ethical supply Page 5 section 10 of this report chain policy. The ethical supply make sure that they are not chain engagement strategy has complicit in human rights abuses. been further developed and the initial stage of evaluation focussed on the positioning of major suppliers on CSR has been completed. Labor Principle 3 The Teleplan Code of Conduct Page 2 sections 4 and 5 sets the company labor Businesses should uphold the standards. It is translated into Teleplan Code of Conduct freedom of association and the the seven principal languages 7|P a g e effective recognition of the right to used across Teleplan’s collective bargaining; operations. Awareness and understanding of the Code and Principle 4 its importance to the business are promoted through a the elimination of all forms of forced program of employee training and compulsory labour; and communications and form an integral part of the induction Principle 5 of new employees. the effective abolition of child Teleplan has an established labour; and whistle blowing policy and procedure. Principle 6 Three members of the Quality the elimination of discrimination in Management team are trained respect of employment and and qualified as EICC Labor occupation and Ethics Lead Auditors and lead a program of assessment and audit to the EICC Code. Environment Principle 7 Teleplan plays a vital role in Page 1 section 1 of this report mitigating the environmental Businesses should support a impacts of electronic devices Teleplan website precautionary approach to through the provision of repair environmental challenges; services and the recovery, reuse, recycling or safe disposal of components and materials. Teleplan enables its customers to manage faulty, damaged and waste products thereby prolonging the life of the product and reducing waste. Principle 8 Teleplan, is a member of the Teleplan news release Circular Economy 100 (CE100) undertake initiatives to promote network. CE100 is a global greater environmental platform bringing together responsibility; and leading companies, emerging innovators and regions to Principle 9 accelerate the transition to a circular economy. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Teleplan has implemented a technologies. Global Circular Economy Taskforce which is working across the Teleplan operational regions on a number of circular economy projects including Product Passport. Anti-Corruption 8|P a g e Principle 10 The Teleplan Code of Conduct Page 2 sections 4 and 5 prescribes the legal and ethical Businesses should work against principles that all Teleplan’s Page 5 section 10 corruption in all its forms, including employees, officers and extortion and bribery. directors must observe in Teleplan Code of Conduct conducting Teleplan’s business. Teleplan has set the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code as the standard it works to and has appropriately trained people to lead the process of assessment and audit to the EICC Code. Teleplan participates in the social and environmental assessment survey operated by EcoVadis, the leading organization in this field. 9|P a g e
