Mobica for Advanced Industries  Type of organisation: Industrial Company  Main activities Manufacture and assembly of interior automotive components & car metal chassis assembly  Location: 6th of October City 3rd Industrial zone Plot #3  Number of employees: 600  Website: www.mobica.net 1 ‫سياسة موبيكا‬ Issue No. : 1/2016 Issue Date : 01/01/2016 English Version MOBICA FOR ADVANCED INDUSTRIES Quality‚ Environment ‚ Health & Safety and Social Responsibility Policy MOBICA for Advanced Industries has considered as a leading company In the field of automotive Interiors and body frames industry in Egypt and Middle East, and it recognizes the importance of implementing the quality‚ environment , occupational health &safety and social responsibility management systems for the success of the company, and working effectively as a teamwork to reach a high competitive position all over the world. MOBICA for Advanced Industries realizes also that meeting its customer’s requirements and expectations, as well as care with its suppliers by giving them technical support, clear agreements and honest feedback of their performance is the meaning of its quality and excellence. As well as the importance of the quality, MOBICA is responsible for protecting the internal & external environment , save health , safety and rights of their employees under its control. Top management also is committed to : Provide high quality sustainable products complied with the technical specifications & customers requirements. Comply with the requirements of the quality‚ environment , occupational health & safety and social responsibility ( ISO 9001 , ISO/TS 16949, ISO 14001 , OHSAS 18001 and ISO 26000 standards & guides ). The company doesn’t use child labor or oppression at work. Prevention of all kinds of environmental & product pollutions. Controlling and regulating the use and rationalization of resources. Prevention of injuries and health illness. Continually improve the effectiveness of the quality , environment , occupational health & safety and social responsibility management systems. Comply with the applicable legal requirements , recommendations of the ILO and other requirements of environment , OH&S and social responsibility. Continual evaluation of all company activities and processes which affects the environment. Potential hazard identification , risk assessment and Identifying of necessary control to protect workers . Adhering to the global principles which include a set of core values in the fields of human rights, labor standards, environmental and anti-corruption, transparency, expression right and intellectual freedom and non-discrimination. Maintain the confidentiality of the information and data of MOBICA and all stakeholders. The implementation of this policy is achieved through all persons , contractors and dealers with the company by providing the necessary training and resources‚ and to make them aware of their personal commitment toward the environment, OH&S and social responsibility to realize the objectives which are annually reviewed. The implementation of this policy takes a strategic importance in MOBICA for advanced industries to preserve its competitiveness and sustainability through global and local markets. chairman‫رئيس مجلس االدارة‬ M.A-C-PO-01 Issue No. : 1/2016 Issue Date : 01/01/2016 English Version Vision To be a global and regional market leader in quality automotive interior systems through utilizing the latest sustainable technology and management systems. Mission To exceed our customers’ expectations via continuous improvement and upgrading of our capabilities and personnel. Chairman MOBICA for Advanced Industries MOBICA Acting towards the Global Compact 10 Principles Regarding: Human Rights & labours 1Top management are supporting strongly the new labour practices special system which working on Improve the working environment , increase woman and disable workers and improve the salaries & incentives systems. 2Continue in Develop & improve our processes and products through adopting the new manufacturing ways, workers suggestions and projects, rather than the continuous training of MOBICA stuff. 3Achieve “zero” accidents ratio inside MOBICA through continuous improvements and error proofing devices. 4Encourage continuous improvement ideas through prizes & incentives to insure creativity & development. 5MOBICA are earning all prospective benefits from its special system & committee , as well as ideas bank , which deal with , investigate and assesse workers suggestions & complaints. 6Rising the percentage of woman working in steering positions as well as production sites to 45%. 7MOBICA still sharing in many symposiums and movements like “Ana Hona and Diversity between the sexes competition”. Regarding: Environment 1Eleminate the industrial emitions and wastes by using the natural gas energy instead of electricity and increasing the green areas. 2Improve & develop the environment measuring results through using recent technology. 3Increasing in inside and outside green areas. 4Pursuit to using renewable sources ( solar energy ). 5Increasing the usage of the natural lighting ( windows ) instead of electrical lighting. 6Prepare environment awareness programs for MOBICA suppliers , contractors , and stakeholders. Regarding: Anti-corruption 1Continue sharing the Ethical working & behaviors principles & items between MOBICA & its customers. 2Sharing with the Egyptian Junior Business Association in anti-corruption initiatives. 3Sharing in manufacturing associations & syndicates activities like 6th Oct. Investors Association , TAVT , Oct. Investors Syndicate …. etc. MOBICA New Document Control System Awarding Ceremony Pioneer Businesses To Achieve Sustainable Development In the beginning of 2016 , MOBICA has been nominated as one of the Egyptian pioneers in the field of business sustainable development . The Egyptian ministries of industry , environment and labour honored MOBICA during a big ceremony for its achievements in the fields of energy consuming improvement and reducing industrial gases & emissions. MOBICA is committed to continue its achievments in other fields to sustain its business and develop its community. 8 Awarding Cermony Pioneer Businesses To Achieve Sustainable Development 8 Training sessions and competition between university students to encourage the innovations Encouraging and training charity associations children & youth like “ Sohbet Khair association Certificates  ISO TS 16949  ISO 14001 for environmental management  ISO 26000 Social Responsibility  OHSAS BS 18001 For HSE  ISO GUIDE 25 for Labs acquired/ ISO 17025.  GM Global Supplier Certificate (SFE & QSB)  Best Supplier for Nissan Egypt  Approved Supplier For VW Germany  Approved Supplier For BMW Germany
