Energy creates future Sustainability Report 2015 A Galp Relatório de Governo Societário 2015 2 Energy creates future Sustainability Report 2015 galp.com This translation of the Portuguese document was made only for the convenience of non-Portuguese speaking interested parties. For all intents and purposes, the Portuguese version shall prevail. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 1 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes Index Introduction What are the material issues? 1.1. Messages 8 1.1.1. Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors 8 1.1.2. Message from the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 9 How do we tackle them? 1.2. About this report 11 6.1. Acting responsibly and ethically, ensuring About Us the best governance practices and transparency 50 2.1. How we arrived here: the new millennium 14 6.1.1. Corporate governance 51 2.2. Our operational chain 16 6.1.2. Risk management 56 2.3. Where we have reached 18 6.1.3. Ethics and Compliance 59 What did we achieve in 2015? 6.1.4. Guarantee of compliance and conformity 64 6.2. Engaging with the community and other 3.1. Indicators 22 stakeholders and encouraging the creation 3.2. Relevant events at Galp in 2015 23 of shared value 66 3.3. External rankings and recognitions 2015 24 6.2.1. Dialogue with stakeholders 67 What is the strategic 6.2.2. Creating shared value 6.2.3. Involvement with the community 68 69 framework? 6.2.4. Engagement with clients 79 4.1. The challenges 28 6.2.5. Engagement with investors 85 4.2. Our strategy 30 6.2.6. Engagement with suppliers 86 4.2.1. Exploration & Production 32 6.2.7. Engagement with partners 88 4.2.2. Refining & Marketing 33 4.2.3. Gas & Power 33 2 Galp Sustainability Report 2015 3 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes Index 6.3. Valuing human capital 90 6.5.2. Management System 131 6.3.1. Who are our employees? 91 6.5.3. Environmental protection 133 6.3.2. Non-discrimination, equality and local hiring 93 6.5.4. Safety 137 6.3.3. Seniority, turnover, mobility and absenteeism 95 6.5.5. Health 144 6.3.4. Our human capital strategy 97 6.6. Promoting innovation, research and 6.3.5. Human capital within the context of E&P 98 technological development 148 6.3.6. Performance management 99 6.6.1. Strategic plan for innovation, research and technological development 149 6.3.7. Development of human capital 101 6.6.2. Involvement of the scientific and technological 6.3.8. Benefits provided to employees 108 community 150 6.3.9. Investment in human capital 109 6.6.3. R&D Programmes in the E&P field 153 6.3.10. Involvement with employees 110 6.6.4. R&M focused projects 154 6.6.5. Projects with our clients 156 6.4. Helping to satisfy future energy needs 6.6.6. Competitions and Awards 159 and minimising the intensity of the carbon footprint 114 6.4.1. Our climate change strategy 115 Annexes 6.4.2. Galp’s current and future role in a sustainable 7.1 Annex I – Assurance letter 162 society 119 7.2 Annex II GRI table: Sustainability KPIs 164 6.4.3. Our carbon footprint 122 7.3 Annex III Global Compact Table 176 6.4.4. The performance of our projects 123 7.4 Annex IV Methodological notes 177 6.5. Ensuring the protection of the 7.5 Annex V Abbreviations and acronyms 178 environment, people and assets 128 6.5.1. Context and major goals 129 4 Galp Sustainability Report 2015 5 Introduction 6 Galp Sustainability Report 2015 7 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? 1.1 Messages Development Goals. The industrial sector in which Galp operates will be particularly affected by Goal 7: affordable and clean energy, where the target is to ensure access, by 2030, to reliable, affordable, modern energy services for all. And, because we cannot talk about energy without also referring to climate change, I want to offer you an observation on the Paris Summit, where the universal nature of the agreement marked a historic breakthrough and a radical departure from the post-Kyoto Protocol period. When ratified, the Paris Agreement will be binding on the signatory nations to develop efforts to reduce Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions in order to meet the target of limiting global warming to 1.5 ° C above pre-industrial levels by 2100. This is the environment in which Galp operates, guided by its sustainability commitments, including commitment IV. Helping to satisfy future energy needs and minimize the intensity of the carbon footprint and commitment VI. Américo Amorim Promoting innovation, research, and technological development. Chairman of Galp The first involves understanding the context and dynamics, on a global scale, of energy supply and demand in order to satisfy future needs. It also involves Dear Stakeholders, recognizing the challenges of the inseparability of energy and climate and At Galp, we adopt a structured and integrated approach of designing a portfolio that is resilient in relation to climate policy and the to sustainability issues in the development of our business expectations of different stakeholders. Accordingly, the Company must be at strategy. This culture is fully embedded in the various the forefront of technological development, hence its adoption of the second organizational levels and is reflected in all our management of the above-mentioned commitments (VI). activity. Bringing our projects to fruition will require the application of the The Company is absolutely convinced that this attitude industry's latest generation technology. Galp therefore plays an active provides it with a competitive advantage in the industry role in technological research and development in the sector, including its and generates long-term shared value with its stakeholders. involvement in the Institute of Oil and Gas (ISPG). Current relationships are therefore enhanced as they become In order to identify and exploit new opportunities and honour the undertaken long-lasting and healthy, while new mutually profitable commitments, the Company's strategy is structured around five priorities for partnerships and activities are developed. action: efficient business development; financial discipline and value creation; In the business environment and context in which Galp organizational efficacy; value-added human capital development and, finally, operates, 2015 saw developments that point to major future our commitment to sustainability and a research and technology culture. In challenges. particular, I wish to highlight this final priority by underlining the intrinsic role of sustainability in this process that, in my view, will consolidate Galp's longIndeed, 2015 was characterized by an environment of low oil term success. prices, with companies in the sector being forced to rework their investment programmes and long-term strategies and Finally, I must mention external recognition of Galp's performance in the adapt their cost structures to achieve efficiency savings. area of sustainability. For example, in 2015 Galp was again included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), in the CDP – Driving Sustainable In this context, Galp's performance was positive, Economies, where, in particular, it achieved the highest score possible, and demonstrating resilience in results and projects, essentially in the FTSE4Good Index Series, among others. The Company's ranking in due to its integrated profile in the O&G value chain, together the most recognized sustainable indices values the Company's efforts to with its ability to undertake critical projects and increase the create sustainable value and helps consolidate the Organization's values in efficiency and reliability of its operations. its corporate culture and in its day-to-day activities and decision-making processes. At a time of great uncertainty and volatility in the industry, it is essential to keep recent developments in perspective Finally, I want to say thank you to you all and encourage you to continue to be and look to the fundamentals of long-term energy supply part of this virtuous, idealistic, and daring path of sustainable growth along and demand dynamics. It is estimated that there will be a which Galp is moving. significant increase in world primary energy demand, until 2040, in the four major energy sources: oil, gas, coal and energy supplied from low-carbon sources. This outlook – which, incidentally, is in line with global population growth and the expected increase in wealth generation – will impose enormous challenges on the energy industry, particularly in Américo Amorim relation to the security and sustainability of energy supply. Conventional energy sources will still be needed, while new Chairman of the Board of Directors non-conventional forms of energy production are developed and the necessary long-term investment decisions are taken to create a secure, sustainable, and competitive energy supply that responds to the world's energy needs. Another event in 2015 that will shape the way companies operate was the approval of the United Nations Sustainable 8 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes “In 2015, we reached a historic milestone in the life of our Company, with the E&P business reaching 60 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day (kbopd).” Carlos Gomes da Silva CEO of Galp Dear Stakeholders, For many years, we have been committed to reflecting the joint overall output capacity of 450 kbopd. principles of economic, environmental, social and governance Still in the Santos basin, we are continuing with important work in the sustainability in Galp's values, culture, and strategy and in all development of the BM-S-8 and BM-S-24 Blocks, particularly with an of its management and operations. intensive campaign to evaluate the Carcará discovery and the declaration of Continued reading of the context and its integration into our commerciality of the Sépia Leste field. operations and management decisions reflects our attitude Throughout 2015, Galp continued work on its other E&P portfolio projects, and the attention that we devote to the creation of longparticularly in Angola and Mozambique. In Angola, work continued in Block term sustainable value. In this way, we strengthen symbiotic 32, which will start production in 2017. Production also started in the Lianzi relations with shareholders and other stakeholders, which we field, whose contribution will enable the natural decline in production of the not only maintain but also encourage in order to enhance our other Block 14 fields to be partly offset. In Mozambique, the Rovuma basin longevity and robustness as an Organization. Area 4 consortium, of which Galp is a member, continued to mature its Indeed, our Company strategy was designed to ensure that engineering solutions and project customization, both onshore (Mamba) and we are in a position to meet the challenges that the energy offshore (Coral). sector will face as a result of ongoing changes. Our strategy In Refining & Marketing (R&M), we ensured high levels of reliability and takes account of the expected increases in world demand availability of the refining equipment, which helped us to gain from for oil and natural gas over the next few decades and favourable international refining margins. Distribution and marketing of addresses international negotiations, particularly the United oil products also made an important positive contribution to revenues Nations Framework on energy and climate. In this context, generated. The Company's offer of value, enhanced with the launch of new we believe that integration in the value chain gives us a products and services and the reformulation of the loyalty programme for privileged position as we support it through our commitment individual clients, enabled us to take advantage of the recovery in the oil to technological R&D and our continued focus on the products' market in the Iberian Peninsula. Indeed, during 2015, the Iberian sustainability of our activities and portfolio, reinforced by a market expanded 2%, the first annual growth for nine years. proactive and attentive attitude towards emerging changes, not only in our own sector, but also in other industries with In the area of Gas & Power (G&P), we searched for and found new strong technological tendencies. opportunities for the sale of liquefied natural gas (LNG) in the international market and we continued to develop and consolidate the network trading In 2015, we reached a historic milestone in the life of our business in the European area. In Portugal, we strengthened our position in Company, with the E&P business reaching 60 thousand the electricity market, while in Spain we repositioned the natural gas supply barrels of oil equivalent per day (kbopd). This goal was business by focusing on the corporate sector. reached due, in particular, to the output of the Santos basin in Brazil, where four production units are operating The strategy as defined, together with excellent operational performance, at cruising speed and a fourth is in the production ramp-up meant that Galp ended 2015 in a strong financial position, providing the process, with uneven productivity levels in the sector. company with flexibility and confidence in the implementation of the investment plan mapped out up to the end of this decade. We therefore In passing, I wish to highlight the excellent execution of this reiterate our commitment to a solid capital structure and strict financial important project. In 2015, the BM-S-11 Block concession discipline. holders and their suppliers managed to achieve the start of production in the fourth unit before the originally scheduled The future will bring more responsibility and greater challenges. We expect date. In 2016, the delivery of two additional FPSO production the macroeconomic environment to remain uncertain and volatile, with units is planned, to contribute to sustained growth in an extended period of low oil prices, but also some economic recovery in production throughout the year. At the same time, during the Iberian Peninsula. The Company will therefore focus its efforts on the 2015 the consortium implemented significant measures implementation and profitability of its projects, by maximizing the realization to mitigate the execution risks associated with the three of value from its portfolio assets and current business, which we will need replicant units to be assigned to the Lula field by 2018, with a to complement by developing new projects and opening new markets to Galp Sustainability Report 2015 9 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? promote the creation of sustainable long-term value for our For the second consecutive year, we also appeared in the FTSE4Good, proof stakeholders. of the consistency of our vision and action in relation to sustainability. Finally, we achieved the best position, among O&G companies, in the Corporate Successful execution of this strategy will depend in large part Knights Global 100 ranking, in which we are now in 16th place worldwide. on human development that enhances technical expertise and soft skills, the consolidation of a culture of merit and For a better understanding of this information, I invite readers to familiarise entrepreneurship and a commitment to closer involvement themselves, throughout this report, with the six sustainability commitments with the world of technology and science. In 2015, we we have made and our approach to meeting them. continued to invest in advanced training programmes designed to meet the skills profiles required for successful implementation of the Company strategy. Guaranteed protection of the environment, individuals, assets and the communities in which we operate, together with the adoption of ethical conduct, will remain the essential preconditions of our action. This is the view of the future Carlos Gomes da Silva and the creation of long-term value that we recommend Chief Executive Officer to our stakeholders, recognised as it is by various credible institutions that rate us as a leading company, for example the DJSI, the Carbon Disclosure Project, the FTSE4Good and the Corporate Knights. In 2015, Galp was included for the fourth consecutive year in the DJSI, confirming its membership of the exclusive group of companies listed in the “Europe” and “World” indices. Meanwhile, in the CDP, we achieved the maximum score of 100 in the Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI), and the company also appeared in The Climate ‘A’ List, which rates performance. 10 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 1.2 About this report Dear readers, We are proud to present our tenth Sustainability This report – and our commitment to future Report, thus continuing the annual reporting cycle. publications – underlines our contribution to The report content refers to the calendar year 2015 sustainable development to meet the needs and and includes, where possible, appropriate and relevant expectations of our stakeholders. Accordingly, information on the key indicators for 2013 and 2014. throughout the report, we identify the key economic, Accordingly, we believe we are offering a perspective social, and environmental impacts of our activity and on our growth and development along this path of we offer our vision, commitments, goals, and actions creation of sustainable value. for measuring and managing them. As with reports in previous years, we have once again At Galp, we understand that lasting stakeholder followed the methodology of information consolidation relations are built on the principles of transparency and reporting, covering all business operations in which and trust. As in previous years, therefore, we sent this we have a share greater than or equal to 50% and/ Sustainability Report for appraisal by a duly accredited or operational control. Notwithstanding the above, independent external expert – PwC. Thus, we are whenever justified by the interests of our stakeholders, confident that the information presented will generate we also present information on non-operated activity sufficient trust with our stakeholders to support their in which we have a minority capital holding, in decision-making in relation to our Company. accordance with our share, particularly those in the area of Exploration & Production (E&P). Any doubts or suggestions should be addressed to the This report was drafted in accordance with the following contacts: Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), latest version, GRI 4.0, “In Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. accordance – Comprehensive” option. Hence, our report complies with the reporting definition principles Open Company – content and quality. We have also taken account Division of Strategy and Investor Relations of the GRI Oil & Gas (O&G) industry supplement guidelines. Rua Tomás da Fonseca, Torre C In order to comply with the GRI guidelines, in our 1600-209 Lisbon, Portugal report we undertook a more detailed exploration of the Tel.: +351 217 240 866 themes classed as material (see chapter 5. What are the material issues?). We therefore focus on associated Fax: +351 217 242 965 impacts and describe initiatives for their management E-mail: investor.relations@galpenergia.com and mitigation and we report on our performance through KPIs. Other areas, not covered in this report, www.galpenergia.com continue to be monitored by the Company through constant oversight and continuous improvement processes. We wish you a pleasant reading! To this end, we invite all our stakeholders to complement their perusal of this report with information available from other relevant sources, Galp such as the corporate website  and the Sustainability Channel , the Annual Report and Accounts (R&A)  and the Corporate Governance Annual Report . At Galp, we also apply the principles of constant stakeholder inclusion, relevance, and accountability of the AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard (AA1000APS 2008). Accordingly, we have increased the involvement of our stakeholders in our identification, awareness, and capacity to respond to the issues and concerns highlighted. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 11 About Us 12 Galp Sustainability Report 2015 13 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Quais são os temas materiais? How do we tackle them? Annexes 2.1 How we arrived here: the new millennium 2.1 How we arrived here: the new millennium 14 Galp Sustainability Report 2015 15 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 2.2 Our operation chain 2.2 Our operational chain 16 Galp Sustainability Report 2015 17 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 2.3 Where we have reached 2.3 Where we have reached 18 Galp Sustainability Report 2015 19 What did we achieve in 2015? 20 Galp Sustainability Report 2015 21 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? 3.1 Indicators 2013 2013 2013 12,342 4.70 30 2014 2014 Volume of 2014 containment Water 10,058 3.99 10 GHG losses that consumption emissions reached the (10 m ) 3 3 2015 2015 2015 (scope 1, 2 environment 10,535 and 3) (mt) 4.43 (m3) 99 2013 2013 2013 1.0 0 224,209 2014 2014 2014 Lost Time 1.4 Fatalities 0 Training 173,370 Injury (No.) (h) Frequency 2015 2015 2015 Rate (LTIFR) 1.3 1 177,578 2013 2013 2013 1,141 3,669 69% 2014 2014 2014 EBITDA 1,314 10,100 Degree of 88% (€ m) Corporate execution 2015 volunteering 2015 of actions 2015 (h) resulting 1,564 33,720 from audits 90% (%) 22 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 3.2 Relevant events at Galp in 2015 Galp Sustainability Report 2015 23 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? 3.3 External rankings and recognitions 2015 24 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes Galp Sustainability Report 2015 25 What is the strategic framework? 26 Galp Sustainability Report 2015 27 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? 4.1 The challenges 4.1 The challenges The O&G industry has witnessed, and often promoted, major technological and social changes over the last How will the global gas century, in the face of constant challenges, which it market absorb the increase managed to overcome by constant adaptation to the existing context. Its reflection on current challenges in LNG production capacity, means that both needs and trends can be anticipated, expected by 2025? and gives an important contribution to the strategic If all the LNG projects currently under construction and planning of our Company. planned until the middle of the next decade are realized, there is expected to be a temporary output surplus in How will the evolution of the the market by 2020. However, given the forecasts of most demand growth estimates, this surplus should marginal cost of production lead to a deficit after 2020, if new projects are not affect the profitability of E&P approved. This scenario will be accentuated by increased shortactivity? term pressure on the supply side which will tend to increase the competitiveness of natural gas compared The marginal cost of oil production is influenced to other energy alternatives and may accelerate the by a wide range of variables. The average rate of transition from coal to natural gas. International hydrocarbon recovery, exploration costs, and the tax policies to combat climate change, reinforced by the burden are variables that have a direct impact on the Paris Agreement in late 2015, will also contribute marginal cost of production. positively to the acceleration of this transition. Innovation and technological development have The increase in installed natural gas liquefaction led to permanent improvements in exploration and capacity will enhance the movement of natural gas development costs and growth in recovery rates, by sea and lead to a global market in natural gas, with leading to increasingly efficient production of resources. prices in regional markets differentiated only by interThe very steep learning curves in upstream deep-water regional logistics costs. activity and the production of shale oil have led to substantial cost reductions, which have exceeded the expectations of the industry itself. How will the European There is, however, room for further improvement, refining industry cope with particularly through greater standardization and the excess installed capacity? simplification of processes and enhanced knowledge Despite the apparent surplus in installed capacity sharing between stakeholders – operators, partners, compared to forecast demand in the European market, service providers and public bodies. An extended period refining margins in 2016 are expected to remain higher of oil prices at the levels recorded over the last year than the average of recent years, supported by global will also lead to reflection on tax competitiveness by demand for petrol and the crude oil surplus in the producer countries, despite the budgetary pressures market exerting downward pressure on the price of raw that many are experiencing, to address the risk, if prices materials. remain where they are, of resource exploration itself The return of Iranian crude to the European market being jeopardized. and the lifting of the ban on the export of US crude Integrated analysis of these factors suggests there will should enhance the competitiveness of the European be a gradual and structural reduction in the marginal refining industry. Planned investments in new refining costs of production and a sustainable return on crude capacity and the modernization of existing capacity, oil assets that are lower than average amounts in particularly in the Middle East and Russia, may be recent years. However, as a result of the decrease partially threatened by falling revenues in oil producing in asset reserves in production and increased global countries. Any delay or elimination of productive demand, due to consumption growth in emerging capacity in these regions will reduce pressure on economies, the industry's marginal cost of production European refining. will tend to increase due to the need for new However, surplus refining capacity in Europe is expected investments and a rise in the price of oil over time can to continue in the medium term, forcing the industry to therefore be expected. make greater efforts to be competitive at global level, through initiatives such as capacity rationalization and investments to promote increased refining margins to ensure that the existence of an area of influence will remain sufficient competitive advantage in an oversupply environment. To this end, refineries that are located to enable the placement of a significant part of their production in their natural area of influence will be particularly favoured. 28 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes How will the energy sector respond to the dilemma of increased global demand conditioned by active decarbonisation policies? All global energy demand scenarios for the coming decades forecast a very large share of crude oil and natural gas in the energy mix, with an increase in the total consumption of these two resources. Natural gas will actually be the primary energy source with the highest absolute growth. Petroleum products still have no alternatives enabling their large-scale replacement in an enormous range of applications such as transport and the petrochemical industry. In turn, natural gas will play a fundamental role in the transition to a lower carbon economy (as a natural alternative to coal consumption, which will decline sharply) by acting as a backup to mitigate the intermittent output of renewable energies used in power generation. The O&G industry will therefore be one of the main actors in the implementation of policies to combat climate change. The sector's main mission will continue to be optimization of its operations, to guarantee market supply while complying with the most exacting environmental practices and promoting minimization of its potential impacts throughout the value chain, particularly by promoting energy efficiency measures. This goal will be achieved by increased investment in innovation and technological development. Investment in the past made it possible to guarantee the natural resources that supply world markets today. It is the investments of today and tomorrow that will make it possible to complete the transition to a less energyintensive economy, without undermining the quality of life of the world's population. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 29 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? 4.2 Our strategy 4.2 Our strategy A sustainable strategy guarantees greater To ensure the success of this strategy, our priority competitiveness and enables opportunities and is disciplined execution of current projects, in terms risks to be anticipated and managed so that the of planned timings and costs, to ensure that they protection of long-term value can be ensured. proceed in accordance with best practices in matters of safety and environmental protection. Galp is seeking to become an integrated energy operator, with sustainable creation of value for Maximizing the additional value to be extracted our shareholders. In this context, a clear Company from existing assets and businesses will also be development and growth strategy has been a key factor. The increase in the oil and natural developed, with a focus on enhanced E&P activity, gas recovery factors of E&P projects, increased integrated with an efficient and competitive efficiency and cost reductions and a focus on human downstream and gas business, supported by robust capital and technological capacity building, are financial capacity, skilled human resources, and some of the tools that will enable the Company to sustainable practices. extract more value from its business. This strategy will lead to asset capitalization Finally, to ensure the sustainability and future and enhanced competitive advantages for the growth of the Company, new areas of value creation Company as it addresses the inherent dynamics will need to be explored by developing new projects, and challenges of the energy sector, which require businesses, and markets, to guarantee that the sustainable approaches to the increase in global Company's portfolio provides adequate returns energy demand and commodity price volatility. after 2020. 30 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes Human Capital Successful execution of the strategy will depend largely We believe that cooperation and experience on value-added human capital development. This will sharing are fundamental to value creation and the enhance technical skills, but also soft skills, such as analysis and implementation of new and innovative impact and influence on stakeholders at all levels of the Organization. technological solutions and new businesses. The human capital strategy prioritises attracting, developing, motivating, and retaining people, expressed in a new culture of autonomy, accountability, and meritocracy. It will be essential to ensure an offer of Financial Discipline value for employees, so that they can realize their To implement the business strategy successfully, it will potential and enhance their skills based on new be essential to pursue high levels of financial discipline challenges and an Organization that values excellence. to maintain a robust capital structure. Currently, the Company's priority is to allocate capital to the E&P The implementation of the strategy will also depend business, particularly by developing approved projects, largely on the efficacy of the organizational and supported by portfolio management focusing on governance model and the extent to which it is generating liquidity, diversifying risk and monitoring harmonized with the goals set by the Company. These and realizing value. Proper execution of this strategy models will define the characteristics and levels of will guarantee protection of shareholder value and leadership of existing processes and technology, returns that are in keeping with the profile and context people, experience and individual skills, in addition of the Company and the industry. to the ways in which responsibility and functional autonomy are defined and implemented. Operational Excellence Partnerships At Galp, we seek to develop our business activity At Galp, we actively promote management of sustainably, by enhancing our competitive advantages relationships with our stakeholders, particularly the and continuous assessment of new opportunities to development of lasting and successful partnerships reinforce the Company's vision. with leading energy sector companies and the scientific and technological community. We believe that cooperation and experience sharing are fundamental to value creation and the analysis and implementation of new and innovative technological solutions and new businesses. Research and Technology (R&T) In our Organisation, we actively promote innovation, research, and technological development as fundamental elements in the extraction of added value from the asset portfolio and Company sustainability. In particular, we invest in projects that provide greater value and reduce asset risks, with a special focus on the E&P area and in projects that enhance the energy efficiency of our operations and reduce the carbon footprint of our business. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 31 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? 4.2.1 Exploration & Production 4.2.1 Exploration & Production At Galp, we aim to protect and extract more value from and sharing of synergies between the parties involved and our current E&P projects portfolio – particularly the worldacross the different projects in which it participates. class pre-salt projects in the Santos basin, Brazil and in the Through an integrated approach that focuses on the longRovuma basin, Mozambique – by strengthening our position term sustainability of its portfolio, Galp will seek to enhance as an active partner in non-operated projects, preferably exploration activity, by following clear and rigorous criteria, growing through well-defined, disciplined, and value-creating particularly in relation to the definition of geographical areas, exploration activity that focuses on project profitability. allocation of capital, maintenance of a significant level of Due to the typical volatility of this industry, there will be production and materiality in participation, in order to match constant emphasis on structural cost reductions to enable the level of activity to the growth profile of the Company. optimization of the development solution and operational At the same time, there will be an emphasis on developing efficiency, thus ensuring long-term project sustainability, a project portfolio that ensures an increase in natural gas regardless of the price of oil. By ensuring project resilience, production, to meet the expected increase in demand for this the Company will be able to hold a competitive portfolio of energy source in a lower carbon footprint economy. resources for development even in a context in which fossil fuel energies lose some ground in the world energy scenario due to The Company also intends to develop, in the long-term, its efforts to combat climate change. status as a project operator and to enhance its technology capacities, knowledge and experience, which will be To increase this strategy's chances of success, we will continue fundamental aspects for the more sustainable development of to invest in enhancing the skills of the E&P team, with greater E&P activities and to enhance success and control and improve influence in consortia to promote cost reduction policies, our visibility and capacity to participate in new consortia. particularly through process optimization and standardization 32 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 4.2.2 4.2.3 Refining & Marketing Gas & Power At Galp, we seek to ensure the extraction of added value The share of natural gas and electricity in the European from the R&M business by boosting our competitiveness and world energy mix will continue to expand over in the European refining industry and in the distribution of the coming decades, so Galp believes that our G&P associated products and services in the Iberian Peninsula business will be a fundamental pillar of the integrated and in Africa. energy operator strategy. It will be essential to integrate R&M activities more closely It will be necessary to guarantee the future supply by aligning production profiles and volumes with sales of natural gas by accommodating the end of current of petroleum products in the area of influence of the contracts and building a diversified, competitive and refineries. Greater focus on the energy efficiency and flexible portfolio and ensuring access to the natural procedural optimization of refinery infrastructure, to gas infrastructure, particularly transport and storage enable cost reductions and an increase in returns on the capacity, to support commercial activity. capital deployed, will also be fundamental in maximizing We need to retain our strategic role as an integrated cash flow generation. supplier of natural gas and electricity in the Iberian We will also seek to enhance the result of trading market while simultaneously exploring the attractions operations in oil and oil products in international markets, of new markets. by exploring opportunities that take advantage, in Trading activity will continue to promote a balance particular, of geographical proximity to the African and between mediumand long-term contracts and spot North American markets. operations, to support marketing activity and to take advantage of market opportunities. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 33 What are the material issues? 34 Galp Sustainability Report 2015 35 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? 5. What are the material issues? At Galp, we have implemented a set of processes to ensure that sustainability issues are identified and prioritized. Accordingly, we take the GRI's guidelines as our benchmark, together with the 5-Part Materiality Test proposed by AccountAbility, the United Nations Environment Programme and Stakeholder Research Associates. The implementation of these methodologies guides us in understanding the key challenges that we face and that affect the ability of our Company to create long-term value. Hence, we act quickly and productively, contributing to continuous improvement in our performance and consolidating the creation of sustainable value. WHAT WE DO WHY IS IT IMPORTANT? We monitor significant articles, new items, newsletters and Understanding trends and emerging issues, particularly publications on sustainability; in the O&G sector, means that we are normally well 1. Understanding We take part in working groups worldwide; prepared to manage the main short-, mediumand longterm opportunities and risks. trends and We participate in national and international conferences; We participate in training and workshops on sustainability emerging issues issues; We share sustainability information internally. 2. Company values, We respect and reflect the identity, culture, and values of our Alignment with the policies, values, and commitments Company in our action in sustainability matters, as well as the means that we can act in an integrated manner and commitments we have signed and the relevant policies that we create the capital of a sustainability culture. We policies and have devised for their implementation. therefore enact best practices and promote, in a consistent and reflective manner, the creation of longWe have defined objectives and goals in sustainability matters, term value. commitments and initiatives and actions for their implementation up to 2020. We develop benchmarking analyses and we identify the The results of the benchmark analyses provide an best sustainability practices of our peers and benchmark understanding of the best practices that ensure the inclusion 3. Benchmarking and companies; of long-term challenges in value-creation strategies. In turn, analysis of our performance, through external We consider the recommendations of consultants, recommendations and internal evaluation, enables us performance industry experts, benchmark organizations, financial and to identify our strengths and weaknesses and guides us sustainability analysts, insurers and others; towards the implementation of actions that facilitate better We monitor the Company's performance, using Balanced performance. analysis Scorecards and Performance Reports submitted and presented to the Board of Directors every quarter. 4. Stakeholder We explicitly involve our stakeholders and the Company Stakeholder consultation, both internal and external, itself in the identification, prioritization, and evaluation of the is one of the key success factors of organizations relevant issues through a formal consultation process. seeking to address sustainable development. Indeed, we approach stakeholder consultation processes as consultation For more detail on the most recent stakeholder consultation process, please see section 6.2.1 Dialogue with stakeholders. excellent opportunities for the collection of views and the identification of expectations and important issues. 36 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes So, what are the material issues? The processes identified above are, therefore, part of the foundation of the construction of our materiality matrix. This positions the various issues, through the weighting of our internal perspective and that of our stakeholders, and is the guiding light for our action priorities and, therefore, our sustainability report. The analysis of the aspects evaluated the issues in order of importance, which reflected the following: • How the issue reflects the economic, social and/or environmental impacts (positive or negative) of our Company; • How the issue might affect the way our stakeholders evaluate our Company and/or their decisions; • Whether or not the issue has high potential to add or remove value to/ from the Company or the society/ community in which it operates, particularly its most important stakeholders. How do material issues affect the content of the report? Galp Sustainability Report 2015 37 How do we tackle them? 38 Galp Sustainability Report 2015 39 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes Estabelecendo compromissos internos By establishing internal HOW DO WE TACKLE THEM? commitments BY ESTABLISHING INTERNAL COMMITMENTS BY TAKING ON EXTERNAL COMMITMENTS MAINTAINING AN ACTIVE KNOWLEDGE NETWORK COMMITMENT I COMMITMENT III COMMITMENT V Acting responsibly and ethically, Valuing human capital Ensuring the protection of the environment, ensuring the best governance people and assets CONTINUOUSLY practices and transparency MONITORING PERFORMANCE COMMITTING MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEES PROMOTING A CULTURE OF SUSTAINABILITY AND ENSURING EMPLOYEE AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING COMMITMENT II Commitment IV COMMITMENT VI Engaging with the community Helping to satisfy future energy Promoting innovation, and other stakeholders and needs and minimize the intensity of the research and technological encouraging the creation of shared carbon footprint development value 40 Galp Sustainability Report 2015 41 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? WHAT WE HAVE ALREADY IMPLEMENTED WHAT WE WILL DO (2016-2020) • We have created an organizational model • 30% of the Board of Directors will be female to establish transparency and efficiency in by 2018. strategy execution and value creation. • We will provide all employees with training on • We have a Remuneration Policy that sustainability issues, the Code of Ethics and encourages alignment of the performance of Conduct, anti-corruption and the protection executive directors with the sustainable longof human rights, through an e-learning tool term interests of the Company. (under way). • We have implemented corporate codes, • We will continue the programme of audits policies, instruments and / or systems: risk for compliance with the Code of Ethics and management; anti-corruption; conflicts of Conduct and anti-corruption. interest; purchasing; human rights; pay; COMMITMENT I dividend distribution; reporting to the market. • We will promote an assessment on the implementation of the Code of Ethics and Acting responsibly and ethically, • We have published a new Code of Ethics Conduct and develop regular audits of the and Conduct and whistle-blowing procedure efficacy of the whistle blowing procedure. ensuring the best governance and have created the Ethics and Conduct practices and transparency Committee which takes over, in its functions, • We will define and implement the overall the Ethics Code Compliance Verification Group compliance programme (2016-2020), We recognize that our decisions must Committee and the Anti-Corruption Policy for which we will also develop a Joint Ventures be guided by integrated, progressive Monitoring Committee, which have been (JV) Policy. weighting of the various risks, and must formally wound up. • We will raise the awareness of employees consider the rights and expectations • We have disciplinary procedures for failure on the Group compliance function as part of of those who are affected by our to comply with the general rules of conduct our compliance training and communication business. Governance practices must be established in the Code of Ethics and Conduct priority, to promote training campaigns on a and the Anti-Corruption Policy. range of issues, such as anti-corruption and continually improved, in order to optimize internal compliance standards (2016-2020). the management of the Company and • We have created a Compliance area and we the creation of value, emphasizing its have enhanced the counterparty analysis • We will develop the Know Your Counterparty long-term element. Transparency is a mechanisms and procedures of Know mechanisms currently in place (as part cornerstone of relationships of trust in Your Counterparty (KYC) and Know Your of Third-Party Diligence)/Know Your Transaction (KYT). Transaction, using information technology society and is increasingly demanded by to promote alignment with best international stakeholders. • We have developed critical skills in compliance practices. issues. • We will enhance our participation in national • We ensure that the Joint Operating and international bodies working on OBJECTIVES: Agreements (JOA) to which we are party compliance, ethics, and corruption issues. contain corruption risk prevention clauses. • Ensuring integrated risk management • We will carry out an evaluation of the to build a culture of strategic, • We have tools for the evaluation of our implications of the Ruggie Framework in the financial, operational and compliance counterparties in relation to compliance geographical areas that are most vulnerable/ risk management at all levels of the matters. at risk in this matter (under way). Organization, to ensure the definition • We have a working group within the Risk • We will define criteria and methods to respond and understanding of the Company's Committee, assigned to compliance, to adverse public information of a legal nature risk appetite, particularly in relation to environment, quality and safety and about Galp. emerging risks. regulatory change issues. • We will guarantee the publication of an • Ensuring the existence, actual • We deliver training on risk management in the internal standard to regulate procedures in implementation and control/monitoring Academia Galp and in thematic conferences. response to fraudulent practices in contract arrangements with natural gas clients (2016). of instruments and policies to ensure • We apply the Galp radar concept to transparent and ethical action that guarantee the integrated and systematic complies with applicable legislation and management of the various risks we face. regulation. • We have an internal audit programme for issues such as internal control, compliance, • Ensuring the inclusion of the Company's governance, among others and we have sustainability concerns in the reviewed the plan on specific requirements appropriate governance model, to guide relating to human rights, labour rights, and it towards the creation of long-term corporate responsibility. value and safeguarding the interests of • We have a Tax Policy for inclusion in shareholders. the Group strategy, safeguarding risk management and transparency. • We have a Sustainability Committee, which meets four times a year and is chaired by the executive director of the respective area of responsibility. • We have taken on external commitments: Fórum Empresas para a Igualdade (Companies for Equality Forum); EITI. 42 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes By establishing internal commitments WHAT WE HAVE ALREADY IMPLEMENTED WHAT WE WILL DO (2016-2020) • We have developed corporate policies and • We will implement the Galp Brand strategies: Community Investment Policy, repositioning project by reinforcing the Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy, issue of sustainability, including an investor Purchasing Policy, Quality Policy. consultation procedure (under way). • We have reviewed the Purchasing Policy • We will evaluate the community impact of with enhanced reflection of social and our investments by defining key performance environmental concerns. indicators (KPI) (under way). • We have strengthened the auditing process • We will continue with the volunteer projects of our critical suppliers to ensure compliance promoted by Galp Voluntária. For 2016, with our sustainability requirements (e.g. we have a commitment to provide 870 Health, Safety and Environment (HSE), ethics volunteers to carry out a total of 7,700 hours' COMMITMENT II and human rights). volunteering. Engaging with the community • We use management tools to measure the • In the Missão UP, we will maintain the level of impact of our Company in society: the London involvement of the school community. and other stakeholders and Benchmarking Group (LBG) methodology. encouraging the creation of shared • We will develop a social responsibility • We have a corporate volunteering programme as part of the Millennium Goals. value programme: Galp Voluntária (Galp structured programme of corporate volunteering). • We will continue to implement the NP 4469 The creation of shared value is standard requirements, as part of the a condition for maintaining the • We have developed formal and regular implementation of the Social Responsibility relationships on which we depend to stakeholder consultation processes, based on Management System, via the Driver project. the appropriate mapping. ensure our longevity. Our engagement • We will restructure the stakeholder efforts must therefore focus on creating • We use specific interaction channels tools for engagement corporate plans (under way). shared value. Engagement with the different stakeholders: customers (Estrela programme, European Customer Satisfaction • As part of the Mozambique investment community is increasingly important in programme, we will structure and implement the context of our Organization. Index (ECSI), Brand Reputation Index); suppliers (audits, Supply4Galp); investors a community investment initiative in the (Capital Markets Day), etc. country. • We implement stakeholder engagement and • We will develop a communication campaign OBJECTIVES: community support programmes: Missão UP for our sustainability commitments (2016), in (Up Mission); Galp Energia Solidária (Galp line with the brand repositioning. • Guaranteeing a stakeholder engagement process, based on the Energy Solidarity); Aliança para a Prevenção • We will answer the needs of specific Rodoviária (Road Safety Alliance). stakeholder groups when creating kits with relevant mapping, regular consultation plans, the organizational strategy and • We have developed a stakeholder contextual and performance information engagement plan in Mozambique. to support their decision-making (e.g. the external context and trends. sustainability media kits and investor kits). • Ensuring that engagement initiatives • We have set up a programme of investments in Mozambique involving the evaluation of • We will implement the online portal/counter undertaken seek to create shared for the free market in natural gas and we over 100 projects from 25 organizations in the value and measure the resulting country, assessed against a range of criteria, will execute the Natural Gas processes and impacts (positive and negative) for the including the UN priorities, our strategy, risks, systems automation programme to improve Company and for its stakeholders. and opportunities in relation to generation of the quality of the service to clients (2016). inclusive social businesses. • Ensuring the existence, actual implementation and control/monitoring • Fundação Galp Energia (Galp Energia of instruments and policies that ensure Foundation) has been operating since 2009. management of relationships and • We have developed deals with advantageous commitments between the Company conditions, including the GalpOn and Energy3 and its stakeholders. service. • Ensuring that all projects include a • We have implemented the Q2C system, which stakeholder engagement plan and aims to guarantee the quality of our products. social impacts assessment, in order • We have developed training initiatives for to mitigate adverse impacts and the Mozambican technicians of the National risks regarding operations and the Hydrocarbon Company (ENH) and the staff Company’s reputation. of the official institutions which the Company deals with in Mozambique. • Honouring external commitments (e.g. • We have developed Saber +: Advanced United Nations Global Compact). Management Course for Resellers. • We have developed a Galp E&P Management System for E&P projects that we do not operate, in accordance with the functional processes and approval rules in E&P JVs and with JOAs and other JV contractual provisions. • We have organized awareness-raising campaigns and provided information on efficient/environmentally friendly driving for drivers. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 43 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? WHAT WE HAVE ALREADY IMPLEMENTED WHAT WE WILL DO (2016-2020) • We have developed corporate policies: • We will continue with the implementation of human resources management; training; HR policies in our various affiliates in Africa remuneration. and Brazil. • We provide a package of benefits for • We will develop new employee training employees in addition to those provided in the initiatives in Africa. Labour Code. • We will continue with internal training • We offer long-term incentives (three years) initiatives to raise awareness on sustainability for first line staff and we apply sustainability issues, in particular through a customized factors in employee performance evaluation e-learning tool on sustainability and the (QSES Factor), to encourage talent retention implementation of the EQSS Academia and the Organization's commitment to long(under way). term value creation. • We will strengthen regulations for COMMITMENT III • We have taken on external commitments: employment practices, in line with benchmark Fórum Empresas para a Igualdade. good practices. Valuing human capital • We have talent recruitment and management • As part of our membership on the Fórum programmes: Generation Galp; Mapping Empresas para a Igualdade: We will devise a The success of our Company depends on Potential; Leaders for the Future; Developing usage guide with inclusive language; we will our staff. In an increasingly competitive Leaders@Galp; Maturing Leaders@Galp; provide training on gender equality and work/ world, we need to position ourselves mobility programmes. life balance; we will include the topic in the as an attractive employer that offers Conhecer + (Meet +) programme and in the • We offer training programmes, particularly Academia (under way). conditions in which the talent of our staff in Academia Galp, with courses designed to can be captured, developed, and retained enhance key skills. • We will identify high-potential young so that the Company can build its people with whom we will define Personal capacity to exploit its growth potential. • We use human capital management tools: Development Plans (Mapping Potential a system of performance management by programme) (under way). objectives and skills with 360˚feedback; ROI (return on investment) of human capital; • We will develop the equality and diversity plan OBJECTIVES: organizational climate diagnoses and for our operations in Spain, covering issues resulting action plans; new recruit induction such as gender equality, disability, work/life • Offering good conditions for attracting programme; functional mobility programmes, balance plan and sharing values between and retaining talent in national and etc. generations. international contexts, reducing • We disclose our corporate values throughout • We will review and update the performance turnover and the associated direct the Company. assessment system (under way). costs and loss of value. • We raise awareness on travel risks, • We will continue to recruit local employees: • Creating an organizational climate particularly through dissemination of the We will safeguard the guiding principle of that promotes a sense of belonging Traveller's Manual and we have established prioritizing local recruitment in the countries in and career opportunities and personal Journey Management Plans. which Galp operates (> 90%) (2015-2020). development, so that every employee • We have developed non-occupational health • We will establish new strategic lines for feels motivated, has a sense of and wellness initiatives, covering issues such human capital, through the development of vocation in their work, explores his as healthy living habits, obesity, nutrition and two programmes: strategic programme 1, full potential and thus maximizes the healthy eating, psychosocial risks and stress, to promote the Galp culture, and strategic Organization's ROI in its human capital. active life, etc. programme 2, to develop critical skills (under way). • Ensuring that training and development • We hold regular staff meetings to promote programmes are in place to enhance internal networking, align the culture and • We will establish Sustainability Day in the values and to promote the Company's Company, involving managers in debate and our human capital and continually business strategy. networking on sustainability (2016). build capacity to implement the short-, mediumand long-term strategy of the • We have a number of internal communication • We will continue with our staff development Company. tools: mygalp (intranet), mygalp news, mygalp programmes to empower the talent of our reports, mygalp extra, mygalp magazine, employees in conjunction with the Company's • Promoting a culture of autonomy, mygalp video, mygalp info, galp press, market strategic plan. accountability, and meritocracy that watch, etc. • We will monitor the organizational climate in recognizes and rewards personal and • We have developed the employee portal, to order to increase a sense of belonging, pride, professional virtues, performance, provide a faster and simpler virtual system engagement, and motivation. commitment, and orientation to the to manage operational human resources Company's success. processes. • We will reinforce a culture of meritocracy. • We have developed an Analysis of the • We will develop new actions to reinforce • Combating discrimination and gender diversity. promoting diversity and equality Sustainability Context which we share with to favour pluralism and skills in the employees to strengthen the integration • We will implement the E&P employees hosting of sustainability in the everyday life of the programme (2016). performance of our functions and, Company. particularly, in decision-making. • We publish an internal sustainability • Promoting local recruitment, to newsletter and our market watch covers contribute to the development of the sustainability-related issues. communities where we operate and to promote the social integration of the Company and its employees. 44 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes By establishing internal commitments WHAT WE HAVE ALREADY IMPLEMENTED WHAT WE WILL DO (2016-2020) • We have implemented corporate policies: • We will continue to implement our climate Climate Change Policy; Refineries Energy Policy. change strategy and fulfil its objectives and action plans. • We have implemented a climate change strategy. • We have an ongoing strategic • We monitor our carbon footprint, and implement programme that will define Galp's and monitor energy KPIs. footprint in new energies. • We are participating in the CDP – Driving • We will review the Climate Change Sustainable Economies project, and in 2015 we Policy to address the changing context made the “A” list and maintained our maximum and mediumand long-term challenges score of 100 points in the disclosure category. (2016). COMMITMENT IV • As E&P operators, we endorsed The World • We will produce 2nd generation biodiesel Bank's “Zero Routine Flaring by 2030” initiative. through the HVO co-processing Helping to satisfy future energy technology at the Sines refinery (2020). needs and minimize the intensity • We include a benchmark carbon price, which applies across the Organization, in our • We will arrange training, internally and for of the carbon footprint investment analysis processes. business partners in logistics activities, • We implement energy efficiency projects in our on abnormal situations resulting from We must continue to interpret the Company, with our clients and in the community: climate change (2017). context in which our industry acts to meet future energy needs by delivering refineries conversion project and definition of • We will implement five energy efficiency energy in a socially just and responsible a strategic framework based on five action projects in natural gas clients (in two areas; TOP REF project (Sines); energy efficiency hotels, a private charitable institution and manner and by recognizing the need to programme in service stations (Ecoposto); Galp reduce the carbon footprint intensity of in a shopping and sports centre) (2016). Energy Solutions projects. our activities and products. • We will strengthen Galp's energy • We develop sustainable mobility solutions: Vehicle Natural Gas (VNG) project; efficiency communication services for implementation of electric charging stations; SMEs (such as the lighting diagnosis and OBJECTIVES: Living Lab Galp-Toyota project; incentives for optimization of the power factor) (2016). the use of LPG Auto vehicles; Galpshare; clients, • We will deliver five energy efficiency• Guaranteeing that the climate change employee and business partner training and training sessions to clients as part of risks and opportunities are considered awareness. Galp ProEnergy (2016). in the strategic formulation of the • We are producing low carbon energy and Company's portfolio development. diversifying our portfolio: natural gas cogeneration; Ventinveste (wind farms); • In particular, interpreting the European Parkalgar (photovoltaic energy); production and United Nations climate-energy of raw materials for biofuels (Belém, Brazil); policy contexts to assess the risks production of 2nd generation biofuels (Enerfuel and opportunities for the Company's plant). portfolio in relation to carbon fuels • We set targets for the CO2/CWT indicator to and oil and gas reserves, downstream position our Company and refineries under the activity and renewable energies. industry's benchmark. The Matosinhos refinery achieved top ten performance in the industry in • Promoting the inclusion of energy 2014. outlooks in strategy development. • We have energy certification in accordance with ISO 50001:2011 for the Sines and Matosinhos • Encouraging research and development refineries. into solutions that minimize risks and maximize opportunities related to • We characterize the risks and set climate change adaptation plans, taking account of the safety energy-climate. of the installations and the security of supply. • Promoting energy efficiency and • We obtained the International Sustainability innovative solutions to minimize the Carbon Certification (ISCC), in accordance with carbon footprint of our operations and the European Renewable Energies Directive move our whole operational chain in (RED), for our storage facilities in Gijón and Valencia. the direction of the best references and benchmarks. • We support institutes, research centres, and consortia in relation to biofuel production. • Planning adaptations to climate • We are members of the Energy and Climate change, by mitigation of the Issue Group, the Emission Trading System operational risks resulting from extreme and Energy Efficiency Task Forces, and the climate phenomena. Automotive Fuels Issue Group, in the European industry association FuelsEurope. • Coordinating social responsibility programmes with climate change • We have participated in the Methane Workshop organized by IPIECA and the Oil and Gas Climate strategy. Initiative (OGCI) and we are a member of the IPIECA/IOGP's Methane Task Force. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 45 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? WHAT WE HAVE ALREADY MPLEMENTED WHAT WE WILL DO (2016-2020) • We implement corporate policies: Health, • We will implement the G+ system in all our operations. Safety and Environment (HSE); car safety; • We will define a plan to bridge the gap between the G+ prevention of serious accidents; quality. system and the E&P HSE management system (as non• We have a HSE management system (G+ operators and future operators). System), which establishes the minimum • We will continue with the development of the Driver project requirements to be satisfied in the for the integration of management systems. operations for which we are responsible. • We will develop a crosscutting standard with definition • We have improved the integration of of Galp's requirements in the area of protection of the Environmental, Quality and Safety environment, people and assets (2016). (EQS) performance in employee and top • We will ensure that best practices are implemented, management performance assessment. keeping our references for E&P and downstream operations updated. COMMITMENT V • We have adopted the target of zero accidents with significant impact on • We are adopting the goal of zero accidents* to people, people, environment, and assets. materials and the environment. Ensuring the protection of the environment, people and assets • We have accident prevention • In 2020, we will be a benchmark in the sector in relation to programmes, such as 3S and Alerta. LTIFR. We must continue to improve our • We will guarantee the existence, compliance and suitability • We have reduced emissions from our of emergency response plans as E&P operators. health, safety, and environment refineries: 75% of NOX emissions, 66% performance by reducing the of SO2 emissions, and 83% of particulate • We will consolidate the downward trend in consumption of negative impact and maximizing the emissions (compared to 2005). resources and atmospheric emissions by activity level and we will increase the proportion of recycled waste. positive impact of our operations. • We are promoting the implementation We have to do this for our people, our of the best available techniques to • We will reduce containment losses and maintain zero assets, and our stakeholders, who accidents causing environmental damage. minimize the environmental impacts of our grant us the licence to operate and operations. • We will continue to guarantee that eco-efficiency objectives whose trust we need. and targets are defined, in accordance with the materiality • We ensure that best practices are and nature of the business. identified and integrated in E&P operations – first Galp offshore operation • We will improve relations with operators in E&P projects in Angola, Brazil, Mozambique, and Portugal, in HSE issues, OBJECTIVES: with zero accidents and zero containment and we will provide technical support. losses above 150 litres. • Guaranteeing the adoption of HSE • We will organize the HSE studies and permits/licences and security policies and standards • We have defined eco-efficiency objectives necessary as operators of E&P projects. and targets, in accordance with the to enable our commitment to • We will define a health strategy for Galp that defines the materiality and nature of the business. the protection of people, the corporate requirements for health management (under environment, and assets to be • We implement an annual EQS, energy, and way). implemented. G+ System internal auditing programme. • We will develop campaigns for risk prevention at the • We focus on the renewal of existing workplace in relation to human/sleep and psychosocial • Guaranteeing continuous factors and professional diseases. certificates and obtaining new management of the HSE and certifications: environment (ISO 14001), • We will develop a malaria and HIV prevention campaign security risks of our installations and quality (ISO 9001), safety (OHSAS 18001), (under way) and will organise awareness-raising activities operations. energy (ISO 50001), and laboratories and training for tuberculosis. (ISO/IEC 17025). • We will carry out a health, safety, and environment culture • Ensuring legal compliance and the • We develop programmes for the diagnosis (2016). adoption of benchmark practices in terms of design, operation, and promotion of health and safety of people • We will carry out a diagnosis and define an action plan for maintenance. (Vida Ativa, Vida Positiva project; PENSA the management of human factors (2016). campaign). • We will proceed to review our HSE policy, in accordance with • Promoting eco-efficiency to reduce the sustainability context and challenges (2016). • We map current and future water the consumption of resources, thus risks and the areas of protection and • We will establish the security policy and implement a guaranteeing the preservation of conservation of biodiversity surrounding corporate security management system (2016/17). biodiversity and protection of soil our facilities, using international tools such and water resources. as the Global Water Tool (GWT) and the • We will develop an e-learning module on security. Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool • We will carry out a process security diagnosis in Portugal • Promoting Best Available (IBAT). and Spain, with auditing (2016). Techniques and more efficient technologies to reduce impacts and • We establish good practice guides for • We will continue to implement annual health monitoring biodiversity management, with a focus on plans. risks. E&P operations. • We will develop health promotion campaigns, especially • Reaching the goal of zero personal, • We held a campaign on the Ebola virus with respect to tobacco, alcohol, and food. material, environmental and security and dengue prevention awareness-raising • We will implement the CuidaT programme in Spain, for the accidents. initiatives. promotion of healthy habits. • We held training on security through • We will promote the use of electronic billing for natural a tabletop simulation type exercise¸ gas clients, through a range of initiatives: strengthening involving top management and covering incentives (discounts) for customers who register for threats such as bombings, kidnappings, electronic billing; recalibration of incentives for the sales force to sell contracts with electronic billing to SMEs; spying and cyber-attacks. compulsory electronic billing for new products. 46 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes By establishing internal commitments WHAT WE HAVE ALREADY MPLEMENTED WHAT WE WILL DO (2016-2020) • We have created innovative projects at Galp, • We will invigorate R&D projects in defined with our clients and other business partners: strategic areas: energy efficiency, sustainable mobility, and renewable energies, in line with R&M (Ginseng project, TOP REF, energy the business strategy for the creation of efficiency projects in service stations); shareholder value and to contribute to the E&P (seismic imaging); well-being of society (2015-2020). Clients (SMART Galp; Galp 20-20-20 • We will implement the strategic R&D plan for whose programme enabled us to achieve E&P activities in Brazil, with an investment of a 10% to 15% reduction in the energy around USD 100 million by 2020. consumption of the clients covered); other • As part of the R&D programmes in the area of business partners (COMET programme). E&P, we will focus on research areas such as • We have created R&D partnerships with the CO2 capture and reuse, improvement in fluid scientific and technological community: flow conditions, the study of reservoirs, the COMMITMENT VI ISPG – Institute of Oil and Gas; development of materials and equipment, increased hydrocarbon recovery (EOR – Promoting innovation, research Doctorate and Masters in Petroleum Enhanced Oil Recovery) and the application of computer technology to the oil and gas and technological development Engineering (ISPG and Heriot-Watt industry. University); The competitiveness of our industry, • We will complement research to be Fuel R&D Unit programme (partnership with particularly in the context of the undertaken in Brazil with national and the University of Coimbra); expansion of our Company, is European projects involving other Portuguese increasingly demanding from a EngIQ business doctoral programme; entities, in particular universities, thus technological point of view, so the developing integrated projects to promote Galp Innovation network; Galp's relationship with the scientific and focus on innovation, research and development is of growing importance We joined the + Atlantic petroleum and gas academic systems, with the participation of in safe, viable, and competitive energy industrial observatory; ISPG. production. • We will disseminate innovation in the Group Agreement with the National Scientific and Technological Council, under the Brazilian and its environment, by creating a multiplier Sciences without Frontiers programme; effect of identification of opportunities and generation of ideas. OBJECTIVES: Scientific and Technological Forum, etc. • We will develop new processes, products, • Promoting a culture of innovation, not • We developed R&D programmes in the area of technologies, services and business models, only in terms of technology, but also E&P: providing our clients a differentiated, relevant, process, product, services, business and innovative offer. Production of oil in fluid-holding carbonate model, creating the environment reservoirs with a high percentage of CO2; • Under the promoting the galp culture and stimulus for both sustained and strategic programme, which is in progress, disruptive innovation. Modelling of carbonate reservoirs; one of the components seeks to foster an Guarantee of flow; innovation and entrepreneurship culture in the • Maintaining a network with the Organization. academic and scientific systems Production installations and equipment. to promote awareness on the technological state of the art and • We developed sustainable mobility promotion initiatives. enable the creation of competitive advantages in the medium and long • We identified and attracted funding, grants term. and incentives in emerging technologies. • Ensuring the integration of research • We participated in relevant studies into O&G and development practices in the and automotive industry trends. strategic formulation of the businesses, empowering and differentiating the Company technologically and enhancing its preparedness to respond to emerging challenges. • Contributing to the reflection on the diversification of Galp's business portfolio, through the dissemination of knowledge within the Company on new trends in the energy sector and their respective potential for value creation. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 47 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? By taking on external Continuously monitoring commitments performance At Galp, we publically endorse principles and initiatives, In order to control potential deviations from the in order to demonstrate our level of commitment and to outlined objectives and goals and support decisionstrengthen trust with some of our stakeholders. making processes, at Galp we engage in performance Find out more on our website, particularly in the Sustainability monitoring as a key management tool. Accordingly, Channel . each quarter reports with key sustainability indicators and action plan monitoring are produced and distributed by the Business Units and Executive Committee. Committing management and employees In order to promote the integration of sustainable value creation in the management of activities and ensure the commitment of management and employees, at Galp we include sustainability factors in the performance evaluation system. We therefore have a composite indicator, known as the Environment, Maintaining an active Quality, Safety and Sustainability factor (EQSS factor), which influences the variable pay component of knowledge network employees and managers, with a positive impact if the EQSS objectives are achieved and a negative impact We are aware that addressing emerging material otherwise. issues requires a deep understanding of the context in which they occur. We are therefore linked to a group of For administrators, a long-term component in entities with which it is possible for us to reduce efforts performance evaluation also applies. to achieve this level of understanding. Find out more in chapter 6.1 Responsible and ethical action to guarantee best practices in governance and transparency. Promoting a culture of sustainability and ensuring employee and management training At Galp, we understand the importance of our employees' actions on the path towards sustainable growth. We have therefore acted on two fronts: culture (emotional, behavioural and internalization) and capacity building (associated with technical knowledge, tools, and methodologies). Accordingly, we act as follows: through awareness raising, to consolidate the culture of sustainability and make it part of the identity framework of our company; and through employee training so that, in our day-to-day operations, we can meet the challenges and implement the tools and methods to safeguard sustainable management. We regularly use internal communication channels to raise awareness in the Company about the challenges of sustainable value creation and we provide training on sustainability. In particular, in 2015 we started to develop a customized e-learning tool on sustainability. This will consist of a general training component and a modular component offering different chapters, focused on 48 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes topics that are more specific. This will be used to (EQSS). This will be designed in collaboration with customize and adapt our syllabuses to the needs and the most prestigious institutions working in these specifics of the various functions in the Organization, areas and will be given the seal of the EQSS Academy so that both culture and technical expertise in brand, operating as an Academia Galp course. We sustainability are enhanced. This programme will cover believe, therefore, that this will help us consolidate all our employees. and deepen knowledge for the progressive creation of skills in various areas of knowledge, which will affect Additionally, we are developing a strategic initiative of the sustainability of our Company. The programme staff capacity building, which includes the design and modules will be adapted to the level of proficiency implementation of a training programme under issues expected for the various Organizational roles, from of environment, quality, safety, and sustainability senior management to EQSS managers. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 49 Acting responsibly and ethically, ensuring the best governance practices and transparency Objectives • Ensuring integrated risk management to build a culture of strategic, financial, operational and compliance risk management at all levels of the Organization, to ensure the definition and understanding of the Company's risk appetite, particularly in relation to emerging risks. • Ensuring the existence, actual implementation and control/monitoring of instruments and policies to ensure transparent and ethical action that complies with applicable legislation and regulations. • Ensuring the inclusion of the Company's sustainability concerns in the appropriate governance model, to guide it towards the creation of long-term value and safeguarding COMMITMENT I the interests of shareholders. 50 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.1 Acting responsibly and ethically, ensuring the best governance practices and transparency 6.1.1 Corporate governance Our corporate governance model, which corresponds with powers delegated by the Board of Directors, to the monistic classical model provided in law, seeks is responsible for ongoing management of the five transparency and efficacy in the operations of our business units and the corporate centre. Company and is based on clear separation between the The current model also includes an enhanced powers of the various corporate bodies. In particular, supervision structure, which includes the Supervisory the Board of Directors is responsible for the oversight, Board, the Statutory Auditor (ROC), and the Company control and monitoring of strategic matters, as Secretary, providing expert support to the corporate well as relationships between shareholders and the bodies. other corporate bodies. The Executive Committee, Organic and Functional Structure of Galp The guiding principles underlying the organizational and functional structure of our Company are horizontality, flexibility, simplicity, efficiency and the delegation of responsibilities. We are therefore responding to the aim of creating shareholder value, particularly through the creation of synergies within and between the business units. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 51 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Corporate bodies Corporate Meetings and body Main powers and characteristics Selection and appointment attendance General The GSM consists of all shareholders and is The GSM board consists of three standing 1 meeting shareholders responsible for making decisions on matters members: a chairman, a vice-chairman, and specifically assigned to it by law and by statute 80.87% of meeting (GSM) secretary, in accordance with the definitions of and that are not assigned to other corporate share capital the statutes. bodies or management matters where so represented requested by the Board of Directors. The current members were elected at the GSM held on 16 April 2015, for the three-year term Each share carries a single vote and our company 2015-18. statutes guarantee, in full and without restriction, postal voting. The GSM decides by simple majority, with absences not counted, except in cases where the law or statutes require qualified majorities. Board of The Board of Directors is responsible for The members of the Board of Directors are 10 meetings Directors managing the Company's activities and appointed for a period of four calendar years, 93.7% stake (BD) deciding on any administrative matters or other elected by the GSM. issues not included in the exclusive powers of In the event of permanent absence or temporary the shareholders meeting at the GSM. impediment of any member of the Board of Directors, the body shall proceed to co-opt Proportion of executives and non-executives a replacement member and must submit this proposal for endorsement by the next general shareholders meeting. The proposed choice of members is presented in the form of lists, as provided in law and the Company's statutes, with an indication of the proposing shareholders. The Board members have recognised skills 20 Directors, of whom 12 are and reflect diverse academic backgrounds and non-executives, including the Chairman of professional experience. For more information, see our the Board of Directors Corporate Governance Report 2015. In order to promote the greater participation Gender balance of women in the Company’s decision-making, we made a commitment to the Portuguese government on 30 June 2015 to develop measures aimed at achieving targets for representation by women of 30% on the Board of Directors by 2018 or at the start of the next term of office. There is no defined maximum number of 2 members of the Board of Directors mandates in companies outside the Group for are women non-executive directors and in the Group for executive directors. The suitability of the level of availability of the directors is confirmed Independence through performance appraisal performed by the Remuneration Committee as well as through the work developed within the Company and the attendance at the meetings of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee. Furthermore, the legal and statutory regime provides for the end of an executive director’s mandate or his replacement by another director, being in turn appointed as non-executive director. Out of the 12 non-executive Directors, 5 For further information, see our Corporate Governance are considered to be independent Report 2015. The current members were elected at the GSM held on 16 April 2015, for the three-year term 2015-18. 52 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.1 Acting responsibly and ethically, ensuring the best governance practices and transparency Corporate Meetings and body Main powers and characteristics Selection and appointment attendance Executive The EC is the body responsible for the The Executive Committee consists of five 47 meetings Committee (EC) ongoing management of our Company, as to seven directors, including its Chairman 95% stake provided by the delegation of powers and in – (Chief Executive Officer – CEO). These line with the strategic guidelines defined by members are appointed by the Board of the Board of Directors. Directors. For the four-year term 2015-18, the Board of The assigned powers are distributed among Directors consists of seven members. the executive directors, in accordance with the functional assignments defined by the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. Remuneration The Remuneration Committee is responsible The Remuneration Committee consists of 3 meetings Committee for the definition of the remuneration policy representatives of three shareholders, elected 100% stake and the pay amounts of the members of by the GSM. the corporate bodies. This policy is annually Its members are independent of the members reviewed and approved by the GSM. of the Company's Board of Directors and This Board evaluates the performance of the supervisory bodies. executive and non-executive directors. Supervisory The Supervisory Board is responsible for The Supervisory Board consists of three 15 meetings Board oversight of corporate business in four basic standing members and one deputy member, 95.2% stake areas: (i) supervision of Company activity; elected by decision of the GSM. (ii) control of the Company's financial They meet the criteria of independence information; (iii) oversight of the internal risk and have suitable professional skills and management, control, and internal auditing qualifications for the exercise of their systems; (iv) receipt and processing of whistle functions. blowing. Statutory The Statutory Auditor performs the checks The Statutory Auditor proposed to the Not Auditor and the analyses required for the revision GSM by the Supervisory Board cannot be a Applicable and legal certification of the Company member of that company body. accounts and exercises the other powers and The current company of statutory auditors attributions assigned by law. and its deputy were elected by the GSM held on 16 April 2015, for the four-year mandate 2015-18. External The external auditor checks the application At Galp, we periodically select an external Not auditor of the policies and systems governing the auditor, as proposed by the Supervisory Applicable pay of corporate bodies and the efficacy and Board. operation of the internal control mechanisms and reports any deficiencies detected to the Supervisory Board. Company The Company Secretary provides specialist The standing Company Secretary and Not Secretary support to the corporate bodies, particularly his deputy are appointed by the Board of Applicable to the Chairs of the Board of Directors and Directors for the same mandate as the the Executive Committee, in the exercising of corporate bodies. their powers. The Secretary has the suitable profile and He acts to ensure that the performance of skills for the performance of his functions. the administrative and management bodies complies with applicable legislation, with the Company statutes and the internal regulations. For further information on each corporate body and on their members for the current mandate, see our Corporate Governance Report 2015  and our corporate website . Galp Sustainability Report 2015 53 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Specialised Committees The main specialised committees are presented below: It ensures the integration of sustainability principles in the management of the Group companies, promoting the best practices in the industry It supports and monitors the in all business, corporate and definition and execution of service areas. It consists of the risk management strategy representatives from different and policy of our Company, areas of our Company and by coordination with the Risk is chaired by the Executive Management Directorate Director of the respective and the managers of the portfolio, Dr. Carlos Costa Pina. Company's management It met 4 times in 2015. units. It is charged with monitoring the Three committees that implementation of the Code of support regulatory issues, Ethics and Conduct, clarifying market information and risk questions and receiving and management topics as well processing communications in as providing internal control relation to alleged irregularities. of natural gas and electricity Its task is also to promote distribution activity. employee training in these These committees consist matters. of the Executive Director of the portfolio of the Business Unit and the managers of the specific areas. The agenda of the Sustainability Committee's meetings in 2015 included the following matters: Nomination of members of the • Analysis of Galp's performance, its commitments, Board of Directors objectives, and goals. As mentioned above, Board members are elected by the GSM. In the event of permanent absence or • Integration of sustainability practices in business temporary impediment of any member of the Board development. of Directors, the body shall proceed to co-opt a • Alignment of Galp's sustainability practices with the replacement member and must submit this proposal best international practices and benchmarking with for endorsement by the next general shareholders peers and benchmark performers. meeting. The proposed choice of members is presented in the form of lists, as provided in the law and the • Monitoring of the stakeholder consultation process Company's statutes, with an indication of the proposing and analysis of the materiality of sustainability shareholders, being the votes solely applied over those issues. lists. • Analysis and preparation of sustainability In light of the national legal framework governing information for stakeholders, including the Limited Companies issuing securities – the Portuguese Sustainability Report. Commercial Companies Code (CSC) and the Corporate Find out more about the Sustainability Committee on our Governance Code (CGS) of the Portuguese Securities corporate website . Market Regulator (CMVM) – in Galp we do not hold a Nomination Committee. Indeed, although there is no legal obstacle to its existence per se, such a committee is not permitted to replace the shareholders in their power to elect the members of the Board of Directors (under article 391 (1) of the CSC). Accordingly, in Portugal, a Nomination Committee is merely an advisory body; therefore, it cannot be assigned powers that are recognised in other jurisdictions as good governance practices. In 2015, the CMVM – the agency that supervises and regulates the financial instruments markets – put a 54 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.1 Acting responsibly and ethically, ensuring the best governance practices and transparency proposal for amendment of the CGS out for public which may lead to the dismissal of one or more consultation. The amendment sought to establish directors. provisions for the role of Nomination and Performance The external auditor also checks that the remuneration Appraisal Committees in issuing entities. We took part policy and systems for the corporate bodies are being in this consultation and expressed our agreement that applied. The remuneration policy is put forward by the there should be such committees and that the need Remuneration Committee, following due consideration for their powers to be circumscribed by the CSC should of the recommendations of the CMVM and best be safeguarded. As of the date of publication of this corporate governance practices. It is reviewed and report, the CGS had not yet been amended. approved every year by the GSM and governed by Moreover, Article 392 of the CSC sets out the terms of three overarching principles to safeguard the interest, election of the members of the Board of Directors using culture, and long-term strategy of our Company: lists submitted by shareholders, stipulating that the vote must be based on those lists. Indeed, the vote is • Attracting and motivating the best professionals only nominal in the exceptional cases provided in law to the roles to be performed in the Company and (Articles 392 to 394 of the CSC). guaranteeing stability in the exercising of the powers of the elected members of the corporate bodies. Performance appraisal and • Providing suitable remuneration, in market conditions, for the tasks performed, results obtained and remuneration business expertise, as part of the powers and responsibilities involved in the roles performed by the Independent evaluation of the performance of members of the corporate bodies. executive and non-executive directors is provided annually by the Remuneration Committee. The • Rewarding efficiency and productivity improvements Remuneration Committee considers consultation and the creation of long-term value for shareholders, with non-executive members on the qualitative through the definition and implementation of an performance of executives and it bases its deliberations incentives system linked to objectives that can on compliance with economic, financial, and operational be measured against economic, financial, and objectives in relation to quantitative performance, as operational criteria, defined in light of sustainable defined annually in the Company Remuneration Policy. growth in income and discouragement of excessive risk-taking. Furthermore, the shareholders, in the GSM and in the exercise of their powers provided by Article 376 of the The Remuneration Policy therefore establishes a fixed CSC, undertake an appraisal of the Company's Board of monthly compensation amount, supplemented by Directors, both general and for each individual director. variable remuneration with annual and three-yearly This forms the basis of a vote of praise, confidence or components: no confidence, depending on the appraisal outcome, Galp Sustainability Report 2015 55 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? The first three-year period for which multi-year targets were set was 2013-15. The three-yearly component of the variable remuneration, There are no current plans in the Company to award although calculated annually, is only actually earned at the shares or share purchase options. end of the three years if the targets are reached. For more information on the annual pay amounts earned by the In order to provide enhanced incentives for the Galp corporate bodies, see the Corporate Governance Report 2015 . alignment of the work of executive directors with Galp's long-term sustainable interests, in 2012 a multi-year targets definition policy was introduced, effective from 2013, to defer a significant part of the variable remuneration component for three years [successive and overlapping], thus linking it to Company performance over that period. From the remuneration policy 2015 6.1.2 Risk management Our approach to risk management makes it possible to the Executive Committee, the Supervisory Board and establish coherent links between daily risk management the Board of Directors – 2nd line of defence. activities, strategic and corporate risk oversight, as well as risk monitoring and guaranteed governance, thus • Supervision and evaluation, through independent enabling the following: internal and external entities, of the effectiveness of risk management and the internal control process – • Identification and understanding of the risk 3rd line of defence. environment, evaluation, and communication of the potential value of risk exposure, definition, and The Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility implementation of the best means of capturing or for establishing the risk level that Galp is prepared mitigating this risk exposure – 1st line of defence. to accept – risk tolerance and appetite – and for guaranteeing alignment of the strategy with this risk • Monitoring of corporate risk level, definition of level. standards and regular reporting of risk and the status Find out more about the risk management model in the Annual of action plans to the Risk Management Committee, Report and Accounts 2015, chapter 6 Risk management. 56 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.1 Acting responsibly and ethically, ensuring the best governance practices and transparency Internal Control System We have implemented an internal control system. It is • To record and monitor the major risks and mitigation based on a set of policies and procedures and reflects actions. the guidelines of the “Committee of Sponsoring • To set up risk assessment at Group level. Organizations of the Treadway Commission” (CoSO). This system addresses key aspects of the internal • To provide an alignment document (Executive control of our Company: control environment, Committee, Risk Management Division and Business risk assessment, monitoring, information, and Units). communication. As part of the activity of the Risk Management We therefore apply the Galp radar concept to Committee, a working group addresses issues related guarantee the integrated and systematic management to environment, quality and safety, compliance and of the various risks we face. The radar objective is as regulatory changes. This guarantees that these follows: issues are properly integrated into the Company's risk management system. GALP GROUP RISK EVALUATION AND MISSION OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT METHODOLOGY DIRECTORATE Major risks and mitigation methods At Galp, we have identified the following as the major significant risks, particularly for the purposes of supervision by the Board of Directors and relevant committees for 2016: Major risks Other relevant risks • Disruptive events; • Attraction and retention of qualified human capital; • Failures information Systems and Cyber-Security; • Competition; • Project execution; • Credit; • Geopolitical risks; • Discovery and development of oil and natural gas • Regulatory and compliance uncertainties (including resources and reserves; climate change). • Funding and liquidity needs; • Trading losses; • Dependence on business partners; • Price and market volatility. See Annual Report and Accounts, chapter 6 Risk management, for further details on these risks and their mitigation . Galp Sustainability Report 2015 57 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Risk management qualifications At the Academia Galp (described in detail in section 6.3.7 Development of human capital), we offer internal training courses on risk management. Our goal is to provide our employees with tools for the: • Identification of risks to the Group and their impacts; • Definition and monitoring of risk KPIs; • Identification of risk management and mitigation measures; • Dissemination of the risk structure and culture in the Company. In 2015, we continued to provide training in risk management: RISK MANAGEMENT TRAINING (AS PART OF THE ACADEMIA GALP’S FORMAG RISK MANAGEMENT MODULE) HOURS OF TRAINING No. OF TRAINEES In addition to the above (as described in detail in section 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance), our Compliance manager was awarded a diploma in Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC), thus enhancing our risk management skills and its particular relationship with compliance and governance issues. Thematic conference on “Galp Risk Management” The theme was presented by the Risk Management manager. The session was devoted to our approach to risk and emphasized that it must be addressed not only as a threat but also as an opportunity. Some examples were highlighted to illustrate our position, such as refusal to enter into partnerships in particular countries that are associated with activities such as exploitation of minors. 58 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.1 Acting responsibly and ethically, ensuring the best governance practices and transparency 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance At Galp, we are committed to being governed by the The Company has developed critical skills in matters of highest standards of ethics and compliance. To make compliance. Our compliance manager attended the advanced good on this commitment, we have developed and multinational programme delivered by the International implemented various control and monitoring tools, in Compliance Association (ICA), endorsed by the Manchester particular policies, standards and procedures. Business School, resulting in the award of an International Diploma in Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC). Since January 2016, the compliance manager has been a member of the ICA, with the Company therefore classed as a corporate member with the associated benefits. Ethics and Conduct In line with our commitment, in 2015 we reviewed There are several matters covered in our new Code, our Code of Ethics and Conduct. This reflects our particularly: non-retaliation; additional expectations current approach to these issues and takes account for managers; non-discrimination; coercion; equal of the standards applicable to us, together with our opportunities; privacy and protection of personal experience. We therefore tailor the processing of data; transparency and integrity; bribery and insider issues of ethics and conduct to the new contexts influence; compliance with the law and regulation; and challenges of geographical expansion and payments to private/public entities and their diversification of our business. employees; money laundering; conflict of interest; use of business information; control of import/export and Built based on the values that characterize our Company penalties; non-solicitation; competition law; human identity, the Code’s principles and commitments are part rights; environment and corporate responsibility, of the definition of a corporate culture that rewards merit, among others. standards, and performance accountability, to strengthen transparency and develop trust in relationships with our By the end of 2016, we will send the Code to be stakeholders. accredited by a third party, to ensure alignment with the benchmark and its continuous improvement. Our Code therefore outlines the fundamental ethical guidelines of the Company’s operations in a context of Communications regarding irregularities are now ethical commitments and conduct in relation to the: addressed to the Ethics and Conduct Committee ( CEC ), through the written communication channel:  opentalk@galpenergia.com, the ethics line that ensures that the information conveyed remains confidential. The CEC, established in late 2015, is the independent and impartial internal structure responsible for monitoring the implementation and interpretation of the Code. It succeeds, in its purpose, the Ethics Code Compliance Verification Committee and the Anti-Corruption Policy Monitoring Committee, which have been formally wound up. The Code of Ethics and Conduct was published in December, together with the new whistle blowing procedure. To ensure that its provisions are understood and internalized, in addition to the inclusion of a set of questions and answers in the Code itself, the document is currently being rolled out in line with international best practices that will involve, for example, the following: • Workshop: Training session for first line Company staff, with the aim of cascading the basic structure and aspects of the Code to their Divisions. • E-learning: Training through e-learning for all The Code establishes, for each of the themes listed employees with an attendance certificate and therein, commitments and responsibilities and, no less grade. In this exercise, employees declare that they importantly, how they are to be implemented. understand the Code, and the declaration is attached to each employee's Human Resources file. See our Code of Ethics and Conduct in our website . Galp Sustainability Report 2015 59 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Respect for Human Rights Through our Human Rights Policy, we take on the policies that address, in more general terms, human commitment of promoting, respecting and enforcing rights issues such as the Code of Ethics and Conduct, internationally recognised human rights. Furthermore, Corporate Responsibility Policy and the Health, Safety we are committed to developing actions to ensure that and Environment policy, the Purchasing Policy and the none of our management and business activities cause, Community Investment Policy, among others. directly or indirectly, human rights abuses or violations. This commitment covers any geographical location, We are also committed to the actual implementation context, and situation, in addition to our value chain of this policy in our strategy and activities, with and area of influence with stakeholders. a permanent due diligence process to guarantee evaluation of the impact of the Company's activities in The policy is aligned with internationally recognised the area of human rights. We also have the objective of standards, particularly the ten principles of the Global integrating the results of this evaluation in our internal Compact, the United Nations Universal Declaration of procedures, in order to guarantee effective impact Human Rights, the Code of Conduct of the International prevention and mitigation responses, monitor their Labour Organization (ILO), among others. The policy is effect, and report the approach for their management. also coordinated with other internal instruments and We are developing, at Galp, a project to design and On what explicitly concerns social issues, we will implement a sustainability standard, including aspects address international references related to: related to human rights, with the aim of: • Human rights and relations with indigenous • Ensuring that sustainability criteria are considered communities; over the entire life cycle of O&G projects/assets; • Engagement with stakeholders; • Setting the minimum requirements in terms of • Investment in the community; sustainability in order to minimize the risks and • Socioeconomic baseline assessment; impacts and promote operational excellence; • Risk assessment and social impacts; • Establishing and strengthening international best practice on sustainability in the O&G projects life • Cultural heritages; cycle; • Social investment. • Promoting and sharing knowledge across the Organization on sustainability issues. Ethics and human rights – our suppliers As provided in our Code of Ethics and Conduct and in line with our Purchasing Policy, we seek to promote the alignment of our suppliers and business partners with the principles and requirements applied in our Company. We do this by defining behavioural practices with which our suppliers must comply in their business. The following areas are covered: These practices are verified in supplier audits which cover aspects of corporate social responsibility (as described in section 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers). See our website for the Galp Purchasing Policy . 60 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.1 Acting responsibly and ethically, ensuring the best governance practices and transparency Anti-corruption “(…) such acts are ethically reprehensible and to be rejected and GALP therefore prohibits any corrupt Our anti-corruption practices are practice, in any passive or active form, including regulated and clearly express the fact that the Company has zero appetite for frustrated attempts at corruption, through acts this risk in relationships with employees, and omissions and through the creation and business partners, suppliers and other maintenance of favourable or irregular situations.” stakeholders. in Anti-corruption Policy, NR-002/2011 Anti-Corruption Policy and related standards Corporate Responsibility Policy The Anti-Corruption Policy has been in force since 2011. Our Corporate Responsibility Policy sets guidelines It is based on a reference management system, broken for daily application in our operations and seeks to down into auxiliary implementation and execution achieve levels of excellence in the implementation of our procedures. The policy applies to the Group, corporate strategy. In matters of corruption, we are committed to bodies, employees, clients, and suppliers. implementing operational practices that seek to combat it in all its forms, including extortion and bribery, and to All corrupt practices, both active and passive, are encourage responsible procedure involvement and fair qualified and considered prohibited, including attempted competition. corruption. View this policy on our corporate website . Management of relationships with government agencies Whistle Blowing Procedure Guarantees full compliance with the basic irrevocable This procedure seeks to regulate whistle blowing in principles of professional and behavioural ethics, line with the relevant recommendation provided in the in complete correspondence with the principles of corporate governance code of the Securities Market transparency and cooperation, responsible business Commission. Its aim is to enable any shareholder, development, professional excellence, client service and employee, client or supplier freely to report any respect for people. irregularities in Galp or in its affiliates that they detect or become aware of or any well-founded suspicions thereof. Third party entertainment expenses View this procedure on our corporate website . Regulates benefits such as gifts, expenses and fees incurred for receptions, meals, travel, outings and shows, Purchasing Policy offered to clients or suppliers or any other persons, Our Purchasing Policy promotes the alignment of our including family members and public or private entities suppliers and business partners with the principles and with which our Company has a relationship. requirements applied in our Company. We do this by defining behavioural practices with which they must Contributions and donations comply in their business. It covers matters relating to Establishes the corporate rules for the allocation of grants irregularities, illegal practices and antitrust. and payment of contributions by the Group. Ensures the View this policy on our corporate website . allocation of donations in accordance with Company policies. UN Global Compact (2013) See our corporate website for the Galp Anti-Corruption Policy . In 2013, we formally signed up to the United Nations Global Compact. Through this endorsement, we are Code of Ethics and Conduct committed to respecting the ten universal principles, Our Code of Ethics and Conduct, insofar as it guides our including the anti-corruption principle, through the stakeholders in matters of payments to public and private definition of policies, setting objectives and targets and bodies and their employees, and matters of hospitality, implementing and monitoring measures. entertainment and deals, addresses corruption issues. For more information on Galp's endorsement of the UN Global View this policy on our corporate website . Compact, see the relevant website . Galp Sustainability Report 2015 61 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? We have also implemented a set of counterparty we see as essential for creating and maintaining trust in analysis mechanisms procedures (KYC – Know Your relationships with our stakeholders. Counterparty and KYT – Know Your Transaction), to To this end, we have defined policies and processes to ensure, among other things, that our relationships measure, manage, and monitor our tax exposure and we with counterparties do not inadvertently involve us in meet all of our tax obligations in our different jurisdictions corruption, money laundering or terrorist financing, of operation. among other things. Our tax department based in Lisbon works continuously To this end, we have software for the compilation of and in close coordination with employees of all Group a dataset in relation to companies and individuals companies and subsidiaries, so that synergies can be for analysis of compliance. Furthermore, we have developed with the relevant company departments, developed a questionnaire (for suppliers and business for identification of and compliance with the legal partners) on third party due diligence. This was requirements in tax matters specific to each geographical prepared following the guidelines of the International area. This enables us to align our procedures with the Chamber of Commerce for Due Diligence and, in late best international practices in tax transparency. 2015, was in its launch phase. For information on tax risks and the mitigation methods we One of the criteria of this third party due diligence employ, see the Annual Report and Accounts 2015, chapter 6 Risk questionnaire is the Corruption Perception Index (CPI), management . an indicator that we intend to use, in part and following this method, for counterparty evaluation. Fiscal lines of action Prevention of conflicts of 1 Submission of all the required forms in interest compliance with the local tax law. At Galp, we have the instruments necessary to avoid conflicts of interest. Directors are severely restricted in their business with the Company, including strict 2 Follow up and proactive approach regarding opportunities to obtain fiscal benefits. limitations on share purchases and sales (because they have inside information about the company). Moreover, in line with applicable legislation, directors 3 Monitoring of changes in relevant changes in fiscal legislation and risk analysis in order to are not permitted to carry out functions in competitor adopt mitigation measures to deal with any activities. negative impact. Beyond this, in line with international recommendations and practices in corporate governance, we have adopted a set of internal control rules and procedures 4 Management of compliance matters. for transactions with related parties, i.e. shareholders, members of the Board of Directors/supervision bodies, In order to encourage good relationships with the tax companies owned by partners, spouses and other authorities, local government and other stakeholders, we family members, etc. Accordingly, the oversight body interact in a professional, polite, and timely manner. (Supervisory Board) checks for conflicts of interest in transactions with related parties, with Company transactions with related parties being subject to the Principles of relationships with the prior opinion of this body. diverse stakeholders Furthermore, where necessary, our internal regulations take account of appropriate prevention of conflicts of interest. For instance, our Purchasing Standard. 1 Manage relationships with the tax authorities in order to reduce reputation risks derived from matters addressed Consult the corporate website for further information on the inadequately. regulations applicable to Galp Group transactions with related parties . 2 Take part in formal consultation procedures held by the tax authorities. Compliance and tax transparency At Galp, we are aware that there is a series of risks and 3 Take part in conversations with national and international entities contributing for the development of fiscal proposals. opportunities associated with company tax strategy. We therefore recognize the importance of adopting 4 management policies to prevent disputes and, at the Promote transparency and a proactive same time, avoid negative effects on value creation. approach in all the interactions with However, above all, we believe that any tax strategy stakeholders. must be based on a commitment to transparency, which 62 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.1 Acting responsibly and ethically, ensuring the best governance practices and transparency To demonstrate our commitment to transparency, in 2010 we joined the EITI (Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative). Accordingly, we proceed to disclose the sums delivered to the state agencies in Mozambique and East Timor and report payments to the States of Brazil and Angola, even though they are not signatories of the EITI. This matter became law in the European Union (EU), through transposition into national legislation of the 2016 transparency directive. See Galp's statement of support for the EITI . Payments to States 2013 2014 2015 Brazil 113,649,526 € 193,752,055 € 126,762,734 € Corporate income tax 44,903,707 € 100,225,298 € 62,648,615 € Royalties 27,104,901 € 46,357,972 € 42,258,660 € Fees 762,139 € 427,001 € 294,169 € Bonuses Other significant benefits 40,878,779 € 46,741,784 € 21,561,290 € Mozambique 989,564 € 317,899 € 154,730 € Corporate income tax Royalties Fees Bonuses Other significant benefits 989,564 € 297,767 € 154,730 € East Timor 16,385 € Na Na Corporate income tax 1,793 € Na Na Royalties 14,592 € Na Na Fees Bonuses Other significant benefits Angola 23,103,943 € 29,134,127 € 13,503,864 € Corporate income tax 23,103,943 € 29,134,127 € 13,503,864 € Royalties Fees Bonuses Other significant benefits Galp Sustainability Report 2015 63 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? 6.1.4 Guarantee of compliance and conformity In order to guide, guarantee, evaluate, and demonstrate compliance with Company codes and policies, we have a set of instruments: Compliance commitment Employees declare that they understand the Code of Ethics and Conduct and the declaration is attached to each employee's Human Resources file. We shall include a heading on compliance with our Code of Ethics and Conduct in the performance assessment system. Standard clause that binds counterparties – in particular business partners, suppliers and others – to the provisions of our Code of Ethics and Conduct in their contract documents. Declaration of awareness and acceptance of the Code of Ethics and Conduct by our suppliers and business partners. Ethics and Conduct Committee Committee consisting of three members appointed by the Galp Supervisory Board, as proposed by the Executive Committee. It is charged with monitoring the implementation of the Code of Ethics and Conduct, monitoring, clarifying questions, receiving, and processing information respecting the alleged irregularities. Its task is also to promote employee training in these matters. All stakeholders can contact this committee by email:  opentalk@galpenergia.com Whistle Blowing channel In accordance with our Whistle Blowing Procedure — Ethics Line, irregularities may be reported by any stakeholder, by letter or email, sent to:  opentalk@galpenergia.com Training and Awareness Training and awareness in these areas during the integration of trainees, on the Conhecer + training programme, in thematic conferences and through other internal communication channels. Workshops and e-learning training on the Code of Ethics and Conduct cover the themes described in section 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance, Ethics and Conduct. Internal Auditing Internal audits address matters of compliance with the regulatory documents in force in the Organization, the provisions of the Code of Ethics and Conduct, the principles of the anti-corruption policy and human rights, employments rights and corporate responsibility matters. Disciplinary procedure Failure to comply with the general rules of conduct established in the Code of Ethics and Conduct and the Anti-Corruption Policy is deemed a serious fault, subject to disciplinary procedure and with direct impact on performance assessment. Likewise, abusive or bad faith whistle blowing shall also be subject to disciplinary action. 64 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.1 Acting responsibly and ethically, ensuring the best governance practices and transparency Internal Auditing Requests for clarification, At Galp, we have a structure that is fully dedicated to irregularities, and complaints internal auditing activity. Its task is the independent In 2015, 25 cases were reported to the Supervisory and systematic evaluation of the Group's activities, Board, under the whistle blowing policy, which were promoting performance improvement and the duly registered in the database created for this fulfilment of the strategic objectives. This is achieved purpose. Of these cases: by identifying opportunities for optimization of management processes and of internal control and • 18 were related to the provision of the service Galp governance systems. On , and were forwarded to the reserved address concerning natural gas customer complaints, informing The internal auditing department reports directly the complainant of it, as stipulated in paragraph 3 of to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and has a Article 5 of the Regulation on the Office of Support to functional reporting line to the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board; an administrative reporting line to an executive director, thus ensuring managerial and functional independence • One had as object the alleged lack of thermal in relation to the services audited. conditions in the employee's workplace. The situation was subjected to an internal investigation, and the Internal auditing plans are established taking account complainant was properly informed of its results, of the following: having not confirmed subsequently the terms of his • The main risks that we face (see section 6.1.2 Risk complaint; management); • One other concerned the purchase of a product • Our business strategy. through Galp Bonus, having been forwarded to the relevant area; Indeed, in order to respond to business diversification and internationalization, the internal auditing area has • The remaining cases related to the service Galp adapted its auditing plans to the new challenges faced On and were sent to the Supervisory Board only for by the Group. In 2015, it completed a very significant information. part of the work outside the Iberian Peninsula. Internal audits address matters of compliance with the regulatory documents in force in the Organization, the provisions of the Code of Ethics and Conduct, the principles of the anti-corruption policy and human rights, employments rights and corporate responsibility matters. Beyond auditing oriented towards business development and value creation, one of the area's objectives is to enhance the culture of continuous follow-up on key audit recommendations. We therefore facilitate their implementation and operate as an active partner. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 65 Engaging with the community and other stakeholders and encouraging the creation of shared value Objectives • Guaranteeing a stakeholder engagement process, based on the relevant mapping, regular consultation plans, the organizational strategy and the external context and trends. • Ensuring that engagement initiatives undertaken seek to create shared value and measure the resulting impacts (positive and negative) for the Company and for its stakeholders. • Ensuring the existence, actual implementation and control/monitoring of instruments and policies that ensure management of relationships and commitments between the Company and its stakeholders. COMMITMENT II • Ensuring that all projects include a stakeholder engagement plan and social impacts assessment, in order to mitigate adverse impacts and risks regarding operations and the Company’s reputation. • Honour external commitments (e.g. United Nations Global Compact). 66 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.2 Engaging with the community and other stakeholders and encouraging the creation of shared value 6.2.1 Dialogue with stakeholders Who are our stakeholders? At Galp, we characterize, manage, and involve ourselves with a wide range of stakeholders, who, in accordance with the mapping carried out in 2014, are members of the following groups: The most recent mapping of our stakeholders took place in 2014, a year in which we undertook a detailed profile characterization of them: STAKEHOLDERS PROFILE • Stakeholders group and sub-group • Management model • Comunications channels • Relationship SWOT analysis • Relevant sustainability matters • Influence and dependency • Consultation strategy How and why do we consult our stakeholders? The above-mentioned mapping took place as part of the most recent stakeholder consultation, in late 2014. For the fourth consecutive year, Galp's website won 1st place This involved a survey on sustainability that covered in Portugal in Comprend's webranking 2015-2016. In the O&G about 1,500 entities and provided us with more than section, we achieved 8th place out of the 47 websites analysed. 600 replies. We therefore believe that we have reached The sustainability sections have the highest score on our a representative level of understanding of the position website, with 8.3 out of 10. of our stakeholders in relation to a wide set of issues, in the different business segments and in the different The APCE (Portuguese Association of Corporate geographical areas in which we operate. Communication) Grand Prize also recognised us in the category “Management Report”. At Galp, we understand that the consultation results are very important. They have contributed to closer These awards demonstrate our attention to communication relationships with our stakeholders, realignment of with stakeholders and the provision, over public channels, of engagement strategies and evaluation of materiality (as information to support their decisions. outlined in chapter 5. What are the material issues?) . We will conduct a further stakeholder consultation, of similar size, to ensure that this is a regular process, taking place every three to six years or in the event of evidence of new trends, expectations, or contexts for our operations. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 67 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? 6.2.2 Creating shared value To create shared value it is essential to define a strategy the suppliers' chain; we distribute and reinvest the wealth oriented towards our priorities, which addresses the costs that we create. and benefits of engagement processes and initiatives, Our involvement with different stakeholders and the either for our Company or for stakeholders. creation of shared value are part of our sustainability At Galp, we believe that we create value, not only for strategy. We believe that they are essential for shareholders, but also for a wider range of stakeholders: maintaining the relationships on which the longevity of we create direct and indirect employment; we value our our Company depends. human capital; we develop local economies; we stimulate STAKEHOLDER'S NET AND ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED, DISTRIBUTED AND RETAINED 68 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.2 Engaging with the community and other stakeholders and encouraging the creation of shared value 6.2.3 Involvement with the community Community Investment Policy Our social responsibility strategy is aligned with our Our Community Investment Policy is based, therefore, mission and values. We seek to profit responsibly and on three spheres of action: i) education and training; transparently from the use of available resources and ii) health and well-being; iii) environment and energy we identify priorities, objectives to be achieved and efficiency. In this way, we recognize our responsibility expected benefits. to the surrounding communities, to promote their economic and social development. Beyond this, we are The core of this strategy is the structuring of initiatives aware that, in healthy developing communities, our taking account of the situation in the countries where operations, and business can flourish and prosper, thus we operate and the activities we develop in each feeding a virtuous circle of sustainable growth. geographical area. Accordingly, we believe that we are having permanent and transforming effects that are aligned with the needs and priorities of the communities in question and integrated in local and national strategies and policies. Energy supply provides better conditions Development and dissemination for granting access of sustainable energy to education within technologies that promote the communities, energy efficiency, sustainable and consequently, mobility and, subsequently, local potentiates local development. development. Local development Community development stimulates growth, provides new business contributes to opportunities and disseminating and turning stimulates product and universal the access to service innovation. energy technology, opening doors to new business activities. Stimulation of development Local development enhances and dissemination of energy business opportunities and technology that promotes bursts prosperity for our well-being and health, and Company within the communities thus local development. where we are present. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 69 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? The report of our investment in the community has been produced, since 2012, using the LBG (London Benchmarking Group) model. The amounts invested in 2015 were: Motivation 2015 (€) % Charitable gift 1,141,148 31 Community investment 2,225,731 61 Commercial initiative 261,202 7 Total 3,628,082 Total including management costs 3,947,980 Subject focus 2015 (€) % Education 864,415 24 Health 347,074 10 Economic development 51,481 1 Environment 14,485 0 Arts & Culture 308,500 9 Social welfare 2,031,806 56 Emergency relief 10,320 0 Other 0 0 Total 3,628,082 Total including management costs 3,947,980 Volunteering in our Company In 2011, we created Galp Voluntária to promote the The regular participation of our employees in various culture of social responsibility and citizenship in our activities and the growing number of hours dedicated Company. Accordingly, we invite all employees to to volunteering reflect our ongoing commitment to the participate in and contribute actively to the wellengagement of our employees with the communities. In being and development of communities through 2016, our aim is to continue developing these kinds of corporate volunteering. initiatives. In 2015, also under the signature Galp Voluntária, a nossa energia vai longe (our energy goes a In 2015 we celebrated the 4 th anniversary of Galp long way) , we developed several campaigns with commitment, not only to the involvement of Voluntária volunteers, but also to the creation of excitement. Galp Voluntária teamed up with the “fast card” programme We orient our activities towards enhancing their on a special campaign that was supported by the impact, through the number of beneficiaries and participation of our employees and customers. With the the number of volunteers. We witnessed a clear help of volunteers, we chose a partnership under which it geographical decentralization of the initiatives, was possible to make donations through an exchange of from an Iberian perspective, and a broadening of the “fast” points. The campaign was successful and Aldeias de volunteer base with direct contact with pre-retired Crianças SOS (SOS Children’s Villages) was the institution and retired Company staff, in order to promote selected. inter-generational sharing. 70 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.2 Engaging with the community and other stakeholders and encouraging the creation of shared value VOLUNTEER WORK VOLUNTEERS VOLUNTEER ACTIVITIES average 2011/2013 average 2011/2013 average 2011/2013 3,327h 384 262 2014 2014 2014 10,100h 1,189 692 2015 2015 2015 33,720h 1,798 382 Take your knowledge to school Academia Galp and Galp Voluntária and Clube Galp (Galp Club) follow our Associação de Reformados Company’s strategic priorities for social responsibility. We once again joined efforts with EPIS – Empresários (Pensioners Association) pela Inclusão Social (Entrepreneurs for Social Inclusion). teamed up on a volunteer initiative An invitation was sent to all employees to become Gerações Academia (Generations Academy): tutors in mathematics and Portuguese. Students with Share – Inspire – Create levels of social risk were identified and offered weekly sessions lasting one and a half hours. Academia Galp and Galp Voluntária collaborated on an unprecedented initiative that also involved Associação de Reformados da Galp Energia (ARGE) and Internships for EPIS students CORE – Consultoria em Responsabilidade Empresarial. In the Vocações de Futuro (Future Vocations) project, With some 90 participants, the initiative was part of seven volunteers served as tutors to nine EPIS student celebrations surrounding the five-year anniversary interns. Conducted in different areas of our Company, of Academia Galp. The initiative followed the “world the internships were assigned to students from café” model, allowing all participants to participate in professional courses. a debate focusing on four main themes. Through this initiative, we wanted to give a voice to our employees and retirees with the aim of developing new ideas and solutions capable of facilitating intergenerational Sines North Coast beach cleanup dialogue and knowledge management. Galp Voluntária and Brigadas do Mar (Sea Brigades) combined efforts to support the cleanup of beaches on the northern coast of Sines. With volunteers on the Banco Alimentar Contra a Fome ground and fuel provided for necessary support travel, we succeeded in cleaning up more than 15 kilometres of (Food Bank Against Hunger) – beach in a four-day span. Uma ajuda que não pesa, mas vale (A small help that makes a big Solidarity is strength: 2015 difference) Christmas initiative Between 30 May 2015 and 7 June 2015, we supported and developed the campaign Uma ajuda que não pesa, Some of our employees teamed up and answered the mas vale (A small help that makes a big difference) in wishes of ten severely ill children through the Make-A80 service stations. This year, we had a record 587 Wish program. The challenge was not simple, but the volunteer operators, 239 more compared to 2014. team of volunteers planned a very special day in the lives of these children. This campaign allowed contributions to be made to all of the food products delivered to the 2,650 charities This initiative underscores our commitment to investing supported by 21 food banks across Portugal. in the community and involving our employees in corporate volunteering initiatives. Galp Voluntária helps refugees Movimento 1 euro (One Euro In yet another successful initiative, we teamed up with Conselho Português para os Refugiados (Portuguese Movement) Refugee Council) to collect goods in the cities of Lisbon, We asked our employees to donate one euro of their Matosinhos, and Sines. We helped in sorting and pay for 12 months to help charitable organisations. organizing various donations and more than 3,000 Month by month, employees actively participated in pieces were collected. voting on causes to be supported. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 71 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Fundação Galp We do not believe that community involvement begins and ends with corporate volunteering. Fundação Galp Energia is also an important driver of social, cultural, and environmental intervention and development. Created in January 2009, our non-profit organisation operates in the following realms: Social Energy and Culture Development Environment During 2015, Fundação Galp Energia maintained social and cultural partnerships that have been developed over the years, while also establishing new relationships (e.g., Associação Novo Futuro – New Future Association). Under these partnerships, it has been actively involved in joint projects, all in support of children and youth as well as the social inclusion of these age groups and the fight against poverty, in addition to the promotion of academic success and access to culture and the arts through music. in a social support initiative. It succeeded in helping Partnership between Fundação Galp approximately 14,000 citizens with the recovery of seven and Casa da Música highly degraded social spaces and benefited from an investment of 3,840 volunteer hours from Galp employees. The Serviço Educativo da Casa da Música (Casa da Música Educational Service) and Fundação Galp Energia Some months after the recovery, we determined that developed several initiatives, together with Matosinhos our investment led to significant changes in the lives of Association in Support of the Deaf (Associação de Apoio residents who use the remodelled facilities. a Surdos de Matosinhos). One of the recovered buildings was in the Alcântara Public Bathhouse, which is now considered the best in Greater Lisbon, with a monthly average of 800 baths in Fundação Galp Solidária Collective the first quarter of 2015. The Alcântara Parish and Social Agreement (North and South) Centre also underwent changes to its interior and exterior space, with a new technical facility and a social space Committed to its social commitment and mission, made available for 100 users. Another site involved was Fundação Galp Energia developed a collective project the Alcântara Stock Store and Social Workshops. The to respond to social emergencies. This is part of its charity store was built from the ground up and receives commitment to the fight against poverty, exclusion, and community donations that are offered or sold at symbolic social inequality, as well as to helping at-risk citizens. prices to low-income households. Various social projects The Fundação Galp Solidária initiative involved two were also performed at this site, such as the two projects projects: Fundação Galp Solidária – North and Fundação known as Gentes de Alcântara (People of Alcântara) and Galp Solidária – South. This was part of an ongoing social Casa das Mães (House of Mothers). support partnership developed by the foundation aimed The Santo Amaro nursery, the Santo Amaro Primary at supporting the most disadvantaged and vulnerable School, and the Santo Amaro Barracks of the Lisbon Fire segments of society. Brigade were also revamped by our employees, with the work contributing to substantial improvements in the lives of students, teachers, firefighters and the community. Social contribution for flood victims All of this was made possible by the dedication of Galp in Mozambique employees, who worked hard to change the community life of the Parish of Alcântara. The floods that occurred in Mozambique between December 2014 and January 2015 left a significant number of victims and displaced persons, and we wanted to help! Fundação Galp Energia, together with Galp Rovuma, 2015 Christmas Initiative – Sines delivered a total of 21 tonnes of cornmeal to Instituto and Matosinhos Refineries Nacional de Gestão de Calamidades de Moçambique Under the motto “Together we support our community”, (Mozambican National Disaster Management Institute) we have decided to expand the network of Stock charity in Quelimane. The donation of 855 cornmeal bags fed stores in aiding the communities of Matosinhos and Sines. approximately 2,000 people over a two-month period. In Matosinhos, we invited employees to participate in the revamping of the Casa do Caminho charity store, which is essential to the survival of this entity, which serves 60 One parish six months later children. In Sines, volunteers have helped to transform the A partnership between Fundação Galp Energia and Galp charity store of Santa Casa da Misericórdia of Sines into a Voluntária involved more than 600 Galp employees larger space that can generate better results. 72 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.2 Engaging with the community and other stakeholders and encouraging the creation of shared value Other initiatives Our Company is aware that it is critical to maintain a sharing relationship with stakeholders as part of an organisational vision oriented towards social, environmental, and cultural concerns. In 2015, in addition to the exclusive initiatives of Galp Voluntária and Fundação Galp Energia, we engaged in many other activities involving the community, including: In Portugal: Galp Energia Solidária In late 2013, we signed the Galp Energia Solidária protocol with Confederação Nacional das Instituições de Solidariedade (National Confederation of Charities), União das Misericórdias Portuguesas (Union of Portuguese Charities) and União das Mutualidades Portuguesas (Union of Portuguese Mutual Societies). This protocol is intended to provide discounts to these institutions in the supply of fuel, electricity, natural gas, technical services and energy efficiency. In 2015, we established a new protocol with Federação Nacional de Cooperativas de Solidariedade Social (FENACERCI – National Federation of Social Solidarity Cooperatives), which now has approximately 60 members. By November 2015, the overall value of discounts totalled €120 k, or rather, approximately €750 per year per member entity. Missão UP and Missão Power Up (Up and Power Up Mission) The 5th edition of Missão UP | Unidos pelo Planeta (United by the Planet), a project targeting students of basic education (1st and 2nd cycles), was carried out during the 2014-15 academic year. The project was included in our Corporate Responsibility Policy and is aimed at disseminating good practices concerning energy efficiency, sustainable mobility, and energy footprint through “energy classes”. Students may also participate in teams in the “Brigadas Positivas” (Positive Brigades) competition and develop specific missions dedicated to energy efficiency. Due to its success, we have decided to expand the project to students attending lower secondary education during the 2014-15 academic year. The new project, called Missão Power UP, relies on an online teaching platform aimed at promoting the creation of multidisciplinary teams involving students and other members of the academic community, from school employees to Board members. Missão Power UP is also aimed at the adoption of attitudes and behaviours associated with more efficient energy consumption. In both projects, we have established a partnership with the Directorate-General of Education of the Ministry of Education and Science, Agência para a Energia (ADENE – Portuguese Energy Agency), the National Commission of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and the DirectorateGeneral of Energy and Geology. The project involved the following scope during the 2014-15 academic year: 2014-2015 BRIGADAS MISSÃO MISSÃO UP POSITIVAS MISSÃO POWER UP academic year COMPETITION POWER UP COMPETITION Schools 2,052 212 38 8 Teachers 12,019 1.124 80 30 Students 192,171 17.302 267 175 Other members of the 24 9 academic community Energy Classes 591 Energy Classes students 19,995 Galp Sustainability Report 2015 73 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Kidzania We have been involved in Kidzania since 2009. At this theme park for kids between the ages of 3 and 15, participants can “play adults” in a realistic and educational environment. Kids can choose from among 60 individual professions. The contents of the activities follow school programs and seek to educate kids on values and rules of citizenship, helping them to make healthy contributions to society. We decided to establish a presence at Kidzania with a service station and washing station similar to their real-world counterparts. Youths get the opportunity to work as service station employees, including as gas pump attendants and even as drivers. This presence allows us to communicate with more young people and diversify our points of contact with the public. In this playful context, we are able to convey the messages of sustainable mobility, energy efficiency, and corporate responsibility to this very special audience. Discounts for Large Families We signed a protocol with Associação Portuguesa de Famílias Numerosas (APFN – Portuguese Association of Large Families) in order to offer such families with discounts for electricity and natural gas, as well as discounts for the purchase of energy efficiency services. Discounts are as high as 42% in fixed terms for electricity and natural gas and 10% for the purchase of auditing services and energy certification. We have solidified our social commitment with this protocol, supporting families that face significant household budgetary constraints. Paper for Food at Banco Alimentar Contra a Fome At the Sines Refinery, we have contributed with more than six tonnes of paper of the total of 13,000 tonnes delivered to the food bank (corresponding to €1.3 k). We have thereby succeeded in helping many low-income families. Helping the Municipality of Santiago do Cacém We have distributed grants to 17 institutions through the Sines Refinery. Charities were selected according to the protocol established between our Company and the Santiago do Cacém local government. It is important to help local institutions in the realm of social, cultural, and sporting activities within a municipality where a significant number of our employees live. Aldeias de Crianças SOS benefit from “fast card” points Aldeias de Crianças SOS was chosen by employees and clients to be the beneficiary of the exchange of “fast card” points. 74 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.2 Engaging with the community and other stakeholders and encouraging the creation of shared value Missão Ambiente (Environmental Mission) – VALORMED VALORMED created an environmental awareness initiative called Missão Ambiente. The purpose was to educate and build awareness within the scout community concerning the importance of delivering empty containers and expired drugs to pharmacies. We have asked our employees to deliver such items to pharmacies, identifying the scout group corresponding to our head office’s area of influence. Pirilampo Mágico (Magic Firefly) Campaign We have teamed up with the Pirilampo Mágico Campaign promoted by FENACERCI through our Clube Galp. This cause supports children and young people with learning disabilities and/or multiple disabilities and facilitates their integration within society. We participated in the campaign by selling the Magic Firefly or Pin to employees. In Spain: Concerts in the fight against cancer In partnership with the radio station Cadena 100, we have helped to collect donations and organise two concerts in Barcelona and Madrid in support of the Spanish Association Against Cancer (AECC). The first concert was held at the Catalan Institute of Oncology and the second at the Puerta de Hierro Hospital in Madrid. Featuring a performance by singer Ruth Lorenzo, the main objective was to convey the power of music to patients, families, and volunteers. We run against hunger in Spain In Spain, we are committed to contributing to the anti-hunger campaign and running for a good cause. The average kilometres run by our employees was the best in the competition, and we raised more than €2 k. The proceeds will pay for nutritional treatments for more than 50 children. We support difference through Galp Spain We met in Spain to promote teamwork and social responsibility within our Company. Carpentry workshops, sporting activities and an educational visit were conducted with more than 200 people with disabilities. The objective was to bring the world of business to people with disabilities and strengthen the direct involvement of our employees in building a more inclusive society. Our partners at this meeting were the Aldaba Foundation, Grupo 5, Ande Foundation, Centro Ocupacional Valenzana (Valenzana Occupational Centre) and Grupo Amás. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 75 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? We help the Messengers of Peace through Galp Spain Thanks to our employees, we have delivered approximately 500 kilograms of food to the Messengers of Peace. Doctors from the Fundación Theodora (Theodora Foundation) distributed smiles to Galp Spain We teamed up with Fundación Theodora to commemorate the International Day of Happiness. We celebrated our support through a “smiling tour” at our facilities in Alcobendas, Madrid. The partnership thereby raised funds for hospitals and visited more than 125 children. “Fast” Points help Fundación Aladina (Aladina Foundation) In Spain, we developed a campaign to exchange our “fast card” programme points for donations to Fundación Aladina. The foundation received approximately three euros for every 500 points earned on a client’s “fast card”. The funds collected were then invested in volunteer programs, as well as programs for psychological support of patients and family members, and, in general, in order to improve services and benefits that the foundation offers. We walked with the Discamino 15 Project Developed by and for people with physical disabilities, the Discamino 15 project involved a walk along a stretch of the Camino de Santiago. The group had thirteen participants and nine professionals from Assistência Integral Personalizada (AIP – Personalised Comprehensive Aid), which aided participants along the route. We supported this initiative in collaboration with AIP. In Brazil: Cartão Vermelho ao Trabalho Infantil (Red Card to Child Labour) Initiative In order to commemorate Children’s Day, the Ministry of Labour and Employment (agency of the Brazilian Federal Government), promoted a national campaign with the theme “Red Card to Child Labour”. Through Belém Bioenergia Brasil, a Group company, we have extended the campaign to our employees! The Ministry distributed 900 pamphlets, four bands and two shirts, allowing us to develop a promotional action through workshops at our offices (Belém, Tailândia and Tomé-Açu) and in the field with employees and family farmers. 76 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.2 Engaging with the community and other stakeholders and encouraging the creation of shared value In Brazil: Cartão Vermelho ao Trabalho Infantil (Red Card to Child Labour) Initiative In order to commemorate Children’s Day, the Ministry of Labour and Employment (agency of the Brazilian Federal Government), promoted a national campaign with the theme “Red Card to Child Labour”. Through Belém Bioenergia Brasil, a Group company, we have extended the campaign to our employees! The Ministry distributed 900 pamphlets, four bands and two shirts, allowing us to develop a promotional action through workshops at our offices (Belém, Tailândia and Tomé-Açu) and in the field with employees and family farmers. 4th edition of Belém Bioenergia Brasil Environment Week Through Belém Bioenergia Brasil S.A., we promoted the fourth edition of the initiative: Environment Week, with the theme: “Water: Consuming carefully is preserving!” Our aim was to raise public awareness on the importance of saving water for the future sustainability of the planet, avoiding waste by adopting good practices. The event was held at headquarters in Belém and at the Tailândia and Tomé-Açu complexes and was attended by our employees, family farming partners and the community surrounding the extraction unit in Tailândia. Educational workshops and videos were presented on the subject, with participation by the Federal Institute of Education, Science and Technology of Pará (IFPA) – Castanhal, the Municipal Office of the Environment of Tomé-Açu (SEMMA) and Belém Bioenergia Brasil S.A. In Swaziland: Orange Your Neighbourhood campaign in Swaziland In 2015, we resumed our sponsorship of the Orange Your Neighbourhood” campaign in Swaziland. The campaign raises awareness towards the elimination of violence against women. We distributed food to more than 600 people We participated in the distribution of food to 12 villages in southern Swaziland. The Esicojeni Foundation, of which we are members, and World Vision organised this initiative. The objective was to minimise the difficulties many families face with respect to the protracted drought that has affected that part of the country. More than 600 people were assisted through the distribution of 7,188 kg of cornmeal, 2,196 kg of sugar, and 549 litres of cooking oil. Our employees in Swaziland, including the general director, wanted to help with the distribution of foods in villages. Sibebe Survivor In order to promote health, well-being and team building, we participated in the annual walk to the top of the world’s largest granite monoliths, the Rock in Mbuluzi. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 77 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? In Cape Verde: “Abastecimento Solidário” (Solidarity Supply) Team Through Enacol, a Galp subsidiary in Cape Verde, we collaborated with the Cape Verdean Red Cross and launched the “Abastecimento Solidário” campaign. The objective was to support victims of the Fogo Island eruption. The campaign involved the donation of one Cape Verdean escudo (CVE) to the Red Cross per litre of fuel sold at points of sale. In Mozambique: Mozambique Investment Program The economic difficulties and social reality of Mozambique have inspired us to design a major investment within this community. The programme was designed based on the principles of our Community Investment Policy, and in the spirit of involvement and development of communities as part of our Corporate Responsibility Policy. Through investment in Mozambique, we intend to create shared value and thereby respond to the expectations of our stakeholders. We have tried to respond to the economic, social, cultural, and environmental realities in each province and district based on indicators such as GDP, Human Development Index, Demographics, Illiteracy Rate, Distribution of Education and Health Infrastructure, among others. Within the scope of an investment programme in Mozambique, we evaluated a total of 105 projects spanning 25 different entities in Mozambique. For such purposes, we developed a set of assessment project selection criteria, including: i) Alignment with the country strategy through the 2015-19 Government Plan, the Poverty Reduction Action Plan and Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations (UN); ii) Alignment with our strategy in the provinces of Maputo and Cabo Delgado within the realm of energy, health and the environment; iii) Level of transformation and involvement of communities corresponding to the provinces of Maputo and Cabo Delgado; iv) Level of risk and sustainability of the project and capacity to generate social and inclusive businesses. The selected initiatives will be implemented starting in 2016 and an investment of up to €300 k in two years is expected. Based on experiences related to the development of this program, general criteria were defined for the assessment and selection of investment projects in the community for our Company. Such criteria are based on the following issues: • Strategic alignment with the Company; • Alignment with the country’s needs; • Involvement of communities; • Impact on communities; • Risk and sustainability and are evaluated through the application of matrices created for such purposes. 78 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.2 Engaging with the community and other stakeholders and encouraging the creation of shared value 6.2.4 Engagement with clients Customers are an essential asset for our Company’s progress and longevity. Accordingly, our involvement in this group of stakeholders is based upon listening, understanding, and meeting respective interests and expectations. Customer satisfaction We continually develop a project that monitors and tracks the expectations and needs of our clients. Our objective is to ensure that the offering of products and services is adequate and satisfactory. Thus, we employ the European Customer Satisfaction Index (ECSI), a methodology that measures the quality of goods and services. In 2015, results as well as the leaders in various markets in Portugal for 2014 were announced. Galp stood out in the regulated natural gas market as well as in the electricity market: LEADER IN THE REGULATED LEADER IN THE NATURAL GAS MARKET ELECTRICITY SECTOR Apart from assessing several services and products in terms of images, expectations, loyalty, satisfaction, and other items, the study also provides us with a platform for comparison at the organizational, sector and country levels, respectively. The results represent an added value in the evolution and improvement of our Company, as well as an opportunity to increase our competitiveness and success: we establish priorities for action that subsequently trigger assessments that are more positive. Our Company was graded as follows in several markets for 2015: CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INDEXES Natural Gas Natural Gas Natural gas (regulated (liberalised + electricity Average indexes Fuels Bottled gas Electricity market) market) (dual offer) Image 7.68 8.07 7.75 7.41 7.48 7.58 Expectations 7.62 8.00 7.51 7.43 7.45 7.66 Perceived quality 8.16 8.20 7.75 7.46 7.48 7.58 Perceived value 6.45 6.41 6.33 6.14 6.15 6.31 Satisfaction 7.38 7.87 7.25 7.27 7.15 7.14 Compliance 6.79 7.04 6.98 6.90 6.77 6.84 Loyalty 6.61 6.65 6.61 6.68 6.46 6.76 Scale: 1 (weak) 10 (strong). From 6 the customer is considered as being satisfied. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 79 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Customer service is also one of our top priorities, so we have assumed a growing commitment towards training, quality auditing, and the implementation of continuous improvement actions. We therefore believe that our Contact Centre employees are increasingly aligned with our objectives and provide more satisfactory and effective contact with our clients. In 2015, we were also recognised as the “Consumer Choice” in the Energy & Fuels sectors, namely for “Service Stations” and “Gas Containers”. This title is valid for 2016 and is awarded by ConsumerChoice – Consumer Satisfaction Assessment Centre. This entity recognises the brands that best meet the requirements and attributes defined and that were valued by consumers, thereby achieving the highest levels of satisfaction. Also in 2015, we were recognised as a Trusted Brand in the Gas Station category in a Reader’s Digest study. Since 2001, this study has assessed the trust of Portuguese citizens in brands in different product or service categories. We have a total of 58% of votes, garnering the highest assessment in the last five years. This study evaluated the following parameters on a scale from 1 to 5: Features Cost/benefit Strong Perception of Socially Brand % votes Quality relationship image client needs responsible Galp 58.2 4.02 3.55 4.09 3.75 3.71 % OF VOTES GALP'S EVOLUTION 80 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.2 Engaging with the community and other stakeholders and encouraging the creation of shared value Proximity to clients The positive relationship that we maintain with clients is only possible if we continue to project our focus on our interests and expectations. Several initiatives are conducted throughout the year to provide them with positive experiences, promoting involvement initiatives, namely: Some examples of initiatives involving clients Newsletters B2B, Technical, Business, Prospects, LPG Auto, Galp contigo es + (Galp with you is +) Strengthening of loyalty campaign: Galp and Continente together on a single card We decided to expand our partnership of more than 17 years with Sonae through a merger of all loyalty programs corresponding to the Continente Card. This card has become the country’s biggest discount card thanks to inclusion of the “fast card” on the Continente Card, with expanded benefits offered to participants in both loyalty programs. New line of communication for B2B protocols channel The G&P segment launched a new line of communication for specific use in different media (magazines, newsletters, websites, etc.) of business associations with which we have cooperation protocols. Under the slogan “Connect your business to Galp and save”, members of these entities were invited to become Galp electricity customers under preferential terms that include energy discounts of up to 20.5%. Online Continente purchases delivered to a Galp station Continente, the supermarket chain of our partner Sonae, has joined forces with us on a pilot project. The goal is to allow clients to pick up purchases ordered online from Continente at facilities equipped for such purposes at our service stations. Online G&P client guide The objective is to underscore the commitment to transparency in client relations as well as compliance with information requirements provided by the sector’s regulatory authority. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 81 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Enhancement of Galp Taxi Fleet Card We participated in three events: • We celebrated the 40th anniversary of Autocoope – Cooperativa de Táxis de Lisboa (Autocoope – Lisbon Taxi Co-operative); • “XII DIA DO TÁXI” (12th Taxi Day) event, with an exhibition centre open to the public dedicated to taxis; • “FESTIVAL COOL TÁXI” event. We are involved with the industry’s two main associations: • ANTRAL – Associação Nacional dos Transportadores Rodoviários em Automóveis Ligeiros (Portuguese Taxi Association); • FPT – Federação Portuguesa de Táxis (Portuguese Taxi Federation). Portugal Transport Networking holds its first event The event was sponsored by the Wtransnet Foundation, a private non-profit organisation that mobilises economic resources for activities with the logistics and freight transport sectors. Our presence was highlighted by the promotion of Galp Business Fleet, Corporate, and Professional Cards. We have also succeeded in expanding our network of clients and/or national and Iberian partners. Participation in FILDA – Luanda International Fair We participated institutionally in FILDA by hosting a stand with downstream and upstream business representation. This fair is a major international trade event in Angola and represented an opportunity to consolidate our Company’s presence in that market. Swaziland International Trade Fair We hosted a stand at the fair. The objective was to develop new relationships with clients and learn more about our competition. Launch of Laranjinha Light bottle in Sal, Cape Verde The objective was to promote the new bottle and expand the tare facility. Partnership with BCI – Banco Comercial de Investimentos Installation of ATMs in convenience stores at our Galp stations in Mozambique. Atlantic Meeting ’15 Meeting with international marine clients, mainly traders and ship owners, in order to strengthen relations with these business partners. 82 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.2 Engaging with the community and other stakeholders and encouraging the creation of shared value Services and products that we provide The needs of our clients are the point of departure for development of new offers with the most advantageous and personalised conditions, simultaneously bolstering our market positioning. In a segmented fashion, we offer a set of energy services and structured products. Energy Services Structured Products Domestic Segment Companies Energy Solutions Galp On Cubed Energy Plan Range of exclusive Promotion of energy Integrated solutions This is a solution that Connects the three services for Galp, efficiency and tailored to clients. offers an energy plan energies – electricity, gas available 24 hours a minimising potential Provide the most adapted to each client’s and fuel – and offers major day, 365 days a year. risks and damage. rational and efficient needs, combining savings on customers’ 24-hour assistance. use. electricity and natural gas monthly bills. Continente is services. the brand partnering with us on this service. At the company level, we provide the Galp Business, two dimensions: tourism and leisure, which offers Corporate, and Professional Fleet Card; the car wash recreational programs that include discounts on service with special terms for taxis, and, finally, the tolls and fuel vouchers corresponding to our brand; Galp Care line, which offers a full range of car care and Vantagens, which offers a set of discounts on products. automobile-related services. Our Via Verde service allows users at service stations Also see Galp Energy Solutions, presented in section 6.4.4 to pay comfortably through their Via Verde device, Performance of our projects (Energy efficiency of our clients). putting us at the forefront of innovation and constant improvement. Under the partnership established with Via Verde, we also launched the “Viagens e Vantagens” (Travel and Advantages) program, organised in Electricity sector market shares According to the monthly report of Entidade Reguladora dos Serviços Energéticos (ERSE – Energy Services Regulatory Entity) in reference to September 2015 (latest version available at the time of publication of the report), our market share in the electricity sector – industry segment – remained in double digits: we reached 13.9%, consolidating the trend from previous months. This segment includes all clients in a free-market regime connected to medium voltage (MV) grids. The good result is further proof of our reputation as a leader in stability, quality of service and expertise in the enterprise market. Galp plays major role on day 1 of MIBGAS The new Iberian natural gas market operator, MIBGAS, began operating on 16 December 2015 and represents a new (physical and organised) platform for daily natural gas purchase and sale transactions for the entire Iberian space, where this market’s agents will operate. We played an active role in the opening session: in a first round, under the auction phase, with purchase and sale offers (not fulfilled); in a second phase (in continuous session mode) with several effective transactions corresponding to the day-ahead (DA) product. By the closing hour of this first daily session, 80% of NG trading volume involved our Company. Along with active participation in this new market, we continue to operate in the traditional market (bilateral OTC transactions), with this new trading platform used both for correction of portfolio balance positions and to capture market opportunities. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 83 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Global RepTrak Pulse Global RepTrak Pulse is the largest study of its kind in the world, measuring more than 2,000 companies across 25 industries in 40 countries, while also providing important information about market perceptions and behaviour. The study helps organisations to improve their relationship with stakeholders, while also recruiting companies, media, and the public. It uses a 0-to-100 scale, with 10 representing a very poor reputation and 80 or above indicating an excellent reputation. Scale Excellent / Top tier 80+ Strong / Robust 70-79 ← Galp Average / Moderate 60-69 ← Portuguese energy sector average Weak / Vulnerable 40-59 Poor / Bottom tier <40 The average score for companies in Portugal according to Reptrak Pulse 2015 was 66.4. Our reputation stood at 70.6, the highest in the energy sector. In relation to results with respect to recommending, admiring, and preferring our brand, we scored between 60 and 77, depending on the stakeholder. The study also measures the brand’s dimensions and attributes. We have four attributes in 2015: attentive brand, leader, adventurous and winning. These symbolise our reputation as a trusted brand that reflects stability, control, and courage. 84 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.2 Engaging with the community and other stakeholders and encouraging the creation of shared value 6.2.5 Engagement with investors There was a significant free-float increase in 2015 for our investors on an annual basis for purposes of such parties’ Company relative to the end of 2014, with the trend from assessment in line with the criteria of transparency, recent years continuing to reflect our greater visibility on consistency and reliability, availability, objectivity, quality capital markets. and prompt response. We were recognised again by the financial community as FREE FLOAT a result of our efforts: Our investor relations practices were considered the best in the energy sector in Europe, a distinction recognised in the Investor Perception Study – Europe 2015, compiled by IR Magazine. In terms of the overall European ranking, we improved our position, rising from 24th in 2014 to 11th place. For the second time in three years, we were ranked in the top 50 worldwide. Indeed, several entities now have major equity holdings in According to the European Investor Relations Perception our Company. Study 2015, conducted by Institutional Investor, our Find out more in our 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, chapter 4 Company was awarded in the categories of “Best Corporate Governance . Investor Relations” and “Best CEO” in the European Oil & Gas Exploration & Production sector. The IR team At the end of the year, our shareholder base included was ranked among the three best in Europe by sell side investors from nearly 35 countries across four continents. analysts representing the most renowned investment Investors outside Europe accounted for 61% of the total banks in Europe and the United States. The criteria free float, with the most representative base located for the respective rankings include accessibility and in North America, where investors held 33% of the response time of IR teams, the level of transparency in Company’s free float. communications and the quality of work performed. Accounting for the voting of analysts based on the Iberian At Galp, we attach great importance to the maintenance Peninsula, the IR team was ranked in first place. With of an open and transparent relationship with respect to buy side voting, particularly fund managers, shareholders, investors, analysts, market regulators and our Company’s IR team improved its ranking compared to other participants in capital markets. Accordingly, we previous years. meet regularly with institutional investors: in 2015, we conducted approximately 250 meetings involving some In 2015, the study conducted by the magazine 400 investment funds in Europe, North America, and Institutional Investor examined 870 investors and 485 Latin America. financial institutions, managing assets of approximately $4.5 billion in shares of European companies, as well Our Investor Relations (IR) team is the Company’s as 1,100 sell side analysts and 160 investment banks, interface with these stakeholders. It is responsible for reflecting the reach that we have achieved as well as the ensuring that communications with capital markets are market’s trust in us. integrated and consistent with our Company’s strategy and operations so that investors are capable of making We were also recognised by Extel Pan-European Survey informed decisions. In that vein, the IR department must as the best company in Portugal for investor relations provide relevant, clear, and accurate market information practices. about the Company on a regular, transparent, and timely basis, also ensuring our response to requests for information, particularly by phone and email. Responses and clarifications are provided as quickly as possible, adjusting the response time to the nature and complexity of issues at hand, and always ensuring transparency, symmetry and consistency of available market information. The average response time in 2015 was one business day (in line with the target that we had defined). Additionally, we recognise the need to understand the market’s assessment and perception with respect to actions that we promote to encourage knowledge and interaction between our Company and the financial community. Accordingly, we engage analysts and Galp Sustainability Report 2015 85 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers Our suppliers In 2015, we recorded approximately €410 m in purchasing, Besides, we do prioritise the local purchase of products distributed by 4,229 suppliers, of which 1,930 are suppliers and services: with contracts exceeding €5 k. PURCHASES (€m) SUPPLIERS (No.) Purchasing Policy Our Purchasing Policy seeks to promote the alignment of our suppliers and partners with the principles and requirements applied by the Group by defining conduct practices that suppliers and partners must observe in the development of their activities. Accordingly, the policy states that the Company does not establish or maintain relationships with suppliers not aligned with the established procedures and adopts appropriate measures in cases where the ethical and professional conduct of suppliers is questionable. The principles to be followed are organised according to four axes: We use Achilles to monitor and manage risk related to our suppliers . This entity identifies, qualifies, assesses, and generates information about suppliers for buyers from the largest organisations in the world. Thus, according to this methodology, or rather, the assessment of our most critical suppliers in terms of corporate social responsibility with respect to risk: Risk Description N.º of suppliers with level turnover in 2015 A+ Suppliers with a CSR 157 classification above average A Suppliers with a CSR 233 classification above average Suppliers with a CSR B 37 classification above average We also ensure that our suppliers are certified in order to guarantee their commitment. We maintain the following key certifications: 86 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.2 Engaging with the community and other stakeholders and encouraging the creation of shared value “The selection and hiring of suppliers Qualification of suppliers by the Galp Group meet objective and The supplier qualification process represents an essential transparent criteria and not only adhere component in our Company’s purchasing process and is present in various stages of the process. to commercial conditions but also to the respective ethical and professional conduct and its suitability to the principles established in this Policy.” in Galp Purchasing Policy Yet in order to ensure the soundness of the conduct that we advocate, in early 2016, we will require that our suppliers submit a declaration that acknowledges and accepts our Code of Ethics and Conduct. Issues related to corporate responsibility arise in the very early stages of the process, i.e., pre-qualification. Galp Supply 4 Platform Our purchasing platform, known as Supply 4 Galp, includes a truly integrated relationship model. It is a Supplier audits collaborative solution that allows users to share all At Galp, we are aware that our responsibility does not information related to supply chain and procurement begin and end with our operations. Thus, we perform management processes at our Company. audits on suppliers in tandem with the aforementioned The platform covers the entire purchasing cycle, from practices. These are based on previously defined the sourcing phase to management of supply and requirements and comply with applicable law in the contracts, connecting all users and creating benefits respective geographies. of transparency, efficiency, and quality in the activities Audits may be requested on suppliers in any activity performed. corresponding to the qualification process, spanning the following areas: • Financial; • Technical; • Corporate social responsibility; • Security; • Health; • Environment. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 87 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? On the other hand, suppliers can also request an audit of our Company. Star Programme – Positive Natural Gas At the end of the audit process, the report presenting the Service in Portugal main findings is sent to the supplier. The supplier then “Programa Estrela – Serviço Positivo” (Star must submit a corrective action plan within 30 days, Programme – Positive Service) is a tool that whether with respect to the auditing to be conducted facilitates the support of operating activities by our Company or on our behalf by an external service developed by nearly 500 professionals from our provider. This plan must include clear execution deadlines suppliers, serving more than one million natural gas that are monitored by our Company. (NG) customers. With the Achilles system, nonconformities are recorded Directed towards the improvement of quality of in the respective audit management system, where the service provided to the client, the programme supplier also submits corrective actions and supporting seeks to bolster communication, development documentation. of skills of critical agents in various “moments of Thus, we believe that this contributes actively to truth” corresponding to interaction with clients and minimising risks in our value chain, while also helping our assessment of the performance of “NG Partners”. suppliers to improve their performance. This assessment recognises and awards the The number of audits has increased since we implemented “NG Partner” of the year and highlights the best the supplier-auditing program. Therefore, we have also performances in various categories, including “Safe increased the rate of suppliers audited at least once in Team”, clearly reflecting the bolstering of safety recent years. values. SUPPLIER AUDITS (No.) As such, this represents the consolidated experience of integrated, effective, and accessible management 2013 48 that strengthens the image of excellence of services provided by our Company. 2014 60 2015 44 6.2.7 Engagement with partners At Galp, we work closely with our partners, monitoring projects in which we are not operators in order to mitigate possible risks and share best practices. Accordingly, we conduct periodic meetings in order to ensure the handling of essential issues. With respect to safety, health, the environment, and security (HSSE), we participate, for example, in subcommittee meetings on this subject for the BM-S-11 Block in Brazil and the construction of FPSOs: BM-S-11 HSSE Subcommittee Meeting FPSO – R Construction HSSE Meeting Frequency: Bi-monthly Frequency: Quarterly Objective: Objective: • Monitor Petrobras projects corresponding to BM-S-11 • Monitor the construction of replicant FPSOs from a with respect to HSSE (Health, Safety, Security and HSSE perspective. Environment). • Present HSE performance for the quarter in reference • Answer questions, suggest improvements, and related to each shipyard. encourage the partner to adopt best industry practices. Agenda: Agenda: • Monitoring of phases corresponding to environmental • Presentation of accident indicators: accidents, licensing and response to environmental requirements. actions implemented and best practices for each shipyard. • Environmental compensation. • Presentation by Petrobras of overall project • Audits and evaluations. accident rate indicators, and actions being • Accident indicators and investigation. implemented at each shipyard. • Miscellaneous issues. • Visit to host shipyard. 88 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.2 Engaging with the community and other stakeholders and encouraging the creation of shared value Beyond current activities, work meetings and audits, we also develop certain partner involvement initiatives of other kinds, such as: Institutional visit to Petrobras Saber +: Advanced Management facilities Course for Resellers Representatives from the Environment, Sustainability, Promotion of business growth and success and Safety department of our Company, along with the At Galp, we believe that it is critically important Director of the respective corporate unit, have conducted to strengthen relationships with our key resellers. an institutional visit to the facilities of our partner Therefore, we have developed the Saber + Advanced Petrobras. We therefore took the initiative of developing Management course, aimed at providing specific tools work sessions, informal discussions, and field visits. We to spur the growth and success of our partners. exchanged experience, broadened relationships, and built new channels of communication. With this course, we aim to stimulate the involvement of resellers within the activities of our Company, In particular, the visit schedule involved: preparing the renewal and re-qualification of the 1. Visit to City of Mangaratiba FPSO: Presentation management model corresponding to their respective of City of Mangaratiba FPSO project, integration of business, while also boosting leadership capacity on the environmental management and safety. Presentation part of new generations that may assume the helm of a of the main safety measures, best technologies family business in the area of fuels and LPG. implemented and HSE indicators – atmospheric The three-week course consists of two modules: emissions, management of CO2 emissions, environmental and personal accident rates, process safety. Module 1: five days of classroom training taught by instructors from Católica Lisbon Business & Economics, 2. Corporate Meeting: Sharing of experiences in as well as expert speakers from our Company. the realm of HSE management and Management Systems. Sustainability and strategic vision of projects. Module 2: visits to our Company’s facilities and Presentation of Crisis and Emergency Plans, particularly commercial monitoring. corresponding to the Santos basin. Organisation, resources, and system control. We believe that we are preparing our future with our resellers. 3. Visit to Brasfels Shipyard – Construction of FPSO – P66: Visit to shipyard, integration of HSE components. Interface with suppliers, HSE requirements. Sharing of experiences and lessons learned. HSE indicators. Galp E&P Management System Aware of the challenges inherent to the Meeting of resellers management of projects associated with E&P projects not operated by Galp, in 2015 we Organisation of two meetings for retail and LPG established the GALP E&P Management System resellers in order to broaden relationships between with the aim of managing the complexity and risk these business partners and Galp. (technical and economic) affecting E&P projects through: • Structuring of phases and “decision gates” from Conference on energy efficiency the E&P value chain; BCSD Portugal – Business Council for Sustainable • Definition of governance (roles, responsibilities Development promoted the conference organised under and interfaces), validation and internal the theme “Economic and financial analysis on energy management of each project phase; efficiency projects”, hosted at our head office. • Identification of standards and rules for decision We have been founding members of BCSD Portugal support in accordance with: since 2001 and actively collaborate in the development of joint initiatives that create a platform for the • o Relevant corporate policies (delegation of sharing of knowledge related to sustainability issues. powers, purchasing, security, health and the This conference was part of “AÇÃO 2020 – Soluções environment); Empresariais para o Desenvolvimento Sustentável” • o Functional process and approval rules in E&P (ACTION 2020 – Business Solutions for Sustainable Joint Ventures (JV); Development), promoted by BCSD Portugal, and was aimed at promoting the sustainability of Portugal in • o Joint Operation Agreements (JOA) and other coordination with public decision-makers and civil society JV contract provisions. actors. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 89 Valuing human capital Objectives • Offering good conditions for attracting and retaining talent in national and international contexts, reducing turnover and the associated direct costs and loss of value. • Creating an organizational climate that promotes a sense of belonging and career opportunities and personal development, so that every employee feels motivated, has a sense of vocation in their work, explores his full potential and thus maximizes the Organization's ROI in its human capital. • Ensuring that training and development programmes are in place to enhance our human capital and continually build capacity to implement the short, medium and long term strategy of the Company. COMMITMENT III • Promoting a culture of autonomy, accountability and meritocracy that recognizes and rewards personal and professional virtues, performance, commitment and orientation to the Company's success. • Combating discrimination and promoting diversity and equality to favour pluralism and skills in the performance of our functions and, particularly, in decision-making. • Promoting local recruitment, to contribute to the development of the communities where we operate and to promote the social integration of the Company and its employees. 90 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.3 Valuing human capital 6.3.1 Who are our employees? As of 31 December 2015, we had 6,792 employees at Galp. Contract type We are aware that we must provide stability and security as employers. Accordingly, we favour employment contracts of no fixed term, covering 88% of our employees. The majority of fixed-term contracts and contracts of uncertain term correspond to employees in service areas, who account for 62% and 71%, respectively, of those two contract types. Age distribution Distribution by gender The majority of our employees are in the 30-to-50In 2015, 40% of employees at our Company were women. year-old age group. The male predominance is largely explained by the nature of our industry. Diversity of nationalities Geographical distribution Our cultural identity is diverse, as our employees span We have employees in the several countries where we are 48 nationalities based on our presence in 14 countries engaged in activity. and the openness of Galp to different cultures. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 91 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Disabled employees We seek to integrate disabled employees within our staff. We have 61 employees with disabilities exceeding 60%, 36 of whom are men and 25 of whom are women. 92 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.3 Valuing human capital 6.3.2 Non-discrimination, equality and local hiring Age, gender, and nationality distribution by professional category At Galp, we combat any form of discrimination, whether based on gender, ethnicity, religion, or sexual orientation. We express this principle in all of our activities, particularly in recruiting and professional career development processes. Distribution Age distribution by gender Distribution by nationality Professional Total category <30 30-50 >50 Other years years years Portuguese nationalities Top managers 57 0 28 29 52 5 45 12 Middle managers 196 0 106 90 152 44 157 39 First line managers 467 3 291 173 300 167 362 105 Specialists 1,754 193 1,153 408 1,108 646 1,177 577 Other 4,318 535 2,991 792 2,488 1,830 2,105 2,213 TOTAL 6,792 731 4,569 1,492 4,100 2,692 3,846 2,946 We are proud of our non-discriminatory policies and practices. Human Rights Policy “Reject all forms of discrimination based on, among other things, racial or ethnic origin, colour, sex, sexual orientation, age, religious beliefs, nationality, family and socio-economic status, marital status, education, disability, political ideology, thus guaranteeing equal opportunities and equal treatment regarding career advancement and working conditions.” Corporate Responsibility Policy “Respect and promote Human Rights, ensuring, whenever this is feasible, action plans and mechanisms for noncollusion and for the resolution of non-compliances as regards the discrimination of vulnerable groups, civil and political rights, and economic, social and cultural rights.” Code of Ethics and Conduct “Non-discrimination: Commitment of Galp and of the Personnel: We do not act in a discriminatory manner towards our personnel or any other person, whether based on race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, ancestry, age, language, place of origin, political or ideological beliefs, economic situation, social context, or contractual obligation. Commitment of Galp: We assure the prevention of accidents and the upholding of safety, by complying and ensuring compliance with the rules in force in each geographic area. In order to promote the greater participation of women in the Company’s decision-making, we made a commitment to the Portuguese government on 30 June 2015 to develop measures aimed at achieving targets for representation by women of 30% on the Board of Directors by 2018 or at the start of the next term of office. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 93 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Equality and justice in compensation between genders There are no significant salary or compensation differences between men and women at our Company. When they exist, these differences are fundamentally due to the higher average age of men at the Company. Furthermore, wage differences are often offset in the opposite direction by differences in variable average pay. The potential salary differences are therefore often reduced in average total compensation: The ratios between average and median compensation of employees and CEO compensation are depicted in the following table: 2015 Average base compensation of employees / 2015 Median base compensation of employees / CEO compensation CEO compensation 0.028 0.025 Local hiring At Galp, we guarantee that most of our employees Moreover, we have made a clear commitment to are hired locally. This is aimed at promoting social safeguarding equality of opportunity, including with integration and involvement of our Company in respect to top management positions. The figure below communities where we operate. Notwithstanding the shows the proportion of employees recruited locally for above, we usually appoint Portuguese employees top management positions: to country manager and other roles of particular importance. This practice reflects our commitment to ensuring proper corporate coordination with various LOCAL EMPLOYEES IN TOP MANAGEMENT affiliates, as well as promoting the cultural matrix and POSITIONS organisational values while at the same time respecting local identities and cultures. 94 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.3 Valuing human capital 6.3.3 Seniority, turnover, mobility and absenteeism Seniority and turnover Galp employees average 12.6 years of service, with men and women averaging 11.8 years and 13.1 years, respectively. The following figure depicts incoming and outgoing employees at Galp: Incoming and outgoing employees of Galp Group In 2015, 1,019 employees joined the Company and 1,082 left the Company, 50%, and 48%, respectively, of whom were women. Excluding service areas, 189 employees joined and 267 employees left the Company in 2015, 37% and 26%, respectively, of whom were women. The difference between such figures is essentially due to the fact that many job contracts for employees in service areas are typically seasonal. Galp Group Excluding service stations Countries Age No. recruited Departures No.recruited Departures <30 249 172 77 19 Portugal 30-50 139 167 50 35 >50 11 157 7 141 <30 154 136 5 1 Spain 30-50 349 321 11 17 >50 40 64 2 17 <30 18 20 7 3 Africa 30-50 31 27 9 16 >50 10 11 3 11 <30 4 1 4 1 Brazil 30-50 10 2 10 2 >50 3 4 3 4 <30 0 0 0 0 Others 30-50 0 0 0 0 >50 1 0 1 0 Turnover, reflected by voluntary departure of employees, is represented according to the following distribution: Galp Sustainability Report 2015 95 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Guided mobility The dynamic evolution of guided mobility continues At the end of the year, the Mapping Potential programme to play a key role in human resources management in (described below in section 6.3.7 Development of human capital), our Company’s current and future environment. An as well as career advancement planning prepared for integral part of the overall scope of human resources entry-level R&M jobs, were both aimed at identifying development, mobility is a practice that facilitates diverse guided mobility opportunities that are expected to service contexts and work processes, enabling the development as a future mobility blueprint in the realm of career of cross-functional knowledge and skills. We believe development and advancement. in guided mobility, therefore, as a vehicle for forgoing new approaches and opportunities for innovation and continuous improvement. In spite the fact that mobility has remained largely stable in 2015 due to previous restructuring, a sequence of mobility processes were identified and implemented through various Business Units and geographies, with particular emphasis on the international area. Absenteeism The main reasons associated with absenteeism at Galp, which are particularly tied to variations observed by gender, are absences for family care, sickness, and accident. The following charts show information about absenteeism at our Company: EVOLUTION 2013 2.4% 2015 BY REASON 2014 2.5% 2015 2.8% 6% 2015 BY REGION Other absences PORTUGAL 2.8% 5% SPAIN 3.0% Accident BRAZIL 1.5% 1% AFRICA 1.8% Familly support 2015 BY GENDER 88% Illness MALE 2.0% FEMALE 4.0% 96 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.3 Valuing human capital 6.3.4 Our human capital strategy Being aware of the importance of capturing and retaining talent in order to ensure our Company’s ability to create long-term value and because we are convinced that our employees are an asset, we began in 2015 to reflect on our human capital strategy. In doing so, we developed two strategic programs: Strategic Programme 1, with the purview of promoting Galp culture, is subdivided into two complementary subprograms: one related to the objective of promoting a culture of autonomy, accountability, and meritocracy, and the other related to promoting a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship: Objective 1 of Programme 1 Promote a culture of autonomy, accountability and meritocracy • Develop a culture of autonomy and accountability, identifying key factors of change • Create adequate procedures that ensure that the culture of autonomy and accountability is effective (levels of competence, meritocracy) • Review the incentive/award/compensation system that promotes pay for performance, proposing a new benefits system • Create new compensation (i.e., non-financial) mechanisms that promote motivation vs. satisfaction Objective 2 of Programme 1 Promote a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship • Create a platform for generating ideas (internal and/or external) that facilitates the management of innovation and knowledge applied to the O&G sector • Define a communication plan in order to intensively communicate the creation of the platform as a form of encouraging its participation • Define budget to invest in new ideas (financial and human resources) as well as awards for the best projects Galp Sustainability Report 2015 97 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Strategic Programme 2 accounts for the development of critical skills centred on priority areas: Objective of Programme 2 Development of critical skills centred on priority areas • Identify critical skills and functions oriented towards the management/creation of value as well as quantitative and qualitative gaps • Ensure critical skills, defining the respective recruiting and/or professional development plans • Strengthen advanced training as a catalyst for personal and professional development of employees • Implement a career development programme that the employee is responsible for managing (self-management of careers) • Strengthen reputation and communications appropriate to the positioning of Galp as employer (namely in the recruiting of technicians in the E&P area) 6.3.5 Human capital within the context of E&P We have witnessed, once again in 2015, a twenty percent E&P business area for purposes of subsequent assignment growth in the E&P personnel. From an organisational to the local structure in Mozambique. This was also a year perspective, we have developed restructuring aimed at of receiving and integrating the Petroleum Engineering expanding and consolidating a matrix structure in which master’s students, the outcome of the partnership the need to clarify roles, responsibilities and interfaces is programme between ISPG and Heriot-Watt University. essential. We have 11 master’s students in our Portuguese operations and four in Brazil. Similarly, and in conjunction with this restructuring, we introduced and implemented the E&P Management With a focus on Brazil, we also have strived to meet two Manual, where we identified the roles, responsibilities, very important milestones corresponding to the full and activities coordinated between areas, as well as implementation of human resources practices, processes, information and communications flows that strengthen and policies. The first behavioural and technical skills and clarify the activities of all. assessment process was applied and, subsequently, we defined the training plan that will be implemented in 2016. Our employees comprise of 17 nationalities in this business area, reflecting the true globalisation of the business, E&P witnessed another year of staffing growth, with as well as required efforts of integration and cultural 52 employees added to the payroll, 48 of whom were reception. Regular communication with the structure has hired from abroad and four that were related to internal become a habit, expressed through various, departmentmobility processes from other business areas. During specific, “away days” initiatives, weekly inter-geographic the same period, 16 employees left the Company due to meetings by project that rely on videoconferencing retirement (three), death (two), on the initiative of the technology, the production of systematic reports and company (two) and on the initiative of the employee (nine). document management. We also highlight (as described in section 6.2.7 Engagement with partners), the protocol for development of technical skills between Galp and ENH. In implementing this protocol, we received 24 trainees over a full year, with each trainee undergoing one quarter of vocational training. Additionally, 2015 was the first year under the Generation Galp programme in which we received a trainee selected in Mozambique to undergo induction at our Company in the 98 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.3 Valuing human capital 6.3.6 Performance management Performance management system As a powerful management tool, the performance management system represents an essential component for the alignment of each employee’s role with Galp’s strategy, objectives, and values, respectively. Performance Management System (2015) Essential component for alignment of each employee’s role with the Company’s strategy, objectives and values Guiding principles: Continuous improvement, commitment, integration and simplicity Purpose: • Align the individual objectives with the Company’s strategic objectives; • Reinforce a culture of value creation, reflected in the assessment of critical business values; • Promote and strengthen cooperation and dialogue through the definition and assessment of shared objectives; • Guide the professional development of employees; • Recognise and reward good results, encouraging high levels of future performance. Components: • Assessment according to objectives, aimed at analysing sustained performance and variable remuneration; • Skills assessment aimed at professional development, planning related to training and salary progression: Behavioural skills; Technical skills; We have a Skills Dictionary that currently contains 124 technical skills across 16 knowledge clusters as well as13 behavioural skills. In 2015, the performance assessment process covered approximately 99% of the Company’s employees. Additionally, approximately 88% of the 720 members of managerial staff were assessed according to the 360º Methodology, which has since been applied to all employees with subordinates, now totalling 820 employees as of 2015. Meanwhile, in 2015 we began reviewing our performance assessment system for the purposes of full implementation in 2016. This project is intended to strengthen the capacity of the performance assessment process in order to: • Promote and disseminate the Company’s culture and values; • Promote meritocracy, differentiation and recognition; • Engage, motivate, empower and hold employees accountable; • Improve performance and develop people. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 99 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? The intention of the system review is also to yield employee’s functional group), serving as an input for a simpler model, supported in the definition of determining the variable remuneration component. behavioural skills applicable to the entire organisation. Additionally, and proceeding in line with the current In definition of the quantitative objectives (KPIs), we model, personal goals and behavioural skills will intend to strengthen coherence and fairness in terms of represent an input for development, assessment of the implicit effort in the respective definition. potential and salary progression. We also espouse the existence of an overall performance assessment, which, like the current system, will be composed of a (Company, staff and individual) goals component and a behavioural skills component (with different values, according to each Remuneration and performance assessment Carried out in 2015 with respect to 2014 performance, the goals assessment component yielded an increase in variable remuneration by an average of 11.2% relative to base remuneration. The variable component exhibited the following dependency ratio between shared goals of the Group and the Management Unit on one hand and the individual goals of our employees on the other hand: OBJECTIVES 2013 OBJECTIVES 2014 OBJECTIVES 2015 The path taken in recent years has been oriented towards the promotion of: • Understanding the individual role in the collective creation of value; • Solidarity between colleagues and teamwork; • Alignment of various Business Units, with the ultimate objective of leveraging the success of our Organisation and inviting all employees to participate in this success! Long-term and sustainability incentives For years, we have considered sustainability factors Top managers are also subject to long-term at Galp in assessing the performance of employees, incentives (three-year schemes) that are based on using the so-called QSES (Quality, Safety, financial and economic indicators. In turn, we have Environment and Sustainability) Factor. In doing so, succeeded in retaining management talent and we have strengthened the management’s efforts spurred our commitment to achieving the Company’s and encouraged the integration of sustainability strategic objectives. issues in day-to-day activities. Under this framework, employees are rewarded or penalised according to their behaviours and results. These components Information related to performance and compensation of executive and non-executive directors is presented in section are expressed in a set of indicators and monitored 6.1.1 Corporate governance. quarterly. 100 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.3 Valuing human capital 6.3.7 Development of human capital Human capital development programs At Galp, we have a set of programs aimed at developing our human capital. Generation Galp This program, aimed at recent college graduates with 9,000 applications for the program, demonstrating our high potential whose ambition, merit and commitment Company’s attractive image. to excellence in results, harnesses their potential to become employees of our Company through solid The trainee programme fosters diversity of opportunity, preparation. networking, and additional training. The programme began in 2008 and the retention rate to date is 77%. In 2015, we received more than AREAS OF EXPERTISE IN THE 2015/16 PROGRAMME Mapping potential consolidating the leadership profile outside of the context of Academia Galp. Mapping the potential of young employees (25-35 years old) with non-management contracts. The Throughout 2015, some 288 employees have program’s objective is to ensure that such employees participated in FormAG Level 1. In 2015, an individual are monitored, developed, and retained. training plan was designed for 29 employees based on previous years (2013 and 2014). With 418 participating, the “My Way” questionnaire was launched in 2015. Upon analysis of the results, a 1st group of 149 employees in the assessment phase was Developing leaders @Galp identified. The process will be completed by June 2016 Programme conducted at the end of FormAG Level 2 with the production of individual reports and personal with the objective of analysing the progress of staff development plans. with respect to the leadership profile assessed in the Leaders for the Future Program, furthering the Leaders for the future definition of Personal Business Plans, and deciding on advancement to FormAG Level 3. Identification of leadership potential of managers after completion of level of FormAG Programme In 2015, 45 employees participated in this program, and definition of Personal Business Plans. with both results and definition of development plans currently under analysis. With the respective In 2015, the assessment was conducted on development plans defined, 110 employees 42 employees, with the respective Personal participated in previous versions of the program. Development Plans also prepared. An individual training plan was outlined from the results obtained, accounting for each employee’s needs of Maturing leaders @Galp development. As a result, 22 advanced to FormAG Personalised monitoring of top-level senior managers. Level 2, 15 have had a training path representing an alternative to Academia Galp.: in turn, for the Through 2015, 36 employees have participated in first time, a specific executive skills development FormAG Level 3, with the respective development plans plan was designed for four of these employees, currently subject to consolidation. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 101 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Training At Galp, we understand the importance of providing training to our employees. AVERAGE NUMBER OF HOURS OF TOTAL TRAINING HOURS TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE BY PROFESSIONAL CATEGORY IN 2015 BY PROFESSIONAL CATEGORY IN 2015 BY GENDER IN 2015 BY GENDER IN 2015 102 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.3 Valuing human capital Academia Galp represents one element of our In parallel with advanced training courses, we also Company’s current training scheme. At this centre, apply two important aspects: the organisation of we promote integrated, innovative, stable, and high-level seminars, workshops and conferences, and structural training projects that are oriented Galp case studies. towards the development of managerial, technical, Through this training offer, Academia Galp is and behavioural skills. We work in partnership structured to respond to our Company’s crosswith prestigious institutions of higher education, functional needs and the specific needs of an area, contributing to the maximisation of the Company’s division or job. human potential and sustainable growth. ACADEMIA GALP COURSES Objectives Provide supplementary training to managers and young employees with high potential throughout the Company in the context of advanced management, energy, and behaviours, orienting their preparation towards the exercise of leadership functions. Partnerships Católica Lisbon School of Business & Economics and Porto Business School, the latter in partnership with the University of Aveiro and Instituto Superior Técnico. 2015 Indicators In 2015, 16,472 hours of training were administered to 336 employees. Rodrigo Virgílio: “This is an innovative educational model with the appropriate format and an excellent organisation that combine to meet the conditions necessary for effective, successful learning.” Rita Santos: “This experience has allowed me to deeply reflect on my professional career and think about how I can enhance my contribution and commitment to the Company, resulting in an effective shift in my activities within Galp.” Objectives Train highly qualified professionals in the Refining, Petrochemicals and Chemicals area, promoting knowledge of excellence and human capital at the Company through three programs: Doctoral Program, Advanced Training, and Customised Modules. Partnerships Member companies of Associação das Indústrias de Petroquímica, Química e Refinação (AIPQR – Association of Petrochemicals, Chemicals and Refining Industries) and five prestigious Portuguese universities. 2015 Indicators The 6th edition was completed and the 7th edition began in 2015. During the same year, 4,100 hours of training were administered to 30 employees. Diana Branco: “The EngIQ programme was the ideal training for being able to expand my knowledge and skills in order to complement my previous training (…).” Marta Smith: “There is a very positive, mutually supportive component between the students of the course (with very different training backgrounds), facilitating the establishment of contact/relationships with colleagues that normally lack much interaction, especially between the Refineries and Lisbon.” Galp Sustainability Report 2015 103 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Objectives Train geologists, geoscientists, and engineers in the E&P area with distinct technical expertise, skills, and research methods within the realm of geoengineering of reservoirs. Partnerships Strategic partnership between Galp and Petrobras, in tandem with five Portuguese universities and two Brazilian universities. 2015 Indicators The 3rd edition of this programme began in 2015 with four Galp employees participating and a total of 2,400 hours of training. José João: “This GeoER course was ultimately a very rich and unique experience for me (…) It has been a privilege to be on this professional track, which would be coveted by any professional in the oil industry.” Diogo Costa: “This course provided a unique opportunity to exchange experiences with colleagues from other companies and with professors who are leaders in their areas of knowledge.” Objectives Train sales staff in Portugal and Spain to become truly specialised in the sales process and with awareness of the full cycle, including the after-sales phase, focusing on profitable sales objectives, loyalty, and the building of sustainable relationships with clients. Partnerships Porto Business School. 2015 Indicators In 2015, the course was delivered to a total of 162 sales staff in Portugal and Spain, corresponding to a total of 9,038 hours of training. Luís Branco: “This experience was the most valuable training that the Company has provided me with throughout my professional career. In this context of learning and knowledge, I have integrated the added value and also have been motivated to add value to the Company, putting to use my experience and acquired knowledge. I am grateful to Galp, and particularly to Academia Galp, for the opportunity that I was provided with and am pleased to see that my Company remains committed to the personal and professional development of its employees, a factor reflecting the DNA of companies of excellence.” Carlos Belinchón: “The opportunity to advance to higher levels of Academia Galp is a reward for individual and group work and stimulates the competitiveness, efforts, and motivation of the program’s participants.” 104 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.3 Valuing human capital Objectives Offer a learning experience strongly based on the development of applied R&D experience that responds to the specific needs of the oil and gas industry at worldwide centres of excellence in the realm of petroleum engineering education, training, and research. Partnerships Instituto do Petróleo e Gás (Institute of Oil and Gas) and Heriot-Watt University, in scientific cooperation network of Approved Learning Partners. 2015 Indicators The 2nd edition was attended by 31 Galp trainees among an overall body of 52 students. A total of 8,174 hours of training were administered to Galp employees. Leonardo Fragoso: “My expectations were exceeded. It has been an incredible experience in all aspects (…) I hope to become a qualified petroleum engineer and contribute to Galp’s future.” Elysio Nogueira: “To me, the fact that the course is integrated in Galp’s E&P structure creates an unparalleled development environment.” Objectives The first edition of the CFO Simulator was totally focused on the financial fields. This course responds to the need to equip our Company’s staff with skills that allow them to manage the respective financial resources. It offers the opportunity to experience the impact of financial decisions on value creation. Partnerships Católica Lisbon School of Business & Economics 2015 Indicators In 2015, the first class was composed of 25 employees at the Company. The course had a total of 500 hours of training. Alexandre Rezende: “The use of the simulator not only allowed the application and strengthening of theoretical concepts, but also real-time verification of the impacts from financial decisions on the Company’s value.” In 2016, we are continuing to develop Academia AQSS (QSES Academy). Learn more about this project in chapter 6 How do we tackle them? (Promoting a culture of sustainability and ensuring employee and management training). Academia Galp awarded at 2015 Masters of Human Capital Best Personal and Professional Training and Development Strategy Academia Galp was recognised for the Best Personal and Professional Training and Development Strategy at the 2015 Masters of Human Capital. This was all the more remarkable because we have received this accolade for three straight years since 2013. The Masters of Human Capital recognises and rewards the innovative practices of professionals and companies that stand out because of their results in the strategic management of people, the performance of tasks and their contribution to development of the sector. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 105 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? At Academia Galp, the benefits of networking are particularly significant considering that trainees are Customised learning methodologies: employees of our Company. The following aspects are Example 1: Human Resources Management (8 hrs.), FormAG effectively promoted: Knowledge assessment: • The development of cross-functional processes within the Organisation; Research work on “The Human Resources function at Galp”, • Teamwork; including the following items, among others: • Understanding of strategic objectives within the Structure of human resources function; Organisation; Recruitment and selection policies/practices; • Culture and values; Performance management and assessment policy/practices; • The exchange of knowledge and experiences; Training and development policies/practices; • Internal mobility; Career and rewards policies/practices; • A cooperative and socially healthy work environment Policies/practices for safety and quality of life in the workplace. is stimulating. In addition, Academia Galp courses are completely Example 2: Coordination of teams and 360º leadership (12 hrs.), customised, as reflected by the respective programs. FormAG We can therefore optimise our Company’s interests and needs in the training of employees for the exercise Knowledge assessment: of their current and future job responsibilities. This Research work on “Galp Leadership Practices: current reality and customisation is guaranteed by a set of internal future evolution.” specialists who align course and module content with university professors, also serving as internal, on-thejob, tutors. In effect, within the scope of several Academia Galp course modules, trainees perform various tasks whose goals, statements, and assessment are prepared jointly by instructors and internal tutors. In that context, 2013 2014 2015 trainees encounter actual problems and challenges Conhecer+ Hours 16,182 12,316 9,843 of our Company, frequently capitalising on analysis, research, ideas, reflections, and strategies arising from (Meet +) No. participants 328 243 193 some assignments. OPEX Hours 11,058 6,957 9,506 In addition, Academia Galp affords us with knowledge No. participants 588 345 182 that would otherwise be beyond our reach! Some Conferences Hours 2,956 2,683 1,858 training elements can only be provided when our Company has created them, as in the case of EngIQ No. participants 1,478 1,325 1,087 and GeoER. AQS Hours 43,348 28,215 27,558 In addition to Academia Galp courses, some other No. participants 8,903 5,414 7,415 training initiatives will be applied over the next few years: CONHECER + PROGRAM Objective: systematically provide contact with the Company’s values and the development of essential behavioural skills to a broad set of employees. Program: 51 hours of training/action, seven days in one month, three modules. •Module I and II: more than 20 internal speakers address issues in their areas of activity. •Module III: two outdoor days to acquire hands-on experience with behavioural skills, such as teamwork, communication, and conflict management. 106 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.3 Valuing human capital Galp Conferences Critical factors for Galp’s success in the long term (Galp 2030+) Information and Communication Technologies in distribution as a critical success factor Citizenship and Cultural Dynamism – the changing world Modern Parents: the benefits of parenting Development and Production of Hydrocarbons: Technological Trends and Challenges 3D project evolution and modelling The importance of corporate volunteering The secrets to avoiding occupational injuries and diseases Seeking information beyond Google Tupi and the logic of the black swan Risk management at Galp A Case Study of the Pitu Discovery, Potiguar Basin, Brazil FLNG: Offshore Natural Gas Monetization The competitiveness of utilities through innovation in Information Systems MS – Messaging and Switching E-Marketing opportunity or essential business tool? “Technical Day” in the service areas Through the Iberian Technical Division, we organised meetings with site managers and customer managers under the banner “Technical Day”. These initiatives are focused especially on Safety, Environment and Quality, which are tied to management of service areas. Periods of debate were productive to all involved and for that reason we intend to transform this experience into a good practice, promoting periodic repetition. Somos Galp (We are Galp) – Working visits The program’s main objective corresponds to the development of the culture of compliance in the area of natural gas distribution. This programme is accompanied by an internal distribution plan through communications issued to all Natural Gas Distribution employees. The sending of teasers and FAQ will maintain awareness of compliance throughout the program. Above all, the training is intended to reduce the risk of regulatory non-compliance and to protect our employees and our Company. 360º Compliance Training The program’s main objective corresponds to the development of the culture of compliance in the area of natural gas distribution. This programme is accompanied by an internal distribution plan through communications issued to all Natural Gas Distribution employees. The sending of teasers and FAQ will maintain awareness of compliance throughout the program. Above all, the training is intended to reduce the risk of regulatory non-compliance and to protect our employees and our Company. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 107 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? 6.3.8 Benefits provided to employees At Galp, we believe that satisfied employees are an essential asset for us to successfully achieve our goals. Thus, we provide a set of benefits that promote employee satisfaction and facilitate the retention of talent. Benefits in addition to those set forth in the Labour Code Performance bonuses As described in 6.3.6 Performance management Insurance Health insurance that covers immediate family Life insurance for our employees and pensioners Social benefits Social benefits that supplement those provided by the public health systems, particularly in cases of illness and maternity, as well as child protection, for employees and pensioners covered by collective bargaining instruments. Post-employment Systems that supplement the social security welfare system, particularly pension funds that systems guarantee the payment of supplementary pensions corresponding to retirements resulting from age limits, invalidity and survival. Benefits of Clube Galp Benefits and advantages of a cultural, sporting, and social nature obtained from Clube Galp membership membership, promoting the valorisation of members (Galp employees and pensioners). “Disfruta de la vida” (Enjoy life) plan For our employees in Spain, we have created a plan that encompasses a set of health, personal assistance, and advice services. These services are available 24 hours per day, 365 days per year and are provided by the Alares Social Special Employment Centre, which offers employment opportunities to people with disabilities. In addition to benefits provided to new employees, we hereby support the workforce integration of people with disabilities not exceeding 33%. Working from home is already possible in Spain In 2015, we decided to take another step in our commitment to reconcile the family and professional lives of our employees: we launched a work-from-home program. Eight employees who signed up have stated that the programme is supportive and productive. Marisol Nieto: “To me, Galp’s implementation of this programme has been the best way to enjoy working, and I’ve improved in all aspects. Everyone in my family is happier since we’ve been able to structure our lives differently. I get to enjoy being with them more and also have more time to do activities I enjoy, because I don’t waste time commuting. Being able to telecommute improves your life and health since you avoid the stress and getting up at the crack of dawn. Also, you save time and the organisation is stronger.” At Galp, we also understand the importance of providing well-being and health to our employees. Accordingly, we have developed several health initiatives. Find out more about these initiatives in section 6.5.5 Health. 108 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.3 Valuing human capital 6.3.9 Investment in human capital At Galp, we monitor investment in human capital, the amount invested per employee, as well as the so-called return on investment (ROI) from human capital: HUMAN CAPITAL INVESTMENT HUMAN CAPITAL ROI ROI is derived from: (Operating Income – non-HR Operating Expenses)/HR Operating Expenses. As one can conclude from the two previous charts, the ROI trend is not due to significant variations in the HR operating expenses: it is due to changes in the operating incomes and non-HR operating expenses. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 109 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? 6.3.10 Involvement with employees Labour relations Management representatives meet monthly with employee representatives of Group companies that elect Committees to represent them. These meetings correspond to the presentation, analysis, discussion, and clarification of professional issues and situations that are relevant in the life of the Company and our employees. At companies covered by union agreements, Company representatives meet annually with various unions to review and negotiate any changes to subject matter defined in collective bargaining agreements. Diagnosis of organisational climate At Galp, we understand the importance of creating channels of communication with our employees, enabling them to express their opinions and viewpoints with respect to the environment that they experience within our Company. Accordingly, without prejudice to practices established concerning labour issues and contact with HR managers, we conduct an annual diagnosis of the organisational climate. The latest survey was released in early 2015 and examines the organisational climate in 2014. The results are presented in the following table, which depicts perceptions concerning the evolution of the main topics analysed. RESPONSE RATE CLARITY TEAM COMMITMENT FLEXIBILITY REWARD RESULTS BY GENDER TRAINING RESPONSIBILITY DEMAND LEVELS Key: 1 – Very unsatisfied; 6 – Very satisfied 110 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.3 Valuing human capital Once obtained, these results were reported to and discussed with the Executive Committee and all Units of the Organisation. Most of these Units were responsible for preparing and enhancing action plans with the objective of improving the perception of aspects with less positive results. Factor Action plan / initiative Clarity Meetings with areas that interact with the business to clarify goals and adequacy of resources Fortnightly meetings between the Unit head, teams and customers Meetings with teams to communicate the results analysis strategy Team commitment Involvement of employees in strategic business activities and participation in specific projects outside of day-to-day activity Promotion of debates on opportunities for improvement in interfaces between several areas Study on extending the Galp Fleet card to family members and friends under the same conditions offered to employees Training/Development Meetings with Human Resources Division to clarify career plans Meetings with employees to assess strategic performance/orientation and career development Identification of training modules tied to career development and mobility processes Reward Implementation of new employees induction plan Meeting with Human Resources Division to present salary policies Coaching meetings on performance management Galp Sustainability Report 2015 111 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Staff Meetings At Galp, we regularly conduct Staff Meetings to promote internal networking, align the culture and values, and to promote the Company's business strategy. Below are some examples of the staff meetings that have been conducted in 2015: “Think Digital” was the theme of “Doing better” was the theme of the the 2015 Annual Commercial Oil annual G&P Marketing Meeting Management Meeting Working groups represented five areas comprising G&P Marketing and presented their views on the main The annual meeting of the Commercial Department challenges and priorities for 2015. This informal and was conducted at the Estoril Congress Centre and was creative session enabled working groups to share their attended by approximately 450 employees. The main perspectives. messages were as follows: “The Impossible... it just takes a little longer”; “Sell more, sell better”; “Business as UNusual”; “From Share to Size”; “United in Service of Excellence” and “For Efficient and Sustainable Technical Meeting of Environment, Quality, Support”. Safety and Sustainability Division The Environment, Quality, Safety and Sustainability “Challenging Limits” was the theme Division met at a Lisbon hotel to promote strategic reflection, stimulate an environment of cooperation, and of the annual staff meeting for G&P align objectives. Facing real challenges and establishing and Trading Oil & Gas commitments, the team also embraced its creativity and created a division slogan: Together we support Galp’s In order to present the business plan corresponding to future! the Business Unit and challenges for the future, our CEO reminded employees of our Company’s ambitions for 2020, ranging from efficient development of business; financial discipline and creation of value; organisational effectiveness; and critical development of human capital. Success requires ambition, initiative, talent, and teamwork, which involves cooperation in all areas. R&M Planning and Control in general meeting The meeting started with a team building activity, followed by a meeting in which several teams provided an annual breakdown while also presenting the major challenges for 2015. Annual Galp Spain Meeting The meeting analysed the annual results and goals in different business areas. One of the objectives of these actions has been to make the business world accessible to people with disabilities, improving their social and communication skills, while also facilitating their future integration into the workforce. The country manager’s message was that direct involvement of our employees demonstrates how we apply all of our positive energy to the construction of a more inclusive company and reflects the high level of commitment and solidarity that exist in our organisation. 112 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.3 Valuing human capital Internal communication At Galp, we understand the importance of: • Sharing information; • Disseminating important messages; • Promoting alignment with the Company’s culture and values; • Motivating and recognising employees and providing them with a space to express themselves among their colleagues. Accordingly, we have a series of internal communication tools: Employee Portal With the design and construction phase of the • Provides employees with autonomous access to Employee Portal in 2014, we began implementing services and information through an intuitive and the portal into the group's daily operations in 2015. simplified interface; We progressively rolled out the use of the portal to • Provides managers a set of tools to improve various areas of our Company. By the end of 2015, the efficiency and effectiveness of team work approximately 1,300 employees were already using management, simultaneously reducing the the Employee Portal on a regular basis. administrative burden; The delivery of the Portal to employees was always • Ensures the modernisation and simplification of preceded by the introduction of a series of initiatives processes, the increase of efficiency/effectiveness concerning its functionality, encompassing a total of and the rationalisation of operating costs; more than 3,000 hours of training to date. • Allows human resources professionals to direct their The Portal has contributed to the acceleration, attention toward activities with greater strategic simplification, and dematerialisation of most of the impact on the Organisation, minimising their operational HR processes. Accordingly, we have involvement in tasks with lower added value. increased productivity, quality and the level of the service provided. The Portal is a web solution for the decentralisation of functions and an access to information contained in back-end HR operational systems, providing an important set of benefits, including the following: Galp Sustainability Report 2015 113 Helping to satisfy future energy needs and minimising the intensity of the carbon footprint Objectives • Guaranteeing that the Climate Change risks and opportunities are considered in the strategic formulation of the Company's portfolio development. • In particular, interpreting the European and United Nations climate-energy policy contexts to assess the risks and opportunities for the Company's portfolio in relation to carbon fuels and oil and gas reserves, downstream activity and renewable energies. • Promoting the inclusion of energy outlooks in strategy development. • Encouraging research and development into solutions that minimize risks and maximize opportunities related to COMMITMENT IV energy-climate. • Promoting energy efficiency and innovative solutions to minimize the carbon footprint of our operations and move our entire operational chain in the direction of the best references and benchmarks. • Planning adaptations to climate change, by mitigation of the operational risks resulting from extreme climate phenomena. • Coordinating social responsibility programmes with climate change strategy. 114 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.4 Helping to satisfy future energy needs and minimising the intensity of the carbon footprint 6.4.1 Our climate change strategy At Galp, we continuously analyse the conditions facing our industry, seeking to meet future energy needs and supplying energy in a socially fair and responsible manner, while also recognising the need to reduce the carbon intensity of our activities and products. Aware of the international development and framework related to energy consumption and climate change, we identified and assessed the following variables in our strategy: • Renewable and unconventional energy will have a growing share in the energy mix, driven by a global agreement to curb global warming and GHG emissions; “The World is changing and climate change is recognised as a global and real problem. At Galp, we play an active • Energy efficiency undeniably impacts our business strategy; and responsible role in the management of this subject, since we strive to serve as a structural contributor to the • With the focus on natural gas and renewable energy, national economy and social activity in general.” portfolio diversification will help offset our exposure to carbon prices. Carlos Costa Pina, Executive Director of Galp In order to ensure the cross-functional commitment Our climate change strategy is based on the four and involvement throughout the Company, we following areas of action: published the Galp climate change vision and policy • Axis I – Responsible exploration and production; in 2014. According to these internal rules, we have • Axis II – Efficient refining and marketing; assumed that the reduction of effects from climate change must be oriented towards promoting the most • Axis III – Innovation, research and development, and innovative solutions, minimising the carbon intensity of promotion of efficient technologies; activity, and contributing to meet energy demands in a • Axis IV – Anticipating trends and expectations of sustainable manner. stakeholders with regard to energy and climate. AXIS I Responsible exploration and production Strategic objective • Consider criteria related to climate change in the investment phase, enhancing natural gas resources in the E&P portfolio. • Achieve the best market benchmarks in terms of emission intensity in the operation phase. • Link social responsability programmes with E&P and climate changes strategies. • Incorporate an assessment os infrastruture exposure to the physical risk of climate change into the decision-making process. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 115 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? AXIS II Efficient refining and marketing Strategic objective • Gradually evolve towards the best market benchmarks in terms of emission intensity end energy efficiency. • Identify and mitigate impacts associated with trends and regulatory requirements, particularly with regard to emission limits in the refining phase. • Identify expousure, in the medium term, to the physical risk of climate change and draw up plans or adaptation measures. • Link social responsability programmes with R&M and climate changes strategies. AXIS III Innovation and research as well as development and promotion of efficient technologies Strategic objective • Ensure that innovation and research strategy includes areas of activity related to climate change. • Monitor emerging technologies and understand their impact on business and the various markets. • Promote biofuel research and production, maximising its position in the value chain where it is most relevant. • Promote the research, development and implementation of innovative services and solutions in order to improve energy efficiency in operations, clients and business partners. AXIS IV Anticipating trends and expectations of stakeholders in the area of energy and climate Strategic objective • Ensure that the topic of climate change is included in the development and monotoring process of relevant stakeholder's expectations. • Anticipate the impact of industry trends and ensure active participation in political decisions precesses in the context of climate change. • Monitor and report Galp's carbon footprint and promote de adoptation of practices that minimise its emissions. 116 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.4 Helping to satisfy future energy needs and minimising the intensity of the carbon footprint Strategic action plans for climate change are defined for the strategic horizon (2014-2020). In 2015, we achieved an average level of execution of 83%. In order to cope with evolving conditions and the Thus, we have begun analysing the technological and regulatory midto long-term challenges that we currently face, trends, as well as the various scenarios and main strategic drivers, we have established the commitment to review our identifying the main risks and opportunities associated with new 2016 climate change strategy. Along the same lines, energies. We expect that the programme will be concluded during we began a strategic plan in 2015 that will define our the first half of 2016 and we are currently analysing lines of action, Company’s footprint to new energies. particularly in the realm of: This program’s objectives include: • Sustainable mobility; • Improve the monitoring method of new trends in • Biofuels; the energy sector; • Renewable energy production; • Re-analyse the Group’s positioning with respect to new solutions in the energy mix throughout the • Energy efficiency and energy solutions. value chain; • Reformulate the process for promoting / developing / financing new energy projects. We have been recognised as leaders for our initiatives and strategies related to climate change Our Company was ranked in The Climate ‘A’ List of CDP – Driving sustainable economies. For the fourth consecutive year, we were recognised by CDLI, achieving the maximum score of 100 points. DISCLOSURE SCORE Performance band Galp A CDP Average C* * For companies that qualified in a performance band. CDP, which promotes the mitigation of risks inherent to energy use and the identification of opportunities associated with a more responsible approach in relation to the environment, recognised our Company for the actions aimed at reducing GHG emissions and managing risks and opportunities related to climate change. The CDP questionnaire is carried out at the request of 822 institutional investors representing USD 95 billion in assets. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 117 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.4 Contribuindo para a satisfação das necessidades energéticas futuras e minimizando a intensidade carbónica da atividade 6.4.2 Adoption of the initiative entitled The World Galp’s current Bank: “Zero Routine Flaring by 2030” In 2015, we have endorsed, as E&P operators, the Zero conditions), as this Routine Flaring by 2030 initiative. contributes to Greenhouse and future role in a Gas emissions, among As previously stated, we have set the goal of scaling to other pollutants, and, zero flaring of new E&P projects, under normal operating cumulatively, to climate conditions. Thus, in 2015 we were able to reinforce this change. This goal has a 2030 timeline and the initiative has already sustainable society commitment by endorsing this World Bank initiative for achieved the support of many institutions, government entities and O&G E&P activities, aimed at promoting the development of companies, amongst which is our company operations without routine flaring. The commitment intends to reduce the flared gas (in normal operating In 2015, in order to contribute to the management and reporting of methane emissions in the O&G industry, we participated in the Methane Workshop organised jointly by IPIECA and the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI). Indeed, we recognise that there are opportunities within the industry to maximise the benefits of methane as a lowcarbon fuel. Additionally, we joined the IPIECA/IOGP Methane Task Force. The objective of our participation in this group was to contribute to the development of practical guidelines for understanding and managing methane emissions in our industry in order to standardise approaches and terminology, generating greater confidence in the information provided to peers and other stakeholders. 118 Galp Sustainability Report 2015 119 119 6.4.2 Aviation fuels Renewable Sustainable Mobility INDUSTRY Energy efficiency and LED traffic lights in Lisbon Renewable energy – wind feedstock low-carbon solutions Galp’s current and future We develop cleaner fuels At Galp, we position AND SERVICES Replacement of 20,000 bulbs Ventinveste, a partnership between production for our customers 1,380 kW for aviation transport. ourselves as a benchmark in with LED bulbs at 8,500 traffic Galp (50%) and Martifer (50%), Under the sustainable road mobility, implementing Through our investment lights in Lisbon. focuses its activity on the wind role in a sustainable society palm oil production solutions as VNG, electric photovoltaic production in energy efficiency and portfolio with 12 MW in production project, Belém mobility, incorporation of low-carbon projects for our and a 50% stake in the Âncora Wind Bioenergia Brasil, in biofuels and developing cleaner fuels. 935 MWh customers, we have already ELECTRICITY project, with 176.1 MW under construction for entry into production 6.4GWh which we have a 50% renewable origin production avoided 7.9 GtCO2e/year. stake, completed the starting in 2016. R&D Programmes in the E&P Maritime transport Refining Self-consumption Biofuel production fresh fruit bunches (FFB) production 11 GWh 93.5% less consumption renewable from waste process. reduction through energy We have in place four At Galp, we intend to Our objective is to minimise the impact of our efficiency measures production technological programmes ensure a visible presence operations, sustainably reducing the carbon At Enerfuel, the biofuel 2,000 tCO e/year 2 RENEWABLE ENERGY regarding oil production in in the market and in the intensity of activity. In doing so, we want to be production plant in avoided emissions Projects to produce carbonate reservoirs holding fluids with high percentage of development of cleaner technologies in maritime leaders in energy efficiency for Western Europe, reaching the first quartile in the refining sector. renewable energy aimed at Sines, we produced approximately 17 kton of Sustainable Hotel At Corinthia Hotel, we Energy efficiency in our buildings Sustainable Campus In partnership with three 31,559 MWh/year Renewable electricity production CO2, modelling of carbonate transport. second-generation self-consumption implemented energy Since 2006, we have universities spanning a reservoirs, flow assurance and FAME (Fatty Acid Methyl in our facilities. FFB PRODUCTION 11,500 tCO /year production and equipment Ester) biodiesel. efficiency measures achieved 1 GWh/year of total covered area of ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT TREND both by replacing reduction in electricity 300,000 m2 in 100 facilities. 37.7 PRODUCTION 2 51.5kton 38 equipment and by consumption, the buildings. Installation of avoided emissions 3.3 GWh/year 17kton 32.9 32.1 31.9 optimising behaviours equivalent of €100 five solar thermal plants 1.52 m/year 31.4 31.4 31.7 Reduction of electricity consumption and processes, k/year. In 2016, we corresponding to a total of 31 achieving a reduction 900 kW, and four € 2015 expect to reduce Tower C 28.2 26.6 27.3 26.6 26.6 2 generation nd € 370 k/year of 4 GWh/year. heat consumption by 404 photovoltaic plants with energy imports avoided 18.6 kton FAME biodiesel maximum annual 24 Reduction of energy bills MWh/year, which is 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 expected to yield savings production of 1 GWh. kg CO2/ 2014 CWT Sines Refinery Top Performers Sector of €7 k/year. Refinery Matosinhos average Galp Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.4 Helping to satisfy future energy needs and minimising the intensity of the carbon footprint 6.4.3 6.4.4 Our carbon footprint The performance of our projects Carbon footprint reduction, particularly through reduction of emissions and the carbon intensity of operations, represents a challenge, especially within the context of expanding our activities. To this end, the monitoring of the carbon footprint Energy efficiency and specific emissions is essential, and we therefore regularly and systematically engage in this activity. In effect, we belief that the results and evolution of the main indicators represent relevant elements when defining the strategy and our objectives and goals. (CO2/CWT) at refineries We define ambitious objectives and goals for our refineries, with the Eco-efficiency and Evolutionary Modularity serving as basis for our strategy. This reflects a clear commitment to energy efficiency and the implementation of innovative solutions aimed at minimising the carbon intensity of our activities, evolving towards the best models LIMITS OF THE CARBON FOOTPRINT IN 2015 and benchmarks throughout our operational chain and the implementation of evolutionary solutions in which the subsequent phase is not contingent upon the previous phase. Success is monitored by the evolution of the positioning of Galp’s refining system with respect to two main indicators: Availability and Energy Efficiency. The objective is to reach the first quartile for Western Europe. We defined five performance axes and prepared an action plan through the year 2020: SUMMARY OF EMISSIONS % without the unit: ton CO2e S1 S2 S3 Total 2015 use of products Total WITHOUT using products 3,758,365 273,458 395,464 4,427,288 100% Total WITH using products 3,758,365 273,458 36,201,444 40,233,267 E&P (operated) 2,562 0 0 2,562 0.1% Refining 3,459,768 232,948 0 3,692,716 83.4% Power 28,049 525 0 28,574 0.6% Supplies & Logistics 4,352 12,276 337,859 354,487 8.0 % 1. + Reliability Distribution & Retail (oil) 0 24,069 54,945 79,015 1.8% 2. + Energy Efficiency Distribution & Trading (gas) 252,021 354 0 252,375 5.7% 3. + Efficiency of Processes Other 7,362 1,872 2,660 11,894 0.3% 4. + Flexibility and Innovation Biofuels 4,252 1,413 0 5,665 0.1% 5. + More Conversion (short, medium and long term) Use of products 0 0 35,805,980 35,805,980 E&P (non-operated) 366,800 0 0 366,800 Notes on methodology in Annex IV 122 Galp Sustainability Report 2015 123 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Simultaneously, and according to the development underway. Based on a significant investment, it is our goal philosophy of Evolutionary Modularity, we are studying to reach the first quartile in Western European Energy the development of the future post-2020 refining system. Efficiency by 2019, a year that coincides with the Sectorial Shutdown at the end of the cycle, occurring every 5.5 years In 2015, the Matosinhos Refinery accomplished its of operation. mission: sustaining positioning in Energy Availability and Efficiency while maintaining its leadership in Western The measures set forth in the Energy Efficiency Plan were Europe in terms of these indicators. The measures implemented in 2015, reducing the EII by 2.2%. set forth in the Action Plan for Improvements to the At the Sines Refinery, we launched the project for Metropolitan Region Energy System were implemented implementation of the Reliability Centred Maintenance under ISO 50001, which facilitated a 3.4% reduction of (RCM) methodology, which yielded visible outcomes and the Energy Intensity Index (EII). resulted in a positive trend throughout the second quartile. Matosinhos remains in the first quartile for the refining The goal is to reach the first quartile in Western Europe sector with respect to these indicators. Now the goal is to Availability in 2016. ensure the maintenance of proper levels and to continue to work on eco-efficiency of operations and reduce the impact from the use of products. The Sines Refinery continues to pursue the established objective, also working to achieve leadership in Western European Energy Availability and Efficiency, having adjusted the targets for the value creation investments that are RCM is a structured approach that allows for improved availability of facilities through the reduction of untimely breakdowns. Accordingly, the reliability and availability of equipment is promoted, also contributing to improved energy efficiency. The project began this year at the Sines Refinery, resulting in publication of the first Refinery Reliability Databook. The implementation of this methodology began in 2008 at the Matosinhos Refinery, delivering positive results that positioned Matosinhos as a Western European leader for this indicator. With the implementation of various action plans, we target of 27.3 kg CO2/CWT. The Sector Shutdown estimate a 31% energy intensity reduction at the Sines planned for 2016, coinciding with the end of the Fuels Refinery between 2008 and 2019 and a 21% reduction Cycle (Line II), will affect this indicator. Matosinhos leads at the Matosinhos Refinery between 2008 and 2015, the top performers. Sines can only join the group of which places both refineries within the first quartile for top performers in 2019, in line with the energy intensity the sector. The impact will also be felt in terms of CO2 indicator, after completing a major investment in its emissions. At Matosinhos, the CO2/CWT in 2015 was Topping. 26.6 kg CO2/CWT, surpassing the already ambitious 124 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.4 Helping to satisfy future energy needs and minimising the intensity of the carbon footprint As a means of strengthening our relationship with subject to such requirement – such as the hydrobon BCSD and sharing our best practices with the industry, unit. The optimisation of the steam network has not we were honoured to accept the invitation and shared involved the modification of equipment and enables a case study with other stakeholders related to steam CO2 emissions reduction of more than 50,000 tonnes. optimisation at the Sines refinery. Indeed, our commitment to maximising steam production at the Sines refinery was applied to steam production at plants that were able to produce steam – like the hydrocracker unit –, to production optimisation and to ensuring hot loads for units Our position with respect to European energy and climate policies and their relationship with the refinery We believe that the focus of the climate policy must European economy. In this regard, we support the be GHG emissions reduction, as opposed to definition European Union Emission Trading Scheme (EU ETS) of the specific targets for production of energy and as a “flagship instrument” of the EU within the scope consumption. of its energy and climate framework. We view this framework as an effective market mechanism for A strong and competitive refining system ensures emissions reduction in the electricity sector and flexibility, safety, and resilience in the supply of industry, but include appropriate mechanisms to energy products, which are particularly important protect against carbon leakage, with the objective of in scenarios of international crisis and in cases of protecting EU industry after 2020. potential disruptions. Only in this way is it possible to create options to choose from and to provide value to In addition, we support the development of consumers. technologically neutral policies that are conducive to changing long-term consumer behaviour with a view At the EU level, we believe that a realistic target to achieving more efficient consumption of available for GHG reductions must be the central thread of energy resources and responsibly using all energy climate and energy policies, supporting the most sources. cost-effective path to decarbonisation of the Galp Sustainability Report 2015 125 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Energy efficiency in service Biofuels areas At Galp, we are aware of the importance of biofuels in the reduction of GHG emissions associated with the With the objective of minimising the carbon intensity transport sector. of our activity and promoting awareness among our customers with respect to energy efficiency and Our strategies allow us to comply with national and sustainable development, we decided to implement European plans for energy efficiency, renewable energy, a set of 17 measures aimed at reducing energy and climate change, including the targets for biofuel consumption across a total of 87 service areas in market incorporation. Portugal. In 2015, at Enerfuel, the biofuel production unit in The implemented measures achieved a reduction of Sines, we produced approximately 17 kton of secondelectricity consumption of 3.3 GWh/year, the equivalent generation FAME (“Fatty Acid Methyl Ester”), 55% of 1 ton CO2 avoided, as well as a reduction of billing by more than the previous year. As such, we contributed €370k/year. The main measures implemented include: to an 83% reduction in GHG emissions from use of traditional mineral diesel fuel, which is replaced by • Lighting power reduction; biodiesel. Incidentally, this Unit produces biofuel from • Modification of air conditioning operation conditions; residual raw materials, particularly used cooking oils and animal fat, which only enhances its merits. • Installation of photovoltaic cells and presence sensors; At the facility itself, we have highlighted the improvements introduced that have led to a 20% • Installation of capacitor banks. reduction in CO2 emissions related to the production of We intend to replicate these measures in 170 of our steam, replacing the diesel in boilers with natural gas. service areas within Spain, estimating a reduction of In view of the good performance, we have received, €200 k/year in energy consumption. at Enerfuel, the “International Sustainability Carbon Additionally, for the next few years we are studying Certification (ISCC)”, which consists of the voluntary a set of other measures that we have classified as implementation of a system that seeks to ensure the second-phase measures. These cover 60 service sustainability of materials involved in the biodiesel areas in Portugal as well as 170 in Spain and are more production chain. intrusive than their phase-one counterparts because of Also in the Biofuels sector, under the palm oil modifications to the infrastructure and configuration of production project, Belém Bioenergia Brasil, in which the equipment. our Company holds a 50% stake, concluded the production of fresh fruit bunches (FFB) was concluded, increasing yields from 18.6 kton produced in 2014 to approximately 51,5 kton in 2015 on more than 40 km2 of planted area. 126 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.4 Helping to satisfy future energy needs and minimising the intensity of the carbon footprint Energy efficiency of our Our business model is based on energy performance contracts, entered into between our Company and customers the customer, that include definition, financing, implementation of measures and project operation. Galp Energy Solutions is a unit of our Company Savings achieved throughout the project are divided geared towards supporting our customers in the amongst our customers. Thus, our Company rewards implementation of energy efficiency and renewable them for their investment, which is felt from day one, energy projects. Its origin is based on the idea of without the need for them invest. capitalising the knowledge and expertise developed in project management of this nature at our own facilities, Savings are presented (measures), and the actual value employing them in the marketplace. Our activity is observed is billed to Customers. directed primarily at B2B markets: service, transport, In this vein, we apply defined and tested methodologies, and industrial buildings, corresponding to sectors that including IPMVP – International Performance represent the largest share of energy consumption in Measurement and Verification Protocol. This is an Portugal. international protocol developed for this purpose that We work together with our customers in the following can be downloaded free of charge on the website EVO areas: – Efficiency Valuation Organization . Galp Sustainability Report 2015 127 Ensuring the protection of the environment, people and assets Objectives • Guaranteeing the adoption of HSE and Security policies and standards to enable our commitment to the protection of people, the environment and assets to be implemented. • Guaranteeing continuous management of the HSE and Security risks of our installations and operations. • Ensuring legal compliance and the adoption of benchmark practices in terms of design, operation and maintenance. • Promoting eco-efficiency to reduce the consumption of resources, thus guaranteeing the preservation of biodiversity and the protection of soil and water resources. COMMITMENT V • Promoting Best Available Techniques and more efficient technologies to reduce impacts and risks. • Reaching the goal of zero personal, material, environmental and security accidents. 128 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.5 Ensuring the protection of the environment, people and assets 6.5.1 Context and major goals At Galp, we are committed to continually improving HSE • Implementation of management practices regarding performance, reducing the negative impact, and maximising HSE and security; the positive effect of our activities. We believe that we have • Incident reporting and investigation, particularly near an obligation to our people, our assets, and our stakeholders misses; who give us the licence to operate and it is essential that we retain their trust. • Continual assessment of the risk at facilities throughout the life cycle of activities, products and services; Our people (employees and contractors) represent a very special form of capital – human capital – and have the right • Ensuring compliance with best practices in terms of to return to their families safely and healthily at the end of design, operation and maintenance; each workday. • Promotion of BAT and the most efficient technologies Our assets must be safeguarded in order to ensure their for reducing impacts and risks; operational availability as well as productive and efficient operations. The environment, which affords us our resources, • Protection of soil and water resources; must be protected and managed sustainably. • Promotion of eco-efficiency, reducing the consumption We also are reliant upon our stakeholders in this realm, as of resources; they also promote and benefit from the protection of these • Integration of biodiversity preservation throughout the three areas: people, assets, and the environment. life cycle. Thus, our strategy to ensure the protection of the The commitment, training, skills, and leadership represent environment, people and assets was designed in order to critical success factors that have been identified to reach our allow us to achieve the main targets and objectives in these goals. realms through: Galp Sustainability Report 2015 129 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? The following continue to be the primary HSE goals of resources by activity level. and objectives at Galp: • Maintain the trend of reducing atmospheric • Zero personal, material and environmental emissions by activity level. accidents* • Increase the awareness of recoverable waste. • Becoming a leader in the sector in terms of • Reduce containment losses, maintaining zero accident frequency rate (LTIFR) by 2020. accidents with environmental damage. • Ensure the implementation of the G+ system in all of our operations. * (with significant impact – classes 3 and 4) • Consolidate the trend of reducing the consumption HOW WE DO IT Exploration Refining Gas & production & marketing & Power EXECUTE: execute projects/plans on time and to budget and safely EXTRACT: maximize the value of existing assets and businesses EXPLORE: develop new projects and markets • Acting responsibly • Maximizing energy efficiency • Applying the best • Applying the best references in terms of QSE references in terms of management QSE management • Promoting eco-efficiency • Minimizing risk • Minimizing risk Galp contributed to the proposal set forth by the • The creation of the World Water Agency as Global Forums of Sória, Lisbon, and Oporto for the aggregator of all international bodies, in order to Paris Conference of the United Nations Framework ensure coherence, cooperation, and effectiveness Convention on Climate Change, highlighted by the in the management of water. following aspects: • Recognition of Culture as the fourth pillar of • Creation of a World Agency for Sustainability. We sustainability, understood as the pillar of dialogue therefore support the creation of an international with the society concerning sustainability, with organisation with open decision-making practices a view to the construction of a new development that is capable of uniting institutions, companies, model, with the creation of the Iberian Culture and and citizens in the sharing of experiences Sustainability Observatory. that foster the best practices. In that light, we promote commitments that effectively integrate sustainability within society while also encouraging, supporting and monitoring respective implementation. 130 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.5 Ensuring the protection of the environment, people and assets 6.5.2 Management System Health, Safety and Environment Management Galp’s Health, Safety and Environmental Vision are responsible for, and to business and management reflects our ambition to become a leader in the energy units that have action plans and KPI defined for the sector with respect to these issues. This is the point implementation thereof. Senior management monitors of departure and our HSE Policy, in tandem with the the level of execution of these plans, which are also corporate guidelines developed in that context, defining verified through internal system audits. the accompanying management guidelines. The commitment of management and responsibilities In practice, the G+ System is applied as an internal throughout the organisation are explicitly expressed in benchmark to the management of these issues, the two elements of the G+ System, safeguarding the including the social component from the perspective of integration of safety, health and the environment with direct impact on operation. The framework embodies strategy and decisions applied on a daily basis at Galp. and regulates the overall guidelines for activity that are presented in our HSE Policy. Our system is composed of cultural and operational elements that allow us to identify, manage, and minimise risks and impacts With respect to fuel quality, our management systems, such as inherent to operation across the entire life cycle of our the G+ System and Q2C, reflect the Company’s commitment to activities, products, and services. develop an Environmental, Quality and Safety culture oriented towards operational excellence. In fact, performance excellence is a The elements that form the basis of the G+ System are very high-level goal that our Group undertakes. applicable to all operations and activities for that we Integration of management systems In order to develop an integrated architecture of our • A single framework; Company’s management systems, we are currently • A process model; executing the DRIVER project. DRIVER is aimed at designing an Integrated Management System that • A document structure; tracks all management systems currently deployed • An audit management model; within our Company. We strive for simplicity, • A strategy for third-party qualification; reflecting the state of the art with regard to systems • A global transitional plan for current certifications management. Through DRIVER, we will ensure: for the Integrated Management System, ensuring the continuity thereof. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 131 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Audits and compliance Certifications At Galp, environment, quality, safety and energy We maintained our certifications in 2015 and created (EQSE) auditing continues to be shown to be a highly a new Quality system that integrates two previously relevant management tool in terms of controlling risk valid Retail systems. We now have 35 qualifications: and the impact from our activity. On a quarterly basis, auditing results are reported to senior management, along with the respective key performance indicators that make up the balanced scorecard (BSC) of business and management units. In 2015 42 75 24 EQSE participation of participation of external auditing internal auditors auditors 383 144 239 findings non-conformities improvement opportunities 457 193 264 actions actions arising from actions arising from improvement non-conformities opportunities In 2015, we maintained our focus on the effectiveness of the follow-up process for actions arising from audits. The maintenance of these qualifications and the Some of the main management indicators related to execution of regular auditing, carried out by a group of this process revealed a positive evolution in the results qualified internal auditors according to rigorous criteria, achieved, particularly the following indicators: reflect our Company’s commitment to the continual improvement of activities. We are developing a strategy • Ratio of actions subject to delay (RAD), which was 7% under the DRIVER project for third-party qualification. in 2015 (compared to 13% the previous year), and In 2015, we also renewed voluntary 3R6 certifications at • Level of execution of auditing actions, which in 2015 the Sines Refinery and our offices in Lisbon, as well as was 90%, presenting the most favourable values since at our subsidiary in Aveiras – Companhia Logística de these indicators were measured, surpassing the level of Combustíveis (CLC). The purpose of joining the Ponto 88% achieved in 2014. Verde Serviços programmes to promote an increase in the rate of multilateral separation, increasing the use DEGREE OF EXECUTION OF ACTIONS RESULTING FROM AUDITS of recycling in the blue (paper), green (glass) and yellow (plastics and metals) classes at our facilities. This trend reflects the growing involvement of management and the inclusion of these indicators in the BSC of units, confirming recognition of the importance of auditing processes in minimising risks, and improving performance. 132 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.5 Ensuring the protection of the environment, people and assets 6.5.3 Environmental protection Reduction of refining atmospheric emissions With the continuous implementation of measures aimed at improving the performance of our refining system, along with the unwavering commitment to environmental protection, we concluded the year with the following reductions in atmospheric emissions relative to the 2005 values: -75% -66% -83% of NOX emission SO2 emissions of particulate matter emissions At Galp’s refineries in Sines and Matosinhos, we have particularly in the context of the refinery industry followed the EU atmospheric emissions reduction trends. average in the 28 Member States. From 2005 to 2013, In effect, we have reduced the impact from our activity successive improvements at our facilities allowed us to on the air quality and the environment through the reduce total NOX, SO2, and particle matter emissions application of BAT and a commitment to technological by 71%, 58%, and 76%, respectively. Therefore, we innovation. are poised to meet or exceed industry trends in the geography in which we operate. We compared our performance values with the values available at the European Environment Agency (EEA ), PERIOD 2005-2013 EU Galp NOX -65% -71% SO2 -59% -58% Particulate matter -33% -76% Impact Assessment and Management Under our G+ System, we believe that knowing, Our activities are based on recommendations and controlling, and mitigating risk is fundamental, from the plans developed in the ESIA. The overall view of investment stage to decommissioning through every environmental and social impact necessarily requires stage of the life cycle of our activities, products, and the involvement of stakeholders such as project-related services. local bodies and communities. The ESIA is, for our Company, a tool that enables Public disclosure of these studies, as well as the risks and impacts to be identified, and mitigation promotion of public consultation rounds involving the measures (reference practices in the O&G sector), communities are part of the Company's process and and their method of management, to be implemented. approach to the ESIA. The Environmental and Social Impact Assessment on we are minor business partners. As active nonseismic acquisition activity associated with the latest operators, our project teams monitor the studies investment in E&P in São Tomé and Príncipe began carried out and the ensuing recommendations for in 2015. ESIA practice is sound in the Company: safety, social impact and the environment. E&P projects are subject to ESIAs, not only in those situations where we are operators, but also when The promotion of the ESIA throughout the life cycle of the activities, products, and services follows the procedure outlined in the figure below. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 133 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Soils and water resources Soil decontamination procedure in our Company: We have interviewed Graça Brito, assistant professor at the Department of Earth Sciences of the Science and Technology School (FCT) of Universidade Nova de Lisboa, and a researcher at Geobiotec . She leads one of the teams that often cooperate with Galp in soil and groundwater decontamination and remediation work. This teacher and researcher believes that our Company identifies problems in good time and has environmental concerns. Look at the main ideas Graça Brito shared with us: Galp often uses independent experts to conduct studies at various levels, especially of an environmental nature. Its connection to academia enriches its expertise and work, ensuring the necessary impartiality in procedures. Professor Brito said that she considered the conduct of oil companies in Portugal to be positive. Under the umbrella of APETRO, they promoted the preparation of a specific guide to assess soil contamination and remediation, which demonstrates environmental concerns. Professor Brito also mentioned that Galp, in particular, has shown great responsibility and proactivity. She also reported that the Company provides training and gives autonomy to its technicians, so that they can engage in the swift assessment of contaminated areas. “The technicians are well trained in this field and they know the products involved in the processes, which is of great help when contamination is being assessed“. “In work in the field, where fast decisions are sometimes required, this is a major asset”. 134 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.5 Ensuring the protection of the environment, people and assets In 2015, we continued the monitoring control Every year, we set up provisions for environmental programme for soils and underground water begun in liabilities. These are usually established in order 2010 at the E&P facilities of Petrogal Brasil, a Group to provide resources for soil and groundwater company. To this end, water samples have been decontamination processes, and for decommissioning collected from site piezometers to assess the level activities regarding E&P projects. In the financial of quality in soils and groundwater over the last five year 2015, the amount for provisions to meet these years. Lab results revealed that the situation remains requirements was €131,003 k. equivalent to the baseline situation (2010), which was to be expected, as there is no record of spills in the onshore areas that we operate in Brazil. Provisions (€ k) 2013 2014 2015 During the 2015 campaign, a number of piezometers Environment 3,781 2,021 2,208 were installed at the new sites, to map the baseline E&P block situation near the most recent wells. 88,227 111,360 128,795 decommissioning Biodiversity At Galp, we are committed to safeguarding biodiversity At Galp, we view as a challenge the anticipation and in all geographies in which we operate and to ensuring understanding of regulatory trends and emerging issues its preservation over the entire life cycle of the projects. related to the theme of biodiversity. This takes on particular significance in the context of During 2015, we attended the Biodiversity and ecosystem expansion of our activities. services peer to peer workshop organised by IPIECA. Our Over the years, we have developed corporate guides, participation enabled us to cement our knowledge of good which consolidate and strengthen the ultimate practices and deployment tools, and to develop case studies commitment to minimising the impact of our activities related to the management of biodiversity and ecosystem on biodiversity. These include: services in the O&G sector. • Guide to Good Practice on Biodiversity Through participation in such initiatives, we aim to improve Management , comprising of two supplements: and deepen our knowledge of how to recognise and manage the impact of biodiversity and ecosystem services on oil “Integrating Biodiversity in the Environmental and and gas operations. At the same time, we guarantee the Social Impact Assessment Processes for Upstream involvement and communication with all stakeholders on Projects”; issues related to biodiversity conservation. “Integrating Biodiversity in the Site Selection FACILITIES / OPERATIONS LOCATED IN IMPORTANT Processes for Upstream Projects”; AREAS REGARDING BIODIVERSITY • Document “Assessment and management of the environmental and social impact of activities, Spain Uruguai Morocco products, and services”. 0 0 0 In E&P activities, we guarantee that all new projects Namibia Angola Cape Verde developed, operated or not operated by us, are subject to ESIAs, and incorporate biodiversity as one 0 0 0 of the relevant aspects evaluated. Guinea-Bissau Swaziland Mozambique 0 0 0 We annually update the mapping of biodiversity protection and conservation areas in the surroundings of our facilities, East Timor Gambia applying the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool (IBAT) tool. In 2015, 100% of our activities as operators (85 0 0 sites) were examined under this system. We considered the Portugal Brazil most important areas in terms of biodiversity conservation, such as the protected areas of the International Union for 2 Each year, an 2 Projects subjected Conservation of Nature (IUCN), and the UNESCO World Environmental Impact to environmental Heritage sites. Monitoring Report and social impacts is presented to the assessment and authorities monitoring In order to ensure biodiversity risk management, we aim to continue assessing 100% of the sites in which we operate. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 135 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Environmental performance WATER SOURCES WASTEWATER FINAL DESTINATION WASTE FINAL DESTINATION equivalent Indicator 2013 2014 2015 2014 Refining* Direct energy consumption by primary sources (TJ) (Scope 1) 48,919 44,922 49,286 10% 97.6% Purchase of electricity (TJ) (Scope 2) 1,781 1,862 2,008 8% 86.8% Total consumption of raw water (103 m3) 12,342 10,058 10,535 5% 88.3% Waste water (10 m ) 3 3 5,691 5,562 6,543 18% 89.0% Waste produced (ton) 20,631 22,680 25,434 12% 79.6% Number of primary containment losses discharged into the 20 11 8 -27% environment Volume of primary containment losses discharged into the 30 10 99 >100% environment (m3) GHG emissions under EU-ETS (ton CO2) 3,874,161 3,211,746 3,487,817 9% NOx emissions – scope 1 (ton) 2,145 1,295 1,691 31% SO2 emissions – scope 1 (ton) 7,508 5,134 6,008 17% Particulate matter emissions – scope 1 (ton) 350 243 250 3% Gas Flaring – E&P (m3) 1,638,336 1,360,737 967,854 -29% CO2 emissions – Flaring E&P (ton) 4,039 3,354 2,386 -29% *Refining is the most relevant segment on what regards the environmental performance of our Company. 136 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.5 Ensuring the protection of the environment, people and assets 6.5.4 Safety Personal accidents At Galp, we aim to achieve zero accidents in our aim of facilitating the process and thereby increasing operations, so it is necessary to ensure that we all work the reporting rate of near-accidents, which could be safely. We take care to act in accordance with the best potentially serious. safety practices in order to protect our employees and service providers, as well as preserve our assets and the This app enables any employee, via a smartphone, tablet, surroundings in which we undertake our activities. or computer, to report essential information in a simple way, such as a description of the event, and the GPS We feel the need to stimulate a culture of prevention location, and even to upload photos. and we want to increase the reporting of near-accidents. As such, we have developed a mobile application for reporting these (near-accidents application), with the Slips, trips and falls in retail In order to reduce the incidence of slips, trips and falls, What about the interaction between service station particularly in retail activities, we have created the managers and employees? Alert programme. We've given a lot of support in the programme We were chatting about this in a kind of interview with implementation phase, in order to clarify its features. Javier Sotillo, manager of the Cobeñas service station We felt that employees realised exactly what was on the outskirts of Madrid. What follows summarises intended. the substance of what we asked him and what Javier And the interaction with the management of the shared with us: Company? What is the Alert program? They ran initial training. However, we have sometimes The programmes structured in two stages: felt the need to refresh learning. Phase 1, involving: What were the biggest difficulties encountered during • Safety analysis of the task; the implementation of the programme? • Emergency diagrams; We had a lot of difficulty in performing PESOs, • Definition of responsibility for managing the particularly with how to conduct them. Otherwise, programme at various filling stations; there were no major problems at almost any stage. All the instructions were clear. • Registration and monthly analysis of incidents to prevent recurrences. Do you think that if the programme were to end, the Phase 2, involving: culture of safety would remain rooted? • Performance of preventive environment and safety It seems to me that employees who have had observations (PESOs); contact with the programme are already aware, while newcomers will begin from scratch . That said, and • Periodic safety meetings; given the high turnover rate at service stations, I think • Emergency drills. there are advantages in keeping the programme in place. How was the programme received by employees? Initially it was viewed as one more task to perform, What message would you send to employees of service an increase in workload. Even so, the goal was stations where the programme will be implemented in understood, by some faster than by others. One Portugal? of our colleagues, for instance, has become a true Alert is a working tool that helps us to avoid ambassador for the programme, strictly following all accidents, and it works! procedures. It takes some initial effort, but then it results in Once people began to understand its usefulness, the advantages and makes the work simpler. It's easy to tasks were integrated into our daily routines. adapt and become acclimatised to the new tasks. Do you think the programme has been a success? No doubt! There's a general awareness that these measures serve to help us work safely and this has been shown in the results: we've had no accidents for a long time. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 137 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Preventive Environment and Safety NO. OF NON-CONFORMITIES (PORTUGAL) Observations (PESOs) In order to mitigate the risks and impact of our activity, we carry out PESOs throughout the Organisation. As a result of these, we record nonconformities so that corrective and preventive actions can be implemented and the root causes of potential incidents eliminated. In 2015, in Portugal, the non-conformities are shown in the following graph, from which it can be seen that there has been a reduction in the number of nonconformities between 2014 and 2015. In 2015, there were two Class 4 accidents. Despite our concluded that no liability could be attributable to our efforts to ensure safe working conditions, we deeply Company. regret the death of a service provider in Cape Verde. The accident occurred due to an explosion during a Note, however, that the number of occurrences in the maintenance operation. more severe classes (Classes 3 and 4) continues to show a decrease. The second Class 4 accident was a road accident. This was properly investigated and it was subsequently NO. OF INCIDENTS BY CLASS TYPE OF ACCIDENT 138 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.5 Ensuring the protection of the environment, people and assets Below, we present the evolution of the Accident Frequency Index (AFI), which is favourable compared to the previous year, and its variation by type and region in which we undertake our activities: LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (LTIFR) (NO. OF ACCIDENTS PER MILLION HOURS WORKED) Employees Contractors Total 2015 BY REGION Brazil 0.0 0,0 0,0 Africa 2.0 1.4 1.8 Iberia 1.9 0.3 1.2 2015 BY GENDER Male 2.3 0.5 1.4 Female 1.2 0.0 1.0 TREND 2013 1.4 0.5 1.0 2014 2.0 0.8 1.4 2015 1.9 0.4 1.3 Human factors Bearing in mind that the accident levels in our From a methodological point of view, the programme Company in 2015 did not register the downward involves service station managers in two training trend experienced in the last years, we have actions and a contextual interview in their service strengthened our focus on the incorporation of area. Employees involved in accidents involving lost human factors in our safety management practices. workdays also benefit from individual intervention In this context, and given the weight that personal in order to identify vulnerability factors and their accidents involving lost workdays in the retail recovery. All employees in selected areas respond sector assume in the total LTIFR of our Company, to a diagnosis of risks, in order to identify the most we launched a pilot project in the area of human critical in these areas. factors, including operations in Portugal in this The initiative is based on our interest in developing a activity segment. culture of safety throughout the Organisation. The project involves the development of key The results of this project will be available in 2016. skills, particularly in the areas of well-being and stress management through the identification of psychosocial risk factors that may be contributing to these particular accidents. The programme provides: • Enhanced knowledge of psycho-social risks, particularly in terms of the main psychological and social variables involved; • A set of new tools for employees for evaluating emerging psycho-social risks in the workplace; • Identification of psycho-social indicators that contribute to an increase in accidents in certain areas of retail; • Evaluation of recovery rates and risk of recurrence for the employees involved in Class 3 accidents; • Intervention at primary prevention level in order to promote individual and organisational safety and well-being for the prevention of accidents at work; • Highlighting of our Company's best practices in the prevention of personal workplace accidents. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 139 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Safety of process and loss of containment At Galp, the safety of assets, people, and the environment is a critical goal, so we operate the facilities in order to reduce and minimise risk. Risk Based Inspection (RBI) Inspection and maintenance activities are crucial extent of future inspection activities during in preventing the potential off events to having an operation and shutdowns to be defined; it also impact on safety and the environment as well as the includes the analysis of risk arising from the history continuity and profitability of production. of inspections for each item of equipment. As an example of a prevention barrier, we present Amongst the many advantages of the RBI RBI. This is an assessment of risks and management methodology, we emphasise: processes (related to the operation and life cycle of the processing units), focused on the loss of • Reduction of costs associated with carrying out containment from equipment under pressure, due to programmed shutdowns for periodic maintenance problems of mechanical integrity. It is a methodology and inspection; that has been implemented since 2004 in the • Increasing the reliability of the equipment, as well Sines refinery, which allows not only a systematic as its operational availability, avoiding production analysis of the condition of static equipment, but losses occurring through failure/events with an also the planning of maintenance work, to ensure its impact on safety, health and the environment. mechanical integrity. This methodology (RBI) enables the criticality of equipment to be determined and the type and RBI contributes to the prevention of accidents and must act with other measures setting effective barriers to avoid significant impacts. SAFETY BARRIERS ACIDENT 140 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.5 Ensuring the protection of the environment, people and assets We conduct audits of safety processes within the Based on considerable prior knowledge of the facility Company in order to ensure that the risk mitigation being audited, this type of work includes field checks measures are implemented. We then evaluate the and interviews with the people involved in the effectiveness of the prevention and safety management management of the operation and the safety of the measures and clearly identify any vulnerabilities and facility. We believe that such an assessment should possible deficiencies in the facilities or their operation, in be carried out in a systematic and rigorous manner, order to minimise the possibility of an accident. preferably by independent organisations with expertise and a broad knowledge of the facilities to be audited. The corrective action plan associated with the findings of the audits and their prioritisation according to the In terms of process safety, we can see a positive trend. associated level of risk is one of its major gains, because it The rate of events per million hours worked, whether for makes it possible to ensure the continuous improvement tier 1 or tier 2, has been decreasing. of the safety of our employees and assets, as well as the preservation of the environment. We also recognise other benefits associated with audits of safety processes, such as: • Increasing the intrinsic safety of the processes; • Improving and increasing the response capacity in emergency situations; • Ensuring alignment with new legal requirements; • Preparing the facilities for inspections and/or statutory audits; • Standardising safety management amongst different facilities within our Company. At Galp, we began a comprehensive audit programme to verify the safety of our assets and the intention is to make this a regular exercise. The aim is to verify the suitability of the protection, prevention, control and implemented mitigation systems in order to prevent incidents and/or to mitigate their consequences. Our strategy for the management of containment losses relies on four courses of action: Awareness and We recognise this topic as material recognition that it is a material topic (Learn about the materiality matrix in chapter 5 What are the material issues?) We establish principles and guidelines to ensure the mapping of risks and proper maintenance Prevention of occurrence and inspection of equipment. of containment losses We reinforce prevention by way of our operations at the level of process safety, preventive maintenance, etc. We update emergency scenarios, and Emergency Plans and Instructions for the premises. Emergency response We perform drills and emergency response training exercises. preparation We use Oil Spill Contingency Plans (OSCP) in offshore operations in E&P activities. Action in the event of We immediately mobilise people and equipment to respond to and control the occurrence. containment losses We act responsibly and in our G+ System we anticipate top management commitment and line management accountability. Accountability We hold financial guarantees to respond to our potential liability for environmental damage. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 141 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? In 2015, we remained committed to preventing and minimising loss of containment events. We believe that our reporting practices and, subsequently, incident Road Safety Plan for the region of the Sergipeinvestigations, continue to be vital for monitoring this Alagoas basin type of event and to improve our performance. Based on the recognition that the number of fatalities on Brazilian roads is the second highest cause of death in this country, the transportation of hazardous substances, and the LOSS OF CONTAINEMENT (m3) risks inherent in driving that involve higher risks to people and the environment due to the nature of the products transported, our company Petrogal Brasil has drawn up a Road Safety Plan for the region of the Sergipe-Alagoas basin. In this plan we have established a set of actions and responsibilities in order to minimise the risk of road accidents and so avoid personal injury as well as, and environmental and material damage. With this plan, we regulate: • The procedure for identifying oil transport routes and their associated risks; • The responsibilities for the actions of each party involved in Given the monitoring carried out, we expected to carry the transport process; out a better performance in 2015. Meanwhile, we remain committed and will make additional efforts, in • Training for personnel involved; particular in the auditing programme of process safety and the maintenance plan for the pipelines in the Sines • The interface with the Sergipe-Alagoas Internal Emergency terminal, to reduce the trend observed in 2015. Plan. We have also established the responsibility for defining route Product safety schedules. These consist of sheets containing all the relevant information on the route to be followed, and should be carried The reviewing of safety data sheets and the labelling in the vehicles. They must provide at least the following of the products we sell are continuous and extremely information: description of the route, distance, estimated demanding activities. It is not only about complying duration, critical points on route, filling stations, rest places, with the legislation in force, namely the Classification, hospitals, and mechanical assistance. Labelling and Packaging (CLP) regulations. We believe it is our responsibility to inform users about the hazards and how they should handle products safely in order to cope with the risks arising from their various uses. In terms of internal management of product safety, we have guidelines to ban and/or ensure proper management of hazardous substances. We provide, at the sites where products are handled, appropriate safety information, and warn our employees and contractors of the hazards and impacts resulting from their use. We also have a specific procedure to ensure that we receive updated safety information whenever we purchasing hazardous substances from our suppliers. 142 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.5 Ensuring the protection of the environment, people and assets Security In the area of security, we recognise the importance of evaluating the threat level in the countries in which our Company holds assets, making use of international experts in the field. This service is particularly important in countries where political and social instability is part of the day-to-day situation. The Security area of our Company contributes, therefore, to the monitoring of: • Travel security, issuing alerts for the greatest cautions to be taken in each location; • Risk analysis for each country and on a regular basis, concerning the geopolitical situation in the countries in which Galp has an interest; • Support in crisis situations; • Regular risk analysis concerning security, also by location; • Analysis of health risks and regular monitoring of their evolution, particularly in Africa. One of the key aspects to consider is the threat of kidnapping, which, particularly in Africa, still exists. In order to ensure an adequate response if need arises, we have the capacity to handle undesirable events of this nature. In parallel, we have gone ahead with a training programme in places where the risk is obvious, in order to prepare employees to prevent and act against this threat. Due to its nature, the O&G industry is constantly exposed to political, and consequently security risks. The way to mitigate them is through direct collaboration with international experts in the field, which guides our strategic actions for providing accurate and timely information on the situation at any time in countries and regions where we operate. At the same time, we maintain close contact with the authorities and we participate in the Security Committee of the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP). Information management in the context of security is also crucial. All areas of the Organisation that, in one way or another, may have needs regarding security will have a training programme suitable to their requirements. Galp also participates in activities led by the UE relating to critical infrastructures. Moreover, it has also carried out the first crisis management simulation following a security event. This simulation exercise, of the table top type, involved the Company's top management and simulated a very wide range of events: bombing, kidnapping, espionage, and cyber-attacks. During the drill, which lasted eight hours, the main areas of improvement were identified. We would emphasise the active collaboration of all employees, who have been regularly informed about the progress of the drill using informative pop-ups on their computers. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 143 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? 6.5.5 Health Our strategy for the effective management of the health In this context, and considering the different challenges of our employees is based on the application of the we face in the various countries, in 2015, we started best practices, as indicated by international bodies and the development of a malaria and HIV prevention in compliance with a set of normative regulations and campaign, whose target audience is our employees in internal guidelines. African countries. The goal of this campaign is to raise awareness about risk behaviours and alert people to the In 2015, we began the process of reviewing our corporate precautions to be taken in order to prevent the spread health strategy, a process that will be completed in 2017. of these diseases. The campaign will be launched in the We will take into account the identification of new risks, first quarter of 2016 and will be supported by a set of which will be analysed for all countries, the development, materials prepared in the meantime. and implementation of an integrated plan for health surveillance, and monitoring of various indicators. Occupational disease prevention campaign The Health and comfort at work: postures in the also carried out for the E&P business unit: Office office campaign was developed and launched by our Ergonomics . Company as part of our health promotion efforts. A large proportion of our employees work in an It is one of the strategic priorities linked to the office environment. It is therefore essential to management of corporate health. inform and raise awareness of the fact that injuries In addition to the distribution of leaflets that provide resulting from inadequate ergonomic postures can a range of advice about working better at the be prevented. computer, a specific awareness-raising action was 144 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.5 Ensuring the protection of the environment, people and assets We have also developed a set of health promotion and well-being initiatives: • Training sessions on Healthy Lifestyle Habits ; • Thematic conference: How to adopt healthy eating on a day-to-day basis ; • Wellness week in Spain; • Nutrition consultations; • Presentation on psychosocial risks and stress management; • First games Galp Spain; • Conferences for an active and positive lifestyle with the European Institute of Health and Welfare. One of the main features associated with health surveillance is subjecting our employees to medical checks. In fact, we develop medical examinations for three different circumstances: ADMISSION EXAMINATIONS PERIODIC EXAMINATIONS OCCASIONAL EXAMINATIONS • Prior to starting work or • Annual examinations employees • Substantial changes in working • Within 15 days. over the age of 50 or for groups material components; at increased risk; • After prolonged absence (+30 days) • Examinations every two years for due to illness or accident; other workers. • At the request of the company; • At the request of the employee; • On medical initiative; • Other (e.g. travelling, stopping smoking). The health examination standard protocols involve: • Electrocardiogram (ECG); • Biometrics (weight, blood pressure, body mass); • Blood analyses; • Hearing tests; • Consultation and medical evaluation; and • Eye tests; • Teachings (posture, healthy lifestyle habits, vaccination). Alongside the development of a culture and operating Even so, we believe that a number of challenges still procedures relating to health, safety, and hygiene lie ahead. Through the corporate strategy for health at work, health monitoring has contributed to our management, therefore, we have defined the following performance in terms of the incidence of occupational main areas for 2016: diseases. Indeed, in recent years we have had no cases • Review/implementation of the regulation on alcohol of occupational diseases in our Company. and drugs; OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES • Review of the annual corporate health monitoring plan; 2013 2014 2015 • Prevention of occupational diseases. 0 0 0 Galp Sustainability Report 2015 145 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? How we protect the environment, people and assets in E&P Our E&P activity is expanding rapidly, especially in Brazil, Angola, and Mozambique. We want to reach the production targets we set ourselves, based on responsible action, cemented in the best E&P technologies and benchmarks in the industry in terms of HSE. The implementation of the Galp strategic management system has made great strides in this business unit, as shown by the examples presented below. Protecting our employees on their business travels avoided. Furthermore, we are aware that the Safety, Health, and Environment performance is a Our employees have to travel frequently in the requirement in order to have long-term operating performance of their duties. Given this fact, we licences. believe it is our responsibility to ensure their safety and welfare. Periodically, therefore, We are an active non-operator and we work with we distribute the content of our Travellers' various operators, which allows us to identify the Guide, which includes not only the main rules best practices implemented in the sector. Every for preparing and planning a trip, but also day we monitor the process safety indicators we the attitudes and behaviours we must adopt receive from each operator, in order to actively considering the destination in question. participate in ensuring the protection of people, assets and the environment, as well as in activities However, there are a number of destinations that that we do not operate. carry in principle increased risks in terms of safety and/or health. Thus, we publish the risk rating of Based on the principles established in the countries where we operate and to which our internationally recognised standards (API 754), employees most often travel. we have created an internal process incident rating that enables us to process and compare For countries with a pre-defined risk, it is this data in a structured and coherent manner. mandatory for employees to fill out the Journey Through its critical analysis, we define actions Management Plan prior to every journey, in and make decisions leading to the identification of which the risks and measures to eliminate or barriers that must be created or improved, such as minimise them are identified. The goal is to keep improvements in design, training and education, up with the location of each traveller at key, and emergency response procedures. predetermined moments of their trip. After we make a critical analysis and identify It is important that we ensure that our employees aspects to be improved, we interact constructively take appropriate protective measures in relation with the various operators in order to contribute to to the environment in which they find themselves, a safer operation. but it is also important that they have permanently available contacts that they can use The process safety performance data for the in an emergency. Before a trip, these numbers are non-operated blocks demonstrates the success of therefore identified and made available to the this approach. However, we are aware that this is traveller. a daily task, forever unfinished, which requires the commitment of all stakeholders. In specific situations, due to the number or frequency of journeys to a particular destination, we not only provide a written package of additional information, but also briefing sessions on the behaviour we expect (and also to be avoided) of every employee. Process safety and classification of incidents At Galp, we strive on a daily basis to run a safe operation to protect people, assets, the environment, and the community at large. We believe that all accidents can and should be 146 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.5 Ensuring the protection of the environment, people and assets Emergency Management in Petrogal Brasil Development of Lianzi offshore field in Angola and Onshore activity the Republic of Congo In Petrogal Brasil, a Group company, where the The Lianzi project is one of great importance, management of operational risks is concerned, since it represents the first cross-border possible accident scenarios arising from operating unitisation to occur in West Africa. In this activities have been identified. Through the process, the Governments of two countries development of Emergency Plans, responsibilities, – Angola and the Republic of Congo – have communication flows, forms of action, and the agreed to explore, develop, and produce the means necessary for emergency action in each of hydrocarbons present in this geographical area, the identified scenarios have all been defined. based on the responsible use of natural resources and good environmental management principles. When it comes to the fight against environmental emergencies, we rely on the provision of a This project was the subject of an Environmental specialised service company: SEGURA LTDA. and Social Impact Study, which identified and assessed the potential environmental and socioSEGURA has its headquarters in Mossoró, in economic impacts related to the project in order the state of Rio Grande do Norte, where its main to identify and enhance the potential positive base is located, and it has a second support base impacts and opportunities arising from its in Maruim, in the state of Sergipe. SEGURA's development. standard permanent team consists of five people at each base: an emergency coordinator and four The following objectives were established for the members of the fire brigade, working 24 hours a Lianzi project: day, all year round, prevention basis. Each SEGURA • To operate the Lianzi development project base has the physical means to combat pollution, and all the operations of the unit safely and such as pumps, booms, floats, absorbing mats, in an environmentally responsible manner; absorbent powder, reservoirs, etc. • To contribute to the promotion of the oil The SEGURA team promotes hard work on a daily industry through the innovative application basis, supported by inspections and tests to keep of technology and professional training and its equipment in top condition and readily available development; to act in case of emergency. The team participates in weekly drills and training activities to ensure that • To confirm compliance of the project with the all members are properly trained, qualified, and legislation in force. committed to the emergency response work. In Petrogal Brasil, the emergency first response is provided by the on-site operating personnel. In situations where the environmental emergency event reaches a scale that cannot be controlled and contained by local means, the services of SEGURA are triggered. SEGURA works directly with the operational staff of Petrogal Brasil, ensuring that all ongoing activities are properly mapped and that, in an emergency, they know exactly where to go. Moreover, drills and training exercises are performed annually in Petrogal Brasil locations, with the support of all contractors, including SEGURA, to ensure that the chain of command and response times are tested. The aim of the analysis and processing of the results of these drills is to ensure that, in the case of a real emergency, the actions of the various parties involved will be quick and efficient, ensuring maximum reduction of its effects. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 147 Promoting innovation, research and technological development Objetives • Promoting a culture of innovation, not only in terms of technology, but also of process, product, services, and business model, creating the environment and stimulus for both sustained and disruptive innovation. • Maintaining a network with the academic and scientific systems to promote awareness on the technological state of the art and enable the creation of competitive advantages in the medium and long term. • Ensuring the integration of research and development practices in the strategic formulation of the businesses, empowering and differentiating the Company technologically and enhancing its preparedness to respond to emerging challenges. COMMITMENT VI • Contributing to the reflection on the diversification of Galp's business portfolio, through the dissemination of knowledge within the Company on new trends in the energy sector and their respective potential for value creation. 148 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.6 Promoting innovation, research and technological development 6.6.1 Strategic plan for innovation, research and technological development According to the International Energy Agency (IEA), global energy demand is expected to grow by 35% between 2005 and 2030, so one of the current energy challenges for companies in the O&G sector is focused on developing new technological solutions. Against this background, and with the commitment to generate sustainable value by promoting innovation, research, and technological development, we have established a strategic plan aligned with our business vision. In this context, we expect the following commitments: In partnership with other agencies and organisations, we have promoted several Innovation and R&D projects. Indeed, given the structural transformation of the demand for energy in the global economy, we understand the need for sustainable, innovative, and technological solutions to be created in the economic, environmental, and social dimensions. The area of innovation and energy efficiency The area of innovation and energy efficiency, part of our Research and Technology Division, designs projects aimed at developing new solutions in three main areas of activity, namely: ENERGY EFFICIENCY RENEWABLE ENERGY SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY • Designing solutions to improve • Our value proposal resides in our • Presence in four axis: energy efficiency in our commitment to offer integrated 1. Energy Chain; customers’ facilities and in sustainable energy. This offer 2. Vehicle Technology; internal project implementation. comprises of renewable energy We work towards the goal of and better energy efficiency. 3. Mobility Management; turning our company into a 4. Behavioural change. reference in its sector. Our strategy of innovation, research, and technological development is based on the promotion of research and innovation that is embodied in the implementation of different projects in different areas, and that involves various stakeholders. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 149 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? 6.6.2 Involvement of the scientific and technological community “The Academia Galp provides closer ties between academia and Galp, thereby making it more competitive and aligned with the best in Europe's science and technology system.” António Santos, student at Academia Galp, EngIQ. Institute of Oil and Gas Master of Science in Petroleum Engineering In 2013, we created the Institute of Oil and Gas (ISPG), in partnership with six of the largest and most The ISPG has introduced the Master of Science in Petroleum prestigious Portuguese higher education institutions. Engineering, a higher education programme developed in Our aim was to establish a link between academia and conjunction with Heriot-Watt University (HWU). business, through an initiative that was unprecedented This master's degree is a higher education programme in both its size and its objectives. promoting the advanced training of technical staff, the The ISPG's mission is the development, transfer, and development of projects that create added value within the dissemination of science and technology applied to the consortia in which we take part and the creation of a network of activities of the energy sector, especially oil and gas. cooperation between consortia, universities and other research organisations in the O&G sector. Its activity aims to create value for its members through the development of technology programmes Learn more in section 6.3.7 Development of human capital (Training). and projects focused on the challenges posed by the oil and gas E&P, especially in our operations. Oil & Gas Industrial Observatory We are a member of a consortium led by IN+, the research centre of Instituto Superior Técnico (IST), in partnership with Carnegie Mellon University (CMU). The aim of this consortium is the development and promotion of an international observatory to stimulate the analysis of emerging risks and new dynamics of innovation. The attention is focused on the exploration of the South Atlantic and sub-Saharan Africa, setting a new agenda for R&D and for technological and industrial optimisation. So called “+Atlantic: Science and Technology Policy and Innovation Analysis to Maximize the Economic, Environmental and Social Benefits of Deep Sea Exploration and Oil and Gas Development in the South Atlantic Region , the initiative had its kick-off meeting on 4 December, 2015. The aim is to stimulate and encourage domestic technological capability through a programme targeting industrial enhancement, based on the sustainable exploitation of the Atlantic. This is because the effects of the new energy context of the Atlantic – growing US oil independence and the emergence of large producers of hydrocarbons in the southern hemisphere – are not yet fully understood. 150 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.6 Promoting innovation, research and technological development The activities developed by the +Atlantic observatory include the promotion of new technology-based Agreement with the National industrial activities with greater added value around Council for Scientific and the opportunity created by the extension of the continental shelf of Portugal, as well as the facilitation Technological Development of the expansion and diversification of this opportunity (CNPQ) for the sustainable exploitation of the South Atlantic. Through Petrogal Brasil, and under the Brazilian Science The observatory also includes the promotion of without Borders programme, we have signed an agreement a particular forum, the N3 Forum: New Business, with CNPQ to fund international scholarships at PostNew Technologies, and New Jobs for Sustainable Graduate, Masters and Doctorate levels. The postExploration of the Atlantic. The aim is to enhance graduate scholarships, in particular, are entirely financed the technological, social, and economic build-up of by Galp. scientific and technological capabilities, as well as to This partnership aims to offer Brazilian students an ensure the role of new technology-based industries and excellent education at an international level in the fields their structuring effect on the economies. Emphasis of engineering and new technologies. The period for should be given to opportunities for emerging industries applications began at the end of 2015 and extends until to respond to systemic risks in the Atlantic. 2016. In the first stage, 10 scholarships were awarded Besides IST, CMU, and Galp, the following organisations for Master's degrees in Petroleum Engineering, 10 are also involved: Masters Scholarships in Naval Engineering and six PhD • CEIIA – Centre for Excellence and Innovation in the scholarships. Automotive Industry; • Action Modulers (start-up in modelling and safety); • Task Group for Maritime Affairs (EMAM); Fuel R&D Unit (University of • Institute for Welding and Quality (ISQ); Coimbra) • Technip Portugal; We have established a partnership with the University • ONIP – National Organisation of the Petroleum of Coimbra for the creation of a fuel R&D unit, whose Industry (Brazil); main objective is to develop cleaner and more eco• MITI – Madeira Interactive Technologies Institute; efficient liquid fuels, thereby enhancing our focus on innovation. • Steinbeis Advanced Risk Technologies (R-Tech) (Germany); • Wavec/Offshore renewables Offshore Energy Centre; Galp Innovation Network • Laboratory of Robotics Systems in Engineering and The Galp Innovation Network is a web-based platform Science (LARSyS). networking the national system of science and technology, to collect ideas for the set-up of new processes, innovative products, and services to create added value for our stakeholders. This platform enables a set of bidirectional activities, including: • Meeting our challenges for business innovation; • Submitting proposals for innovative projects to be developed with us; • Disseminating technologies and knowledge in the Scientific Communities of the Galp Innovation Network; • Learning to generate innovation in energy. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 151 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? Scientific and Technological Forum The aim of the Scientific and Technological Forums is to identify and establish working ties with the national HydraGTS Project: Capture, Separation and and international scientific community. The most recent forum took place in 2014, and aimed to share and Conversion of CO2 for methane hydrates discuss information about new technologies that can The consortium established between Galp, the Faculty of contribute to addressing challenges and improving our Engineering at the Oporto University (FEUP) and FEUP's activities. The work focuses on four areas: Institute of Science and Innovation in Mechanical, and Industrial Engineering (INEGI) has initiated a project whose aim is the Technologies and Modelling, Optimisation and capture and conversion of CO2 into hydrates. Markets Efficiency The idea is to develop marketable modules that transform gas Exploration and into an aqueous slurry, to be safely transported by pipeline, or Systems and Processes Production turned into solid pellets of methane hydrates, transportable by sea or by land. In 2015, we embarked on a diagnosis to identify the difficulties and needs in support activities for the The initiative, under KIC InnoEnergy, is funded with EU resources technology management process. The results of this from the European Institute of Innovation and Technology, and diagnosis will lead to the definition and stimulation of the project has an estimated budget of €3 m in the initial phase. initiatives that will contribute to the improvement of The technology under development will reduce the costs and the Technology Management function. risks of transporting CO2, creating a positive environmental impact. To keep up with technological advances, our Research and Technology department develops and uses technological intelligence tools that enable access, analysis, processing and sharing of information on technology research from all relevant sources worldwide. 152 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.6 Promoting innovation, research and technological development 6.6.3 R&D Programmes in the E&P field In order to overcome the technological challenges posed by our E&P activities in areas where we operate, we consider it essential to invest in technological research and development, particularly in exploring Brazilian pre-salt reserves. The implementation of the R&D programme in Brazil, launched in 2014, started with four technological programmes: Reducing CO2 emissions is one of the most important global challenges. In this context, 1. Oil Production in Carbonate Reservoirs the technology for the capture, separation, and storage of carbon has been the subject of Holding Fluids with High Percentage of research and development, since it allows the impact of these emissions to be minimised. Of CO2 the projects initiated, seven are designed to capture and reuse CO2, and they have a total budget of approximately USD 6m. The modelling of the geomechanical response of carbonate reservoirs has become 2. Modelling of Carbonate Reservoirs particularly important in recent years, due to the geological heterogeneity that characterises carbonate reservoirs. 3. Flow assurance The hydrocarbons flow is one of our biggest operational challenges. Our focus within E&P is the deep offshore production of hydrocarbons. It is therefore 4. Production and Equipment Facilities vital to invest in technological innovation of production facilities and equipment. To find out more about these programmes and their various axes of development, visit our website . Ten research projects have already begun with a budget of approximately USD 10m. These are scheduled to continue for three years. Our commitment in this respect is to invest a total of USD 100m by 2020. “Evolution of 3D modelling projects – Thematic Conference During the thematic conference on the evolution of 3D modelling projects, a presentation was made on examples of applications in hydrocarbon processing, storage and handling facilities. The speaker, from the Engineering and Project Management Division, outlined what may be the future development of 3D techniques with visual simulations of objects in three dimensions and holograms. “Development and Production of Hydrocarbons: Trends and Technological Challenges Thematic Conference The guest speaker was Galp’s head of development and production for E&P. He addressed the current challenges and technological trends that are contributing to shaping the future of hydrocarbon production. He stressed that there has been constant innovation in conquering new frontiers and, through a brief historical overview, presented the various stages of technological development in this industry. He also highlighted that our challenges are centred on a higher growth rate for organic production in the industry, the materialisation of contingent resources and expanding a unique positioning. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 153 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? 6.6.4 R&M focused projects ENGIQ TOP REF The PhD programme in Refining, Petrochemical, and The TOP-REF project started in 2014, as result of a business Chemical Engineering is the results of a unique partnership case funded by the 7th Framework Programme of the in Portugal between AIPQR companies (the Association of European Commission. Petrochemical, Chemical, and Refining Industries) and the This project aims to increase energy efficiency in the Sines best universities in the country. This Advanced Training Refinery, through the development and validation of specific and PhD programme has three different strands, whose indicators, methodologies, and non-invasive tools. aims are to train highly qualified professionals in different The highlights of the main results of the project are: individual training needs, to promote a knowledge of excellence and the human capital of companies, and to • The development of key resources indicators (KRI) reinforce skills in these areas. to implement the methodology and normalise the eco-efficiency of industrial processes that will help to Within this field, we are undertaking the following projects: measure the dissociation of environmental impacts from • Extraction of mercaptans using ionic liquids; economic growth and the use of resources; • Optimisation of the Parex unit; • The creation of an eco-label based on the KRIs. • Development of the hydrodemetallisation catalyst; • Oligomerisation of Olefins C5 – C8; • Improved Alkylation; • NMR technology in the characterisation of crude oils and some procedural currents. To find out more about these projects, visit our website . Efficiency in service areas Since 2012, we have made efforts to reduce the carbon Our aim is to continue to meet client expectations, footprint in our service areas. This is a systematic approach innovating and developing technological solutions that for the retail segment, which aims to implement a set of enable the optimisation of their future needs. Some ideas energy efficiency measures. include: In 2014, for example, we saw the reconversion of the • The mobile payment option; M24 shops into Tangerina under the direct management • Energy resources management systems; network, incorporating the energy efficiency project that included, amongst other things, replacing 16 car wash units. • Central monitoring of the energy supply; Retail modernisation and efficiency also rely on the • Cloud-based points of sale and mPOS (Mobile Point of development and application of TIGER, a technology Sale), which allow the mobile point of sale to be used, renewal programme for the infrastructure of the business avoiding the need to wait in queues. information support systems in our Iberian network. The One of our priorities for the future is thus to increase focus on the improvement of the overall performance operational efficiency, optimising the forecourt, quick of the communication solution is on the automation payment systems and offering additional services. of equipment maintenance at filling stations and the availability of a Wi-Fi service in certain service areas. 154 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.6 Promoting innovation, research and technological development We All Build Quality” Competition Through the We all build quality competition, which we promoted internally in 2015, we believe to have contributed to stimulating innovation. The winning idea, Receipts with advertising on the back , proposes to use the back of receipts issued at filling stations for advertising, media campaigns, and institutional information. We are going to examine its viability, as we could, in this way, create added value associated with the billing process in service stations. E-Marketing: An opportunity or an indispensable business tool? – Thematic Conference Since technology and the digital world are changing people and businesses, bringing a new generation of clients, posing new challenges to relationship models and new opportunities for services and products, it is important for us to maintain an innovative stance on technological advancement. The Director of Iberian Marketing Oil presented priority initiatives in implementing a digital strategy and its relevance to the B2C and B2B client experience. The Innovate Idea The Innovate in Refining initiative, whose phase one • Product innovation – modification of bitumen with of which is starting at the Matosinhos refinery, is cork derivatives; based on a value chain model, where tools are used • Innovation in the integrated Environment, to manage support and project activities. We believe Quality, Safety, and Energy System (EQSE) – this can consolidate our culture of open innovation in a interconnections with Purchasing, Human Resources stimulating and competitive environment. and Training; This project seeks to bring us closer to our clients, • Cooperation with a Chinese University – preparation encouraging the participation of all employees and of a case study on an innovation relating to air business partners and being open to new challenges monitoring. and different approaches. Through the Matosinhos refinery and within the framework of this initiative, we celebrated the World Day of Creativity We highlight below some of the ideas that we are on 17 November, appealing to all our employees to share already implementing: their innovative ideas. • Organisational innovation – analysis certificates platform; “The search for information beyond Google – Thematic Conference The conference on the theme The search for information beyond Google addressed advanced competitive, technological intelligence search tools in Galp. The speakers, from the Research and Technology Division, highlighted the internal service we provide within the Company using advanced IT smart tools based on text mining techniques. They use statistical techniques and algorithms suitable for determining the relevance of, and the relationship between concepts and trends. This technique can be used to try to establish statistical patterns, using information that is available in digital format and accessible for downloading in an organised format. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 155 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? 6.6.5 Projects with our clients In addition to the projects developed with our clients as part of Galp Energy Solutions (as described in section 6.4.4 The performance of our projects (Energy efficiency in our clients)), we promote some other initiatives worth mentioning. Galp 20-20-20 Taking as inspiration the 20-20-20 targets set out by the European Commission, we established in 2007 the Galp University Cooperation Programme 20-20-20. In 2015, we held the ninth edition of Galp 20-20-20, considered the biggest Portuguese programme for research into energy efficiency. It is an initiative that annually promotes the development of 21 studies on the identification of rational energy systems and behaviours, applicable in industry and buildings. The programme aims to transfer knowledge and innovation between businesses and academia, based on a shared mentoring system between our Company, the client company, and the university concerned. Each year, we award 21 research scholarships under this programme, each worth €3k, for the development of projects. Our role is to monitor the implementation of these studies, with the aim of contributing to their execution in concrete energy efficiency projects. GALP 20-20-20 21 30% 70% €1.352 k 21 students in Start of 70% of employed Savings potential 21 costumer's implementation students of €1.352 k facilities of 30% projects in the participating companies Since 2007, we have already covered 189 grantees in 189 companies and public bodies under the auspices of this project and 30% of the projects have been implemented in the participating companies. The projects that have been implemented have resulted in average reductions of 9%-12% in primary energy consumption and 12%-15% in CO2 emissions, with an average return on investment time of four years. 156 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.6 Promoting innovation, research and technological development We talked to two recent winners of the Galp 20-20-20 programme, who now work within our Organisation and the host companies: Palácio do Gelo Shopping Centre and CUF-QI. Learn about their experiences. About the companies: Palácio do Gelo Shopping Centre belongs to Visabeira Group, a company with businesses in various industries, including the Tourism and Real Estate sectors. CUF-QI is a company in the area of industrial chemicals, a reference in the production of chlorine and aniline. Its products are designed for sectors as diverse as the chemical, pharmaceutical, food, textile, water treatment, and paper industries. João Carlos Silva, who conducted the project in the Tiago Couchinho, who conducted the project in Visabeira Group: CUF-QI: “The programme gave me the opportunity to apply “It enabled me to grow, develop skills, and adopt concepts acquired during my academic career and postures that we don't find in books (...), to get to to understand the limitations and possibilities of know the structure of a manufacturing plant, how working in a real environment. (...) I now have a better a chemical industry works and its importance in sense of the importance energy efficiency has for the people's day-to-day lives. (...) it has proved to be competitiveness of companies. (...) important in my professional career, both through recognition by this prestigious programme and in (…) it enabled Visabeira to gain knowledge of the terms of satisfaction, confidence and professional best practices in energy efficiency applied to the and personal motivation. sector of public commercial buildings and how energy efficiency measures should be implemented For the company, the results highlighted that in without affecting their proper functioning (…). And secondary processes, the so-called utilities, even therefore to make progress in terms of efficiency, if they do not concentrate on the largest share competitiveness and sustainability.” of energy costs, is a sector that has considerable potential for investment, which can improve the energy and environmental performance of the company.” Representative of the Visabeira Group's Palácio do Representative of CUF-QI: Gelo Shopping Centre: “The project implemented proved to be an asset for “The implementation of the project gave us the company in enabling us to deepen our knowledge the opportunity to know in detail the energy about a facility that has been in operation for consumption of each area of intervention. This some years. This study allowed us to analyse the knowledge allows us to take decisions on future facility using the new energy efficiency paradigms investments aimed at reducing energy consumption, and to propose measures aimed at reducing the so has cost benefits. specific energy and water consumption in addition Our participation in the Galp programme has been to improving the processes themselves, providing extremely positive. It has allowed us to have access environmental and financial gains.” to studies and analyses carried out by a highly competent and dedicated expert.” Galp Sustainability Report 2015 157 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? SmartGalp: tri-fuel approach The Smart Galp project is an innovative solution for monitoring energy consumption. It allows residential clients to access a monitoring service for electricity, natural gas, and fuel consumption through an interactive online portal. The project began in 2010 and was funded by the Support Fund for Innovation (FAI), and is the result of a partnership between Galp, MIT Portugal, the CGI, and the ISA. By monitoring the results, it was found that SmartGalp is a tool that enables real savings to be made, achieving a reduction of up to 8% on energy consumption. From the perspective of users, the portal is very interesting and innovative, attractive in appearance and user friendly, and is considered a crucial help in understanding consumption and managing invoices. Sustainable Mobility In a time of economic difficulties and an increasing • Providing the community with cycling and walking awareness of sustainability, we promote sustainable routes; mobility for our clients, seeking to reduce their energy • Initiatives related to electric mobility; bills and their carbon emissions. To do this, we research • Promotion of sustainable mobility through training sustainable solutions and make clients aware of the to clients in defensive and economic driving, in need to adopt new behaviours. partnership with Carris. In 2009, we launched the Sustainable Mobility To find out more about these projects, visit our website . Programme, a long-term project that indicates our involvement in the four pillars of sustainable mobility: We also have a partnership agreement with the Institute of Mechanical Engineering at the Instituto • Energy chain; Superior Técnico, whose annual action plan involves the • Vehicle technology; following activities: • Mobility management; • Incorporation of CO2 emissions in the fleet management platform; • Behavioural change. • Implementation of a manual of good practice in This programme involves several innovative initiatives sustainable mobility with an assessment on the road dedicated to the promotion of sustainable mobility, of the effect of the type of fuel on consumption and such as: emissions. • GalpShare, a platform for sharing transport; 158 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 6.6 Promoting innovation, research and technological development 6.6.6 Competitions and Awards Art, design and advertising film competitions for creative young people Gas bottles and Tangerina stores were at the heart of In the art competition, the challenge was a completely the Galp Create challenges. This initiative was the result free style artistic interpretation for our 13 kg bottle of of the competition for the gas bottle design held in 2014, butane gas. The winner received a cash prize of €4k. and its novelty was the introduction of a competition for The design competition aimed to introduce illustrations video advertising. on 13 kg butane gas cylinders. The prize for the winner The advertising film entrants prepared the storyboard for was €3 k, and the three best proposals will be used in gas the film's script and the winner received a cash prize of bottles marketed in Portugal and Spain. €5k and a trip for two to Cannes. The award ceremony for the prizes in the Galp Create art, design, and advertising competitions was held at the Mude – Museum of Design and Fashion in Lisbon. Attending the ceremony were the competitors, the Director of the Museum, the Presidents of the National Association of Designers (AND) and the Portuguese Association of Marketing Professionals (APPM), who were also members of the competition jury. IDC CIO Awards 2015 In the fifth edition of the IDC CIO Awards prize, we were one of the winning brands in the initiative launched by IDC, a global leader in the area of Market Intelligence. This award recognised and honoured our projects in the area of information and communication technologies. The awarding of the prizes fell to a panel of judges, and our Asset Management System in Natural Gas Distribution was chosen as one of the top 10 national technological projects in terms of innovation, return on investment, ability to improve and optimise business processes. Bridge over the Lisbon Ring Road amongst the world's best Designboom, an influential website in architecture and design, elected the bridge over the Lisbon Ring Road, inaugurated by the Fundação Galp in February 2015, as one of the world's best. It emphasised the provision of access ramps for bicycles and the absence of piers. The award classifies this bridge as a dynamic structure that promotes a healthy lifestyle. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 159 Aneexes 160 Galp Sustainability Report 2015 161 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? 7.1. Annex I – Assurance letter 162 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 7.1 Annex I – Assurance letter Galp Sustainability Report 2015 163 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? 7.2. Annex II GRI table: Sustainability KPIs GENERAL STANDARD JUSTIFICATION EXTERNAL DISCLOSURES PAGE, LINK OR CONTENT OMISSION FOR OMISSION ASSURANCE Strategy and analysis G4-1 1.1 Messages. NA NA P G4-2 1.1 Messages; 4 What is the strategic framework?; 5 What are the NA NA P material issues? Organisational profile G4-3 1.2 About this report; Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. NA NA P G4-4 2.2 Our operational chain; 2.3 Where we have reached; 6.2.4 NA NA P Engagement with clients. G4-5 2.1 How we arrived here:the new millennium; 2.2 Our operational NA NA P chain; 2.3 Where we have reached. G4-6 2.3 Where we have reached. NA NA P G4-7 R&A 2015 (1.2 Galp in the capital market – Shareholder structure). NA NA P G4-8 2.2 Our operational chain; 2.3 Where we have reached. NA NA P G4-9 2.2 Our operational chain; 2.3 Where we have reached; 6.3.1 Who NA NA P are our employees? G4-10 6.3.1 Who are our employees?; 6.3.2 Non-discrimination, equality and local hiring. NA NA P 97.5% of our employees work full-time. G4-11 69%. NA NA P G4-12 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers. NA NA P G4-13 R&A 2015 (1.2 Galp in the capital market – Shareholder structure). NA NA P G4-14 6.1.2 Risk management. NA NA P G4-15 6 How do we tackle them? NA NA P G4-16 6 How do we tackle them? NA NA P Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 1.2 About this report. NA NA P G4-18 1.2 About this report. NA NA P G4-19 5 What are the material issues? NA NA P G4-20 5 What are the material issues? NA NA P G4-21 5 What are the material issues? NA NA P G4-22 1.2 About this report; Annex V – Notes on methodology. NA NA P G4-23 1.2 About this report. NA NA P Stakeholder engagement G4-24 6.2.1 Dialogue with stakeholders. NA NA P G4-25 6.2.1 Dialogue with stakeholders. NA NA P G4-26 6.2.1 Dialogue with stakeholders. In recent years, we have held formal consultations with stakeholders biannually. In the last session, given the expansion of the company, our entry into other markets and our strategic readjustment, we updated the characterisation and mapping of the stakeholders. We are NA NA P currently restructuring the corporate plans for our engagement with stakeholders and we have kept the characterisation and mapping of them up-to-date. A new formal consultation will be held as soon as there is evidence of new trends, expectations or framework within our activities, or when three to five years have elapsed since the last process. 164 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 7.2 Annex II – GRI table: Sustainability KPIs GENERAL STANDARD JUSTIFICATION EXTERNAL DISCLOSURES PAGE, LINK OR CONTENT OMISSION FOR OMISSION ASSURANCE G4-27 6.2.1 Dialogue with stakeholders; 6.2.3 Engagement with the community; 6.2.4 Engagement with clients; 6.2.5 Engagement with investors; 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers; 6.2.7 Engagement with NA NA P business partners. Profile of report G4-28 1.2 About this report. NA NA P G4-29 1.2 About this report. NA NA P G4-30 1.2 About this report. NA NA P G4-31 1.2 About this report. NA NA P G4-32 1.2 About this report; Present GRI Table. NA NA P G4-33 1.2 About this report; Present GRI Table; Annex I – Assurance letter. NA NA P Governance G4-34 6.1.1 Corporate governance. NA NA P G4-35 6.1.1 Corporate governance. NA NA P G4-36 6.1.1 Corporate governance. NA NA P G4-37 6.1.1 Corporate governance. The processes for consulting stakeholders are approved by top management, presented, and discussed in the Sustainability Committee, involving the entire NA NA P Company and constituting KPIs in the performance assessment of employees directly involved in the process. G4-38 6.1.1 Corporate governance. NA NA P G4-39 6.1.1 Corporate governance. NA NA P G4-40 6.1.1 Corporate governance. NA NA P G4-41 CGR 2015: PART I, B. Corporate bodies, and committees, II. Board of Directors and Supervision, point 26; PART I, E. Transactions with related parties, I. Control mechanisms, and procedures. NA NA P 6.1.3 Ethics & Compliance (Preventing conflicts of interest). G4-42 6.1.1 Corporate governance. Find out more at our website . NA NA P G4-43 6.1.1 Corporate governance. Find out more at our website . NA NA P G4-44 6.1.1 Corporate governance (Assessment of performance and remuneration). NA NA P CGR 2015 (PART I, D. Remuneration, III Remuneration structure). G4-45 6.1.2 Risk management. NA NA P R&A 2015 (6. Risk management). G4-46 6.1.1 Corporate governance. NA NA P G4-47 6.1.1 Corporate governance; 6.1.2 Risk management. NA NA P G4-48 6.1.1 Corporate governance. NA NA P G4-49 6.1.4 Guarantee of compliance and conformity. CGR 2015 (PART I, C. Internal organisation, II Communication of irregularities). Other critical concerns can be addressed through orders between the Directors of the organisational units and their respective executive directors, who NA NA P propose and take issues to the Executive Committee. On the other hand, the teams from the organisational units may table draft resolutions for decisions to be taken by the Executive Committee, who shall discuss and communicate the subsequent decision. G4-50 6.1.4 Guarantee of compliance and conformity. NA NA P G4-51 CGR 2015 (PART I, D. Remuneration). NA NA P G4-52 CGR 2015 (PART I, D. Remuneration). NA NA P G4-53 CGR 2015 (PART I, D. Remuneration). NA NA P G4-54 6.3.2 Non-discrimination, equality and local hiring. NA NA P Galp Sustainability Report 2015 165 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? GENERAL STANDARD JUSTIFICATION EXTERNAL DISCLOSURES PAGE, LINK OR CONTENT OMISSION FOR OMISSION ASSURANCE G4-55 Due to the nomination of a new Board of Directors in 2015, and, specifically, of a new CEO, this indicator cannot be quantified in this Report. However, NA NA P the CEO's remuneration in 2015 is reported in the CGR 2015 (PART I, D. Remuneration). Ethics & Integrity G4-56 2.3 Where we have reached; 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance. NA NA P G4-57 2.3 Where we have reached; 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance; 6.1.4 P Guarantee of compliance and conformity. G4-58 2.3 Where we have reached; 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance; 6.1.4 P Guarantee of compliance and conformity. Category: Economic Aspect: Economic Performance* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 4 What is the strategic framework?; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.2.2 P Creating shared value. G4-EC1 6.2.2 Creating shared value. P G4-EC2 6.4 Contributing to satisfying future energy needs and minimizing the carbon footprint of our operations. P See additional information the CDP site . G4-EC3 R&A 2015 (Appendix Consolidated Financial Statements – Liability P for retirement benefits). G4-EC4 Galp does not consider this indicator to be material. P Aspect: Presence in the Market* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.3.2 Non-discrimination, equality and local hiring P (Local hiring). G4-EC5 Portugal: 166%; Spain: 144%; Brazil: 408%; Africa: 204%. P G4-EC6 6.3.2 Non-discrimination, equality and local hiring (Local hiring). P Aspect: Indirect economic impact* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.2.2 Creating shared value; 6.2.3 Engagement P with the community; 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers. G4-EC7 6.2.2 Creating shared value; 6.2.3 Engagement with the community (Community investment policy); 6.3 Valuing human capital; 6.6.1 Strategic plan for innovation, research and technological P development. G4-EC8 6.2.2 Creating shared value; 6.2.3 Engagement with the community; 6.2.4 Engagement with clients. P Aspect: Purchasing practices* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5.What are the material issues?; P How do we tacke them?; 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers. G4-EC9 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers. P Aspect: Reserves * G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 6.1.2 Risk management. P R&A 2015 (3.1 Exploration & Production; 6.3 Principal risks). G4-OG1 2.3 Where we have reached; 2.3 Our operational chain. P R&A 2015 (3.1 Exploration & Production (Evolution of reserves and resources). Category: Environment Aspect: Materials* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.5.2 Management system; 6.5.3 Environmental protection. 166 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 7.2 Annex II – GRI table: Sustainability KPIs GENERAL STANDARD JUSTIFICATION EXTERNAL DISCLOSURES PAGE, LINK OR CONTENT OMISSION FOR OMISSION ASSURANCE G4-EN1 Crude oil processed at Matosinhos Refinery: 4,588,317 ton. P Crude oil processed at Sines Refinery: 9,309,397 ton. G4-EN2 Galp does not use recycled materials. P Aspect: Energy* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.4 Contributing to satisfying future energy needs and minimizing the carbon footprint of our operations; 6.5.2 Management system (Certifications); 6.5.3 Environmental protection (Air emissions: importance of the refining sector in society; Environmental performance). Galp's activities are covered by certain policies and regulations about energy and emissions, including: • Buildings: European Directive on the energy performance of buildings P and Energy Certification System for Buildings; • Transport: Regulation on energy consumption management for the transport sector (RGCEST); • Refining: European Union Emissions Trading System; Intensive Consumption of Energy Management System (SGCIE) and the Industrial Emissions Directive. Compliance with these policies and regulations is subject to internal audits, and audits by official entities and independent external parties. G4-EN3 6.4.4 The performance of our projects; 6.5.3 Environmental P protection (Environmental performance). G4-EN4 1.068.693 GJ (corresponds to the service providers' energy P consumption). G4-EN5 6.4.4 The performance of our projects (Energy efficiency and specific CO2/CWT emissions in our refineries). P E&P – non-operated blocks: Brazil – 0.83 GJ/t crude produced; Angola – 4.72 GJ/t crude oil produced. G4-EN6 6.4 Contributing to satisfying future energy needs and minimizing P the carbon footprint of our operations. G4-EN7 6.4 Contributing to satisfying future energy needs and minimizing P the carbon footprint of our operations. G4-OG2 Non-material indicator for Galp. P G4-OG3 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.4.4 The performance of our projects (Energy efficiency and specific CO2/CWT emissions in our P refineries). Aspect: Water* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.5.1 Context and major objectives; 6.5.2 Management System; 6.5.3 Environmental protection (Assessment P and impact management; Soil and water resources; Environmental performance). G4-EN8 6.5.3 Environmental protection (Soil and water resources; Environmental performance). P E&P – non-operated blocks: Brazil 0.39 m3/t crude produced; Angola 2.58 m3/t crude oil produced. G4-EN9 According to its knowledge to date, Galp has no activities where water consumption significantly affects water sources. P G4-EN10 In 2015, we re-used 1,726,276 m3 of water, which corresponds to an P overall 16.4%of the water consumed. Aspect: Biodiversity G4-DMA See an interactive map of biodiversity and water resources on our P website . G4-EN11 100% of Galp sites are analysed in terms of biodiversity risks. None of the E&P blocks held by Galp is located within areas classified P as UNESCO World Heritage or in IUCN category I to IV protected areas. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 167 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? GENERAL STANDARD JUSTIFICATION EXTERNAL DISCLOSURES PAGE, LINK OR CONTENT OMISSION FOR OMISSION ASSURANCE Aspect: Emissions* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.4 Contributing to satisfying future energy needs and minimizing the carbon footprint of our operations; 6.5.2 Management system (Health, Safety and Environment Management; Certifications); 6.5.3 Environmental protection (Air emissions: importance of the refining sector in society; Environmental P performance). Galp's activities are covered by certain policies and regulations about energy and air emissions, previously referred to under the material aspect of Energy: G4-EN15 6.4.3 Our carbon footprint. P G4-EN16 6.4.3 Our carbon footprint. P G4-EN17 6.4.3 Our carbon footprint. P G4-EN18 6.4.4 The performance of our projects (Energy efficiency and specific CO2/CWT emissions in our refineries). P E&P – non-operated blocks: Brazil 56 ton CO2e/ 103 ton crude produced; Angola 344 ton CO2e/ 103 ton crude oil produced G4-EN19 6.4 Contributing to satisfying future energy needs and minimising P the carbon footprint of our operations. G4-EN20 Galp does not manufacture or sell products that emit substances that damage the ozone layer. On the other hand, it ensures compliance of equipment containing such substances with applicable regulations, verifying such compliance through auditing. P Finally, the Company has a regulatory guide – Management of substances that deplete the ozone layer. We thereby guarantee the absence of significant emission sources of these substances. G4-EN21 6.5.3 Environmental protection (Environmental performance). P Aspect: Effluents and waste* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.5.1 Context and major objectives; 6.5.2 Management System; 6.5.3 Environmental protection (Assessment P and impact management; Soil and water resources; Environmental performance). G4-EN22 6.5.3 Environmental protection (Environmental performance). P E&P non-operated blocks: Angola – 1.32 m3/ ton crude oil produced. G4-EN23 6.5.3 Environmental protection (Environmental performance). P G4-EN24 6.5.4 Safety (Safety of process and loss of containment) P G4-EN25 Not applicable. P G4-EN26 Wastewater discharges are subject to licensing and we assume that compliance with standards guarantees the absence of impacts biodiversity. On the other hand, at the main facilities we P monitor the quality of groundwater and carry out quantitative risk analyses (as described in SR 2009, page 87 ), which confirm that surrounding ecosystems are not affected by our activities. G4-OG5 E&P non-operated blocks: Angola 1,32 m3/ ton crude oil produced. P G4-OG6 E&P non-operated blocks: Brazil (9.8 ton/103 ton crude produced; Angola (13.2 ton / 103 ton / crude oil produced). Data on vented gas P from non-operated blocks is not available. In non-operated blocks, we do not carry out venting. G4-OG7 E&P operated blocks: Brazil 376.38 ton. P Aspect: Products & services* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.5.1 Context and major objectives; 6.5.2 P Management System; Safety (Product safety). 168 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 7.2 Annex II – GRI table: Sustainability KPIs GENERAL STANDARD JUSTIFICATION EXTERNAL DISCLOSURES PAGE, LINK OR CONTENT OMISSION FOR OMISSION ASSURANCE G4-EN27 6.5.2 Management System; Safety (Product safety). P G4-EN28 The total weight of the declared packages in 2015 was 1,218 P tonnes. G4-OG8 See SR 2013, page 73 . P Aspect: Compliance* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.1.2 Risk management; 6.5.1 Context and P major objectives; 6.5.2 Management System. G4-EN29 0 sanctions. P €0. Aspect: Transport* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers (Supplier P audits); 6.4.3 Our carbon footprint. G4-EN30 6.4.3 Our carbon footprint; 6.5.4 Safety (Safety of process and loss P of containment). Aspect: Environmental assessment of suppliers* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How P do we tackle them?; 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers. G4-EN32 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers (Purchasing Policy). All our suppliers are assessed based on environmental criteria. P See supply4Galp . G4-EN33 No tier 1 (critical and non-critical) suppliers with high environmental sustainability risk were identified. P 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers. Category: Social Subcategory: Labour practices and decent work Aspect: Employment* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How P do we tackle them?; 6.3 Valuing human capital. G4-LA1 6.3.3 Seniority, turnover, mobility, and absenteeism (Seniority and P turnover). G4-LA2 6.3.8 Employee benefits. There is no distinction in employee benefits for part-time and fulltime status. Besides the benefits described in chapter 6.3.8, Galp's employees enjoy the conditions set out in the Labour Code: • Job security/prohibition of unfair dismissal; • Maximum working time; • Minimum break periods; • Paid holidays and respective allowance; • Christmas bonus; • Minimum wage and overtime; • Conditions for occasional secondment of workers; P • Vocational training; • Health and safety at work; • Workplace accident Insurance/ right to compensation for damages arising from work-related accidents; • Parental leave; • Protection against child labour; • Student employee status; • Equal treatment and non-discrimination; • Protection from harassment; • Respect for personal rights; • Respect for the right to privacy in personal and family life. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 169 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? GENERAL STANDARD JUSTIFICATION EXTERNAL DISCLOSURES PAGE, LINK OR CONTENT OMISSION FOR OMISSION ASSURANCE G4-LA3 Right to take leave: 100% Rate of return: 100%* Retention rate: 100%* P * No causal relationship is found between parental leave situations and leaving the Company. Aspect: Labour/management relations* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.3.10 Involvement with employees (Labour P relations; Internal communication tools). G4-LA4 There is no minimum advance notice with regard to operational changes. Employees are notified of any such changes in a manner P deemed timely and appropriate by management. Aspect: Occupational health & safety* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.5.1 Context and major objectives; 6.5.2 Management System; 6.5.4 Safety (Personal accidents); 6.5.5 Health. At Galp, the protection of the life and safety of our personnel and P assets is a top priority of our activity, both in terms of safety and security, providing the necessary resources for this purpose and adopting the industry’s best practices. In Code of Ethics and Conduct. G4-LA5 44.07% of the employees are represented within health and safety P committees. G4-LA6 6.3.3 Seniority, turnover, mobility, and absenteeism (Absenteeism). 6.5.4 Safety (Personal accidents). No. of lost time injuries 2013 2014 2015 P Employees 16 26 24 Service providers 5 8 3 G4-LA7 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.5.5 Health. We have internal regulations, under the G+ System, for task safety analyses, in order to prevent potential situations that may cause injury to persons, property, or the environment. Task safety analysis (TSA) is a tool that provides a systematic and effective methodology to identify hazards and determine preventive P control actions at each stage of the task, to ensure safety during implementation. We also have an internal standard that defines the minimum requirements for occupational health programmes, covering three key areas: safety and hygiene at work, ergonomics, and occupational medicine. G4-LA8 Information available on our website . P Aspect: Training and education* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.3.4 Our human capital strategy; 6.3.5 Human capital in the context of E&P; 6.3.6 Performance Management; 6.3.7 Development of human capital; 6.6.2 Engagement with the scientific P and technological community. Galp provides adequate training to its personnel, including with regard to this Code. In Code of Ethics and Conduct. G4-LA9 6.3.7 Development of human capital (Training). P G4-LA10 6.3.4 Our human capital strategy; 6.3.7 Development of human P capital. G4-LA11 6.3.6 Performance management. There is no differentiation between genders with regard to performance assessments processes. P We have and will continue to conceive and create new personal development plans. 170 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 7.2 Annex II – GRI table: Sustainability KPIs GENERAL STANDARD JUSTIFICATION EXTERNAL DISCLOSURES PAGE, LINK OR CONTENT OMISSION FOR OMISSION ASSURANCE Aspect: Diversity & equal opportunities* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance (Ethics and Conduct; Respect for human rights); 6.3.1 Who are our employees?; 6.3.2 Non-discrimination, equality and local hiring. P At Galp, the personnel are held accountable and valued for their merit, that enabling every member thereof to undertake the autonomy and responsibilities associated with its capability and dedication. In Code of Ethics and Conduct. G4-LA12 6.3.1 Who are our employees? P Aspect: Equal remuneration for men and women* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance (Ethics and Conduct; Respect for human rights); 6.3.1 Who are our employees?; 6.3.2 Non-discrimination, equality and local hiring. P At Galp, the personnel are held accountable and valued for their merit, that enabling every member thereof to undertake the autonomy and responsibilities associated with its capability and dedication. In Code of Ethics and Conduct. G4-LA13 6.3.2 Non-discrimination, equality and local hiring (Equal and fair P remuneration for men and women). Aspect: Supplier assessment for labour practices* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How P do we tackle them?; 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers. G4-LA14 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers (Purchasing Policy). All our suppliers are assessed based on social criteria. P See supply4Galp . G4-LA15 The number of tier 1 (critical and non-critical) suppliers where a high social sustainability risk was identified is 28. P 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers. Aspect: Labour practices grievance mechanisms* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.3.10 Involvement with employees (Labour P relations). G4-LA16 6.3.10 Involvement with employees (Labour relations). P There were 0 registered cases. Subcategory: Human rights Aspect: Investments G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance; 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers (Purchasing Policy); 6.3.7 Development of human capital (Training). P We commit to provide and contract the provision of goods and services only to those that we consider, to the best of our knowledge, to have respect for human rights in a manner equivalent to that undertaken by Galp. In Code of Ethics and Conduct. G4-HR1 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance (Respect for human rights); 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers (Purchasing Policy). Fulfilling the commitment made in the past, we introduced a standard clause binding counterparties, including business P partners, suppliers and others, to the provisions of the Galp Groups Code of Ethics and Conduct, in all its contract templates referring to the safeguarding of human rights. G4-HR2 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance; (Ethics and conduct; Respect for human rights; Anti-corruption); 6.3.7 Development of P human capital (Training). Galp Sustainability Report 2015 171 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? GENERAL STANDARD JUSTIFICATION EXTERNAL DISCLOSURES PAGE, LINK OR CONTENT OMISSION FOR OMISSION ASSURANCE Aspect: Non-discrimination* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance (Ethics and Conduct; Respect for human rights); 6.1.4 Guarantee of compliance and conformity; 6.3.1 Who are our employees?; 6.3.2 Non-discrimination, equality and local hiring. P We do not act in a discriminatory manner towards our personnel or any other person, whether based on race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, ancestry, age, language, place of origin, political or ideological beliefs, economic situation, social context, or contractual obligation. In Code of Ethics and Conduct. G4-HR3 0 cases. We do not act in a discriminatory manner in relation to our employees or any persons, particularly on the basis of race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, ancestry, age, language, place of origin, political or ideological beliefs, economic situation, social context, or contractual P relationship. Galp promotes policies and measures to prevent discriminatory situations, including strengthening the gender diversity within the organisation. In Code of Ethics and Conduct. Aspect: Freedom of association and collective bargaining* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance (Ethics and Conduct); 6.1.4 Guarantee of compliance and conformity; 6.2.6 P Engagement with suppliers (Purchasing Policy); 6.3.10 Involvement with employees (Labour relations). G4-HR4 No occurrences. P 6.3.10 Involvement with employees (Labour relations). Aspect: Child labour* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance (Ethics and P Conduct; Respect for human rights); 6.1.4 Guarantee of compliance and conformity; 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers (Purchasing Policy). G4-HR5 6.1.4 Guarantee of compliance and conformity; 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers (Purchasing Policy). Galp considers that there is, in its activity, no risk of child labour amongst its employees. As regards suppliers and other business P partners, through its Purchasing Policy, it prohibits and condemns any type of practice related to child labour and does not establish or maintain relationships with suppliers not aligned with the principles established. Aspect: Forced labour* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance (Ethics and Conduct; P Respect for human rights); 6.1.4 Guarantee of compliance and conformity; 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers (Purchasing Policy). G4-HR6 6.1.4 Guarantee of compliance and conformity; 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers (Purchasing Policy). Galp considers that there is, in its activity, no risk of forced labour amongst its employees. As regards suppliers and other business P partners, through its Purchasing Policy, it prohibits and condemns any type of practice related to forced labour, and does not establish or maintain relationships with suppliers not aligned with the principles established. Aspect: Security practices* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers (Purchasing P Policy); 6.5.4 Security. 172 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 7.2 Annex II – GRI table: Sustainability KPIs GENERAL STANDARD JUSTIFICATION EXTERNAL DISCLOSURES PAGE, LINK OR CONTENT OMISSION FOR OMISSION ASSURANCE G4-HR7 The Galp security service is essentially contracted from external entities, and their alignment with Company principles in the field of P human rights is ensured by the Purchasing Policy. Aspect: Indigenous rights* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance (Ethics and Conduct; Respect for human rights); 6.2.3 Engagement with the community; 6.5.3 Environmental protection (Assessment and management of impacts). In the communities where we develop our activities, we commit to minimise the negative impact that they have or might have on P the place where we operate. At Galp, we respect the right of the communities to be heard before we begin any activity that might have this impact. We commit to provide and contract the provision of goods and services only to those that we consider, to the best of our knowledge and to have respect for human rights in a manner equivalent to that undertaken by Galp. In Code of Ethics and Conduct. G4-HR8 0 cases. P G4-OG9 We did not register any such situation in 2015. In 2014, we published a guide for the Assessment of Environmental and Social Impacts in the area of E&P, which is duly directed at identifying and mitigating possible negative impacts, covering P topics such as the identification of impacts on indigenous peoples, identification of alternatives, amongst others. 6.5.3 Environmental protection (Assessment and management of impacts). Aspect: Evaluation* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance; 6.1.4 Guarantee P of compliance and conformity; 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers (Purchasing Policy). G4-HR9 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance; 6.5.3 Environmental protection (Assessment and management of P impacts). Aspect: Evaluation of suppliers' record of human rights* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers. In the communities where we develop our activities we commit to minimise the negative impact that they have or might have on the place where we operate. At Galp, we respect the right of the communities to be heard before we begin any activity that might P have this impact. We commit to provide and contract the provision of goods and services only to those that we consider, to the best of our knowledge, to have respect for human rights in a manner equivalent to that undertaken by Galp. In Code of Ethics and Conduct. G4-HR10 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers (Purchasing Policy). All our suppliers are assessed based on social criteria. P See supply4Galp . G4-HR11 The number of tier 1 (critical and non-critical) suppliers where a high social sustainability risk was identified is 28. P 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers. Aspect: Mechanisms for claims and complaints about human rights* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance (Ethics and P Conduct; Respect for human rights); 6.1.4 Guarantee of compliance and conformity. G4-HR12 0 cases. P Galp Sustainability Report 2015 173 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? 7.2 Annex II – GRI table: Sustainability KPIs GENERAL STANDARD JUSTIFICATION EXTERNAL DISCLOSURES PAGE, LINK OR CONTENT OMISSION FOR OMISSION ASSURANCE Subcategory: Society Aspect: Local communities* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.2.1 Dialogue with stakeholders; 6.2.2 Creating of shared value; 6.2.3 Engagement with the community; 6.5.3 Environmental protection (Assessment and management of impacts). In the communities where we develop our activities we commit P to minimise the negative impact that they have or might have on the place where we operate. At Galp, we respect the right of the communities to be heard before we begin any activity that might have this impact. In Code of Ethics and Conduct. G4-SO1 6.2.1 Dialogue with stakeholders; 6.2.3 Involvement with the community. P G4-SO2 6.5.3 Environmental protection (Assessment and management of impacts). In 2014, we published a guide for the assessment of environmental and social impacts in the area of Exploration and P Production, which is duly directed at identifying and mitigating possible negative impacts, covering topics such as engagements with stakeholders, identification of secondary and cumulative impacts, identification of alternatives, amongst others. G4-OG10 We did not register any such situation in 2015. P G4-OG11 At Galp, we have a standard procedure NPG-038 –, which establishes the minimum HSE requirements applicable for the decommissioning of establishments/facilities in the Galp Group, proposing structures for decommissioning plans and content to be developed by business/ management units and Group companies, tailored to the characteristics and the establishments/facilities risk levels. P We did not register any such decommissioning situation in 2015. Note: The end of drilling is not regarded as decommissioning given that these activities generally last between 20 and 45 days, removal of equipment and site clearance being considered stages of activity. Aspect: Anti-corruption* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance (Ethics and Conduct; P Anti-corruption); 6.1.4 Guarantee of compliance and conformity; 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers (Purchasing Policy). G4-SO3 6.1.2 Risk management (Internal Control System). At Galp, we created a group, under the Risk Committee, which meets bi-monthly to identify and assess a number of risks, including the risks of corruption in the jurisdictions to which the P Company is subject. At these meetings, the risk drivers and the potential consequences are identified and updated, and responses and mitigation initiatives are addressed to the appropriate managers. G4-SO4 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance (AntiP corruption); 6.1.4 Guarantee of compliance and conformity. G4-SO5 Galp recorded no cases of corruption in 2015. P Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached; 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance (Ethics and Conduct; Anti-corruption; Compliance and fiscal transparency); 6.1.4 Guarantee of compliance and conformity; 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers (Purchasing Policy). Without prejudice to not performing other anticompetitive practices, at Galp, we do not collude to set sale prices or collude to fix resale prices, we do not divide the market by geographic areas, products, or P customers, and we do not coordinate our proposals in bids and tenders with competitors. We are aware that agreements between competitors for fixing revenues or for reducing or stabilising production, logistics activities, or their respective capacities are prohibited. At Galp, we do not adopt commercial practices that are prone to discriminating our customers, excluding our competitors from the market or preventing the entrance of new competitors. In Code of Ethics and Conduct. 174 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 7.2 Annex II – GRI table: Sustainability KPIs GENERAL STANDARD JUSTIFICATION EXTERNAL DISCLOSURES PAGE, LINK OR CONTENT OMISSION FOR OMISSION ASSURANCE G4-SO7 No cases were recorded in 2015. In meetings where colleagues from competitor companies are present, including meetings with ConCawe and FuelsEurope P working groups, clear instructions are given in order to prohibit conversation on sensitive issues such as pricing, and a brochure is being distributed with 'Dos and Don'ts'. Aspect: Compliance* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached? 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.1.2 Risk management; 6.1.4 Guarantee of P compliance and conformity. G4-SO8 0 sanctions. There was no payment of fines. P Aspect: Evaluation of suppliers' impact on society G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached? 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How P do we tackle them?; 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers. G4-SO9 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers (Purchasing Policy). All our suppliers are assessed based on social criteria. P See supply4Galp . G4-SO10 The number of tier 1 (critical and non-critical) suppliers where a high social sustainability risk was identified is 28. P 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers. Aspect: Mechanisms for claims and complaints about impact on society* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached? 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How P do we tackle them?; 6.1.4 Guarantee of compliance and conformity. G4-SO11 There were 0 cases of this nature in 2015. P Aspect: Involuntary resettlement* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached? 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.1.4 Guarantee of compliance and conformity; P 6.5.3 Environmental protection (Assessment and management of impacts). G4OG12 Galp did not register any such situation in 2015. P Aspect: Asset integrity and process safety G4DMA 2.3 Where we have reached? 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.5.4 Safety (Safety of process and loss of P containment). G4OG13 6.5.4 Safety (Safety of process and loss of containment). P Subcategory: Responsibility for the product Aspect: Health & safety of the client * G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached? 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How P do we tackle them?; 6.5.4 Safety (Product safety). G4PR1 6.5.4 Safety (Product safety). P G4-PR2 0 cases in 2015. P Aspect: Labelling of products & services* G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached? 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.2.4 Engagement with clients; 6.5.4 Safety P (Product safety). G4-PR3 6.5.4 Safety (Product safety). P G4-PR4 0 cases in 2015. P G4-PR5 6.2.4 Engagement with clients P Aspect: Marketing communications * G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached? 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.1.4 Guarantee of compliance and conformity: P 6.2.4 Engagement with clients. Galp Sustainability Report 2015 175 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? GENERAL STANDARD JUSTIFICATION EXTERNAL DISCLOSURES PAGE, LINK OR CONTENT OMISSION FOR OMISSION ASSURANCE G4-PR6 Galp has no record that its products are banned in any of the markets where it operates. P G4-PR7 6.1.4 Guarantee of compliance and conformity. P There were 0 cases in 2015. Aspect: Client privacy * G4-DMA 2.3 Where we have reached? 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance (Ethics and P Conduct). G4-PR8 Galp has no record of violations of its client’s privacy in 2015. Through its Privacy Policy, Galp respects the privacy of its clients and protects the personal information entrusted to it. Whenever it is necessary to request personal information from users and data holders for the purpose of providing services, the use of this information is described in terms of that document and in accordance with data P protection legislation. At Galp, we give particular importance to the protection of our customers’ data. We commit to assure that our customers’ personal data is not used without their consent, provided such consent is not legally required or its use is made in accordance with applicable law. in Code of Ethics and Conduct. Aspect: Compliance * G4DMA 2.3 Where we have reached? 5 What are the material issues?; 6 How do we tackle them?; 6.1.2 Risk management; 6.1.4 Guarantee of P compliance and conformity. G4PR9 0 cases in 2015. P *Material Aspect 7.3. Annex III Global Compact Table PRINCIPLE REFERENCE 6. How do we approach them? (By taking on external Commitment to the Global Compact commitments) 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance (Anti-corruption) 2.3 Where we have reached; 5. What are the material challenges?; Respecting and protecting internationally 1. 6. How do we tackle them?; 6.1.3. Ethics and Compliance (Ethics and recognised human rights HUMAN Conduct; Respect for human rights); 6.1.4 Guarantee of compliance RIGHTS and conformity; 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers (Purchasing Guaranteeing non-participation in human 2. rights violations policy); 6.3.2 Non-discrimination, equality and local hiring; 6.5.3 Environmental protection (Assessment and management of impacts) 3. Guaranteeing freedom of association and effective recognition of collective bargaining 2.3 Where we have reached; 5.What are the material challenges?; 6. How do we tackle them?; 6.1.3. Ethics and Compliance (Ethics 4. Abolishing all forms of forced and mandatory LABOUR and Conduct); 6.1.4 Guarantee of compliance and conformity; labour RELATIONS 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers (Purchasing policy); 6.3.2 Non-discrimination, equality and local hiring; 6.3.10 Employee 5. Full abolition of child labour engagement (Labour relations) 6. Eliminating discrimination in employment 7. Supporting a preventive approach to environmental challenges 2.3 Where we have reached; 5. What are the material challenges?; 6. How do we tackle them?; 6.1.2 Risk management; 6.2.6 8. Carrying out initiatives to promote Engagement with suppliers; 6.4 Helping to satisfy future energy ENVIRONMENTAL environmental responsibility needs and minimizing carbon footprint; 6.5 Guaranteeing the PROTECTION protection of people and the environment and the security of 9. Promoting the development of environmentally our assets; 6.6 Promoting innovation, research and technological friendly technologies development 2.3 Where we have reached; 5. What are the material challenges?; 6. How do we tackle them?; 6.1.3 Ethics and Compliance (Ethics and Combating all forms of corruption, including ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. extortion and bribery Conduct; Anti-corruption; Prevention of conflicts of interest; Tax Compliance and transparency; 6.1.4 Guarantee of compliance and conformity; 6.2.6 Engagement with suppliers (Purchasing policy) 176 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 7.4 Annex IV – Methodological notes 7.4. Annex IV – Methodological notes ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE METHODOLOGY Direct consumption of primary energy in the Organisation, by energy source (fuel or form of energy). TYPES OF COMBUSTION FUELS USED Endogenous: procedural fuel waste, fuel gas, flaring gas Stationary Exogenous: NG, LPG, fuel oil, gasoline, diesel fuel Mobile Exogenous: fuel oil, gasoline, diesel fuel Definitions • Endogenous fuels: non-commercial fuels by-products of industrial processes. • Exogenous fuels: commercial fuels not by-products of industrial processes. • Stationary combustion: burning fuel to generate electricity, steam or heat in stationary devices, such as boilers, furnaces, etc. • Mobile combustion: burning fuels through vehicles or other mobile equipment (e.g. forklifts). NOX EMISSION SO2 EMISSION PARTICLE EMISSION LHV DENSITY FACTOR FACTOR %S FACTOR FUEL AMOUNT UNIT AMOUNT UNIT AMOUNT UNIT AMOUNT UNIT AMOUNT UNIT AMOUNT UNIT Natural Gas 38.44 GJ/(10 Nm ) 3 3 48 g/GJ 0 % 0.8 g/GJ Fuel oil / 40.28 GJ/t 160 g/GJ 1.0 % 53 g/GJ hydrocarbons Fuel Oil maritime 40.28 GJ/t 79.3 kg/t 20 kg/t 6.2 kg/t transport Gasoline light 44 GJ/t 0.745 kg/l 0.12 kg/GJ 0.002 kg/GJ % 0.004 kg/GJ vehicles Stationary 43.07 GJ/t 0.837 kg/l 60 g/GJ 0.005 % 69.9 g/GJ combustion equipment Light vehicles DIESEL FUEL 43.07 GJ/t 0.837 kg/l 0.262 kg/GJ 0.002 kg/GJ 0.019 kg/GJ Heavy vehicles / 43.07 GJ/t 0.837 kg/l 0.703 kg/GJ 0.002 kg/GJ 0.023 kg/GJ mobile equipment Maritime transport 43.07 GJ/t 78.5 kg/t 20 kg/t 0.1 % 1.5 kg/t Road maritime 43.07 GJ/t 78.5 kg/t 0.2 kg/t 10 ppm 1.5 kg/t transport Note: The application of the constants cannot be fully extended to Refineries and Cogeneration (e.g. ascertaining emissions is based on specific methodologies agreed with the competent authority). References Carbon footprint LHV: Direct emissions (S1) can be monitored directly by the company and European Emissions Trading Scheme (CELE) 2013-2020. Updated in 2013 refer to emissions due to fuel consumption in the company's facilities: Lower Heating Value, Emission Factor and Oxidation Factor. furnaces, heat or steam generators, company vehicles. http://www.apambiente.pt/_zdata/DPAAC/CELE/tabela_PCI_FE_ FO_2013.pdf Indirect emissions (S2) caused by Company activity but using resources from other organisations: use of power grid, heat or steam, produced in Density: non-company facilities. CELE Density values of fuels used under the CELE scheme, in 2013. http://www.apambiente.pt/_zdata/DPAAC/CELE/tabela_densidades_ Indirect emissions (S3) emissions from consumption of fuel in noncombustiveis_2013.pdf Company facilities: hire cars, aeroplanes, waste burning, logistics, services. NOX / SO2 /Particle emission factor and sulphur content (%S): Portuguese Informative Inventory Report. IIR (Informative Inventory Report). Galp's Carbon Footprint 2015 was calculated using the methodological http://www.apambiente.pt/_zdata/DPAAC/INERPA/IIR_20130515.pdf framework established by The Greenhouse Gas Protocol – Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, supplemented by the relevant Maritime transport NOX / SO2 /Particles emission factor: industry adaptation promoted by the International Petroleum Industry EMEP/EEA emission inventory guidebook 2013 (Pg.13) Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) – Compendium of http://www.eea.europa.eu/publications/emep-eea-guidebook-2013 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Gas Industries. LA 6 As in 2014, the calculation of Galp's Carbon Footprint 2015 did not take account of sales to operators and oil exports or NG trading volumes in IFA the Product Use category, as the intention is merely to account for Ratio between the number of lost-time accidents (excluding commuting emissions associated with consumption of Galp products marketed accidents) and number of hours worked, in millions through sale to end consumers. Absenteeism index Total days' absenteeism / average staff No. x 11 (months) x 22 (days). Galp Sustainability Report 2015 177 Introduction About Us What did we achieve in 2015? What is the strategic framework? 7.5. Annex V – Abbreviations and acronyms 1P: Proven reserves CSC: Portuguese Commercial Companies Code 2P: Proven and probable reserves CWT: Complexity Weighted Tonne 3P: Proven, probable and possible reserves DJSI: Dow Jones Sustainability Index ADENE: Energy Agency E&P: Exploration and Production AECC: Spanish Association Against Cancer EBITDA: Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization AEE: Association of Energy Engineers EC: Executive Committee AFI: Accident Frequency Index ECSI: European Customer Satisfaction Index AGU: Autonomous Gas Unit EEA: European Environment Agency AIPQR: Association of Petrochemicals, Chemicals and Refining Industries EII: Energy Intensity Index AND: National Association of Designers EIS: Environmental Impact Study APA: Portuguese Environmental Association EITI: Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative APCE: Portuguese Association of Corporate Communication ENH: National Hydrocarbons Company of Mozambique APETRO: Portuguese Association of Petroleum Companies EPIS: Association of Businessmen for Social Inclusion APFN: Portuguese Large Families' Association EQSE: Environment, Quality, Safety and Energy APPM: Association of Marketing Professionals EQSS: Environment, Quality, Safety and Sustainability ARGE: Association of Galp Energia Retirees ERSE: Portuguese energy market regulator B2B: Business to Business ESI: Ethibel Sustainability Index B2C: Business to Consumer EU ETS: EU emissions trading system BAT: Best available techniques EU: European Union bbl: Barrel of oil FAI: Support Fund for Innovation bcm: Billion cubic metres FCT: Faculty of Sciences and Technology BCSD: Business Council for Sustainable Development FENACERCI: National Federation of Social Welfare Portugal Cooperatives BSC: Balanced scorecard FEUP: Faculty of Engineering, University of Porto CA: Board of Directors FPSO: Floating production storage offloading CDLI: Climate Disclosure Leadership Index G&P: Gas & Power CEC: Ethics and Conduct Committee GHG: Greenhouse gases CEIIA: Centre for Excellence and Innovation in the GRC: Governance, Risk and Compliance Automotive Industry GRI: Global Reporting Initiative CGS: Corporate Governance Code (of the Portuguese Securities Market Regulator) GRID: Performance Indicators Management and Reporting CLC: Fuel Logistics Company GSM: General shareholders meeting CLP: Classification, Labelling and Packaging GVA: Galp Value Added CMU: Carnegie Mellon University GWT: Global Water Tool CMVM: Portuguese Securities Market Regulator HR: Human Resources CNPQ: National Council for Scientific and Technological HSE: Health, Safety and Environment Development HWU: Heriot-Watt University CO2: Carbon dioxide IAP: Personalised Comprehensive Aid CO2e: Carbon dioxide equivalent IBAT: Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool CORE: Corporate Responsibility Consultancy ICA: International Compliance Association CoSO: Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the IEA: International Energy Agency Treadway Commission IFPA: Federal Institute of Education, Science and Technology of Para CPI: Corruption Perception Index ILO: International Labour Organization 178 What are the material issues? How do we tackle them? Annexes 7.5 Annex V – Abbreviations and acronyms IMS: Integrated Management System RCM: Reliability Centred Maintenance INEGI: Institute of Science and Innovation in Mechanical RGS: Corporate Governance Report Engineering and Industrial Engineering ROI: Return on investment INGC: National Disaster Management Institute of Mozambique S4G: Supply4Galp IOGP: International Association of Oil & Gas Producers SEIA: Social and Environmental Impacts Assessment IPIECA: Global oil and gas industry association for SEMMA: Tomé-Açu Municipal Secretary of the Environment environmental and social issues SME: Small and medium enterprises IPSS: Private social security institutions SO2: Sulphur dioxide IR: Investor Relations SOX: Sulphur oxide ISCC: International Sustainability & Carbon Certification TSR: Total Shareholder Return ISPG: Institute of Oil and Gas UN: United Nations IST: Instituto Superior Técnico UNESCO: United Nations Educational, Scientific and IUCN: International Union for Conservation of Nature Cultural Organization JOA: Joint Operating Agreements UNGC: United Nations Global Compact JV: Joint Ventures VNG: Vehicle Natural Gas KPI: Key performance indicators KRI: Key resources indicators KYC: Know your counterparty KYT: Know your transaction LARSyS: Laboratory of Robotics and Systems in Engineering and Science LBG: London Benchmarking Group LNG: Liquefied natural gas LNG: Liquefied natural gas LPG: Liquefied petroleum gas MITI: Madeira Interactive Technologies Institute mmboe: Million barrels of oil equivalent MSc: Master of Science MSDS: Safety datasheet NG: Natural gas NOX: Nitrogen oxide O&G: Oil & Gas OGCI: Oil and Gas Climate Initiative ONIP: National Organization for the Oil and Gas Industry of Brazil OPAS: Preventive environmental and safety observations OSCP: Oil Spill Contingency Plan OTC: Over the counter p.p.: Percentage points R&A: Report and Accounts R&D: Research and Development R&M: Refining & Marketing RBI: Risk Based Inspection Galp Sustainability Report 2015 179 Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A Public Company Strategy and Investor Relations Division Rua Tomás da Fonseca, Torre C 1600209 Lisbon Tel.: +351 217 240 866 Fax: +351 217 242 965 e-mail: investor.relations@galpenergia.com galp.com
