Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Sustainability Report 2016 Covering the period January–December 2015 Sustainability Report 2016 Leadership. Innovation. Impact. “By its very nature, creating value through a sustainability lens is a process of continual improvement and learning. There is no end point — it’s about continuing to strive to create and deliver value as we go.” — David Golden, Chief Sustainability Officer Contents Creating value through sustainability 3 Awards and highlights 4 A message from the CEO 5 About Eastman 6 Sustainability strategy and goals 8 Sustainability highlights 15 About this report 31 Global Reporting Initiative 33 2 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Creating value is sustainability. David Golden At Eastman, sustainability is about creating value. We believe a truly sustainable Chief Sustainability Officer company is one that creates significantly more value in the world than the resources it uses. As we look to the next horizon on our sustainability journey, we’re focused on creating value through three key areas: continuing to manage our resources well, collaborating to further drive innovation and developing the right partnerships. Resource management For nearly a century, the Eastman team has developed and maintained a culture of responsible resource stewardship. Our environmental commitments are consistent with the company’s dedication to not only maintain an excellent compliance record but to identify, develop, and invest in new technologies and practices that take us beyond basic environmental standards. We continually look for opportunities to minimize our environmental footprint by conserving natural resources, inventing more efficient production methods and developing chemistries that use renewable raw materials. Collaboration-driven innovation Truly innovative companies understand the needs, drivers and behaviors across the value chain down to the end consumer — even when consumers themselves do not yet realize their unmet or future needs. Doing this requires strategic thought and collaboration. We monitor ever-evolving macro trends and their associated demand effects while also using our insights to deliver solutions to our customers, downstream retailers and consumers. Sustainability is a lens for innovation. Impactful partnerships We look to maximize collective impact by collaborating with and engaging partners, both public and private, with a strategic focus to generate positive change in the communities where we operate and beyond. I often say, “Small hinges swing big doors.” A small act can make a huge difference. In this report, you will see examples of our work with world-class partners that will yield meaningful results. I’m honored to serve as the steward of sustainability at Eastman, and I invite you to join us on this journey. David A. Golden Senior Vice President, Chief Legal & Sustainability Officer, and Corporate Secretary  3 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Awards and highlights TRANSPORTATION SAFETY EXCELLENCE RECOGNITION by three major railroad companies Energy efficiency award recognition 23 consecutive years 6 regional safety awards in 2015, with four sites receiving ACC Certificates of Honor 2016 Texas Chemical Council DISTINGUISHED American Chemical Society SAFETY AWARD HEROES OF CHEMISTRY AWARD and SUSTAINED EXCELLENCE IN CARING FOR TEXAS 2015 Innovation: Eastman TRITAN Southern Virginia STEM-H 2015 EXCELLENCE AWARDS Education and Industry Recognition for excellence in Achievement process safety Award EASTMAN CHINA PACESETTER David Golden named Chief Sustainability Officer National Center for MERIT AWARD 2015 Women & Information second year Technology 4 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com A Message from the CEO Eastman has a long-standing history of commitment to safety, environmental Mark Costa stewardship and corporate responsibility. For decades, we’ve operated as a Responsible Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Care® company and remain committed to integrating sustainability into our strategy, products, operations and innovations to drive business growth. We are focused on providing our customers around the world with products that improve quality of life and making an explicit and positive contribution to the challenges the world faces. I’m proud of the progress that we continue to make, and I’m pleased to share that progress with you, our stakeholders. Sustainability is foundational to our growth strategy and helps create value as our company’s portfolio and priorities continue to evolve. Looking at 2016 and beyond, innovating sustainable solutions and product applications to meet the needs of a changing world is increasingly important. We’re focusing on innovation like never before, especially in areas where macro trends such as natural resource efficiency and health and wellness align with our world-class technology platforms. At Eastman, we understand that we can’t change the world alone. We look for opportunities to create a significant collective impact by collaborating and engaging with organizations, suppliers, customers, and community partners whose values and strategic focus complement our desire to bring positive change to the world. Throughout this report, you will see several examples of the collaborative relationships that make the work we do as a materials company come to life. We’re excited to be part of the solution and are proving that every day through these unique partnerships. With the publication of this report, we are reaffirming our company’s commitment to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) with respect to the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. We are also beginning to map our efforts to the newly established Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We will continue to integrate the SDGs framework and language into our reporting efforts as we understand more about the goals as they relate to our business objectives and sustainability strategy. In closing, I want to acknowledge the women and men that make our company succeed every day. They are the reason we have made such great progress on our journey, and they continue to be the reason we can invest in innovation and sustainability as we look toward the future. Mark J. Costa Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  5 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. About Eastman Eastman (NYSE:EMN) is a global specialty chemical company Board of Directors that produces a broad range of products found in items people use every day. With a portfolio of specialty businesses, Eastman’s Board of Directors and the Board’s Committees Eastman works with customers to deliver innovative products oversee compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. and solutions. At Eastman, we remain committed to delivering They also oversee the development and management of consistent, superior value for all of our stakeholders. We are policies and practices in their respective areas of responsibility focused on driving growth through innovation, productivity — Audit; Compensation and Management Development; and acquisitions. At the heart of this growth platform is Finance; Health, Safety, Environmental and Security (HSES); sustainability. and Nominating and Corporate Governance. Eastman’s Chief Sustainability Officer meets regularly with the HSES Committee. Chaired by Julie F. Holder, the HSES committee is comprised of independent, nonemployee directors and oversees the Corporate governance and values company’s sustainability performance. The purpose of the At Eastman, we are committed to creating superior value for HSES Committee is to review with management and, where all of our stakeholders. This includes conducting all business appropriate, make recommendations to the Board regarding activities in accordance with the highest legal and ethical the Company’s policies and practices concerning health, safety, standards because we understand that, to be successful, we environmental, security, sustainability, and political activities. must build trust and confidence. We operate under Eastman’s Eastman’s Corporate Governance Guidelines and Committee Code of Business Conduct, and we ensure annual training for Charters are available through Eastman’s website. each employee to certify his or her compliance with the Code. Additionally, we provide our Third Party Code of Conduct to our suppliers, which defines our expectations for conducting Sustainability Council business with Eastman. We desire the same ethical behavior Eastman’s global sustainability strategy is guided by the of our suppliers and hold them accountable by annual supplier leadership of Eastman’s Sustainability Council. The Council, surveys. which met quarterly and consists of members of our executive Eastman’s decisions and actions at the Board, management team and senior leadership, provides direction on all corporate and individual employee levels are rooted in the brand beliefs sustainability efforts across the company, with a goal of and core values outlined in our guiding document, Eastman leveraging sustainability as a key driver of innovation and growth. Advantage, including safety and wellness, customer focus, Members of the Council demonstrate leadership and ownership innovation, diversity and inclusion, and sustainability. Living by of the company’s sustainability goals by including goals specific these principles enables the men and women of Eastman to to their responsibilities on personal performance commitments consistently deliver value to our customers and stockholders through the company’s performance management program. while also enabling a positive future for Eastman team members and a culture where integrity is of utmost importance. 6 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Eastman at a glance $ 9.6 15,000 S E RV I N G C U STO M E RS I N Three years Founded BI L L I O N in G L O B A L SA LES 1 $9$ $ $2$ 0 REVENUE TEAM MEMBERS $$$ 9.6 9.6 9.6 10 0 CO U NTR I E S 15,000 15,000 15,000 CCUCUSTO USTO STO ERV SSESERV IN RV MMM INIGNGG EERERSRSSI N IN IN GGGLLO LOOBBBAAALLL BBIL BIL ILLLIOLIO IO NNN SSASALALELESESS AMM TTETEAEAM 10 10 10000 RREREVEVEVENENU NUEUEE MMM EEMEMMBBEBERERSRSS COCOCO UNT UNT UNT RRI RI IEESESS $$$$$$$$$$$ 49 RECORD FREE MANUFACTURING C ASH FLOW Three years SITES IN $ 960 14 COUNTRIES MILLION 2015 sales revenue by region 4 business segments MANUFACTURING 49 49 MANUFACTURING 49 MANUFACTURING RRREEC CCASH CASH ECCOOO FREE FREEFREE ASHFLOW RRR FLOW DDD FLOW Five years 45% 25% $960 $$960 SITES SITES SITES INININ North America Europe, Middle960 ® 1414 COUNTRIES 14COUNTRIES COUNTRIES $4.35 billion MMM I ILLI LLI East & Africa $2.42 billion OOO I LLI NNN 24% Asia Pacific ives & $2.33 billion Addit nal Funct ts u io c 6% Pro d Latin America $543 million ced Advan ls ~2 /3 i a Mater 2015 sales revenue by end-use market Electronics 3% Energy, Fuels & Water 3% of sales revenue from product ic a l Other 6% Chem ediates lines in Inte r m Food, Feed & Agriculture 6% leading market Personal Care/Health & Wellness 7% positions Industrial Chemicals & Processing 8% Durable Goods 8% Tobacco Six years 12% consecutive Fibers Consumables 14% earnings Building & Construction 14% growth Transportation 19% RECORD free cash flow* $ 960 *Cash from operations less capital expenditures million HEADQUARTERED in Kingsport, Tennessee USA  7 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Sustainability strategy and goals At Eastman, we often describe sustainability as a journey. The world continues to change, and we must evolve and adapt to not only respond to those changes but anticipate them. We have a long history of working safely, meeting compliance standards and operating sustainably. Over time, we have increased our environmental stewardship efforts to mitigate the potential impact of our operations. With the establishment of Eastman’s Sustainability Council in 2010, we moved beyond compliance and environmental stewardship to a more holistic view of sustainability, including economic growth through innovation, philanthropy and social investment. Taking a broader view of sustainability brought a passion and desire to make a real difference in the world. We know we can’t do that on our own, so we’ve increased focus on value chain engagement and collaboration to drive change that encompasses all aspects of sustainability. As we look to the future, our strategy intentionally focuses our efforts on creating value through sustainable innovation. We have made great progress, but we know the work will never be complete. We will continue to take on the challenge. 8 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Global macro trends drive our strategy. We understand that we cannot drive a successful and meaningful sustainability strategy without understanding how the rest of Health and Emerging Natural Feeding a wellness middle class resource growing the world defines and measures efficiency population sustainability. To that end, we SUBTRENDS SUBTRENDS have identified four key macro Aging population Health care costs Government commitments trends aligned to our corporate Ethics Constrained natural resources Urbanization Growing middle class Increasing consumerism strategy that present both business Population growth Regulations Energy prices opportunities and risks for Eastman: Closing the loop Resource scarcity Food & product safety Technology & digitalization health and wellness, emerging Transparency & disclosure middle class, natural resource Opportunities for sustainable solutions efficiency, and feeding a growing Consumables | Medical population. Automotive | Food & Feed | Building & Construction Creating value through sustainable innovation We’ve increased focus on value chain engagement, and collaboration to drive change that encompasses all pillars of sustainability. As we look to the future, Increased our strategy intently focuses our efforts on creating value value through sustainable innovation. Sustainable Value Innovation Value chain engagement Reduced Environmental footprint Compliance stewardship Time  9 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Sustainable Development Goals shape the future. In 2015, the UN launched its new Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), an ambitious set of goals to be achieved by 2030 to overcome the range of environmental and social issues facing the world. The 17 SDGs build on the eight Millennium Development Goals established in 2000 — further evidence that sustainability is a journey, and as goals are met, we must set our sights on new horizons. The SDGs are comprehensive, covering everything from poverty, hunger, health, clean water, education and gender equality to economic growth, innovation, responsible consumption, climate change and the unpolluted ocean. The final goal, developing “partnerships for the goals,” speaks strongly to Eastman’s approach to sustainability and corporate responsibility. Much of Eastman’s corporate sustainability strategy and goals aligns to these SDGs, and as we continue to move forward, we are mapping our efforts to support this global framework. Throughout the report, we identify alignment of our current goals and highlights to the SDGs through the use of specific icons that represent each of the goals. As we transition to GRI G4 and incorporate our recent acquisitions into our reporting in 2017, we are committed to clearly identifying the SDGs that are of highest priority for Eastman and how those priorities align with our corporate sustainability strategy going forward. To learn more about the Sustainable Development Goals, visit www.sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgs. 10  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Sustainability scorecard Raising the bar, focusing our efforts and keeping our eyes on the big picture Sustainable growth Improved footprint Social investment Goal Goal Goal Deliver new business Reduce energy intensity Committed to an solutions from our by 20% by 2020 injuryand incident-free world-class renewable workplace Growth technology platforms Energy Progress 9 Safety Progress 9 New for 2016 Goal Reduce GHG intensity Goal Goal by 20% by 2020 Ensure all corporate Increase utilization of innovation projects are Greenhouse gas emission Progress 4 preventive services by assessed against Health employees and spouses Innovation sustainability macro in North America by 15% trends by 2017 Goal Reduce hazardous Progress 4 New for 2016 waste intensity by Hazardous 15% by 2020 waste Goal Progress 9 Goal Complete LCAs on all Engage globally in new product family impactful partnerships Life cycle launches by 2015 that elevate Eastman’s Goal Progress X Develop a water Corporate Responsibility* focus areas conservation strategy for Water manufacturing sites in New for 2016 water-stressed regions by 2015 *Note: Individual goals Progress ✓ reported in progress section Additional emission goals reported in progress section PROGRESS KEY Goals and Progress 9 Needs Improvement 4 On Track ✓ Met X Not Met  11 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Reporting our progress We’ve reported progress for several years through our Responsible our goals into a clear set of aspirational core commitments. Care® membership. However, in 2009, we published the company’s We remain focused on making a measurable positive impact on first sustainability review, aptly titled Our sustainability journey. our business, employees, customers, communities and planet. In that publication, we established our first set of short-term These next generation goals raised the bar, focused our efforts, sustainability goals at a corporate level, encompassing the three and enabled us to keep our eyes on the “big picture” targets of pillars of sustainability — economic growth, environmental our strategy. stewardship, and social responsibility. This year, we continue to report on these aspirational goals and With the publication of our first sustainability report and GRI targets, with a focus toward the year 2020. As we’ve achieved supplement in 2011 and 2012, respectively, we expanded our goals or shifted our strategic focus in line with our corporate goals into short-, midand long-term goals. As we have evolved on strategy and portfolio transformation, we’ve added and refined the our journey, so have our goals. In our 2014 report, we streamlined goals to reflect our priorities. Goals achieved during our previous reporting period have been removed. Progress toward stated goals Sustainable growth Goal Progress Progress details Deliver new business solutions from Over the past few years, the company’s portfolio and increased focus on our world-class renewable technology innovation have continued to evolve. As such, our commitments to deliver platforms. New for sustainable business solutions must also evolve. We’ve established this 2016 new goal to reflect the company’s business strategy to exploit our worldNote: Replaces previously stated goal: class biobased technology platforms while recognizing the history of our Developing new business utilizing renewable renewable platforms. Work is currently underway to define measurable feedstocks by 2020 targets to support this goal going forward. Ensure all corporate innovation projects As we move forward with an increased focus on sustainable innovation, are assessed against sustainability macro we are driving early-stage consideration of macro trends and trends sustainability factors into the innovation and stage gate processes. New for Through collaboration between the Corporate Innovation and Corporate 2016 Sustainability teams, we are developing a framework to be used across innovation platforms to assess the potential sustainability impacts of a product at the earliest stage of identifying opportunities and applications. As we complete the development of the framework and better understand how the framework will shape our innovation efforts, we will look to establish clear goals for measuring success. Complete Life Cycle Assessments By 2015, we completed representative LCAs for 54 product families that (LCAs) on all new product family have been commercialized since 2010. There have been 78 product family launches by 2015 launches since then for a 69% completion rate. X Due to the increasing speed and number of product commercializations over the past few years, we did not meet our initial goal. However, we continue to prioritize completing LCAs for products where having an LCA is important to our customers. ew Needs Improvement On Track Met Not Met 12  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Improved footprint Goal Progress Progress details Improve energy efficiency of operations by Through 2015, we improved energy intensity by 8% compared to the 20% by 2020 against the 2008 baseline 2008 baseline. While we continue to show good progress, performance was less than satisfactory in 2015. We continue to analyze the data and take corrective actions as needed. Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 2015 greenhouse gas intensity was 0.90, a decrease of 12% compared to per unit of production (GHG intensity) by the baseline. 20% by 2020 against the 2008 baseline Over the last two years, we converted three boilers at our domestic sites from coal to natural gas combustion. We plan to convert more boilers over the next three years. The conversion from coal to natural gas will enhance our emission reduction efforts and help us attain our goals. Reduce nitrogen oxide (NOx) by 20% 2015 NOx emissions were 10,922 tons, a decrease of 1% compared and sulfur dioxide (SO2) by 40% by to the baseline.* 2020 against the 2010 baseline* 2015 SO2 emissions were 18,663 tons, a decrease of 18% compared to the baseline.* Over the last two years, we converted three boilers at our domestic sites from coal to natural gas combustion. We plan to convert more boilers over the next three years. The conversion from coal to natural gas will enhance our emission reduction efforts and help us attain our goals. Reduce Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) 2015 VOC emissions were 7,865 tons, a decrease of 4% compared by 15% by 2020 against the 2010 baseline to the baseline. Reduce total number of reportable releases In 2015, we had 49 reportable release events, a decrease of 20% by 25% against the 2010 baseline compared to the baseline. Reduce Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) 2014 TRI air emissions were 7.3 million pounds, an increase of 17% emissions to the air by 25% by 2020 compared to the baseline. against 2010 baseline Over the last two years, we converted three boilers at our domestic sites from coal to natural gas combustion. We plan to convert more boilers over the next three years. The conversion from coal to natural gas will enhance our emission reduction efforts and help us attain our goals. Reduce hazardous waste (indexed to 2015 hazardous waste indexed to production was 0.0083 kg production) by 15% by 2020 against the waste/kg production, a significant increase compared to the baseline. 2010 baseline Develop a water conservation strategy After completing an initial assessment using the WBCSD Water Tool and for manufacturing sites in water-stressed Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas in 2014, a cross-functional team surveyed eight regions by 2015 of our manufacturing sites considered to be in potentially water-stressed areas based on the results. Of the eight sites, we identified no significant gaps, with each site reporting either no scarcity, limited water use, or plans currently in place to reduce water use. *Baselines have been adjusted to reflect available data following recent acquisitions, not including Taminco. New Needs Improvement On Track Met Not Met  13 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Progress toward goals (continued) Social investment Goal Progress Progress details Maintain our strong commitment to an Since introducing the ALL IN FOR SAFETY initiative in 2012, we’ve incident and injury free workplace with changed how we discuss and approach safety at Eastman. While we are continued goals and tracking: making progress, we recognize the need to continue efforts to meet our safety targets and accelerate our journey towards the ultimate goal of • Corporate Injury and Illness Recordable no one getting hurt. In 2015, we introduced a new vision statement to Rates target <0.54* articulate the importance of why we choose to act safely and established • Days Away from Work Rates target five key elements: leadership, engagement, knowledge, processes, and <0.12* communication. • Process Safety target <10* (incidents • 2015 Injury and Illness Rate — 0.64 defined as per the American Chemistry • 2015 DAW Rate — 0.17 Council) • Process Safety Incidents in 2015 — 23 incidents *We adjusted these targets in 2015 for acquisitions and previous performance. Measures reflect all sites, including Taminco sites acquired in 2014. Increase utilization of preventive services Through 2015, we increased utilization of preventive services in North by employees and spouses in North America by 14% against our currently stated goal. America 15% by 2017 Through Eastman Wellness, we remind employees to take advantage of the Eastman health plan benefits with preventive services being covered at 100%. We also encourage employees to engage their personal physicians and Cigna health plan coaches. Additionally, we collaborate with local health service providers in communities where Eastman has a presence, to offer on-site services and screenings for our employees. Engage globally in impactful partnerships Education: Strategic partnerships between business and education help that maximize collective value in the ensure we have a successful workforce in the future. We will continue to areas of education, environment, encourage innovative and productive thinking in real-world environments empowerment, and economic to enable students to excel. Additionally, we will engage strategic development. partnerships to create a sustainable model for educational initiatives in site communities. Environment: The Eastman team works hard to minimize our environmental footprint by conserving natural resources, inventing more efficient production methods, and developing chemistries that use New for renewable raw materials. We strengthen partnerships, obtain insights and 2016 deliver solutions that help reduce our footprint, support the Blue Economy and improve the quantity and quality of food sources for our growing population. Empowerment: We are committed to building an engaging and dynamic work environment with a mind-set of equality and inclusion that fosters creativity, innovation and camaraderie across our global company. With a focus on gender equity, we are developing plans for a signature program to promote equality and parity across our workforce. Economic Development: We take our work seriously and believe that investing in communities builds trust, goodwill and long-term success for all. Our goal is always to support innovative and impactful economic development partnerships that directly benefit residents and improve quality of life. ew Needs Improvement On Track Met Not Met 14  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Sustainability highlights Creating value through a collaborative and innovative spirit Collaboration to drive change At Eastman, we’re serious about collaboration. It’s not just a buzz word — it’s a core value. We value the importance of collaboration to drive change both internally throughout Eastman and externally along the value chain. We have deep expertise and insight in a variety of areas, but we recognize we can’t solve the world’s problems on our own. The expertise of our global team enables Eastman to be a responsible environmental steward by minimizing the company’s footprint and conserving natural resources in a cost-effective manner. But we aspire to do more. We aspire to use our talents and expertise to make an even bigger difference — to create value through the development and production of molecules that meet the world’s specific needs. To achieve the greatest impact, we don’t believe we can go alone. Collaboration is key. Throughout the following highlights from the past year, you will see collaboration as an integral part of our strategy. Our stakeholders fall along a broad spectrum, and we continue to instill trust and foster ongoing relationships with each of them to create value.  15 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Creating value through innovation At Eastman, we believe innovation and sustainability are naturally woven together. Our growing, changing world demands sustainable innovations, and Eastman is well positioned to deliver them. To ensure quality of life for a growing population and to preserve our planet, we must solve a multitude of issues facing our world today. We believe the biggest issues deal with food, water and energy. It will take innovation to deliver those solutions, and those innovations get their start on the molecular level. Eastman is a leader in that space. Our scientific insight and world-class technologies are the foundation. Through engaging others in our value chains and understanding external drivers such as macro trends, we are developing applications that can be tested. Innovation lies at the heart of our corporate strategy and our company’s growth. Chances are that our materials are in a product that has touched your life today. From the baby bottle made of Eastman Tritan™ copolyester that gives you peace of mind to the filters made with Eastman Cyphrex™ microfibers that make your car run more efficiently or the Skydrol™ aviation Chances are, Eastman materials are in a product that has touched your life today. hydraulic fluid that makes a sustainable impact in the aviation industry, our influence is broad-reaching. There are a myriad of examples that illustrate our strong “We’re committed to delivering customer solutions. connection between innovation and sustainability. For us, it’s more than creating a molecule or material. We are creating Our innovation model is designed to target areas value because of the difference those molecules and materials where sustainability macro trends and unserved make in people’s lives. customer needs align with our world-class technology platforms. Sustainability really drives our innovation platform and our innovation strategy.” — Steve Crawford, Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer 16  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Lending an innovative hand to society Early in 2016, leaders from Eastman and Chung-Ang University Through this collaborative initiative, Eastman will supply in South Korea gathered together in Seoul to put pen to paper Amphora-based filament to Chung-Ang University so the school and cement a collaborative agreement that will have a lasting can leverage open source designs to print and assemble the impact for children in need. prostheses. Eastman and Chung-Ang are in the process of identifying a nongovernmental This collaborative project between organization that will be responsible for the Eastman and Chung-Ang University delivery of the prosthetic hands to children will deliver increased mobility and locally in Asia. empowerment to underserved children in Asia who need prosthetic hands. We also helped christen the university’s new Using a 3D printer, faculty and students at the university will “Creative Factory,” a Seoul-based center for high technology make prosthetic hands fabricated from Eastman Amphora™ 3D where students and faculty members will print and assemble polymer, a cutting-edge thermoplastic that has quickly become the prosthetic hands. a preferred material for 3D printing. Along with leveraging Eastman innovation to empower people, Introduced into the market in 2014, Amphora is renowned there is an educational component at work, too. Empowerment for its toughness and ability to produce finely detailed items. and education are two core building blocks of Eastman’s Additionally, it is styrene-free, boasts low odor and low emission corporate responsibility commitment, and collaboration with qualities, and complies with certain U.S. Food and Drug institutions of higher education is a key facet of Eastman’s open Administration regulations for food contact applications. innovation model. Global Innovation Conference leadership Underscoring Eastman’s commitment to investing in innovation, the company hosted the Global Innovation Conference in September 2015, bringing together more than 1,000 Eastman team members in one location to collaborate, share ideas and accelerate our ability to build networks and drive future innovation across the company. The most collaborative and inclusive conference dedicated to innovation in the company’s history, the five-day event featured diversity of thought and inclusiveness of perspectives from every corner of Eastman — both geographically and organizationally. Through more than 300 poster sessions, 60 presentations, and several workshops that fostered “in-themoment” brainstorming and problem solving, the conference delivered valuable outcomes that extend way beyond that single event. More than 1,000 Eastman team members took part in the Global Innovation Conference in September 2015.  17 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Taking on the transportation market The thin line between innovation and sustainability In the automotive industry, manufacturers are constantly looking for ways to improve passenger comfort and vehicle efficiency. And Eastman is quietly making a difference — with frequency. Our Saflex® Q series PVB advanced acoustic interlayers not only reduces wind noise in the cabin, but as a result of the improved acoustic performance auto makers can chose to thin the glass resulting in reduced weight. As any auto engineer knows, when it comes to car efficiency, every ounce counts. In fact, Saflex Q series can reduce cabin noise levels by up to three decibels versus a standard windscreen and up to five decibels when compared to tempered glass side windows. It is especially effective within the frequency of human perception, particularly in typical voice ranges. In other words, consumers can hear the difference. And that speaks volumes about Eastman innovation. Our Saflex® Q series PVB advanced But reducing noise is not the only challenge. In response to regulatory requirements acoustic interlayers not only help and consumer demand for greater fuel efficiency, automotive makers are tasked reduce cabin noise, they can also with finding incremental reductions in overall vehicle weight. Considering there are up to five square meters of glass in a typical car, Saflex acoustic interlayers can help help manufacturers reduce weight automakers reduce overall weight by up to 10.5 kilograms per vehicle by reducing glass thickness. . . . and when it comes to car efficiency, every ounce counts. For decades, Eastman has been a proven supplier to the automotive industry. Our solvents and polymers help formulators make durable, efficient, and spectacular coatings — while our tackifiers, glass interlayers, and plasticizers are found in innovative applications bumper to bumper. At Eastman, we believe innovation begins with insights and ends with results. 18  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Proven performance from plastic to paint It’s estimated that up to 50% of the energy spent to build a car novel resins, OEMs can potentially reduce their energy in assembly plants is consumed in the paint shop. So what if we footprint, improve productivity, and also achieve a significant could develop a novel, world-class coating technology that will reduction in volatile organic compound and greenhouse greatly improve the lifetime and appearance of a car’s gas (GHG) emissions, allowing for a more sustainable shine with just one coat? Eastman has done just that. manufacturing footprint. Improving efficiency and durability, this new The technology also enhances the shine, monocoat resin offers original equipment weatherability, and scratch resistance of manufacturers (OEMs) the possibility to greatly a car’s coating, making the vehicle more enhance the long-term appearance of their attractive to consumers in emerging markets vehicles without having to invest in expensive who have to strike a constant balance and energy-consuming multilayer paint systems. between their mobility needs and the cost of vehicle ownership. We can now enable Empowered by Tritan-based technology, Eastman OEMs to provide a superior product at a more Tetrashield™ vehicle protection resin system affordable price compared to some of the other extends the life and durability of automotive alternative technologies. coatings by increasing weatherability and mar resistance. Leveraging expertise from their proven polyesters We have recently implemented the solution with a leading platform, Eastman chemists have built a new toolbox of resins OEM in the Asian market, a market where the effects of strong for automotive monocoats, that result in coatings with improved UV radiation and dust create a harsh environment for vehicle chemical resistance, toughness and strength. By using these appearance degradation. Going bananas over innovation Through the acquisition of Taminco and its product lines in 2014, we increased focus in the food, feed and agriculture markets, including crop protection. Over the years, agrochemical development has been geared toward innovating fungicide solutions for fruit crops, such as bananas, due to the popularity and availability of the fruit around the world. Bananas typically grow in tropical areas, which makes the fruit susceptible to fungi. With environmental regulations of fungicides continuing to strengthen, the need for safe and sustainably minded solutions is increasingly vital to the future of banana crops. Eastman’s Banguard™ is an innovative fungicide formulation based on Thiram, one of our key actives for the crop protection market. Development of Banguard started more than 10 years ago, with the first formulation being sold in the Philippines. We continue to study environmental challenges and areas in tropical climates with extended rainy seasons and strong UV radiation to develop new solutions that will stand up to the toughest circumstances.  19 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Compliance and . . . Environmental stewardship at Eastman is more than just compliance with laws and 8% regulations. Eastman’s women and men take environmental stewardship to heart and use their insights and expertise to focus not only on compliance but also on BASELINE operational efficiencies and business performance. We understand that maintaining toward safe, sustainable operations not only impacts our company but our communities, the 2020 environment and our collective future. We continuously focus on improving processes GOAL and protecting the environment in the communities where we operate, as well as 2008 2015 understanding the environmental impact of our products. Because of these insights, we Energy intensity improvements have delivered more than compliance; we have innovated more sustainable products, compared to 2008 baseline. improved our productivity, saved natural resources, reduced our environmental footprint and delivered cost savings. We set clear expectations and strive for a zeroincident culture — from both a safety and environmental perspective. As part of ENERGY SAVINGS our Responsible Care® commitment to continual improvement, we review our goals $ 25 M I LLIO N BASED ON ENERGY INTENSITY DECREASE regularly and establish targets that challenge us to move the horizon forward. Be a star. An ENERGY STAR.® $$$$$$$ Through our Worldwide Energy Management Program, led by a full-time Certified Energy Savings in 2015 over 2008 from reduced Manager, we continue to implement many successful energy efficiency projects and energy intensity, at current energy prices focus our efforts to not only reach our 2020 energy intensity goal but to also educate our stakeholders about the importance and value of energy management. From our award-winning deployment of combined heat and power to designing new buildings to meet strict EPA criteria for estimated energy performance, we continue our commitment Investment to energy efficiency and the responsible management of our resources. $ 11 M I LLIO N ENERGY PROJECTS Through 2015, Eastman improved energy intensity by approximately 8% compared to our 2008 baseline. Using $ $ $ $ $ that baseline energy intensity level applied to the current production level at current energy prices, we estimate that Eastman would have spent approximately $25 million more in 2015 on energy if our energy intensity had not changed since 2008. As we increase production rates and continue to incorporate acquired sites into our Worldwide Energy Management Program, we know that we face a number of challenges to reach our 2020 goal. We have budgeted more than $11 million per year to energy projects, and we continually look for improvement opportunities and collaborate internally and externally to drive improvement. Five years in a row! Eastman has been recognized by the EPA as an ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year five consecutive years. We’ve received the Sustained Excellence award, EPA’s highest ENERGY STAR® honor for the past three years, and we are the only chemical company to achieve this recognition. 20  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com As a materials company for nearly 100 years and a Responsible Care® company for more than 25 years, we have comprehensive guidelines and processes in place for reducing energy usage and minimizing our environmental footprint. This year, we introduced a new internal environmental stewardship guiding document, which establishes expectations and basic responsibilities for our employees around the world as we raise the bar on our continued commitment to environmental stewardship. Distillation project Eastman scientists are cognizant of the latest research in energy and process efficiency and promote the application of the latest technology across our operations. Focusing on one of Eastman’s highly energy intensive unit processes, distillation, we are collaborating with two universities to advance the technology as well as train process improvement engineers to optimize operation of existing distillation units. Working with Purdue University and the Process Science and Technology Center (PSTC) at the University of Texas, Eastman is funding and providing on-site technical support for an experimental dividing wall column project at PSTC, which has the potential for significant energy reduction for the distillation process. Eastman is using the outputs of the project for analysis of existing Eastman distillation systems to identify opportunities for energy efficiency improvements. Lighting upgrades In 2015, lighting upgrades at several manufacturing sites resulted in more than $250,000 in energy savings. At one site, approximately 50% (6 MW) of the total lighting load has been removed over the past several years by installing more efficient lights. That is equivalent to homeowners replacing more than 115,000 60-watt incandescent bulbs with 8-watt LEDs or the amount of electricity used in over 4,000 homes. Improved energy intensity nets results: 1.1 billion lb Reduction in or ENERGY USED BY greenhouse gas emissions = 46,000 HOMES since 2008 * *Based on energy intensity reductions  21 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Committed to reducing our impact Eastman continues its commitment to reducing emissions from our operations. While recent acquisitions have increased the emissions we report, we remain focused on reducing our environmental impact. In 2014 and early 2016, we converted two boilers at our Kingsport, Tennessee, site from coal to natural gas combustion. An additional boiler will be converted in the second half of 2016 and two more boilers will be converted by 2018, for a total of five. Projected reduction GREENHOUSE The Kingsport boiler conversion project is the most significant air pollution control GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS GAS EMISSIONS project in the history of Eastman. This project will diversify the Kingsport facility’s 20% 42% energy mix from 90% coal to 50% coal and 50% natural gas. It is projected to reduce site greenhouse gas emissions by nearly 20%, Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) emissions SO 2 EMISSIONS by 25%, and criteria air pollutants emissions (sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides — TOXIC RELEASE SO2 and NOx) by 60% from 2010 levels. The greenhouse gas emissions reduced would INVENTORY EMISSIONS 99.9% be equivalent to taking 170,000 cars off the road. 25% HYDROGEN CHLORIDE SO2 AND NOx EMISSIONS ELIMINATED 60% FROM 2010 LEVELS AS A RESULT OF AS A RESULT OF BOILER 2015 BOILER CONVERSION PROJECT CONVERSION KINGSPORT SITE INDIAN ORCHARD SITE In addition to the Kingsport conversions, we converted another of our coal-fired boilers at our Indian Orchard facility in Springfield, Massachusetts, to natural gas in 2015. With this conversion, we have already reduced sulfur dioxide emissions by 99.9% and have eliminated hydrogen chloride emissions completely. We’ve been able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 42% at this site since the natural gas conversion, which is the equivalent of eliminating the GHG emissions from 9,700 cars. Water conservation strategy In 2014, we established a goal to develop a water conservation strategy for manufacturing sites in water-stressed regions by 2015. After completing an initial assessment using the WBCSD Water Tool and Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas in 2014, a cross-functional team surveyed eight of our manufacturing sites considered to be in potentially water-stressed areas based on the results. Of the eight sites, we identified no significant gaps, with each site reporting either no scarcity, limited water use, or plans currently in place to reduce water use. 22  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Energy and emissions data See eastman.com/sustainability for detailed charts. Total direct and indirect greenhouse NOx air emissions by weight Energy intensity gas emissions by weight (tons) (percent reduction) (GHG = lb CO 2 per lb of product sold) Goal Goal Goal 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 SO2 air emissions by weight VOC air emissions by weight TRI air emissions by weight (tons) (tons) (Mlb) Goal Goal Goal 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 Metrics reflect recent acquisitions, not including Taminco. We are committed to reporting data on newly acquired sites within three years of acquisition. Rising to the challenge In early 2016, Eastman’s Indian Orchard facility in Springfield, Massachusetts, earned the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA’s) ENERGY STAR® Challenge for Industry by reducing its energy intensity by 11.5% within the past three years. Reduced energy intensity The Indian Orchard site is the first Eastman site to achieve this high honor. 11.5% in 3 YEARS Team members at Indian Orchard are helping to clean up our environment by reducing greenhouse gas emissions caused by energy use.  23 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. From rivers to the ocean We strive to conserve and protect our natural water resources, especially rivers and bodies of water near our manufacturing sites. We have advanced wastewater treatment plants and processes at our manufacturing facilities, which are engineered to meet — and in many cases exceed — environmental standards while protecting the health of our employees, our communities and our local ecosystems. Our dedicated team continues to work to apply Eastman’s wastewater treatment standards and processes to our newly acquired sites. As we look to the future, however, we understand that the conversation isn’t only about water in our own back yards. When we consider the water sources around the globe, we can’t deny the fact that the ocean covers more than 50% of the Earth’s surface and is the source of approximately 97% of the water that eventually falls on land as precipitation. The ocean drives our climate system, thus strongly influencing climate change. The ocean is storing roughly 90% of the increased heat added to our climate system. Yet the processes that drive the transfer of heat, carbon, and water between the ocean and the atmosphere and between the upper and lower regions of the ocean are poorly understood. Understanding and predicting these exchanges is vital to predicting how much, how fast, and where temperature, sea level, ocean pH, and other key aspects of our climate system will change over the long term and impact human life. By better understanding the ocean and its relation to climate change, we are better able to identify long-term risks and opportunities relative to our business. To this end, we continue to support and invest in ocean research through mechanisms such as our partnership with Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI). We’ve also established a dedicated team and committed resources to engage in a broader conversation about the ocean and the Blue Economy. In the top photo to the left, a team from WHOI collects the first ever glider to traverse the Gulf Stream. Enabled by Eastman, this unique application of autonomous underwater technology will vastly improve Gulf Stream data collection. In the second photo, WHOI staff prepares to launch an X-Spar buoy funded, in part, by Eastman. The buoy measures air-sea flux in remote, inhospitable regions of the ocean where bottomanchored buoys are not feasible. 24  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Protecting the Sabine River In 2015, the Patrick Center for Environmental Research of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Drexel University conducted biological and water-quality surveys of the Sabine River. The Sabine River surveys are designed to assess potential impacts of effluent from Eastman’s Longview, Texas, facility on the general health of the river. Over the years, the studies have shown that the Longview facility does not have an adverse impact on the river. Additionally, team members in Longview anticipated the potential threat of flooding at the site due to an unusually long rainy season in December. The team surveyed dam heights and worked with a local contractor to proactively fill low areas with road base, up to two feet across some Monitoring the health of the Sabine River areas. The river levels reached the top of the new soiling but did not cross into the lagoons, preventing potential contamination of the Sabine. Linking science to supply chain sustainability The beginning of the analysis of our products is from the manufacturing site to a distribution location, looking at emissions upstream and downstream focusing on the difference in impact associated with of our production. We appreciate that we can employing bilateral agreements with other make a bigger difference when we rely companies that enable logistical savings. on collaboration and transparency all The study exclusively assessed the along the value chain. Eastman uses transportation stage in the life cycle bilateral exchange agreements to swap and included all of the company’s commodity materials between countries, bilateral agreements from 2015. The which reduces the distance product must study determined that by using these be shipped, lowers logistical costs and bilateral agreements Eastman can reduces the potential environmental impact save about 2,400 tons of CO2 emissions of those logistics. The environmental impacts of per year, approximately 4% of the total shipping are large and can be tracked using life cycle emissions of the product from cradle to gate or from assessments (LCAs). raw materials extraction through point of sale. The emissions savings are equivalent to the annual energy In 2015, Eastman’s LCA team completed a gate-toto power 225 homes or almost 6 million miles driven gate life cycle assessment of delivery of products by the average passenger car.  25 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Designed for success Leadership meeting rooms on the fifth floor offer beautiful views of the Eastman campus and neighboring Bays Mountain. In 2013, Eastman launched a major economic development initiative called “Project Inspire.” As part of this project, the company is investing $1.6 billion in its Kingsport, Tennessee site leading up to the company’s centennial anniversary in 2020. Project Inspire includes various safety and environmental projects, increased warehouse capacity, building renovations and expansion of the corporate campus, including the new Corporate Business Center, which opened in early 2016. The Corporate Business Center, designed and constructed using the U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) rating system, features many sustainable design elements. For example, the center features more than 2,000 triple-glazed glass panels which have low-emissivity coatings and are argon filled. This provides protection against ultraviolet (UV) and infrared rays and helps significantly control energy costs — all while infusing the open floor plan with natural light. Other sustainable features include: • Sunshades • An energy-efficient roofing system • Water-efficient fixtures and landscaping; an intelligent irrigation system uses 35% less water and the landscaping plants are drought-resistant, reducing the need for irrigation The Customer Insight Center includes product • An advanced building automation system to control and monitor power information highlights and conference and consumption breakout rooms for meetings with customers • Lighting sensors that automatically adjust LED luminaires to conserve energy and small groups. • High-efficiency air handling units, chillers, and filters • Recycled materials and certified renewable wood features • Bike racks, fitness space, and shower facilities • Use of low-emitting materials • Carbon dioxide sensors tied to HVAC system control • Reduced paper waste through use of hand dryers in bathrooms Innovations such as these make the center energy efficient, and as a result, the Corporate Business Center project was approved by the EPA for Designed to Earn the ENERGY STAR® certification. This certification recognizes that this design project has met the EPA criteria for energy efficiency. 26  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Corporate Business Center sustainability facts 95% of luminaires in the building are highefficiency LEDs and linked to occupancy 38% less water sensors and daylight harvesting sensors usage than a conventional building, saving a projected 573,000 gallons per year 23 bike racks 22 electric charging stations (FEV 1/4 mile from two lines 37 designated 4 stormwater of public carpooling Parking) on site transportation spaces runoff water quality 54% 1 mile More than units protect adjacent stream of site is open, of lighted green space (more walking/running than 15 acres) paths More than During construction, 21% of more than 87% R-35 Over 50,000 square feet of white reflective roof with R-35 rating materials made of of construction waste diverted 500 More than 35% of materials recycled from landfill to sourced regionally (within 500 miles) content construction recyclers The cafeteria offers a variety of healthy and Cafeteria seating area includes interior seating Each floor features a pantry with refrigerator, delicious options for breakfast and lunch. and a casual, outdoor patio area. coffeemaker and casual seating.  27 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Beyond philanthropy At Eastman, corporate responsibility goes beyond philanthropy. Within our corporate responsibility goals, we have set clear It shapes how we operate. We are dedicated to focusing on the targets to improve safety, provide opportunities to improve right projects and initiatives with the greatest collective impact. health and wellness, and invest in our local communities Whether that is advancing educational efforts around science, as well as global initiatives where we can make a positive technology, engineering, arts and math (STEAM), promoting difference. As we focus on making improvements around the environmental stewardship, supporting community development world, we hold steadfast to our core values of honesty, integrity and infrastructure efforts, or empowering workforce diversity, our and ethical business practices. We strive to engage employees, community support and involvement reflect the rich heritage of communities, organizations and businesses as we move forward Eastman’s women and men around the world. together, identifying projects and initiatives where we can collaborate to drive change. Strategic partnerships between business and education help At Eastman, we work hard to instill and maintain a culture of ensure a successful workforce in the future. Encouraging continually looking to minimize our environmental impact innovative thinking in a real-world environment enables students by conserving natural resources, inventing more efficient to excel. production methods and developing chemistry that uses renewable raw materials. Being a responsible steward of Design Challenges/SHiFT Camp resources also means ensuring our workplaces and operations With a focus on STEAM education, Eastman often supports are safe and that we act ethically and responsibly in all of our unique educational opportunities. One of these is SHiFT Design business dealings. Camp, which is an open community of makers, connectors, designers and creators who are interested in design and Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI) its power to change the world. Eastman, along with other Because the ocean and ocean life are so fundamental to our companies, connects camp participants from across the country climate and weather systems, Eastman is supporting Woods with global material experts and local craftspeople — immersing Hole Oceanographic Institution in developing innovative ways them in team building, history and the art of making. to observe and measure ocean processes. These new instruments will allow scientists to collect data in new places and to deeper depths as they strive to understand the ocean’s role in our climate and investigate how our changing planet affects ocean life, water systems and populations on land. For more examples of Eastman’s Corporate Responsibility efforts and strategic relationships, visit responsibility.eastman.com. 28  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Putting our resources to work Eastman Foundation board members represent all areas of the company. Eastman and the Eastman Foundation provided funding and in-kind donations totaling more than $3.2 million to support public/private partnership initiatives focused on our corporate responsibility focus areas of education, environment, empowerment, and economic development. Eastman employees are afforded opportunities and encouraged to be good corporate citizens by participating in volunteer opportunities in their respective communities. In 2015, Eastman employees contributed over 125,000 hours1 of volunteer service to a variety of community efforts. 1 Based on current reporting mechanisms; not representative of all global sites ©2015 Room to Read, Paulette Waltz At Eastman, we believe empowerment facilitates success — We take our work seriously and believe that investing in whether it involves employees, community residents, or others. communities builds trust, goodwill and long-term success for Empowerment builds competence, confidence and satisfaction all. Our goal is always to support innovative and impactful in a work environment and also enables our communities to be economic development that directly benefits residents and inclusive and influential. improves quality of life. Room to Read (India) Providing opportunities through apprenticeships Room to Read, a global nonprofit organization, envisions a Maintaining a skilled workforce requires collaboration and world in which all children can pursue a quality education, commitment. In Kohtla-Järve, Estonia, Eastman has established reach their full potential and contribute to their communities a partnership with Eesti Töötukassa, a local employment agency, and the world. Eastman shares that same philosophy. By which allows community members to train and obtain oncontributing to establish primary school libraries and supporting the-job experience through apprenticeships at our company’s girls in completing secondary school, we’re contributing to the manufacturing facility. The collaboration has not only reduced transformation of children’s lives through literacy and gender unemployment in the Ida-Viru County of Estonia, but also equality in education. allowed Eastman to identify potentially skilled team members living in this part of Eastern Europe.  29 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Diversity and inclusion We believe an inclusive, global culture in which everyone can do their best work makes our company and communities stronger. A powerfully diverse workforce and broadly inclusive workplace are critical to Eastman’s success. We are developing a long-term strategy and introducing initiatives across the company that underscore our commitment. In 2015, Eastman joined the National Center for Women & Information Technology Pacesetters campaign and hosted an inaugural “Sit With Me” event. This initiative’s broader purpose is to encourage gender parity in the technical fields, particularly information technology. Katheryn Luckadoo, a sophomore at Volunteer High School in Hawkins County, Tennessee, with Chief Executive Officer Mark Costa (left); Chief Human Resources Officer Perry Stuckey (center); and Chief We are currently in the process of launching new Eastman Manufacturing, Supply Chain and Engineering Officer Mark Cox (right). Resource Groups to accelerate progress in tapping into the full potential of traditionally underrepresented and other select groups across the company. While these groups are in the essays for consideration, and the top five finalists were provided early stages, we see their potential to drive engagement and the opportunity to speak at a luncheon event held near the move the needle on diversity and inclusion for Eastman. To company’s corporate headquarters. The winning essay, written build awareness and create change agents for these efforts, we and presented by Katheryn Luckadoo from Volunteer High introduced Leadership Learning Labs in 2015. The three day School in Hawkins County, Tennessee, told the story of Patricia program is designed to develop a deeper understanding of how Bath, the first African-American female doctor to receive a systemic issues around various types of diversity affect people medical patent among many other amazing accomplishments. in their work, community and personal lives. The goal is that Former astronaut Mae Jemison wrapped up the month’s each person walks away from the program understanding and celebration at a community event addressing the need for great taking ownership of their role in driving a more diverse and inclusion of women and other minorities in STEAM fields. inclusive culture in our company and communities. In honor of Black History Month this year, Eastman hosted its second annual oratorical contest and recognition event honoring the traditions and contributions of African-Americans to science, technology, engineering, art and math (STEAM). More than 50 high school students submitted 30  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com About this report Scope of report Stakeholder engagement Eastman’s 2015 sustainability report focuses on our progress At Eastman, sustainability serves as a lens by which we and challenges over the past year and includes quantitative operate. We understand that we cannot fully embed data for the year ending December 31, 2015. The report sustainability without collaboration and transparency. covers Eastman’s wholly owned operations. These metrics, We must work together, internally and externally with however, do not include Taminco businesses acquired in our stakeholders, to create value — now and for future December 2014 unless otherwise noted. We are committed generations. We rely on effective stakeholder engagement to to including information on newly acquired sites within three continually improve and make progress on our journey. years of acquisition. As in previous years, this report follows the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) 3.1 framework and Stakeholder engagement is an ongoing process at the corporate, meets requirements for the United Nations Global Compact regional and local levels to advance the company’s business Communication of Progress. objectives, build Eastman’s reputation and achieve success. We maintain active communication and continually seek feedback As we determined report content, we completed an updated on business performance and sustainability-related topics stakeholder mapping exercise. Based on that assessment, we from a range of stakeholders, including employees, suppliers, identified the topics of significance and indicators that are customers, industry peers, investors, government organizations most relevant to our internal and external stakeholders. We also and nongovernmental organizations. We leverage insights from examined our business opportunities and risks and evaluated engagements and interactions to not only identify the most external trends related to our business. relevant issues where we will prioritize our resources but also to challenge ourselves to understand new and varying perspectives The data used in this report was collected through several that can drive collaboration and positive change. information management processes, including instrumentation, Stakeholder engagement varies in type and frequency by monitoring, sample collection and analysis, engineering stakeholder group. This report provides an overview of estimates, material balances and other methods. Eastman’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including examples of engagement in 2015 as well as stakeholder Assurance feedback and input for this year’s report. Eastman has rigorous internal policies and practices to ensure the content of this report is accurate. Additionally, Eastman’s Stakeholders Engagement examples internal auditors assess the information in conformance with Employees surveys, intranet, campaigns, events, training, standards set by the Institute of Internal Auditors (U.S.). Internal participation in sustainability-focused auditors assessed the information contained in the report to teams/organizations ensure appropriate supporting documentation exists. Many of the financial data included are taken from the consolidated financial Communities advisory panels, surveys, website, events, statements contained in the Eastman 2015 Annual Report. newsletters, collaborative projects Customers meetings, calls, conferences, surveys, collaborative projects, website, industry memberships Suppliers meetings, calls, conferences, surveys, collaborative projects, website, industry memberships Investors public investor conferences, public quarterly financial results call/webcast, and annual, quarterly, and other SEC filings  31 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. About this report (continued) Eastman stakeholder materiality matrix Labor practices 12 3 Health & safety of Eastman products Climate change Energy Priority topics Water 4 56 7 Environmental Supporting communities Social Pollution Governance 8 9 10 11 Other: Importance to Eastman 1 • Financial return 2 • Code of conduct 3 • Education & training 4 • Health care & lifestyles 12 5 • Diversity & inclusion 6 • Human rights 7 • Waste 8 • Whistleblowing 9 • Fraud mitigation/checks & balances 13 14 10 • Biodiversity 11 • Raw materials 12 • Board compensation 13 • Leadership compensation Importance to Stakeholders 14 • Population growth and aging As a global specialty materials company, we face complex Other reports of interest challenges that require commitment across the company as well as along the value chain to drive change. Over the past year, 2015 Annual Report — Focus: we have completed an updated assessment of our stakeholder Innovation groups based on research of publicly available information and ongoing interactions. Using sustainability reporting standards and working with a third-party consulting firm, we identified the most relevant sustainability-related topics for both Eastman and our stakeholder groups. The output of our analyses appears on the prioritization map. As a result of this assessment and our transition to GRI G4 guidelines in 2017, we are identifying key Sustainability at Eastman Moving forward together areas of more focused engagement for the coming year. Value Sustainability Report, June 2014 Covering the period January–December 2013 2015 Sustainability Report — chain engagement is an effort shared by many organizations Gaining momentum throughout Eastman. Strategic collaborations across these groups focus on optimizing current engagements, identifying gaps or opportunities and defining key projects, collaborations or areas of focus as we move forward. 32  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Global Reporting Initiative GRI index GRI appendix  33 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Global Reporting Initiative content index This report aligns with the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. Eastman self-declares this report to application level B. The information included also serves as Eastman’s Communication of Progress as a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). UNGC Report line Content Where is it? Reported Principle 1.1 CEO message Page 5 CEO message Fully 1.2 Impacts, risks and Page 9 Goals — Macro trends Fully opportunities Page 31 Stakeholder engagement Eastman 2015 Form 10-K, Part II, Item 7 2.1 About Eastman Page 6 About Eastman Fully Company profile 2.2 Brands, products, services Page 7 About Eastman Fully Eastman brands 2.3 Operating structure About Eastman Fully Page 7 About Eastman 2.4 Corporate and regional Kingsport, TN, USA Fully headquarter locations Eastman locations 2.5 Countries of operation Page 7 About Eastman Fully Eastman locations 2.6 Ownership Eastman is a publicly traded company. Total common stock Fully outstanding as of December 31, 2015, was 147,812,789 shares. Refer to Eastman’s 2015 Form 10-K for additional information. 2.7 Business segments and Page 7 About Eastman Fully markets Markets we serve 2.8 Organizational scale Page 7 About Eastman Fully Refer to Eastman 2015 Form 10-K, Part 2, Item 8 for additional information 2.9 Significant changes Eastman 2015 Form 10-K, Part II, Item 8 Fully Note 2 — Acquisitions Note 16 — Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges 2.10 Awards and recognitions Awards Fully 3.1 Report period Page 31 The information provided is based on 2015 corporate data Fully for the year ending December 31, 2015. 3.2 Most recent report Page 32 About this report Fully 3.3 Reporting cycle Annually Fully 3.4 Report questions David A. Golden Fully Senior Vice President, Chief Legal & Sustainability Officer, and Corporate Secretary sustainability@eastman.com 3.5 Process for defining report Page 31 About this report Fully content 34  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com UNGC Report line Content Where is it? Reported Principle 3.6 Boundary of the report Page 31 About this report Fully See Eastman 2015 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 2 for additional information on Eastman’s properties. See Part II, Item 8 for more information on the company’s joint ventures and newly acquired sites. 3.7 Limitations on report scope Within the context of the boundary of this report as defined in 3.6, Fully there are no specific limitations. 3.8 Basis for reporting that can The basis for reporting does not significantly affect the Fully significantly affect variability comparability from period to period. 3.9 Data measurement Page 31 About this report Fully 3.10 Restatements There are no restatements. Fully 3.11 Changes from prior reporting None identified. Fully 3.12 GRI Index Page 33 GRI Index Fully 3.13 Assurance Page 31 About this report Fully 4.1 Governance structure Page 6 Corporate governance and code of business conduct Fully all Corporate Governance 4.2 Chair of Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer and Director Mark J. Costa serves as Fully Chairman of the Board. Board of Directors 4.3 Independent directors, Of the 12 members of the Board of Directors, 11 are independent. Fully including presiding director Board of Directors 4.4 Contacting the Board of Corporate Governance Guidelines Fully Directors 4.5 Compensation and Corporate Governance Guidelines Fully performance alignment 2015 Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement 4.6 Avoiding conflicts of interest Code of Ethics and Business Conduct for Members of the Board of Fully Directors 4.7 Determining qualifications and Corporate Governance Guidelines Fully expertise of directors 4.8 Vision and values, code of Values Fully 6 conduct and principles Code of Business Conduct 4.9 Procedures for overseeing Page 6 About Eastman Fully all sustainability performance Corporate Governance 4.10 Process for evaluating Corporate Governance Guidelines Fully the Board of Directors’ performance 4.11 Precautionary principle Page 43 Appendix Fully 7  35 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) UNGC Report line Content Where is it? Reported Principle 4.12 External standards Responsible Care® Fully all Product Safety Advocacy 4.13 Associations and memberships Advocacy Fully all 4.14 Key stakeholders Page 31 About this report Fully 4.15 Stakeholder identification Page 31 About this report Fully 4.16 Stakeholder engagement Page 31 About this report Fully approach and frequency 4.17 Learnings from stakeholder Page 31 About this report Fully engagement UNGC Disclosure on Management Report EC Where is it? Reported Principle Economic performance Page 6 About Eastman Fully 1, 4, 6, 7 Aspects Market presence Page 6 About Eastman Fully Indirect economic impacts Page 6 About Eastman Fully UNGC Report line Content Where is it? Reported Principle EC1 Economic value generated and Eastman 2015 Form 10-K, Part II, Item 8 Fully distributed EC2 Financial implications due to Page 43 Appendix Fully 7 climate change EC3 Coverage of defined benefit Eastman 2015 Form 10-K, Part II, Item 8 Fully plan obligations Note 11 — Retirement plans Benefits at Eastman EC4 Significant financial assistance None Fully from government EC5 Range of wage ratios — — EC6 Spending on locally based Page 43 Appendix Partially suppliers EC7 Procedures for local hiring Page 43 Appendix Fully 6 EC8 Commercial, in-kind, pro bono Page 29 Beyond philanthropy Fully engagement EC9 Indirect economic impacts — — 36  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com UNGC Disclosure on Management Report EN Where Is it? Reported Principle Materials Page 44 Appendix Fully Energy Page 20 Energy efficiency Fully Water Page 22 Water Fully Biodiversity Page 45 Appendix Fully Emissions, effluents and waste Page 20 Environment Fully Aspects Products and services Page 25 Life cycle assessments Fully Compliance Responsible Care ® Fully Product Safety Advocacy Transport Supply chain management Fully Overall Page 20 Environment Fully 7, 8, 9 UNGC Report line Content Where is it? Reported Principle EN1 Materials used Page 44 Appendix Partially 8 EN2 Recycled input materials Page 44 Appendix Partially 8, 9 EN3 Energy use by source Page 44 Appendix Fully 8 EN4 Indirect energy use by source Page 44 Appendix Fully 8 EN5 Energy conservation and Page 20 Energy Fully 8, 9 efficiency improvements EN6 Initiatives related to Page 20 Energy Fully 8, 9 renewable energy Page 22 Reducing our impact EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect Page 22 Reducing our impact Fully 8, 9 energy use Due to Eastman’s extensive use of combined heat and power, indirect energy consumption is a small part of our energy requirements. We continue to look for ways to reduce our indirect energy demand and replace it with highly efficient combined heat and power. EN8 Total water withdrawal by Page 44 Appendix Fully 8 source EN9 Water sources significantly Page 45 Appendix Fully 8 affected EN10 Water recycled and reused Page 45 Appendix Partially 8, 9  37 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) UNGC Report line Content Where is it? Reported Principle EN11 Land in/adjacent to protected Page 45 Appendix Partially 8 areas EN12 Biodiversity impacts Page 45 Appendix Fully 8 EN13 Habitats protected or restored Page 45 Appendix Fully 8 EN14 Strategies/plans related to Page 46 Appendix Partially 8 biodiversity EN15 IUCN red list species in — — affected areas EN16 Direct and indirect GHG Page 46 Appendix Fully 8 emissions Page 22 Reducing our impact EN17 Scope 3 GHG emissions Page 47 Appendix Partially 8 EN18 Initiatives to reduce GHG Page 22 Reducing our impact Fully 7, 8, 9 emissions EN19 Ozone depleting substances Page 47 Appendix Partially 8 EN20 NOx , SOx and other air Page 22 Reducing our impact Fully 8 emissions EN21 Water discharge Page 47 Appendix Partially 8 EN22 Weight of waste Waste management Partially 8 EN23 Significant spills Page 47 Appendix Fully 8 EN24 Hazardous waste Page 47 Appendix Fully 8 EN25 Biodiversity value of water — — bodies and related habitats EN26 Initiatives to mitigate Page 20 Environmental Fully 7, 8, 9 environmental impacts Product Safety EN27 Products and packaging Supply chain management Fully 8, 9 materials reclaimed EN28 Significant fines and sanctions Page 47 Appendix Fully 8 EN29 Transportation impacts Transportation safety Partially 8 Page 25 Supply chain EN30 Environmental protection Page 47 Appendix Fully 7, 8, 9 expenditures 38  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com UNGC Disclosure on Management Approach LA Where is it? Reported Principle Employment Careers at Eastman Fully Labor/management relations Corporate governance Fully Employee engagement Occupational health and Page 14 Safety Fully safety Employee engagement Aspects Training and education Employee engagement Fully Diversity and equal Employee engagement Fully opportunity Equal remuneration for Employee engagement Fully 1, 3, 6 women and men UNGC Report line Content Where is it? Reported Principle LA1 Workforce by employment Page 47 Appendix Partially 6 type LA2 Employee hiring and turnover Page 48 Appendix Fully 6 LA3 Benefits to full time Benefits at Eastman Partially employees LA4 Collective bargaining Collective bargaining agreements cover 9.4% of Eastman’s global Fully 1, 3 workforce. LA5 Minimum notice periods for Page 48 Appendix Fully 3 operational changes LA6 Joint management/worker Page 14 Safety Partially 1 health and safety committees Process safety LA7 Rates of injury and work Page 14 Safety Partially 1 related fatalities LA8 Global health and wellness Employee engagement Fully 1 programs LA9 Health and safety topics for — — trade union LA10 Employee training Page 48 Appendix Partially LA11 Programs for skills Page 28 Beyond philanthropy Partially management and lifelong learning LA12 Performance and career Careers at Eastman Partially development reviews LA13 Diversity and inclusion Page 48 Appendix Fully 1, 6 LA14 Equal remuneration — —  39 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) UNGC Disclosure on Management Approach HR Where is it? Reported Principle Investment and procurement Corporate governance and code of business conduct Fully 1, 2 practices Nondiscrimination Corporate governance and code of business conduct Fully 6 Freedom of association and Corporate governance and code of business conduct Fully 3 collective bargaining Child labor Corporate governance and code of business conduct Fully 5 Aspects Prevention of forces and Corporate governance and code of business conduct Fully 4 compulsory labor Security practices Corporate governance and code of business conduct Fully 1, 2 Indigenous rights Corporate governance and code of business conduct Fully 1, 6 Assessment Corporate governance and code of business conduct Fully 1, 2 Remediation Corporate governance and code of business conduct Fully 1, 2, 6 UNGC Report line Content Where is it? Reported Principle Investments/contracts Page 48 Appendix Partially 1, 2, 3, 4, HR1 incorporating human rights 5, 6 screening Screening of suppliers and Page 6 About Eastman Partially 1, 2, 3, 4, HR2 contractors 5, 6 Employee training Code of business conduct Partially 1, 2, 3, 4, HR3 5, 6 HR4 Incidents of discrimination — — Right to exercise freedom of Page 48 Appendix Fully 1, 2, 3 HR5 association HR6 Incidents of child labor Code of business conduct Fully 1, 2, 5 HR7 Risk of incidents of forced labor Code of business conduct Fully 1, 2, 4 HR8 Security training Security Partially 1, 2 Violations involving right of — — HR9 indigenous people Operations subject to human — — HR10 rights assessments HR11 Grievances and resolution — — UNGC Disclosure on Management Report SO Where is it? Reported Principle Local communities Page 28 Beyond philanthropy Fully Corruption Corporate governance Fully Public policy Responsible Care ® Fully Aspects Advocacy Anticompetitive behavior Corporate governance Fully Compliance Corporate governance Fully 10 40  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com UNGC Report line Content Where is it? Reported Principle SO1 Community engagement and Page 28 Beyond philanthropy Fully development SO2 Risk assessment for corruption Eastman conducts an annual risk assessment of 100% of our Fully 10 businesses, which includes risks relating to corruption. SO3 Anticorruption training Code of business conduct Fully 10 SO4 Anticorruption actions Where any incident of corruption was identified, appropriate Fully 10 disciplinary action was taken in conformance with applicable laws. SO5 Public policy position Page 49 Appendix Fully SO6 Value of contributions to Page 50 Appendix Fully 10 political parties SO7 Legal actions for — — anticompetitive behavior SO8 Fines and sanctions for Taminco Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Eastman, paid a $1.3 Fully noncompliance million penalty for alleged activity that occurred in 2010, prior to the Eastman acquisition in December 2014. Eastman is unaware of any other significant fines in 2015 relating to noncompliance with laws and regulations. UNGC Disclosure on Management Report PR Where is it? Reported Principle Customer health and safety Product Safety Fully Product and service labeling Product Safety Fully Aspects Marketing communications Page 49 Appendix Fully Customer privacy Code of business conduct Fully Compliance Code of business conduct Fully UNGC Report line Content Where is it? Reported Principle PR1 Life cycle assessment of Page 25 Life cycle assessment Fully health and safety PR2 Noncompliance with Product Safety Partially regulations and codes during life cycle PR3 Product and service Product Safety Fully 8 information per procedures PR4 Incidents of labeling Page 48 Appendix Partially 8 noncompliance  41 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) UNGC Report line Content Where is it? Reported Principle PR5 Customer satisfaction Page 48 Appendix Partially PR6 Marketing and adherence to Page 48 Appendix Fully laws and standards PR7 Incidents of noncompliance Eastman is unaware of any significant fines in 2015 concerning Fully with marketing related marketing communications. regulations PR8 Customer privacy We are not aware of any complaints regarding breaches of customer Fully privacy or loss of customer data in 2015. PR9 Noncompliance with Eastman is unaware of any significant fines in 2015 concerning the Fully regulations for use of products provision and use of our products and services. 42  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Global Reporting Initiative appendix 411 Precautionary Principle Eastman complies with current regulation of GHG emissions in those The core elements of the precautionary principle are reflected in countries where GHGs are regulated with minimal financial impact. our fundamental business processes. Eastman believes we have a Proposed legislation and regulations are evaluated and the impact responsibility to conduct our business activities in a manner that is on Eastman is estimated. We engage policymakers directly and protective of health and the environment. Corporate Guiding Documents through trade associations with the objective that any climate change such as our Code of Business Conduct and our Responsible Care® Pledge legislation or regulation enacted will not have an adverse impact on reflect our commitment to that belief. Those documents and supporting the economy or create a competitive disadvantage. policies and procedures address our approach to the application of risk identification, assessment and management principles to our activities EC6 Spending on locally based suppliers which is fundamental to application of the precautionary principle. As a Eastman’s policy is to purchase products and services based on total member of the American Chemistry Council, we were one of the early value for the company. Factors that Eastman considers when making adopters of the Responsible Care® Code of Management Practices and we purchasing decisions include competitive pricing, quality of work and are signatories to the Responsible Care Global Charter. We continuously materials, timely performance and commitment to sustainability. assess and evaluate our operations and products and implement plans Procurement strategies are continuously being developed and to reduce risk and impact on human health and the environment. We are implemented to provide appropriate assurances of sources for important committed to continuous improvement of the safety and performance goods and services necessary to the company’s operations. Procurement of our operations and products. strategies may include the development of a local supply base to ensure timely and reliable delivery. EC2 Financial implications due to climate change Eastman is exposed to regulatory risks. We are a chemical manufacturing company and, as such, are an energy-intensive company with substantial EC7 Procedures for local hiring carbon emissions. Relatively speaking, Eastman is no more at risk from Given the large geographic footprint Eastman has within the U.S. climate change regulation than other energy-intensive industries. and globally, recruiting and hiring strategies are typically focused Regulatory constraints on carbon emissions can impact the development on targeting talent at the local, regional, national and international of new processes and facilities for Eastman, as well as our customers levels. Although a majority of hiring is done at the local level, we as a and suppliers. company do relocate well over 100 new hires each year to an Eastman facility to begin their employment with the organization. Emission standards or uncertainty about future standards may delay investments by our customers and, as a result, impact our future Eastman uses a number of different approaches for identifying talent business opportunities. The direct impact of controlling CO2 emissions for the organization. Some of the more effective methods are social from electric power generation may impact the cost of electric power media, employee referrals, career fairs, visitors to Eastman.com, and supplied to Eastman, our customers and suppliers. Climate change may job postings. The company then puts the candidates through a rigorous represent opportunities for Eastman with regard to the development selection process to assess their level of capability and alignment with and use of materials that enable or enhance efforts to mitigate or the organizational vision and culture. adapt to the effects of climate change. For example, use of window films to enhance energy efficiency, use of interlayers in window glass to provide strength for storm resistance, and development of coatings for extreme exposures represent potential opportunities. The company has diversified product offerings and serves broad markets and regions and tries to mitigate our exposure to swings in energy and raw material prices. These diversified product offerings and diversified customer base mitigate Eastman’s potential commercial impact.  43 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Global Reporting Initiative appendix (continued) EN1 Materials used EN3 Energy use by source Eastman is an integrated manufacturing company, purchasing basic Eastman used about 87 trillion Btu (92 million gigajoules) in 2015 to feedstocks to feed three primary streams: olefins, polyesters and produce products. About 60% of this direct energy was produced from acetyls. Basic raw materials include ethane/propane for the olefin purchased natural gas and coal, and about 24% was recovered fuel stream, paraxylene for polyesters, and coal as a major building block for from feedstock. Eastman now meets essentially all steam and more acetyls. These building block materials are processed through various than 90% of our global electricity needs with cogeneration, which downstream processes to yield products that are sold as finished goods. uses up to 40% less fuel, produces significantly less emissions and therefore has less impact on air quality. As a result, our direct energy In 2015, major raw materials purchased, including feedstocks and consumption is 72% of our total energy consumption. materials consumed as fuel, were nearly 54.8 million tons. Eastman is beginning to implement and, in the future, will look to use fuel sources with lower emissions. At our Kingsport, Tennessee, facility, we have EN4 Indirect energy use by source begun converting a powerhouse that provides approximately 50% of In 2015, Eastman used about 25 trillion Btu (26 million gigajoules) the steam and electricity for site manufacturing from coal to natural of indirect energy, in the form of purchased steam and electricity to gas combustion. In 2015, we also converted a coal-fired boiler to produce our products. natural gas at our Indian Orchard facility in Springfield, Massachusetts. Our corporate energy budget for energy improvement projects, including capital and expense, was $11.4 million in 2015. Over the last five years, EN2 Recycled input materials Eastman has dedicated more than $50 million to energy efficiency Eastman manufactures a large number of products, most of which are projects with the realization that these projects are low risk and reduce sold as feedstocks for our downstream customers. With integrated energy costs, all while improving our environmental footprint. manufacturing streams, internal recycling of off-class materials and • Since 2005, Eastman has participated in the European Union’s developing value-up opportunities for coproduct streams are critical Emission Trading System (ETS), buying and selling emissions credits. to minimizing waste and maximizing value creation. Opportunities to As a result, Eastman has implemented many successful energy purchase raw materials with recycled content are limited and currently efficiency projects that have helped reduce our energy use and represent a relatively small percentage of total purchases. Examples of overall emissions. the use of recycled material include: • In addition to manufacturing initiatives, our employees have • Recycled acid: Eastman purchases recycled acid for use as an internal spearheaded a number of local energy-saving initiatives as well, such feedstock or for resale as a feedstock to other manufacturers. as installing more efficient lighting in office buildings. • Recycled Saflex®: Eastman assets associated with Saflex production • Eastman has achieved about a nine percent improvement in energy recover waste Saflex sheets in the U.S. and European regions through intensity since the baseline year of 2008. In 2015, Eastman expects a toll agreement with Soca. that more than $25 million would have been spent on energy if • Catalyst recycling program: When possible, Eastman replaces energy intensity had not changed since 2008 at current energy spent catalysts with fresh catalysts, both of which contain varying prices and production levels. (Energy intensity = MMBtu/1000 kg amounts of precious metals. As the spent catalyst becomes available, production) the material is sent to catalyst refiners who extract the precious metals from the spent material for reuse in the production of fresh catalysts. This recycling program helps reduce the amount of EN8 Total water withdrawal by source precious metals mined to satisfy global demand. For Eastman facilities, the majority of water for manufacturing use • Other purchased materials made with recycled materials include consists of withdrawals from adjacent surface waters. Purchases of drums (steel, plastic, and fiber), bulk boxes, plastic liners and plastic water from utilities, third parties and groundwater withdrawal account and steel pails. In addition to purchasing feedstocks with recycled for a less significant portion of total use. An estimated 647 million content, our Special Materials Team oversees the sale of Eastman’s cubic meters of water was withdrawn, purchased or pumped in 2015, waste streams to manufacturers who recover and convert these and greater than 90% of that water is returned to the source. The materials into useful products. primary use of the water is for noncontact cooling. 44  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com EN9 Water sources significantly affected EN13 Habitats protected or restored Eastman’s withdrawals do not significantly affect any water source. For more than 90 years, Eastman women and men have served our Comprehensive river studies conducted by the Academy of Natural local communities. As part of that service, we enhanced, protected, Sciences at our largest manufacturing facilities in Kingsport, Tennessee, promoted, and restored wildlife habitats on our plant properties and and Longview, Texas, confirm the continued and improving health of in our communities. Listed in the following are some of our naturesurface waters in the vicinity of our two largest operations. In 2014, we related activities: made an initial assessment of which sites are in high-risk water-stressed • Eastman’s Texas Operations facility continues to maintain areas or are expected to be in water-stressed areas in the next 10 years. Conservation Certification through the Wildlife Habitat Council. In 2015, a cross-functional team surveyed eight of our manufacturing Texas Operations’ longstanding environmental education program sites considered to be in potentially water-stressed areas based on the provides site-based outdoor learning opportunities to numerous results. Of the eight sites, we identified no significant gaps, with each site groups throughout Gregg and Harrison counties and beyond. reporting either no scarcity, limited water use, or plans currently in place At around 100 acres in size, the nature center offers a nature to reduce water use. trail, several outdoor classrooms, a demonstration forest, stream, observation beehive, and an amphitheater. Read on for more EN10 Water recycled and reuse information on these features. Eastman recycles/reuses approximately 710 million cubic meters of • Our Demonstration Forest is recognized at both the state and national water per year. level. Eastman has “Tree Farm” status from the American Tree Farm System and is a Certified Forest Steward by the Texas A&M Forest EN11 Land in/adjacent to protected areas Service. The demonstration forest is managed under the Stewardship As part of Eastman’s risk assessment and evaluation process for new Forest Management Plan developed by Texas A&M Forest Service. facilities, consideration is given to the potential impacts to the existence Forest Awareness Tours (FATs) are workshops held throughout the of local and regional sensitivities such as wetlands and wildlife habitat. nature center. Visitors can spend anywhere from 2–6 hours rotating through different stations where they learn about a wide variety of Examples of Eastman’s sponsorships of local ecosystems include: environmental education topics from experts in the fields representing • Balok River Adoption Program, Kuantan, Malaysia the following partner organizations: Texas A&M Forest Service, • Our facility at Newport, South Wales, leases Gwent Wildlife Trust 31 Natural Resource Conservation Services, Texas Parks and Wildlife hectares of fields to manage as a Nature Reserve, known as Great Department, East Texas Beekeepers Association, Northeast Texas Field Traston Meadows. Ornithologists (NETFO), and Eastman employees. • Eastman Foundation supports The Nature Conservancy. The funds • We work with Texas A&M Forest Service to host the annual Project that Eastman Foundation has donated help fund The Nature Learning Tree® (PLT) Walk in the Forest for educators (both in-service Conservancy’s acquisition of a preserve in Shady Valley, Tennessee, and preservice). PLT is an award-winning environmental education which supports at least 26 rare plants and animals. curriculum for educators of students pre-K through eighth grade. • Texas Operations continues support of birding efforts at our facility EN12 Biodiversity impacts and nature center. Bird counts occur throughout the year across Eastman is not aware of any significant impacts on biodiversity in our entire 6,000 acre site, not just at our Nature Center area. For 2015. Since the 1960s, Eastman has partnered with the Academy the local birding organization, Northeast Texas Field Ornithologists, of Natural Sciences to study the rivers upstream and downstream there are 2–3 counts during the year. Approximately 10 birders visit of our major United States manufacturing sites to ensure that our the property and count a variety of species (ranging from 16 to 65 operations are not negatively impacting the environment. Two of the different species). Each December, our facility is host to the city most extensive of these river studies are focused around the Kingsport, Christmas Bird Count where Eastman’s property represents about Tennessee, and Longview, Texas, sites. The studies conducted in 2010 15% of the area covered and over 90% of the species tallied in the again confirmed in both cases that our operations do not adversely city count. More than 100 species are usually identified each year. impact these water bodies. The Academy conducted a Sabine River Additionally, an Eastman employee (and Scout leader) leads the study in 2015 and is scheduled to complete a Holston River study nesting box management program along with his troop. Most of the in 2018. boxes were built in 1999 by scouts. The troop cleans and repairs the  45 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Global Reporting Initiative appendix (continued) boxes around the nature center and the plant site twice a year. There totaled costs of nearly $900,000. The Academy plans to conduct the are currently around 35 boxes for both wood ducks and blue birds. next Holston River study in 2018. • We continue to manage and maintain data on the deer population • Our Kuantan, Malaysia, facility supports and participates in the Balok in the habitat area through techniques such as planting food plots River Adoption Program and conducted the BRAP RIDE 2016 with and conducting deer surveys every other year. We work with the the theme “Ride With Us, Care for the Environment.” The objectives Texas Parks and Wildlife Department to analyze the data. Our most were to promote the Balok River and the surrounding environment. recent survey was conducted in 2014 and the next survey is planned • Sustrans, a movement to enable people to choose healthier, cleaner for August 2016. Population has dropped over the past two surveys, and cheaper journeys, was granted permission to build a safe, trafficwhich is desired as prior surveys showed an overabundance of deer. free part of National Cycle Route 4 on our Newport, South Wales, • One of the unique features for our nature center is the Honeybee facility fields. Observation Hive, which offers visitors an opportunity to watch bees • We are a corporate member of Gwent Wildlife Trust, and 31 hectares in their natural habitat. The hive is maintained by the East Texas of fields from our Newport facility are managed as a nature reserve. Beekeepers Association. One of the U.K.’s rarest bumblebee species, the shrill carder-bee, has • The Eastman Foundation has been a partner to The Nature its main British stronghold in the Gwent Levels, including the reserve Conservancy since 1991 and, over the years, has donated more located at our Newport facility. than $300,000. These funds have helped preserve Shady Valley, a rare high-elevation remnant of the last Ice Age, located in Johnson County in the northeastern corner of Tennessee, just outside EN14 Strategies/plans related to biodiversity As a responsible local neighbor and a global company committed to Cherokee National Forest. Shady Valley has long been recognized sustainability, Eastman is committed to conserve and protect natural as one of the Southern Appalachians’ most ecologically important resources. We will continue to work through partnerships with groups areas. The valley was once covered with a network of sphagnum/ such as The Nature Conservancy, Gwent Wildlife Trust, Academy of cranberry peat bogs and white pine/hemlock forests, which Natural Sciences, Wildlife Habitat Council, World Business Council for supported a rich community of plant and animal life. To protect the Sustainable Development, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution and wetland plants and animals from extinction, The Nature Conservancy other groups that share our drive and commitment to preserve and purchased its first nature preserve in Shady Valley in 1979. Today protect natural resources. the Conservancy owns four preserves and 705 total acres in Shady Valley, including 469 acres of mountain land and approximately 236 acres on the valley floor. EN16 Direct and indirect GHG emissions • For more than 45 years, Eastman has demonstrated a continuing Direct greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) are from sources controlled concern for the health of aquatic life in the rivers near its and operated by Eastman. Indirect GHG emissions result from manufacturing sites through its sponsorship of environmental Eastman’s purchase of energy generated by facilities owned by studies conducted by The Academy of Natural Sciences. The studies another company. We measure our emissions based on the protocol document water quality and quantify the health and diversity recommended by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change of populations of plants, insects, aquatic invertebrates and fish (IPCC) and the American Chemistry Council Responsible Care® within selected zones of the rivers. Academy researchers compare guidelines. We are also measuring GHG emissions in accordance the results for each zone to those of the other zones to gauge the with the EPA Mandatory Reporting Rule (MRR), which is a different impact a variety of stressors may have on ecosystem “health” and methodology from the IPCC/ACC methodology. Our 2015 direct compare the results of the current studies to previous Academy greenhouse gas emissions using the IPCC methodology were studies to understand changes over time. Eastman sponsored the approximately 6 million metric tons. Not all sites measure GHG, but Academy’s initial studies of the Holston River at its Kingsport site in based on energy usage, this number represents more than 90% of our 1965 and of the Sabine River at its Longview site in 1982. Additional global emissions. Eastman has a sustainability goal to reduce GHG studies were conducted on the Holston River in 1974, 1977, 1980, intensity by 20% by 2020. 1990, 1997 and 2010 and on the Sabine River in 1987, 1995, 2000, 2005, 2010 and 2015. The studies conducted on both rivers in 2010 46  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com EN17 Scope 3 GHG emissions EN28 Significant fines and sanctions The relevant other indirect GHG emissions are those avoided by Eastman uses an internal reporting mechanism to ensure that all fines the use of Eastman products. A 2009 study, commissioned by the and penalties associated with noncompliance with environmental laws International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA), showed that for and regulations are captured in one place. This system applies globally every one pound of CO2 emitted in producing chemicals and plastics, and includes all fines and penalties of any size. For 2015, the company two to three pounds of emissions are reduced by using consumer is not aware of any nonmonetary sanctions that should be reported. products made from those chemicals or plastics. The company paid $89,518 in 2015 for fines and penalties, which does not include amounts paid for supplemental environmental projects. EN19 Ozone depleting substances (ODS) The company spent $57,894 in supplemental environmental projects Eastman has a written policy that requires all Eastman facilities, in 2015. These expenditures may have included projects for pollution subsidiaries and majority-owned joint ventures that operate equipment prevention, support of local emergency response providers, education containing ozone depleting substances to develop and maintain an activities and similar projects that could benefit public welfare and the inventory of all ODS equipment including an identification of the environment. equipment and type and quantity of refrigerant. EN30 Environmental protection expenditures EN21 Water discharge Environmental expenditures in 2015, including construction, operating, Eastman discharges process wastewater in accordance with applicable development and mandated remediation, was $297 million. permits, licenses and agreements. The wastewater is either treated in Eastman-owned treatment facilities and discharged directly to surface waters or it is treated in Eastman-owned pretreatment facilities and LA1 Workforce by employment type is conveyed to third-party providers (utilities, municipalities, etc.) for Total Employment Employment additional treatment and/or discharge or it is conveyed directly to workforce type contract Region third-party providers (utilities, municipalities, etc.) for treatment and/ 14,939 or discharge. employees Permanent Full-time: 97.9% NA: 74% as of Dec. 31, contract: 95.7% 2015 EN23 Significant spills Temporary EMEA: Part-time: 2.1% In 2015, we had 49 reportable release events, a decrease of 20% contract: 4.3% 15% compared to our baseline of 61. See www.eastman.com/sustainability AP: 8% for detailed charts. LAR: 3% EN24 Hazardous waste 2015 hazardous waste indexed to production was 0.0083 kg waste/kg production.  47 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Global Reporting Initiative appendix (continued) LA2 Employee hiring/turnover HR1 Investments/contracts incorporating human rights screening Attrition by Attrition by age Attrition by region Eastman has an established process within our Corporate Development gender organization that prescreens potential mergers and acquisitions Male: 8% Less than 30 years: 8.5% NA: 6.5% against criteria with respect to all three dimensions of sustainability Female: 7.2% 30 –50 years: 6.0% EMEA: 13.2% — economic, environmental and societal. Eastman is committed Greater than 50 years: to conducting business activities in accordance with the highest AP: 9.8% 10.1% legal and ethical standards. To that end, Eastman’s Code of Business LAR: 6.3% Conduct includes provisions against child labor, forced labor, fraud, and discrimination, among others. These same expectations are assessed as Hires by gender Hires by age Hires by region part of Eastman’s due diligence process on any potential investment. Male: 7.4% Less than 30 years: 30.4% NA: 7.1% Female: 8.3% 30 –50 years: 7.0% EMEA: 5.9% HR5 Right to exercise freedom of association Greater than AP: 14.4% Eastman complies with all laws designed to preserve the right to exercise 50 years: 0.9% freedom of association and collective bargaining. Eastman has not LAR: 8.9% identified any operation at which those rights are at significant risk. LA5 Minimum notice periods for operational changes PR4 Incidents of labeling noncompliance In the event of operational changes that involve a change in staffing All of our product safety data sheets and labeling comply with levels or otherwise affects employment, the Company engages in regulatory requirements for hazard communication. We are in significant planning to ensure affected employees are treated with the process of implementing the Globally Harmonized System the utmost respect and dignity. Labor, as well as employment law for Classification and Labeling (GHS) to define, classify and requirements, including but not limited to reasonable employee notice communicate chemical hazard and safety information. We have of job loss, and requirements under collective bargaining agreements transitioned all products required to be transitioned to GHS are carefully assessed in every global location. for countries that have implemented these standards and are transitioning many of our materials that have later required implementation dates. In addition, we continue to prepare annual LA10 Employee training implementation schedules to meet forthcoming requirements. Employee category Average training hours Professional and management 23 PR5 Customer satisfaction Nonexempt (nonoperations) 15 Customer satisfaction is a core principle to Eastman’s quality processes. Nonexempt (operations) 43 We strive to meet all customer requirements with Eastman’s products and Technicians/technologists 26 services. We get feedback from customers through a variety of sources, Average for all categories 27 including customer service representatives located within the customer’s respective region, customer visits and audits, customer complaints, etc. Eastman has a customer complaint handling system that ensures LA13 Diversity and inclusion proper investigation of all complaints using skilled investigators. Where required by customers, Eastman processes meet or exceed certification Gender Age Ethnicity requirements from external registrars, including ISO 9001. Male: 75.1% Less than 30 years: 12.2% Minority: 12% Female: 24.9% 30 –50 years: 51.4% White: 88% Greater than 50 years: 36.4% 48  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com PR6 Marketing and adherence to laws and standards all aspects of our business, from forecasting to product pricing to Marketing materials in all formats originate in the business project financial evaluations. Eastman supports domestic energy organizations and are reviewed by attorneys and experts in Global policies that foster a diverse and inexpensive supply of energy Product Stewardship and Regulatory Affairs within Eastman’s Law generated from a broad spectrum of domestic sources, as well as Department. The team carefully reviews the content of the marketing expanded energy research, development and deployment. Such materials to ensure compliance with applicable advertising laws and policies should incent energy efficiency including the cogeneration regulations as well as Eastman’s Code of Conduct. When necessary, of steam and electricity (also known as Combined Heat and Power, reviewers seek input from fellow Eastman experts or third-party or CHP), which Eastman has practiced for more than 80 years. consultants. Eastman has been an ENERGY STAR® Partner since 2008 and has been named ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year five consecutive years, achieving Sustained Excellence in 2014, 2015 and 2016. In SO5 Public policy position addition, we partner with the Department of Energy through the In light of Eastman’s significant domestic presence, U.S. public policy is Better Buildings, Better Plants Program and have committed to a a factor in the company’s continued competitiveness. Eastman’s team 20% reduction in energy intensity by 2020 from a 2008 baseline. of public affairs professionals and technical experts provides insights • Chemical management/Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) — and knowledge to public officials on the impact certain laws and Eastman supports improvements to regulations governing chemicals regulations may have on Eastman’s future and the company’s ability to and products to promote enhanced protection of human health sustain and create jobs. The following areas were identified as issues of and the environment. The Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical Safety importance to Eastman: for the 21st Century Act is an important step forward in • Taxes — The U.S. has the highest corporate tax rate in the world. strengthening our nation’s chemical control laws in a way that Eastman supports comprehensive tax reform that lowers this tax protects American families and the environment and restores rate to a level that helps ensure U.S. competitiveness. confidence in the safety, innovation and leadership of American chemical companies like Eastman. • Trade — As one of the country’s largest exporters, Eastman supports open access to markets for trade and investment, while ensuring Eastman works with several trade associations engaged in lobbying our domestic markets are not subjected to unfair trade practices. efforts. Eastman also employs internal lobbyists and contract lobbyists In addition, Eastman opposes trade barriers, which include tariff at both the state and federal levels to interact with public officials on barriers, nontariff barriers, investment restrictions or other methods these important issues. Those individuals spend most of their time of protectionism. educating members of state and federal legislatures and their staffs on the potential impact that public policy decisions could have on • Environmental regulations — Eastman supports sound scienceEastman’s businesses. Eastman complies with all requirements for based regulations that balance environmental protection with reporting lobbying activity with the federal government and with domestic economic growth and the preservation of good, domestic state governments in states where required. The quarterly reports manufacturing jobs. In particular, Eastman supports a climate filed with the federal government are available online at change policy that does not diminish the global competitiveness of http://lobbyingdisclosure.house.gov/. In 2015, Eastman reported to the U.S. manufacturers. Internal Revenue Service that the company spent $2,052,267 on state • Energy policy — Energy and energy feedstocks are critical to and federal lobbying activities in the United States. Eastman’s operations and that of the entire chemical industry. Energy prices have been extremely volatile. This volatility impacts  49 Eastman Sustainability Report 2016: Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Global Reporting Initiative appendix (continued) SO6 Value of contributions to political parties Eligible U.S. employees may contribute voluntarily to EastmanPAC, the Political Action Committee of Eastman Chemical Company. The Advisory Council of EastmanPAC approves an annual budget proposed by the company’s director of government relations. The Advisory Council meets annually and is made up of employees from U.S. sites, as well as at-large company representatives. EastmanPAC supports candidates who: • Support business friendly laws and regulations, • Represent a state/district where an Eastman facility is located, • Are members of key committees, or • Hold a leadership position within Congress or a state legislature. In 2015, EastmanPAC contributed $213,500.00 to state and federal candidates in the U.S. No political contributions are made to entities outside the U.S. Eastman works with an outside vendor to file all reports and to make sure all contributions comply with state and federal campaign finance regulations. All of EastmanPAC’s Federal Election Commission (FEC) filings are available online at www.fec. gov. State disclosure reports are also available by visiting the state campaign finance websites in Alabama, California, Massachusetts, Tennessee and Texas. In states where the law allows corporate contributions, Eastman supports state candidates. Corporate contributions to state candidates in Louisiana, Tennessee and Virginia totaled $32,250 in 2015. The federal government requires all registered lobbyists to report personal campaign contributions semiannually. Each year, Eastman employees who meet the requirements file the necessary reports. These reports are available online at http://lobbyingdisclosure.house.gov/. 50  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com  51 Sustainability Report 2016 Leadership. Innovation. Impact. ““ Eastman © 2016 Eastman. Eastman brands referenced herein are trademarks Corporate Headquarters of Eastman or one of its subsidiaries or are being used under license. P.O. Box 431 The ® symbol denotes registered trademark status in the U.S.; Kingsport, TN 37662-5280 U.S.A. marks may also be registered internationally. Non-Eastman brands referenced herein are trademarks of their respective owners. U.S.A. and Canada, 800-EASTMAN (800-327-8626) Other Locations, +(1) 423-229-2000 www.eastman.com/locations EMN-CC-390 7/16
