COP for SHWE NAN TAW(Golden Palace Gold and Jewellery) The Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool is used to assess situation of the SHWE NAN TAW in relation with the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. Findings below are supported by both written and unwritten policies that need further improvement. SNT set a Goal – A local company with happy, healthy and safety working environment in compliance with the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Annual review is planned to monitor the progress of the company towards UNGC principles. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. We provided safe and healthy working conditions through some health and safety procedures in place. Fire extinguishers are readily available; Workplace maintained to ensure clean and comfortable conditions including a suitable temperature, ventilation ,lighting, and sanitation areas; and also safe drinking water provided; Workers are allowed 8 working hours per day, 24 consecutive hours of rest in every seven day period. The company has a policy to provide workers with a living wage sufficient to meet basic food, clothing and housing needs and provide some discretionary income for themselves and their dependents. The calculates a living wage based on the cost of living in its area of operation and also receive overtime compensation. The company pays wages at regular intervals. Sales Incentive payment systems are provided daily. Workers are entitled to paid sick leave. Female workers are entitled to no less than fourteen weeks of paid maternity leave per child. The company grants compassionate or parental leave to workers and also contribute some cash for cost of labour (maternity). Since our company follow the human rights and fulfill their benefits, turnover rate is very low. The company protected workers from workplace harassment including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse, or threats. Workers are made aware of all workplace monitoring, with cameras. The company respected the privacy of its employees whenever it gathers private information. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The company ensured that it does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour. Workers can give notice and leave employment within one month. This is clearly communicated to workers prior to starting employment. The company does not withhold wages or bonuses and pays them in a timely and regular manner. Workers are able to earn a living wage sufficient to meet the basic needs of themselves and their closest dependents. Overtime work is paid, voluntary and not compelled through threat of pay deductions, termination or other sanctions. The company does not retain identity cards or other personal items without which workers cannot leave employment. All workers are allowed to leave company premises at the end of their shifts. Loans or salary advancements to workers are based on fair terms that are clearly explained to the worker. The company does not employ workers under 15 years of age for full-time work. The company is aware of local age-levels for completion of compulsory education and does not employ workers under that age for work that may interfere with such education. Company apprenticeship programmes do not constitute the main portion of the workforce, are performed in conjunction with a school programme e.g. distant education and do not interfere with the child's compulsory education. Moreover we give English language training to staff. It is company policy to ensure that decisions concerning hiring, wages, promotion, training, discipline, retirement and termination are based only on unbiased criteria, and are not linked to any of the discriminatory characteristics listed in the description for this question. The company has written job description. The company ensures that employment advertisements do not reference discriminatory criteria, such as race, religion, gender or age. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We always consider to avoid environmental damage such as air pollution, waste disposal and sewage drainage. We complied with regulations issued by Yangon City Municipal Committee for the waste disposal. We consulted with neighbors on relevant environmental issues. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The company's Managing Director has declared that the company will not engage in corruption at any time or in any form. The company aware that anti-corruption commitment and practice all employees up to management.
