Coop Group Sustainability Report 2015 About the report Like its predecessors, this eleventh Coop Group in line with the three pillars of Coop’s sustainability Sustainability Report underscores the great imporstrategy: sustainable products & services, resource tance Coop attaches to sustainability in its corporate efficiency & climate protection and employees & strategy. In addition, it constitutes a review of the society. Current figures cited in the body of the text ­progress Coop made in achieving the Group’s multiusually refer to the 2015 financial year. year sustainability goals in the 2014–2020 period. Given the wide range of Coop’s achievements in The Coop Group Sustainability Report is based on terms of ecology, economics, social accountability the indicator list of the Global Reporting Initiative and society, it has not been possible to mention (GRI) and is also a “communication on progress” every single activity in the present report. Additional as proposed by the United Nations Global Compact information on Coop’s commitment to sustainability (UNGC). The Sustainability Report targets business can be found at: and cooperation partners, consumer organizations, www.coop.ch/sustainability authorities, NGOs, the media and the Group’s employees, but also customers and the general public. The Coop Group Sustainability Report is published every year together with the Annual Report. The copy Key sustainability figures are summarized at the deadline for Coop’s 2015 Sustainability Report was end of the report. The figures section is structured 19 February 2016. Coop own-label sustainability brands and quality labels Coop Naturaplan Switzerland’s largest organic brand stands for organic products produced in ­accordance with the stringent Bio Suisse bud label guidelines. Uncompromisingly organic, uncompromisingly tasty. Coop Naturafarm Swiss meat and eggs from farms with particularly animal-friendly access-to-range or free-range farming with barns designed to meet the animals’ needs, and healthy feeding. Coop Oecoplan Environmentally friendly products for home and garden, flowers and plants with the Bio Suisse bud logo, timber products with the FSC® label, products made from recycled materials, energy-efficient appliances, environmentally-friendly coating agents, as well as detergents, cleaning products and dry-cleaning – recommended by WWF. Coop Naturaline Textiles made from organically grown cotton and produced according to socially and environmentally responsible methods, and certified natural cosmetic products made in Switzerland. Pro Montagna Products produced and processed in the Swiss mountain areas – with a donation to Coop Aid for Mountain Regions. Ünique Fruit and vegetables which are perfect in terms of quality and sensory characteristics, but which do not meet retail standards owing to their appearance. For the quirks of nature and the use of the entire harvest. Pro Specie Rara Heirloom native crops and animal breeds that have almost sunk into obscurity. Slow Food Traditional, sustainably manufactured specialities for rediscovering the pleasures of real food. Fairtrade Max Havelaar The Fairtrade Max Havelaar quality seal stands for sustainably cultivated fair-trade products and thus boosts smallhold farming families and workers in developing ­countries and emerging markets. Bio bud Organic products with the bud logo, manufactured according to the rigorous Bio Suisse guidelines and processed with care. The bud logo stands for the same high standard for both domestic and imported products. MSC Fish and seafood from sustainable wild-catch – to protect the oceans and for sustainable enjoyment of fish. FSC Forest Stewardship Council® stands for timber and paper products from environmentally, socially and economically responsible forestry. Hochstamm Suisse Products with fruit from tall standard trees help sustain unique Swiss landscapes, native animals and orchard plants, and traditional varieties of fruit. Swiss Parks Regional products that are sustainably produced and processed in Swiss Parks of National Importance. They promote the regional economy as well as the parks’ natural and scenic assets. Topten Appliances with the lowest energy consumption, low environmental impact and good serviceability, hand-picked by Topten.ch. You can find more information on Coop own-label brands in the Coop Group Annual Report. Coop Group Sustainability Report 2015 Content 4 Foreword 22 Sustainable wholesale ranges 22 Transgourmet develops own-label sustainability brand 6 Strategy and context 22 WWF recommends Oecoplan 22 Outstanding animal welfare performance 6 Sustainability strategy 22 Animal protection at Transgourmet Germany 6 Sustainability firmly enshrined 22 Fully sustainable fresh and frozen fish 6 Focus on key areas 22 Sustainable fish range for Transgourmet 6 Pillar 1: Sustainable products and services 23 Miini Region – a platform for small-scale producers 6 Pillar 2: Resource efficiency and climate protection 6 Pillar 3: Employees and society 23 Focus on textiles 7 Coop Sustainability Fund 23 20 years of Naturaline 7 Strategic integration in wholesale and production 23 Biore Foundation projects 23 Joint initiatives to reduce chemicals 7 Stakeholder dialogue 23 Environmental and social standards for 7 Long-standing, reliable partnerships textile range 7 New strategic partnerships 7 Stakeholder forum on sustainability 24 Sustainable sourcing communication 24 Systematically evaluating critical raw materials 24 Transparency in the product chain 8 Political context 24 Major progress for sustainable palm oil 8 Commitment to a sustainable economic 24 Responsible soya cultivation framework 24 Revision of pesticide guidelines 8 Revising the Environmental Protection Act 25 Water standards and social standards in Spain 8 Energy and climate policy 25 Other projects 8 Sustainable objectives 25 Involving brand manufacturers 8 2014 to 2020 multi-year objectives 25 Reducing and optimizing packaging 9 Implementation status 30 Resource efficiency and 10 Implementation of multi-year climate protection sustainability targets 2014–2020 30 Holistic energy management 30 CO2 vision on track 20 Sustainable products and services 30 Transgourmet achieves ambitious target 20 Focusing on the entire range 31 Energy usage 20 More comprehensive reporting 31 Efficient refrigeration in supermarkets 20 Naturaplan follows nutritional trends 31 LED and Minergy standard in new and remodelled 20 Fairtrade growth strategy: mid-term review buildings 21 Fairly traded fruit and chocolate 31 Renewable energy at Schafisheim 21 Successful water project in Central America 31 Energy-efficient wholesale stores 21 Manufacturing companies opt for organic and 32 Reducing energy in production Fairtrade 2 32 Environmentally friendly goods transport 41 Society 32 Growth and innovation at Railcare 32 Hydrogen from hydroelectric power 41 Coop Sustainability Fund 32 Procurement of additional electric trucks 41 Integrating social projects 32 Measures in wholesale 41 Innovations in the value chain 41 Raising awareness of sustainable consumption 33 Sustainable construction 41 Partnership with the Swiss Red Cross 33 Pilot sales outlet opens at Fully 43 Emergency supplies for refugees 33 Strategy for sustainability in construction 43 Participating in the “Schweizer Tafel” (Swiss Table) management Soup Day 33 Waste prevention and recycling 42 Coop Sustainability Fund: 2015 projects 33 High levels of collection and recycling 33 Extended plastic bottle collection 43 Using food responsibly 33 Steinfels Swiss focuses on recycling 43 Information and awareness-raising 43 Donations of food and money 43 Commitment at Transgourmet France 38 Employees 43 Coop Aid for Mountain Regions 38 Sustainable HR management 43 Direct aid for mountain regions 38 Best employment conditions in retail 48 Projects to protect bees 38 Strategic focuses for human resource activities 48 Collecting textiles – another way to help 38 HR marketing to overcome the skills shortage 38 Investment in training and professional 48 Additional selected projects development 48 Timber sales for avalanche protection 38 Job centre arranges follow-on opportunities 48 Contracts for integration workshops 39 Workplace analysis for health management 48 “Simply cooking” 39 Developing a fall prevention campaign 48 Sustainability week at Transgourmet France 39 Young people at work 49 Key sustainability data 39 Career planning for qualified apprentices 39 Remuneration policy 39 Further increase in minimum wages 40 Wholesale 40 Dual training at Selgros Russia 40 First health day for Selgros Germany 40 Award-winning trainee project in Germany Content 3 Coop Group Sustainability Report 2015 Hansueli Loosli and Joos Sutter Foreword Actions, not words Actions, not words – that has always been our motto Max Havelaar and Swiss Animal Protection. In the with regard to sustainability. This was the case year under review, we took the important step 25 years ago, when Coop pioneered the way with its of ­upgrading our close collaboration with the WWF comprehensive approach to sustainability. And we and the Swiss Red Cross (SRC) to become strategic are still delivering inspirational actions today! Coop partnerships. For many years we have been jointly is a cooperative society, and from the very beginning campaigning with the WWF for sustainable conthese cooperative roots have nurtured our commitsumption. Coop’s own-label sustainability brand ment to people, animals and nature. Oecoplan is even being recommended by the WWF as a “sustainable alternative” to conventional Since 2015 our wide range of measures have been ­products. Coop is working together with the SRC in visible to all with the motto “Actions, not words”. fund-raising campaigns and the provision of emerTo date we have published over 300 actions on our gency aid. With these official partnerships and a new Internet platform actions-not-words.ch – and wide variety of other projects, we once again apprewe have included some of these in the photo gallery ciably expanded our social commitments in 2015. for this report. Our commitment ranges from small successes like the use of an award-winning electric Over the years, sustainability has become part truck for goods transportation through to pioneerof our corporate DNA. In the years to come, we will ing initiatives such as launching our Naturaplan therefore continue to implement measures for own-label brand, with which we facilitated the break­people, animals and nature instinctively and as a through of organic produce in Switzerland. Many matter of course, in keeping with our motto: more sustainable products and services were subfirst actions, then words! sequently added to our range, setting new standards. In 2015, sales of Coop’s sustainable goods and services amounted to an impressive 3.1 billion francs – a record! “Actions, not words” clearly demonstrates that Hansueli Loosli Joos Sutter Coop’s commitment to sustainability is long-term, Chairman of the Board of Directors Chairman of the Executive Committee transparent and comprehensive. This makes us unique. Our approach to sustainability covers the three areas of “Sustainable product ranges”, ­“Resource efficiency and climate protection” and “Employees and society”. It includes binding longterm objectives for all business areas within the Coop Group – retail, wholesale and production. In 2015, Coop was awarded the title of “pioneer” in the WWF’s environmental ratings for Swiss wholesalers and retailers. In many subject areas, the WWF ranks our environmental commitment as “leading-edge”, and in some areas it is even considered “visionary”. Awards such as these ­confirm once more that we are pursuing the right course in terms of sustainability. Many of our sustainability successes would not have been possible without reliable, long-term ­partners. The Coop Group systematically relies on strong partnerships, such as those with Bio Suisse, the Research Institute of Organic Agriculture (FiBL), Foreword 5 Coop Group Sustainability Report 2015 Strategy and context The Coop Group pursues a comprehensive approach to sustainability. It focuses on sustainable products and services, resource efficiency and climate protection, and a commitment to its employees and social projects. In 2015, Coop entered into strategic partnerships with the WWF and the Swiss Red Cross. Sustainability strategy Pillar 1: Sustainable products and services Consumer behaviour has a considerable impact Sustainability firmly enshrined on people and the environment. By providing susHaving addressed the topic of sustainability on an tainable products and services, Coop can achieve intensive basis for 25 years it has now become part considerable leverage and therefore contribute of Coop’s “corporate DNA”. The Coop Group has ­significantly to promoting sustainable consumption. firmly enshrined sustainability in its Articles of It supports the adherence to stringent minimum ­A ssociation, its Corporate Profile and its missions, ­requirements along the entire value chain. It is also and integrated it into all relevant strategies and involved in pioneering sourcing projects and long­processes. For example, sustainability goals are interm partnerships to promote organic farming, fair corporated into the overall goal-setting process, trade, animal welfare and biodiversity. Coop proemployee training, operational processes and promotes sustainable consumption by selecting prodcedures, and are included in various corporate ucts responsibly, developing ranges purposefully, strategies on the balanced scorecard. With its comproviding targeted customer information and utilizprehensive approach to sustainability, the Coop ing versatile advertising campaigns. Group aims to set itself apart by providing added value in its varied markets. Coop is thereby also enPillar 2: Resource efficiency and climate protection suring that increasing social and political demands The efficient use of resources and energy also helps are implemented efficiently and credibly across to cut costs. Coop’s efforts focus on the consistent all its business activities. implementation of its “CO2-neutral by 2023” vision. This involves reducing energy consumption and Focus on key areas also using more energy from renewable sources. Coop’s sustainability efforts focus on those areas Other important topics include optimizing packagwhere it can achieve significant leverage. These key ing, recycling and avoiding waste, and responsible areas involve aspects where internal analysis has water-resource management and sustainable ­revealed a high degree of social, environmental or ­construction. Coop is making particular efforts in economic relevance. When establishing its priorities, the field of logistics and goods transportation. Coop uses a large number of tools such as product screening, life-cycle assessments and risk moni­ Pillar 3: Employees and society toring. Social expectations and political demands Pillar three covers Coop’s commitment to its emalso play an important role in the selection process. ployees and to projects that are of social signifiThese key areas are reflected in Coop’s sustain­ cance. Training apprentices, a uniform and progresability strategy, which is based on three pillars. sive collective employment agreement for the whole of Switzerland, and a generous pension scheme are among Coop’s prime accomplishments as an employer. By supporting the organizations “Schweizer Tafel” (Swiss Table) and “Tischlein deck dich” (­ Table Be Set), Coop makes a ­substantial contribution to the respon­sible use of foodstuffs. Another key 6 ­ spect is the Group’s commitment to Coop Aid for a Sustainability strategy Mountain ­Regions and its collaboration with strategic partners such as the Swiss Red Cross (SRC). To the top with innovative achievements in sustainability Coop Sustainability Fund Via the Coop Sustainability Fund, Coop finances Integrated brand and corporate communication on sustainability projects relating to all three pillars. It initiates ­innovative solutions in environmentally and socially ­relevant areas, thereby promoting pioneering services in the field of sustainability. Coop also aims to Sustainable Resource Employees products & efficiency & & society raise public awareness of sustainable consumption. services climate protection The Coop Sustainability Fund is endowed with at least 16.5 million francs a year. Strategic integration in wholesale and production Processes and tools All the businesses in the Transgourmet Group and most Coop manufacturing companies have their own sustainability strategies. These strategies are aligned with the Coop sustainability strategy and Stakeholder forum on sustainability communication take account of the specific concerns and also realiEach year Coop holds a stakeholder forum. The fifth ties in the relevant markets. such forum in June 2015 was devoted to stakeholder expectations for effective sustainability communication. 26 representatives from environmental, Stakeholder dialogue consumer and producer organizations as well as from universities and public administration formuLong-standing, reliable partnerships lated their detailed expectations and discussed Establishing and maintaining long-term partnerships these with Coop communication managers. For and an appreciative relationship with stakeholders these stakeholders, a sustainable product range are of great importance for Coop’s commitment to and enshrining sustainability comprehensively at all sustainability. Working together in this way enables levels within the Group are paramount. The followthe company to identify socially relevant issues, ing factors play a key role here: clear communicabuild up knowledge and jointly develop and impletion of objectives, monitoring, the validation of ment ideas. Stakeholder expectations and construcfacts via credible testimonials, and participation in tive criticism represent challenges for Coop, encourrating programmes and external audits. The stakeaging it to make improvements. Thanks to longholders appreciate prompt factual online communistanding partnerships with organizations including cation, and in particular face-to-face dialogues. Bio Suisse, the Research Institute of Organic AgriculThe results of the Coop stakeholder forum have ture (FiBL), Max Havelaar, Swiss Animal Protection once again been fed into the goal-setting process at (SAP), the WWF and also with suppliers, Coop has Coop Group executive management level, and also been able to establish and continuously expand its into a redesign of sustainability reporting. superior range of sustainable products. New strategic partnerships In 2015, Coop stepped up its collaboration with its two key long-term partners WWF and SRC, entering into a strategic partnership with them. Together with the SRC, Coop ensures that help arrives quickly and unbureaucratically where it is needed most. As well as working together in emergencies and ­disaster situations at home and abroad, Coop supports the SRC in areas such as nationwide fundraising campaigns. Coop has already been working closely with the WWF for ten years now on subjects such as fish, timber, paper, peat, palm oil and soya as well as CO2 and energy. The aim is to promote sustainable consumption. Strategy and context 7 Coop Group Sustainability Report 2015 Energy and climate policy Working together towards sustainable consumption Climate change is one of the biggest challenges faced by society. Increases in temperature and Thomas Vellacott changes in precipitation threaten the livelihoods of CEO WWF Switzerland many people. Coop is interested in a national and international climate policy that will reduce the “ Channelling Swiss consumption onto a more susglobal increase in temperature to a manageable level. tainable track is one of our More developed countries such as Switzerland have organization’s key concerns. And to this end, we are a particular responsibility and must set a good working together with Coop on numerous projects. Coop is a founding member of the WWF Seafood ­example in this regard. For Coop, the Swiss Con­ Group and is itself taking action. Since 2015, all of its federation’s “Energy Strategy 2050” essentially fresh and frozen fish and seafood has come from represents the right route towards an efficient, low­sustainable sources. This means that Coop no longer carbon energy supply that is in line with the Group’s sells any products that are classed by the WWF as “questionable” or “not recommended”. WWF also recown CO2 reduction targets. However, the Confederaommends the Coop own-label sustainability brand tion needs to unite its energy and climate policies Oecoplan. This is an environmentally friendly alternain a consistent manner. In view of the UN climate tive to conventional non-food products. The label is summit in Paris in November 2015 and as part of therefore making an important contribution to greater sustainability. Coop’s broad-based environmental the climate campaign run by the WWF and swiss­ commitment has led to it being formally recognized in cleantech, Coop supported the goal of reducing CO2 a comprehensive WWF sectoral study as a pioneer. ” emissions by 60% by 2030. With its “CO2-neutral by 2023” vision, Coop is pursuing even more ambitious targets. Current progress made in implementing this vision indicates that this approach is both Political context feasible and economically viable. Commitment to a sustainable economic framework Coop has for years been in favour of a stable regulaSustainable objectives tory framework that benefits consumers, the environment and the economy alike. Key issues in this 2014 to 2020 multi-year objectives respect are the recognition and encouragement of a In 2013, the Coop Group’s Executive Committee voluntary commitment by businesses. Companies agreed multi-year sustainability objectives for 2014 that adopt a pioneering role and forge ahead beto 2020. The top-level subject areas covered by yond legal requirements should not be disadvanthese objectives apply to the entire Coop Group. taged by legislation. Coop requires a high degree of These concrete and, wherever possible, quantifiable legal and investment security in order to systematiobjectives for 2020 focus on the considerable levercally pursue its chosen approach to sustainability. aging power of sustainability, and are geared to the three areas of retail, wholesale and production. Revising the Environmental Protection Act The quantitative multi-year objectives are broken As a member of the Swiss Retailers’ Association, down into annual goals and recorded on the balCoop worked towards revising the Environmental anced scorecard. Together with economic goals, Protection Act in the year under review. Following on they are included in the Coop Group’s established from the negative stance adopted by the National annual goal-setting process. Management profitCouncil in its summer session, the Council of States sharing depends in part on these sustainability also came out against the bill at its second reading goals being achieved. in the winter session, meaning that the revision of the Act was definitively shelved. Coop will nevertheless continue to support more effective materials management and greater resource efficiency on a voluntary basis in the future. The focus here will be on operationally efficient measures such as the ­responsible sourcing of raw materials and products, and targeted, eco-efficient recycling. 8 Implementation status This sustainability report illustrates the imple­ mentation status of the multi-year sustainability objectives for 2014 to 2020 after the second year. The Coop Group has already either introduced or implemented many measures. In retail and production, the Coop Group is on target in most areas – and in some areas it has already exceeded the goals set. Developments in wholesale are also positive. So Coop is going one step further – in 2016 it will be reviewing all its objectives, refining and tightening up on them were necessary. Strategy and context 9 Coop Group Sustainability Report 2015 Implementation of multi-year sustainability targets 2014–2020 Pillar 1: Sustainable products and services Targets – Retail (R) 1. Ranges with special added sustainability value 1.1 C  oop is the most expert provider of particularly 1.1.1 R We generate 15% of our turnover from products which satisfy sustainable ranges. the most stringent sustainability standards (own-label sustainability brands and quality labels). –– Percentage = 14.9% 1.1.2 R We are expanding our position as a leading supplier of organic products in the Swiss retail sector and, in 2020, will generate turnover of CHF 1.25 billion from organic products. –– Sales of organic products in 2015 = CHF 1.1 billion –– Launch of 90 new Naturaplan products 1.1.3 R We doubled turnover of products bearing the Fairtrade label compared with 2012. –– Half-way mark in Fairtrade growth strategy: produce range quadrupled since the end of 2009 –– Sales increased by 78.6% to CHF 334 million since 2012 –– Fresh pineapple and papaya ranges switched over, plus various products containing cocoa 1.1.4 R We promote regional and Swiss products. –– “Miini Region” guidelines fleshed out to include external requirements monitoring –– Regional organic range expanded to include 385 products 1.1.5 R We are a leading marketer of environmentally friendly products in the non-food segment. –– 8.6% increase in Oecoplan sales to CHF 139 million since 2012 –– Oecoplan products endorsed as environmentally friendly alternatives by the WWF –– 20-year anniversary campaign to promote Naturaline textiles 2. Sustainability in the overall product range 2.1 C  oop has transparent product chains 2.1.1 R We are creating transparency / traceability of own-label brands beyond which take account of people, animals and the production and supply chain. the environment. –– Feasibility study conducted into total traceability for cocoa products, chicken, tomatoes and cotton –– Discussions with various IT solution suppliers on ensuring transparency in the supply chain –– Project launched on upstream supplier management in conjunction with HSG 2.1.2 R We ensure that all critical raw materials used in our own-label brands satisfy the customary sustainability standard for the sector. –– Definition of targets, key figures and minimum standards for 14 critical raw materials (meat, milk, eggs, fruit and vegetables, flowers and plants, fish and seafood, coffee, cocoa, palm oil, rice, soya, hazelnuts, wood, paper and cotton) –– Attainment of targets agreed with WWF for wood / paper, peat, palm oil, soya and fish –– Implementation of detox commitment and “Trendsetter” rating by Greenpeace –– Extension of pesticide guidelines to cover the entire Coop own-brand food range with significant expansion of blacklist 2.1.3 R For key raw materials, we safeguard long-term, sustainable procurement. –– Risk monitor updated using data from Maplecroft –– Screening of commodity product ranges and launch of projects where no minimum standards exist –– Screening for water-related risks; initiation of measures for growing fruit and vegetables –– Updated procurement strategy 2.1.4 R We implement more rigorous animal welfare standards for our entire meat, dairy and egg range (satisfying Swiss legislation as a minimum) and promote innovative solutions to improve commercial livestock husbandry. –– Percentage of total fresh meat sales that are organic and / or Naturafarm = 38.0% –– Sales of products that offer added value in the area of animal welfare = CHF 620 million –– 100% of Coop’s Qualité & Prix fresh turkey meat from Switzerland and abroad comes from animal husbandry with standards equivalent to PAS (particularly animal-friendly stabling) –– “Best Retailer Innovation Award” for the dual-use chicken project and placement in leading BBFAW group 2.1.5 R We also require brand manufacturers to comply with customary sustainability standards or their own, adequate sustainability standards. –– Continuation / implementation of 137 projects from the 2014 Green Business Partner Conference and inclusion in buyers’ targets –– Request to all brand-name suppliers to switch over to palm oil in accordance with RSPO criteria –– Organic branded range expanded to 334 articles 2.1.6 R We are reducing and optimizing our packaging material by 2 000 tonnes compared with 2012. –– Optimization of 2 415 tonnes compared with 2012 (target due to be amended in 2016) –– Reduction in amount of cardboard in Tetra Pak milk cartons (savings = 35 tonnes) 10 Status of implementation: On target Slightly off target Not on target TG = Transgourmet Targets – Wholesale (W) Targets – Production (P) 1.1.1 W We generate 2.3% of our turnover from products which satisfy 1.1.1 P We generate 22% of our turnover from products which the most stringent sustainability standards. satisfy the most stringent sustainability standards. –– Percentage = 1.8% –– Percentage = 21.5% –– Sunray and Nutrex: products launched that meet Bio Suisse and Fairtrade Max Havelaar standards 1.1.2 W We offer our customers an expert range of organic products. 1.1.2 P We are increasing turnover of organic products to –– Product range expanded at all TG companies CHF 175 million. –– Overall sales of organic products CHF 28.1 million –– Sales = CHF 261 million (target due to be modified in 2016) 1.1.3 W We offer our customers an expert range of Fairtrade products. 1.1.3 P We increased turnover of products bearing the Fairtrade –– Expansion of Fairtrade product ranges, especially sugar, coffee, tea label compared by 90% compared with 2012. and juices –– Increase of 149% compared with 2012 (target adjustment planned –– Overall sales of Fairtrade products CHF 11.5 million for 2016) –– Reismühle Brunnen: 50% market share of Fairtrade rice in Europe 1.1.4 W We offer our customers an expert range of regional and local 1.1.4 P We promote the use of Swiss raw materials. products. –– Swissmill: collaboration with regional partners for the –– Collaboration with local and regional suppliers at all locations procurement of regional organic flour; partnership covering over ten years with Sativa / Bioverita for breeding organic wheat 2.1.1 W We are able to transparently illustrate the product chain for ­ 2.1.1 P We are able to transparently illustrate the product chain for own-label products and trace products through each production stage. own-label products and trace products through each production stage. –– Selgros Romania: traceability of meat via “Foodvision” –– Reismühle Brunnen: establishment of an end-to-end value chain –– TG France, TG Germany: traceability in accordance with basic EU food for rice from the Himalayas regulation –– Chocolats Halba: establishment of an end-to-end value chain for cocoa in Honduras 2.1.2 W We promote sustainability standards for the critical raw 2.1.2 P We ensure that all key raw materials satisfy the customary materials used in our own-label brands. sustainability standard for the sector. –– TG France: participation in “Mr Goodfish” campaign –– Sunray: product range check for implementation of minimum –– TG Germany: expansion of ASC range standards –– TG Switzerland: systematic product range review for critical raw –– Implementation of BSCI standards in all relevant manufacturing materials companies 2.1.3 P For key raw materials, we safeguard long-term, sustainable procurement. –– Sunray: expansion of “at origin” procurement –– Chocolats Halba: safeguarding cocoa purchasing in Honduras –– Reismühle Brunnen: safeguarding rice purchasing in the Himalayas –– Swissmill: commitment to safeguard organic grain in Austria 2.1.4 W We are mindful of animal welfare throughout our range and 2.1.4 P We ensure that the animal raw materials used create a distinctive profile in selected ranges. (meat, dairy, eggs) originate from humane animal husbandry. –– TG Germany: expansion of product range with the “For more animal –– Bell: 30 projects with Coop to promote animal welfare welfare” standard (entry level) of the German Animal Welfare –– Coop bakeries: 100% of liquid egg is free range Association and expansion of the organic egg range –– TG Switzerland: expansion of “Swiss Quality Beef” in line with Swiss animal welfare standards –– TG Polska support for the “Not tested on animals” detergent project 2.1.6 W We analyse the relevant packaging volumes that we are able to 2.1.6 P We are reducing and optimizing our packaging material influence and set reduction and optimization targets on that basis. by 1 300 tonnes (end packaging and repackaging, end packaging is –– Analyses conducted at Selgros Romania and TG Polska and the priority). –– actions initiated –– Reduction or optimization: 2 058 tonnes (target adjustment planned for 2016) –– Sunray: paper packaging switched over to FSC –– Steinfels Swiss: validation of “bottle-to-bottle” principle; manufac­ ture of containers from old containers that have been returned Implementation of multi-year sustainability targets 2014–2020 11 Coop Group Sustainability Report 2015 Pillar 2: Resource efficiency and climate protection Targets – Retail (R) 3. Energy / CO2 3.1 C  oop is significantly reducing its own energy 3.1.1 R We are reducing energy consumption in absolute terms by consumption and protecting the climate 13.4% compared with 2008. by systematically reducing CO2 emissions. –– Reduction compared with 2008 = 2.6% –– 336 new and upgraded supermarkets conforming to the Minergie standard with CO2 refrigeration systems and LED lighting since 2008 –– Decision to equip all refrigeration systems with ejectors, thereby reducing their energy consumption by 15% –– 100% LED lighting in all new and upgraded sales outlets 3.1.3 R We are increasing the percentage of renewable energy sources to 74%. –– Percentage = 66.5% –– Installation of a 200 kW photovoltaic array on the Schafisheim distribution centre 3.1.4 R We are reducing annual CO2 emissions in absolute terms by 36.5% compared with 2008. –– Reduction compared with 2008 = 17.4% 4. Resource consumption 4.1 C  oop is reducing and optimizing specific use of materials 4.1.1 R We are increasing the waste reecovery rate to 80.8% and and waste. reducing the quantity of waste by 13.3% compared with 2012. –– Waste recovery rate = 80.0% –– Quantity of waste reduced by 9.7% compared with 2012 4.1.2 R We are developing a comprehensive “Sustainable Construction” concept and consistently implementing this in our new buildings and when renovating existing buildings. –– Strategy for sustainability in construction management agreed –– Opening of Fully sales outlet – a pilot project for “Swiss sustainable construction standards” (SNBS) 4.2 C oop has innovative and environmentally friendly 4.2.1 R We are moving goods transports from road to rail. mobility and logistics solutions. –– Introduction of swap containers with electric cooling for the Aclens distribution centre 4.2.2 R We are trialling and implementing innovative mobility solutions. –– Swiss hydrogen filling station project launched with the long-term aim of providing nationwide coverage and converting trucks and company cars to hydrogen power –– Decision to buy four additional 18-tonne electric trucks 12 Status of implementation: On target Slightly off target Not on target TG = Transgourmet Targets – Wholesale (W) Targets – Production (P) 3.1.1 W We are reducing specific annual energy consumption 3.1.1 P We are reducing annual energy consumption in absolute per m2 in the cash & carry business by 13.2% in western Europe and terms by 14.4% compared with 2008. by 0.9% in eastern Europe compared with 2012. –– Reduction compared with 2008 = 1.9% –– Reduction in western Europe compared with 2012 = 10.6% –– Reduction in eastern Europe compared with 2012 = 5.3% (target adjustment planned for 2016) –– Ongoing programme to fit stores with LED lighting and CO2 refrigeration systems 3.1.2 W In the delivery wholesale business, we are reducing specific annual energy consumption per tonne of delivered goods by 13.3% compared with 2012. –– Reduction compared with 2012 = 0.4% –– TG Germany: Truck Academy for driver training including energy-saving skills –– TG France: 12% of the truck fleet converted to have automatic chiller curtains 3.1.3 P We are increasing the percentage of renewable energy sources to 86%. –– Percentage = 47.8% 3.1.4 W We are reducing specific annual energy consumption 3.1.4 P We are reducing annual CO2 emissions in absolute terms per m2 in the cash & carry business by 13.1% in western Europe and by 52.1% compared with 2008. by 4.1% in eastern Europe compared with 2012. –– Reduction compared with 2008 = 12.3% –– Reduction in western Europe compared with 2012 = 14.0% –– Reduction in eastern Europe compared with 2012 = 3.5% 3.1.5 W In the delivery wholesale business, we are reducing specific annual energy consumption per tonne of delivered goods by 11.7% compared with 2012. –– Reduction compared with 2012 = 0.2% 4.1.1 W We are increasing the waste recovery rate to 65%. 4.1.1 P We are increasing the waste recovery rate to 75.5% and –– Waste recovery rate = 65.6% reducing the quantity of waste by 24.4% compared with 2012. –– Waste recovery rate = 80.1% –– Quantity of waste reduced by 33.3% compared with 2012 4.1.2 W We take account of sustainability standards in our new buildings and when renovating existing buildings. –– Systematic implementation of energy-saving measures and conversion to renewable energy for new and renovated buildings 4.2.2 W We are trialling and implementing innovative mobility solutions. –– Selgros Russia: 95 suppliers connected to Cross Docking, thereby reducing supplier CO2 emissions by 45% –– TG Switzerland: switch from one central warehouse to seven regional warehouses, thereby saving 1 million truck-kilometres per year –– Decision to buy two 18-tonne electric trucks Implementation of multi-year sustainability targets 2014–2020 13 Coop Group Sustainability Report 2015 Pillar 3: Employees and society Targets – Retail (R) 5. Sustainable HR management 5.1 C  oop is a progressive and fair employer. 5.1.1 R We are an exemplary provider of apprenticeships and make a vital contribution to professional training in the retail sector. –– 2 711 apprentices –– “Customer dialogue specialists” training course started –– 63.3% take-on rate following completed training 5.1.2 R We offer our employees access to an extensive, diverse continuing education programme and attractive career opportunities. –– CHF 45 million invested in professional development and training for staff –– 78.5% of vacant management posts filled internally –– Project Campus launched with the aim of professional talent management to ensure sufficient young (management) staff 5.1.3 R We are committed to sustainable HR management. –– Introduction of occupational health management 5.1.4 R We cultivate a culture of respect, appreciation and equal opportunities. –– 802 employees at the parent company with limited fitness for work (= 1% of jobs) –– Financial support provided by Compasso, an information portal for the occupational integration of people with disabilities 6. Social commitment 6.1 C oop recognizes its social responsibility. 6.1.1 R We operate a dense and extensive network of sales outlets, which extends to outlying areas. –– Expansion to 1 998 sales outlets, of which 856 are supermarkets 6.1.2 R We are the main marketing platform for quality-driven Swiss agriculture. –– Percentage of own-label brand food products manufactured in Switzerland is 82.1% 6.1.3 R Within the framework of the Coop Sustainability Fund, each year we spend CHF 15 million on promoting innovations for sustainable consumption. –– Annual budget for Fund increased to at least CHF 16.5 million –– Support for projects run by the World Food System Center at ETH Zurich to the tune of CHF 1 million p.a. –– Integration of social projects into the Fund 6.1.4 R Together with our stakeholders, we are committed to a sustainable and healthy lifestyle and make use of our communication tools to express that commitment. –– New strategic partnership with WWF and Swiss Red Cross –– Stakeholder forum on “sustainability communication” 6.1.5 R We are a partner in the initiative to reduce food waste in Switzerland. –– Participation in two working groups run by the Swiss Federal Office for the Environment –– Support of CHF 350 000 for “Table Be Set” and “Swiss Table” as part of the Foodbridge industry solution –– 387 sales outlets are affiliated with the “Table Be Set” and “Swiss Table” system 7. Sustainability management 7.1 S  ustainability is integral to all business activities 7.1.1 R We create sustainability strategy concepts and ensure that throughout the Coop Group Cooperative. sustainability is firmly established from an organizational standpoint in all plants and companies in the Coop Group. –– Group-wide reporting in accordance with multi-year sustainability goals 2014–2020 –– Strengthening of sustainability organization at business unit level the field of sustainable sourcing 14 Status of implementation: On target Slightly off target Not on target TG = Transgourmet Targets – Wholesale (W) Targets – Production (P) 5.1.1 W We are an exemplary provider of training. 5.1.1 P We are an exemplary provider of training. –– Selgros Russia: participation in a project to establish dual –– 129 apprentices vocational training in line with the German model –– TG Germany: 57% take-on rate following completed training –– TG France: percentage of young people undergoing dual education / training: 2.7% 5.1.2 W We offer our employees access to an extensive, diverse 5.1.2 P We offer our employees access to an extensive, continuing education programme and attractive career opportunities. diverse continuing education programme and attractive career –– TG Switzerland: 70% of management and key posts filled internally opportunities. –– TG Germany: promotion and development programmes –– Bell: talent management at all locations; job vacancies are checked –– Selgros Russia: nine-month “Purchasing development in-house first programme” launched 5.1.3 W We are committed to sustainable HR management. 5.1.3 P We are committed to sustainable HR management. –– TG Switzerland: ongoing accident prevention measures –– The Coop job centre is providing support for all staff affected –– TG France: strategies for equal opportunities; avoidance of by the closure of the Pasta Gala production company; follow-on physical and psychological risks opportunities offered within the Coop Group 5.1.4 W We cultivate a culture of respect, appreciation and equal 5.1.4 P We cultivate a culture of respect, appreciation and equal opportunities. opportunities. –– TG Switzerland, TG France, TG Germany, TG Polska: various –– See retail measures integration projects –– Selgros Romania: percentage of women in top management: 30% –– TG France (operations): intergenerational action plan; action month for people with limited fitness to work 6.1.1 W We help ensure a safe, varied and reasonably-priced supply 6.1.1 P We make a vital contribution to providing the Swiss of food in catering and the social sphere. population with basic supplies. –– TG Germany: expansion of the Economy own-label brand range; specific products for special requirements (the elderly, children, etc.) 6.1.2 W We offer a marketing platform for quality-driven Swiss 6.1.2 P We are a key marketing platform for quality-driven Swiss agriculture. agriculture. –– TG France: promoting the “Jardins de Pays” product line –– Swissmill: processing of 50% of domestic organic wheat –– Selgros Russia: expanding the regional range of fruit and vegetables 6.1.3 W We use the possibilities offered by the Coop Sustainability 6.1.3 P We use the possibilities offered by the Coop Sustainability Fund to promote innovations for sustainable consumption. Fund to promote innovations for sustainable consumption. –– TG Germany: cookery book project “We simply cooked” with old –– Reismühle Brunnen: continuation of the Fair & Good project people’s homes –– Chocolats Halba: continuation of sustainable cocoa sourcing in Honduras 6.1.4 W Together with our stakeholders, we are committed to a sustainable and healthy lifestyle and make use of our communication tools to express that commitment. –– TG Germany: “take54you” catering strategy for schools in conjunction with Fulda University of Applied Sciences; “WhatsEat” product label for good school catering products –– TG France: online e-Quilibre strategy; expansion of customer communications –– Selgros Romania: “Health begins on the plate” project for schools 6.1.5 W We support social organizations by donating food that is 6.1.5 P In our production activities, we are careful to avoid overstill safe for consumption to people in need. production and to make the fullest use possible of all raw materials. –– Support in the form of monetary and non-monetary donations –– Optimization of production processes to corresponding institutions in Germany, France, Romania and Russia (non-food) –– TG Switzerland, TG France: support for alliances such as “United against waste” 7.1.1 W We create sustainability strategy concepts and ensure 7.1.1 P We create sustainability strategy concepts and ensure that that sustainability is firmly established from an organizational sustainability is firmly established from an organizational standpoint standpoint in all plants and companies in the Coop Group. in all plants and companies in the Coop Group. –– Group-wide reporting in accordance with multi-year sustainability –– Group-wide reporting in accordance with multi-year sustainability goals 2014–2020 goals 2014–2020 Implementation of multi-year sustainability targets 2014–2020 15 Coop Group Sustainability Report 2015 Actions, not words No. 8 We’re a nose ahead in animal husbandry We have been supporting animal welfare with special projects for over 35 years. Our Naturafarm range is subject to strict guidelines that far exceed legal requirements. So our farm animals enjoy access-to-range or free-range conditions. Swiss Animal Protection (SAP) makes annual unannounced checks on our Naturafarm operations. And it confirms that Coop is number one in Switzerland when it comes to animal welfare. Top-quality beef from suckler herds reared on grassland and lower CO2 emissions: this is what epitomizes Baltic Grassland Beef. Coop launched this animal welfare programme together with Suckler Cow Switzerland, Bell and the livestock trading company Vianco – as an alternative to importing meat from abroad. The Body Shop and animal protection quite simply belong together. The cosmetic company’s products have always been animal friendly and 100% suitable for vegetarians. The Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (RSPCA) has honoured these achievements in the form of a Lifetime Achievement Award. Extensive pasturage, half of which consists of shady woodland, and no fixed pens – this is how the Since autumn 2013, woodland turkeys for the Transgourmet “Ursprung” Coop has also been using own-label brand live. The project is being supported the Naturafarm own-label by Transgourmet Germany and is a prime example brand as a quality label. of humane turkey rearing. The other Transgourmet Brand manufacturers can Group companies are also continuously expanding therefore display this their range of animal-friendly products, and use quality seal on their meat ­animal welfare standards that exceed the relevant products – provided they legal requirements. Examples include Germany’s meet strict animal welfare “For greater animal welfare” standard and the requirements. “Label Rouge” in France. Sustainable products and services Coop is enhancing its sustainable products and ­services across the board. In 2015 the focus was on textiles. Coop is the largest supplier of Fairtrade-­ certified products in Switzerland. And Transgourmet companies are continually expanding their sustain­able product ranges too. Focusing on the entire range and, among others, also products from Swiss Parks of National Importance and the own-label brand More comprehensive reporting Pro Montagna. These ranges generate a high level Since the launch of the first Coop own-label susof added value for the Swiss regions in which they tainability brand Oecoplan over 25 years ago, are manufactured. ­consumer and stakeholder expectations with regard In the fourth group, Coop has grouped together all to creating sustainable product ranges have been the own-label brands and quality labels for special steadily growing. Current surveys indicate that highnutritional requirements. These include product ly rated factors include not only conducting busiranges for people who suffer from allergies and ness in an environmentally friendly manner but also ­intolerances, and those who wish to eat vegetarian fair working conditions, regional production, animal or vegan food. welfare and consideration for health-related needs. In 2015, sales of Coop’s sustainable goods and Coop is accommodating this trend with more trans­services amounted to 3.1 billion francs. parent reporting of key figures for its sustainable products and services (see figures section, pages Naturaplan follows nutritional trends 50 and 51). Sustainable product ranges in the reThe trend towards convenience foods has continued tail sector are now subdivided into four groups. unbroken for many years, and the number of flexitarFirstly there are the Coop own-label brands and ians – part-time vegetarians – is on the increase. Coop quality labels with the highest sustainability standis meeting these nutritional requirements in its Natura­ ards (= Coop own-label sustainability brands and plan organic own-label range too, for example by quality labels). Coop lends particular support to launching a ready-made organic falafel mix and a frothese own-label brands / quality labels. Their prozen organic vegetarian lasagne. The introduction of a duction is subject to the strict standards and total of 90 new products led to the Naturaplan range ­guidelines for the brand or label in question, such being expanded to just under 1 800 products in 2015. as the Bio Suisse bud or the stringent requirements of Coop Oecoplan. Fairtrade growth strategy: mid-term review Secondly, Coop is singling out quality labels with Coop agreed its Fairtrade growth strategy back in sustainable added value. These include in particular 2009 with the aim of switching over to Fairtrade labels used by brand suppliers that meet current Max Havelaar all its own-label brand products that “good practice”, such as UTZ and the Rainforest contain ingredients from developing countries ­Alliance. While Coop does not actively promote qualand emerging economies between 2010 and 2020. ity labels such as these, it does recognize them as ­After five years, the results are positive. The initial efforts by the brand manufacturers concerned. Group’s ­Fairtrade range has quadrupled in size, Thirdly, Coop is now publishing key figures on ownmaking Coop Switzerland’s largest supplier of label brands and quality labels with added regional ­Fairtrade-certified products. Coop also stocks the value. These include the “Miini Region” quality label world’s largest selection of fairly-traded exotic 20 fruit. The cooperatives that grow products for Coop when money and food are in short supply. Together ­receive not only fair purchase prices but also a with the non-profit organization International ­Fairtrade premium. This premium currently totals ­Development Enterprise (IDE), Coop conducted a around 3.8 million francs a year. water project between 2010 and 2014 in which over 7 000 families and over 1 300 Fairtrade coffee Fairly traded fruit and chocolate ­farmers were equipped with micro-irrigation sysMajor progress was made in 2015 in switching over tems. This has enabled them to tend small fruit and exotic fruit and vegetables to fairly-traded products. vegetable patches that consume very little water, Since February, all the fresh pineapples in Coop and to grow, harvest and sometimes even sell fruit stores have been labelled with the Fairtrade Max and vegetables during the lean months. Coop Havelaar label, and in the autumn Coop introduced ­provided financial support for this project with one the world’s first Fairtrade-certified sweet potatoes. million francs from its Sustainability Fund. And Coop’s papaya producers in Brazil have this year started manufacturing under Fairtrade condiManufacturing companies opt for organic and tions. This is improving the living conditions for Fairtrade workers on the plantations, and is also protecting Coop manufacturing companies are continuously the environment. For example, the use of organic working to expand their organic and / or Fairtrade fertilizers has cut the consumption of synthetic product ranges. For example, with a market share of chemical preparations by a third. Since the year over 50% in Europe, Reismühle Brunnen is the clear ­under review, the Coop manufacturing company market leader for Fairtrade rice. In 2015 organic ­Chocolats Halba has been producing all the prodand Fairtrade rice accounted for over 50% of its ucts for Coop own-label brands exclusively using ­total rice sales. Since 2015, the Coop manufacturfairly traded cocoa. For all products except the ing company Sunray has supplied organic and FairPrix Garantie range, both the cocoa beans and the trade-quality turmeric. And in 2015 vinegar manucocoa butter are now Fairtrade. facturer Nutrex launched Coop Naturaplan organic vinegar with mango pulp, the first of its products Successful water project in Central America to meet Bio Suisse bud standards and also contain For many coffee farmers in Central America, harvest Fairtrade ingredients. In Coop bakeries, organic is followed by the “mesos flacos”, or thin months, goods accounted for around 26% of total sales. Sales of own-label brands and quality seals with the most stringent sustainability standards Naturaplan, Naturafarm, Oecoplan, Naturaline, Pro Montagna, Ünique, Pro Specie Rara, Slow Food, Fairtrade Max Havelaar, Bio, MSC, FSC, Topten, Hochstamm Suisse, Swiss Parks, etc. Sales in CHF millions 2 400 2 200 2 000 1 800 1 600 1 400 1 200 1 000 800 600 400 200 0 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Sustainable products and services 21 Coop Group Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainable wholesale ranges Outstanding animal welfare performance Transgourmet Group companies are also expandIn 2015, the British non-governmental organization ing their sustainable product ranges – depending “Compassion in World Farming” honoured Coop on the various countries and local demand. Wheretwice for its comprehensive commitment to animal as Selgros Germany stocks over 750 organic food welfare. It was awarded first place in the “Best innolines and is continuously expanding its Fairtrade vation” category for its “Dual-use chickens” pilot range, these ranges are only just being established project. In an overall comparison of European retailin ­Poland, Romania and Russia. In the year under ers, Coop was the only Swiss company to reach the review, Transgourmet Switzerland specifically podium, being awarded second place. And in the ­expanded its range of organic fruit and vegetables animal welfare ratings published by the Business produced in line with Bio Suisse bud standards, Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare, Coop came as well as its Fairtrade and MSC product ranges. top for the third time in succession. This is just one With its sustainable ranges, Transgourmet Switzermore reason why Coop is systematically pursuing land generated sales of over 36 million francs over 30 animal welfare projects together with the in 2015. manufacturing company Bell. Transgourmet develops own-label sustainability brand Animal protection at Transgourmet Germany In the year under review, Transgourmet Germany’s Transgourmet Germany is also continuously expandexisting own-label brand “Ursprung” was develing its product ranges to meet high animal welfare oped to become a Group-wide own-label sustainstandards. In 2015, for example, Transgourmet deability brand. It will be launched onto the market by veloped the “Farmyard poultry” range for its Quality Transgourmet France and Transgourmet Switzerown-label brand. This product range conforms with land in spring 2016 under the name “Origine”. Origthe “One star” entry-level label of the German Animal ine and Ursprung products represent a clearly idenWelfare Association (DTB). The company focused on tified region of origin and a tradition of sustainable expanding its pork range with the “Ursprung” ownmanufacturing that forms an integral part of the label brand too, which also meets DTB requirements. producer’s philosophy. A three-level hierarchy of Transgourmet Germany is also now working with an ecologically and socially sustainable products – abattoir and meat processing plant that is certified “good”, “better” and “best” – provides customers in accordance with DTB criteria. with a transparent, credible means of classifying products. Origine also acts as a programme for Fully sustainable fresh and frozen fish promoting the ongoing development of products: Since April 2015, Coop has been selling fresh and from conventional production to “good” sus­ frozen fish and seafood exclusively from sustainatainable products that exceed statutory standards, ble sources. This means that the WWF classes its from “good” to “better”, and from “better” to origin as “recommended” or “acceptable”. Fish and “best” – products exhibiting the highest standards seafood from sustainable sources already account of sustainability. for 99.5% of sales across the entire range. Moreover, Coop is the first Swiss retailer to declare fishing WWF recommends Oecoplan methods on its fresh fish packaging. These methPromoting environmentally-friendly consumption ods play a substantial role in protecting the ocean is the top-level goal of the strategic partnership floor and preventing unwanted bycatch. ­between Coop and the WWF. Since Oecoplan is a proven environmentally-friendly alternative to conSustainable fish range for Transgourmet ventional products, the WWF has since 2015 been In the year under review, Transgourmet Germany not recommending this own-label sustainability brand. only developed its range of fish farmed in accordThis is indicated on product packaging with the ance with Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) panda logo and the statement “WWF recommends standards but also introduced new sustainable fish Oecoplan”. Oecoplan products are subject to rigorproducts under the Ursprung own-label brand. ous environmental standards. Wherever possible, Since June 2015, Transgourmet France has been these conform to or even exceed the requirements taking part in the “Mr Goodfish” campaign. For this of recognized environmental labels or standards campaign, an expert committee consisting of fishsuch as the Bio Suisse bud, FSC and Blue Angel. ermen, fish farmers, scientists and representatives Raw materials are used in an efficient and environfrom trade and commerce is drawing up a whitementally friendly manner, and waste material is list for each season, detailing fish and seafood for ­recycled as far as possible. which consumption will not endanger the survival of individual species. Transgourmet is making its 22 catering customers aware of this approach and proNaturaline: a vision becomes reality viding them with information material that they can pass on to their customers. Patrick Hohmann Founder and Chairman of the Miini Region – a platform for small-scale producers Board of Directors of Remei AG Coop identifies regionally produced food, flowers and plants by means of the “Miini Region” quality label. In September 2015, the “Miini Region” guide“ Remei AG has succeeded in producing fashionable textiles from pure organic lines were refined and tightened up. For example, cotton fairly and in an environmentally friendly manthe stringent requirements relating to the regional ner. We have enlisted around 5 600 farming families origin of raw materials and regional processing will in organic production in India and Tanzania and es­ in future be regularly inspected by independent tablished a long-term partnership with them. Together with Coop we have set up the Biore Foundation. ­organizations. In the case of compound foodstuffs, To date, we have provided medical advice for over at least 80% of the agricultural raw materials must 60 000 patients, given over 1 000 children access to originate from the region in question, as must the schooling and improved the health of farming families main raw material and the raw material from which with over 4 000 efficient stoves and 3 700 biogas plants, thereby offsetting the CO2 emissions of all the product takes its name. Regional organic prodBiore textiles. None of this would have been possible ucts additionally meet Bio Suisse bud requirements. without 20 years of commitment from Coop. ” Focus on textiles 20 years of Naturaline Joint initiatives to reduce chemicals In 1995 Coop started to systematically switch its In the year under review, Coop once again made Naturaline own-label sustainability brand over to progress in reducing chemicals in the supply chain ­organic cotton. Thanks to the Naturaline label, Coop for its own-brand textiles. As part of the Detox is now the world’s largest supplier of fairly manuagreement with Greenpeace, the waste water and factured organic cotton textiles. Coop set up its environmental data from a further eight main suptransparent audited product chain together with pliers was collected in external audits and pubSwiss textile company Remei AG. Today around lished in the Institute of Public and Environmental 5 600 farmers in India and Tanzania cultivate cotton Affairs (IPE) database. In 2015, Coop began develin accordance with the sustainable Biore standard. oping a training programme to assist its suppliers in These growers benefit not only from a purchase switching over their production. It also successfully guarantee and an organic premium, but also from concluded a pilot project for perfluorocarbon-free sound advice and training. The Naturaline textiles umbrellas, which is due to be rolled out across the range includes around 500 items and was expanded entire own-label umbrella range next year. For this in autumn 2015 to include the first men’s collection progress, Greenpeace nominated Coop as a “Trendby the brand ambassador Melanie Winiger. setter” in its 2015 mid-term review. This category includes companies that are advancing their indusBiore Foundation projects tries with credible deadlines, concrete actions and To celebrate the anniversary of Naturaline, Coop practical implementation programmes. In October launched a new recycled plastic carrier bag, for which 2015, Coop also signed up to the Zero Discharge of the sales price includes a contribution towards the Hazardous Chemicals Programme (ZDHC). The aim Biore Foundation. In 2015, this initiative enabled of this programme is to establish new environmenCoop to donate an additional 150 000 francs to the tal standards with retailers and brand suppliers Foundation, which was set up by Remei AG and in the global textile, leather and footwear industry. Coop. Biore promotes organic farming and invests The global nature of these industries has convinced in improved living conditions for farming families in Coop that the active elimination of hazardous India and Tanzania. The money donated was spechemicals can only be achieved by means of approcifically used to help construct village wells and priate joint initiatives. ­toilets. The establishment of communal sewing workshops is also providing women with improved Environmental and social standards for textile range opportunities to generate income. Coop also decidCoop is focusing on high environmental and social ed to supplement the 45 drinking-water wells standards not only for its Naturaline range but is ­already constructed in Tanzania with an additional also working towards improving production condi50 wells over the next three years. tions for its other textile ranges. For example, 93% Sustainable products and services 23 Coop Group Sustainability Report 2015 of direct textile suppliers already meet the “good” Major progress for sustainable palm oil or “improvement needed”, “A”, “B” or “C” status of Coop has since 2004 been a member of the the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), or Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and is are SA8000 certified. Both BSCI and SA8000 sigpursuing the goal of sourcing 100% of the palm nify adherence to social standards in the production oil used in its own-brand foodstuffs from physi­ process. In the year under review, Coop also added cally sustainable cultivation. In 2015, this figure a Chinese textile producer to its Business Environ­already stood at around 93%. A new palm oil mental Performance Initiative (BEPI) pilot project. ­objective was set for non-food products in the year BEPI aims to establish broad-based minimum enviunder review. By 2020, 80% of the palm oil used ronmental standards. should be either physically sustainable or must meet the RSPO “mass balance” criteria. Coop also wants to make progress with branded products. It Sustainable sourcing therefore wrote to all its brand-name suppliers in October 2015 requesting that they switch their Systematically evaluating critical raw materials products to sustainable palm oil in accordance The cultivation and production of agricultural and with the RSPO criteria. forestry raw materials have a considerable environmental and social impact worldwide. In the form of Responsible soya cultivation a project for the sustainable sourcing of critical raw In the year under review, Coop also made progress materials, Coop is taking its responsibility seriously in switching to responsibly sourced soya. For examas a retailer with a large range of own-label prodple, of the soya imported into Switzerland as an ucts. This project includes raw materials that play ­animal feedstuff, 94% is now responsibly produced an important role in sourcing at Coop, and that also non-GM soya – a success for Soy Network Switzerhave a major social or environmental impact in priland, which was co-founded by Coop in 2011. Since mary production or in terms of animal welfare, and May 2015 Coop has also exclusively used certified which are perceived as critical by the population Danube soya as animal feed for all Naturafarm hens and non-governmental organizations. Following ex(both laying hens and chickens for fattening). And tensive product range screening, Coop has specified since March 2015, all Naturaplan chickens for fatrecognized sustainability standards for the followtening have been fed exclusively with European feed ing 14 raw materials and defined clear key perforcomponents. mance indicators and targets for their implementation by 2020: meat, milk, eggs, fruit and vegetables, Revision of pesticide guidelines flowers and plants, fish and seafood, coffee, cocoa, To protect the environment and the people involved palm oil, rice, soya, hazelnuts, wood, paper and cotin primary production around the world, Coop has ton. The first step is to implement these standards significantly tightened up its requirements for pesfor the retail sector. By the end of 2016, Coop will ticide use. With the revision of the pesticide guideadditionally define key performance indicators and lines, this has been expanded to cover the entire targets for its manufacturing companies, and also own-brand food range. In addition to the 42 previspecify raw materials, standards and targets for the ously banned pesticide ingredients, Coop now also wholesale sector. bans the use of ingredients that the World Health Organization (WHO) classes as extremely or highly Transparency in the product chain hazardous. There are a total of 113 pesticides on Consumers today are keener than ever before to this blacklist which must not be used in the producknow where products come from and by whom and tion of Coop own-brand food products. This affords under what conditions they are produced. So traceprotection to people in developing countries and ability in the production and supply chain for its emerging economies, where these substances are ­own-label range is one of eight main topics in Coop’s frequently not banned. In its range of plant protec2014 to 2020 multi-year sustainability objectives. tion products for private use, Coop is also advocatIt is already able to fully trace all Naturaline products ing the responsible use of pesticides and is systemas well as the entire Naturaplan range of fruit and atically expanding its range of organic alternatives. vegetables. Coop is also making progress in its overIn spring 2015, Coop additionally removed from all product range. In 2015, a feasibility study was its range all herbicides containing glyphosate. This carried out for the extremely complex product chains substance was classed by the WHO in March 2015 for cocoa products, chicken, tomatoes and cotton. as being a “probable carcinogen”. In this study, Coop evaluated the IT requirements for systematically collecting and processing data. 24 Water standards and social standards in Spain pleted most of its projects, thereby optimizing After Switzerland, Spain is Coop’s most important 70 tonnes of packaging material between 2013 source of fruit and vegetables. However, there is a and 2015. In 2015, the manufacturing company water shortage in some regions and an adherence Sunray switched all its paper packaging to materials to decent working conditions cannot always be meeting Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) criteria, guaranteed. Back in 2010, Coop therefore jointly resulting in 82 tonnes of optimized packaging ­developed a standard for sustainable water usage ­material per year. with WWF Spain, and is working hard to implement this standard with producers of organic and con­ ventional fruit. In 2015, the implementation of the Coop water standard was inspected on the premises of ten suppliers. Coop also trained four auditors in this standard so that additional inspections can be carried out in the future. In order to establish good social practice and ­decent working conditions, Coop uses the GRASP standard (GlobalGAP Risk Assessment on Social Practice). In January 2016, Coop held a workshop with four supplier companies to make them aware of employee rights and appropriate remuneration, and to jointly develop solutions. Other projects Involving brand manufacturers In the year under review, Coop and its business partners continued to pursue the 137 project proposals for implementing the 2014 to 2020 multi-year sustainability objectives selected following the 2014 Green Business Partner Conference. For example, Coop and Chicco d’Oro launched the first branded coffee product to bear the Bio Suisse bud as well ­as being certified as Fairtrade-Max-Havelaar. For the first time, it also stocked unpackaged organic ­aubergines. For buyers, implementing these project proposals was one of five personal goals for 2015 that were included in their performance appraisals. Reducing and optimizing packaging The project launched in 2011 to improve the sustainability of packing for Coop own-brand products was successfully concluded in 2015. Coop significantly exceeded the goal it had set itself of saving or environmentally optimizing at least 2 000 tonnes of packaging material by the end of 2015, with a total figure of 3 164 tonnes. Of this, over 1 100 tonnes of material were saved, and around 2 000 tonnes of existing packaging were replaced with environmentally friendly material. For example, the amount of cardboard used in Tetrapak milk cartons was reduced in the year under review, leading to 34 tonnes of cardboard being saved. And Coop manufacturing companies are also well on course with their packaging optimization targets. In the year under review, Reismühle Brunnen comSustainable products and services 25 Coop Group Sustainability Report 2015 Actions, not words No. 137 We have Switzerland’s largest selection of Fairtrade goods Trading is fair if both sides are satisfied. For that reason, we started to create Switzerland’s largest range of Fairtrade goods with Fairtrade Max Havelaar in 1992. It now includes over 550 items. Every second Fairtrade Max Havelaar product sold in Switzerland passes through a Coop check-out. As a result, the workers and small-scale farmers benefit from improved living and working conditions. Our long-term goal is to switch all the raw materials from developing countries and emerging economies used in our own brands to Fairtrade Max Havelaar by 2020. Coop’s successful commitment to Fairtrade can be seen above all in its rice range. 98% of Coop ­ own-brand Asian rice is now Fairtrade, compared with just 47% in 2010. The Coop manufacturing company Reismühle Brunnen introduced the Group’s first Fairtrade rice in 2002. Today, it is a clear market leader in Europe. When it comes to nutmeg, vinegar, pineapples and chocolate, the focus at Coop manufacturing com­­­panies is clearly on organic and Fairtrade. For example, Sunray is increasingly buying directly from areas of origin, providing a wide range of organic Fairtrade spices for Coop shelves. In 2015, the vinegar producer Nutrex launched a mango fruit pulp vinegar – its first product that is both organic and Fairtrade-certified. And in the Coop Banana Ripening Plant, which ripens more than just bananas, the pineapples are all Fairtrade, since Coop switched its entire fresh pineapple range over to Fairtrade in 2015. Coop’s chocolate range is also gradually being switched over to Fairtrade. Since 2015, Chocolats Halba has produced almost all its Coop products from fairly traded cocoa. Resource efficiency and climate protection Coop is making exemplary progress with its CO2 vision and is right on track. In eastern Europe, Trans­­gourmet is setting new standards in energy e ­ fficiency. For its goods transportation with Railcare, Coop was awarded the 2015 Swiss Environmental Prize. The “Sustainability in construction management” strategy was agreed. Holistic energy management ule targets for 2015, but actually exceeded them (see “‘CO2-neutral by 2023’ vision: CO2 emissions CO2 vision on track and reduction targets up to 2023” graph). Absolute In view of climate change and the resulting global annual CO2 emissions have already been reduced increase in temperature, international climate poliby 24.8% since 2008. cy-makers some years ago developed what is known as the two degree target. The aim is to limit global Transgourmet achieves ambitious target warming to less than two degrees Celsius compared With the 2014 to 2020 multi-year sustainability with the level at the start of industrialization. To objectives, the Transgourmet Group, which does meet this goal, a total of 195 countries, including not fall within the scope of the CO2 vision, also Switzerland, agreed concrete CO2 reduction targets set itself ambitious energy / CO2 targets. By 2020, at the UN Climate Conference in Paris in December the specific energy consumption per tonne of 2015. With its “CO2-neutral by 2023” vision formugoods delivered by the wholesale supply trade is to lated in 2008, Coop is already shouldering its share be ­reduced by 13.3% compared with 2012, and of the responsibility. The business units that fall the specific CO2 emissions per tonne of goods dewithin the vision’s scope set themselves annual livered are to be reduced by 11.7%. Specific energy quantitative targets for reducing their energy conconsumption per square metre of store space in sumption and CO2 emissions. The overall goal is the cash & carry trade in western Europe is to be to reduce absolute annual energy consumption by reduced by 13.2% and specific CO2 emissions around 20% by 2023 compared with 2008, and to per square metre of store space are to be reduced increase the use of renewable energy sources by by 13.1% compared with 2012. The cash and carry 80%. Absolute annual CO2 emissions should therestores in eastern Europe are newer buildings for fore be reduced by around 50%. Remaining CO2 which Transgourmet has set a benchmark in terms emissions will be offset from 2023 onwards via of energy efficiency in the countries concerned. high-quality projects. In 2016, the Swiss Federal So the aim here is to achieve a reduction in specific ­Office of Energy (SFOE) awarded Coop the Watt d’Or energy consumption of just 0.9% per square metre special prize for corporate strategy for this ambiof store space and a reduction in specific CO2 tious target, which is incorporated in Coop’s comemissions of 4.1% compared with 2012. The Trans­ prehensive sustainability strategy. In 2015, Coop gourmet Group was once again able to meet the was able to reduce its absolute energy consumption ­interim targets it was set in 2015, and is therefore by 1.9% and cut its absolute CO2 emissions by 4.0% right on track. compared with the previous year. The proportion of energy from renewable sources rose to 70.1%. Coop therefore not only met its annual reduction sched30 Energy usage energy consumption of up to 74 Swiss households. For its new industrial bakery at Schafisheim, Coop Efficient refrigeration in supermarkets will obtain around 70% of the necessary heat by Since 2010, only energy-efficient CO2 refrigeration ­burning biomass. The biomass furnace, which was systems have been installed in new and remodelled installed in 2015, will be able to use not only wood Coop supermarkets. As of the end of 2015, Coop chippings but also powdered by-products from had implemented this measure in a total of 372 sales Swissmill’s grain milling process. The Swiss Federal outlets, 50 more than in 2014. In October 2015, the Office of Energy (FOE) is sponsoring this innovative Executive Committee decided that in future all large project in which powdered biomass fuel is being used CO2 refrigeration systems would additionally be for a thermal oil process for the first time. In the year ­f itted with ejectors. This will reduce the energy conunder review, Coop received a provisional Minergy sumption of the already efficient systems by a furcertificate for the new distribution centre. When dether 15%. For meat, fish and convenience products, signing and planning the building, every precaution Coop will from now on also be using refrigeration was taken in order to adhere to the ­Minergy standard. units with closable doors, thereby helping to preWhether the anticipated energy savings will actually vent unnecessary electricity consumption. be achieved will be systematically monitored during day-to-day operations over a two year period. LED and Minergy standard in new and remodelled Only then will certification be d­ efinitively awarded. buildings Coop now exclusively uses LED technology for lightEnergy-efficient wholesale stores ing in its supermarkets. This applies to all new and In the year under review, Transgourmet Group compa­remodelled stores. All additional measures to reduce nies in various countries switched their cash & carry energy consumption are also being systematically stores over to LED lighting and energy-efficient CO2 implemented. For example, Coop designed an addirefrigeration systems. In Switzerland, another three tional 52 supermarkets to the Minergy standard in stores were equipped with LED light fittings. The 2015, whose total number is now 352. commissioning of an additional three CO2 refrigeration systems means that 21 out of 30 Prodega/Growa Renewable energy at Schafisheim stores are equipped with the latest technology. In Coop has also been fully committed to energy Germany and Poland, CO2 refrigeration systems ­efficiency and renewable energy sources during the were installed in a total of four Selgros stores, while ­remodelling and expansion of its Schafisheim LED technology was also introduced in three stores ­dis­tribution centre. In 2015 a photovoltaic array was in Germany. In 2015, Romania completed the coninstalled on the distribution centre’s new railway version of all 19 stores to LED lighting and installed ­station that generated 180 000 kilowatt hours of a 906 kilowatt photovoltaic system on the roof of its ­electricity during the year. This is equivalent to the Pantelimon store. In Russia, Selgros p ­ artially con“CO2-neutral by 2023” vision: CO2 emissions and reduction targets up to 2023 In thousands of tonnes of CO2 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Power TARGET Heating TARGET Fuel TARGET Total TARGET Power ACTUAL Heating ACTUAL Fuel ACTUAL Total ACTUAL Resource efficiency and climate protection 31 Coop Group Sustainability Report 2015 truck-kilometres and 2 150 tonnes of CO2 emissions. Coop is a pioneer in sustainable construction In November 2015, Coop and Railcare commissioned the first few model electrically cooled swap Joe Luthiger bodies. The goods transported in these containers Executive Director of the Sustainable Construction Network are not cooled by a diesel engine as previously, but Switzerland. are ­instead cooled electrically. The necessary power is supplied either via the rail wagon or the truck. “ Together with stakeholders in the Swiss construcThis considerably reduces diesel consumption and therefore also CO2 emissions. From the beginning tion industry, the Sustainable Construction Network Switzerland (NNBS) is campaigning for sustainable of 2016, 130 of these swap bodies will be used to Swiss architecture. This relates not only to individual transport freight between the Aclens distribution buildings and the materials and techniques used in centre and the 42 Coop supermarkets in Geneva. them, but also to their overall impact on society, the environment and the economy. It necessitates taking due consideration of a building’s entire lifecycle early Hydrogen from hydroelectric power on in the planning and development process. Sus­ Coop is also a pioneer in the field of introducing tainable buildings are usually qualitatively better than conventional ones, and offer employees and custom­innovative energy sources. In 2016, Coop Mineraloel ers a healthy environment. They are also cheaper AG intends to commission Switzerland’s first public to run and more future-proof. For instance, Coop is hydrogen filling station. This was decided by Coop’s taking on board its experiences with the new Fully Executive Committee in April 2015. Energy from a branch. It is one of the projects that was certified in accordance with Swiss sustainable construction hydroelectric power station will be used to produce standards (SNBS) during the 2014 pilot phase and has the necessary hydrogen. This makes it virtually CO2therefore contributed to their further development. ” neutral. Coop is also opting to use hydrogen in its own vehicle fleet. Once the filling station becomes operational, Coop will be acquiring eleven hydrogenpowered company cars and four trucks. verted a store to LED lighting and, as part of the ­rebranding process, also converted all its external Procurement of additional electric trucks illuminated advertising signs to run on efficient In its second year of operation, the Coop electric lighting technology. truck has completely proved its worth. Despite some minor faults, it clocked up around 21 000 kiloReducing energy in production metres and met expectations in terms of suitability The Coop manufacturing companies and Bell AG for everyday use, energy efficiency and low emisare also on track with their energy and CO2 reduction sions. For this reason, the Coop Group decided in goals. In the year under review, for example, Reis2015 to procure a further six electric trucks – four mühle Brunnen met all its hot water requirements for Coop Logistics at Schafisheim, Aclens, Chur and from solar energy and reduced its energy consumpBerne, and one each for Transgourmet Switzerland tion per tonne by around 6%. Bell AG installed a in Winterthur and Transgourmet Germany in Berlin. new modular refrigeration system at its Edewecht In January 2016, Coop won the “Energy Globe site, and set up a new hot water system at Bad World Award” in the “air” category with its innova­Wünnenberg. Compared with the previous year, the tive electric truck that can be used on a daily basis. Bell Group was able to reduce energy consumption by 4.1% in 2015, and restricted its increase in Measures in wholesale heat consumption to 1.2%. In the year under review, Transgourmet Switzerland’s logistics were remodelled to include seven r­ egional warehouses. This will save around one m ­ illion truckEnvironmentally friendly goods transport kilometres per year. At the same time, Transgourmet France continued to modernize its ­vehicle fleet. It fitGrowth and innovation at Railcare ted 120 refrigerated trucks – over 12% of its fleet – Wherever possible, Coop uses unaccompanied comwith automatic chiller curtains to keep their contents bined transport (UCT) provided by its subsidiary cool during loading and unloading. In January 2015, Railcare AG, thereby employing the environmentallyTransgourmet founded a “Truck academy” in Germafriendly combination of rail and truck. For its efny to coordinate driver training in accordance with forts, it received the Swiss Environmental FoundaGerman professional driver qualifications legislation. tion’s environmental prize in May 2015. In the year The programme i­ncludes driver training to instil a under review, Coop once again expanded its UCT ­defensive and ­fuel-saving driving style. transport programme, saving a total of 9.8 million 32 Sustainable construction recycled as valuable secondary raw materials or, on the case of wood, to be reused as a fuel. In the ProPilot sales outlet opens at Fully duction business area, Coop achieves a very creditIn October 2015, Coop opened its newly constructable recycling rate of 80.1%. 32 different reusable ed supermarket at Fully, one of the pilot projects for materials were collected. And with a recycling rate of “Swiss sustainable construction standards” (SNBS). 65.6%, the Transgourmet Group has already met While planning and building the store, Coop focused the target of 65% set for Wholesale by 2020. on particularly sustainable construction materials and energy-efficient building services. For example, Extended plastic bottle collection renewable raw materials were used in the lightSince 2015, customers in Coop supermarkets have weight timber frame construction. A heat pump is been able to return not only PET drinks bottles but used to efficiently recover waste heat from the realso all other types of plastic bottle. These are frigeration systems, and deliver it via underfloor ­sorted by material and colour in a modern sorting heating. This results in a reduction in overall power facility to obtain valuable secondary raw materials. consumption of up to 15%, and a massive reduction In 2015, Coop jointly carried out initial tests on in CO2 emissions. The photovoltaic system on the the material from the Dietikon distribution centre roof, which covers a total surface area of 670 m2, together with Müller Recycling AG in Frauenfeld. produces around 100 000 kilowatt hours of electricThe aim is to convert the sorted plastic bottles into ity per year. Fully is thus the first Coop outlet to progranules and use them to manufacture new plastic duce part of its electricity requirement itself. The bottles. Initial trials are currently underway with experiences gained while building this sales outlet Coop manufacturing company Steinfels Swiss to have been taken into account when developing the produce bottles for detergents and cleaning agents. Coop standard for sustainable construction, and serve as a benchmark for new and remodelled stores. Steinfels Swiss focuses on recycling Since 2012, the Coop production company Steinfels Strategy for sustainability in construction Swiss has for its commercial customers been opermanagement ating a returns system for containers for the washCoop is also focusing on sustainability in its building ing up liquid and cleaning products of its Maya ownprojects. In spring 2015 it agreed the “Sustainability label sustainability brand. These containers have in construction management” strategy. This enables been used to make cable sheathing, cable conduits possible constructions to be evaluated based on and similar items. As with the Coop plastic bottles, the following five criteria: environmental impact, Steinfels Swiss is currently trialling the implemen­ “grey” energy (non-renewable energy used in the tation of the “bottle to bottle” principle. This means production of materials), greenhouse gas emissions, that the material obtained from the returned concosts and thermal conductivity (insulation). The tainers will in future be used to manufacture new ­results are compared with the best possible case, containers. in other words, the model sales outlet at Fully. This enables potential for improvement to be identified early on in the planning phase. The strategy also forms a basis for being able to calculate and evaluate the CO2 emissions from the heating system throughout its entire lifecycle. The intention is cover additional aspects in the future, such as natural landscaping and careful use of resources in the production of building materials. Waste prevention and recycling High levels of collection and recycling One of Coop’s 2014 to 2020 multi-year sustainability objectives is to achieve a waste recycling rate of over 80% in retail by 2020. This objective was already ­exceeded in the year under review. A total of 80.0% of the reusable materials returned by customers or generated by sales outlets is sent to be Resource efficiency and climate protection 33 Coop Group Sustainability Report 2015 Actions, not words No. 172 Turn old into new: our recycling station Our stores take back various items suitable for recycling. Each year we ensure that around 200 million PET beverage bottles are recycled. This corresponds to some 6 950 tonnes of PET. We also recycle all plastic bottles, chargers for Kisag whipped cream and soda devices, batteries, electrical appliances and lamps. Coop Building & Hobby also sends fluorescent bulbs, paints, varnishes and chemicals for recycling. New for old. Recycling Nespresso capsules can save up to 95% of energy compared with the original manufacturing process. The aluminium in the capsules is reused, and the coffee grounds are made into fertilizer. As a Nespresso recycling partner, Interdiscount accepts used capsules at all its branches. Waste is generated even during the process of manufacturing chocolate. At Chocolats Halba, around three-quarters of all waste is recycled. Cocoa shells make up 48% and therefore the “Recycling made easy” also applies in Coop largest share of recyclable waste, followed by Building & Hobby stores. But the waste and reusable production waste, cardboard and paper. Each year, materials collected here are somewhat heavier and around 260 tonnes of waste cocoa shells are more substantial. In addition to fluorescent tubes, generated at Chocolats Halba, which are all reused. energy-saving light bulbs and old electrical appliJust under 30% of the cocoa shells are used ances, Coop customers can return household and in the cosmetics industry to produce fragrances. car batteries, gas bottles and camping gas canisters The remainder are used to make animal feed. as well as empty containers for paint, varnish, glazes and pool chemicals. Items that cannot be recycled are disposed of properly by skilled partners. Employees 79 953 employees, including 3 410 apprentices, work in retail, wholesale and production. According to a study, Coop offers the best employment conditions in the Swiss retail sector. Coop is reacting to the short­ age of skilled staff with communication measures and investments. Sustainable HR management get groups and demonstrates that, as an employer, Coop offers interesting challenges and a professional Best employment conditions in retail environment in all fields of work. Coop offers the best employment conditions in the Swiss retail sector. This has been confirmed by Investment in training and professional development a study into the working conditions at large retail Coop has run a comprehensive talent managecompanies, produced by “Inrate”, Switzerland’s ment programme since 2011, with the aim of filling largest independent sustainability rating agency. In as many management positions as possible from 2014, the Unia union invited various Swiss retailers within the company. In the year under review, to take part in this benchmarking study. The aim 78.5% of vacant management posts were filled in­ of the study was to compare the working conditions ternally. In times of growing competition between at large retail companies in Switzerland using ob­ employers, the talent management programme jectively gathered indicators. The criteria that were represents a distinct advantage. In addition to tal­ evaluated included appropriate remuneration, con­ ent management processes such as recruitment temporary working hours, work-life balance, equal and performance appraisals, training and profes­ opportunities and the quality of social partnerships. sional development play a decisive role. For this reason, Coop is investing over 45 million francs per Strategic focuses for human resource activities year in training and professional development for The Coop HR strategy lays down the strategic focuses its employees. In 2015, Coop employees attended of HR management. These include high-quality a total of 47 177 days of training and professional ­basic training, promoting the Federal Vocational ­development courses, including 21 736 days for Baccalaureate, offering trainee programmes for uni­ management staff. Coop runs two training centres versity graduates, professionalizing HR marketing at Muttenz and Jongny, and offers over 173 internal and using new technologies, including e-dossiers training courses. In addition to this, the growing and e-recruiting. Coop is also facilitating the devel­ range of e-learning modules makes an essential opment of new patterns of working hours and offers contribution to knowledge transfer. language placements. The strategies for talent management, sustainable HR management and Job centre arranges follow-on opportunities HR marketing are derived from the Coop human At the end of 2014, Coop closed the Pasta Gala ­resources strategy. ­pasta factory in Morges (VD). 51 employees were affected by the closure. The HR department’s job HR marketing to overcome the skills shortage centre supported these members of staff in finding In 2015, Coop agreed its HR marketing strategy. other jobs, and was able to offer all the affected The shortage of skilled staff is not very noticeable employees follow-on opportunities within the Coop yet in sales, although it is in other areas. What’s Group. Since more and more bread is being freshly particularly important here is finding suitable spe­ baked directly in Coop supermarkets, there is sig­ cialists such as buyers, IT staff, real estate experts nificantly less work for the industrial bakeries to do. and also translators. The HR marketing strategy Consequently, Coop is closing its Chur bakery at lays down how Coop communicates with these tar­ the end of 2016. Some of the current production at 38 Chur will gradually be transferred to the Berne and Gossau industrial bakeries. The job centre has Synergy in training and professional development been supporting staff at the Chur bakery in their job hunting. At the end of 2015, follow-on opportunities Christine Neubacher Head of Human Resources, had been found within the Coop Group for 46 of Marché Restaurants Schweiz AG the 48 staff affected. Workplace analysis for health management “ Incorporating Marché Restaurants Schweiz AG In 2015, Coop’s internal welfare service once into the Coop Group is ­benefiting both companies. While we can establish again worked hard to reintegrate sick and injured greater employee expertise thanks to Coop’s profes­ employees. Someone has now been appointed sional and management training, Coop is able to ­exclusively to promote occupational health and make use of our e-learning experiences. Exchanging knowledge of the new profession of “food chain cate­ ­optimally expand the consultancy work carried out ring” is very important to both parties. Our staff also by the welfare service. In conjunction with Swica, appreciate the benefits available via the Coop staff the company that operates the sickness benefits discount card, and Coop is particularly inspired by ­insurance for Coop staff, the welfare service com­ our “Fresh world” offering. With Coop as our parent company, we provide secure jobs and are able to ex­ missioned ergonomists to carry out 34 individual ploit synergies within the Group. This forms the workplace analyses in sales, production and logis­ tics in the year under review. By implementing the basis for sustainable integration. ” recommended measures and modifying workplaces, Coop has been able to reduce the health problems of the staff concerned and preserve jobs that were employees within the company. As a result of their at risk. solid and demanding basic training, they are ideally qualified to progress up the career ladder. Career Developing a fall prevention campaign planning can be carried out systematically, particu­ An internal working group comprising safety experts larly in the core business of retail. Immediately has developed a Coop campaign to prevent trips ­following basic training, Coop shows the youngsters and slips at work and in leisure time. In the year what prospects are available. One third of success­ ­under review, Coop promoted this campaign in vari­ ful apprentices progress from a sales employee role ous ways, including the publication of a series of into their first management role after just a few ­articles in the staff magazine. These covered topics years, for example becoming a department manag­ such as winter hazards and the importance of suit­ er. Once successful in this position, it is common able footwear. Competitions and poster campaigns for employees to progress further, from deputy were also held on this topic. And Coop has set up manager to manager of a small sales outlet, then to simple circuits of balancing exercises at various the same position in a larger branch. In this way, ­locations. it is possible for a top apprentice to be managing a Coop megastore with up to 100 staff by the time he or she is thirty years old. Young people at work Career planning for qualified apprentices Remuneration policy At the end of 2015, the Coop Group employed 3 410 apprentices in all, including 570 in the inter­ Further increase in minimum wages national wholesale sector. In the last ten years, In the year under review, Coop decided to increase Coop has increased its number of apprentices by a the minimum wage for staff with no basic training third. In August, 1 203 young people in Switzerland by 50 francs at the beginning of 2016, equating to embarked upon apprenticeships at Coop. Appren­ an increase of 1.3%. The new gross minimum wage ticeships were available for 30 different professions for unskilled employees who are covered by the in sales, administration, logistics and manufactur­ ­collective employment agreement will therefore be ing. The apprentices who completed their training in 3 900 francs. Hourly paid staff will also earn more the year under review were exceptionally successful. – the new minimum hourly wage for them will be In 2015, the success rate was 96.7%. Of those 21.95 francs instead of 21.65 francs as previously. ­apprentices who completed their training, 63.3% The minimum gross monthly wage for staff with two obtained permanent positions within the company. years’ or more of basic training will remain between Bearing in mind the growing shortage of skilled 4 000 and 4 200 francs. Coop pays a 13th month’s staff, it makes sense for Coop to retain these young salary in each case. Where this was expedient for Employees 39 Coop Group Sustainability Report 2015 structural reasons, Coop has also awarded indi­ vidual pay rises. However, there will be no general wage increase for all staff in 2016. Over the last ten years, Coop has increased wages by a total of 18.7%, although the retail sector has had to con­ tend with a challenging business environment over the same time period and has seen a downward trend in prices amounting to 9.0%. Wholesale Dual training at Selgros Russia Since 2014, Selgros Russia has been taking part in a project that aims to implement a German-style dual vocational training system. In February 2015, five apprentices commenced their training as butch­ ers in the Selgros stores at Altufievo and Kotelniki. They are spending three days a week at work, and on the other two days they are acquiring theoretical knowledge at vocational college. To ensure their training is of a high quality, the apprentices’ mentors previously completed a training course to German standards as well. Selgros Russia also offers place­ ments in its stores for high-school students. First health day for Selgros Germany For the last four years, Transgourmet Germany has already held a national health day at all its sites, – and in June 2015 this was held jointly with Selgros Germany for the first time. Staff at headquarters and all the Selgros stores were therefore also able to enjoy numerous activities relating to nutrition, exercise and prevention. Award-winning trainee project in Germany In Germany, Transgourmet trainees at headquarters undergo multi-week placements at Transgourmet customer companies. The aim is to become familiar with customers’ working procedures. In Schweiten­ kirchen, Transgourmet held a trainee project on the subject of occupational safety. The association for trade and goods logistics awarded a special prize to this “Accident prevention measures when using means of transport” project as part of its 2015 ­prevention awards. 40 Society Coop is to become a Swiss Red Cross strategic partner. The Coop Sustainability Fund supports around 70 projects. In retail, wholesale and production, the Coop Group is making concerted efforts to ensure food is not thrown away. Coop Sustainability Fund Raising awareness of sustainable consumption In Switzerland, the Coop Sustainability Fund is Integrating social projects ­supporting many projects that promote sustainable Since 2015, the Coop Sustainability Fund has consumption. For example, adults and children are ­f inanced not only innovation and awareness-raising learning about the impact their consumption has projects, but also projects for employees and socion poeple and the environment at an exhibition ety. These include its partnership with the Swiss funded by Coop at the Spreitenbach Umwelt Arena. Red Cross and its joint initiatives with “Schweizer The differences between organically and convenTafel” and “Tischlein deck dich”. The Fund is entionally produced foodstuffs are attractively illusdowed with at least 16.5 million francs a year, and trated in a new brochure published by the Research supports sustainability activities within all three Institute of Organic Agriculture (FiBL). Coop provid­pillars of the Coop sustainability strategy. The proed financial support for creation of the brochure jects in 2015 numbered 70. and was involved in many of the research projects whose findings are presented in the publication. Innovations in the value chain Coop also wants to raise its producers’ awareness Coop does not simply buy products, but gets inof organic and sustainable cultivation. Five years volved in sustainable projects along the value ago, Coop together with Bio Suisse jointly funded chain. For example, it is working together with the practical advice specifically in order to promote bioDeutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusamdiversity on organic farms. In 2015, various bio­ menarbeit (GIZ) and Aquasis on various water-­ diversity measures were compiled in the form of an saving initiatives in the villages surrounding Coop online catalogue containing extensive technical production locations. Another example is the ­information, data sheets and practical instructions. ­numerous projects underway around Lake NaivaThis catalogue is helping organic farmers to implesha in Kenya, from where Coop buys most of its ment the new Bio Suisse biodiversity guidelines, Fairtrade roses. From 2014 to 2015 Coop, together which stipulate that at least twelve measures must with the WWF and local rose producers from the be implemented with effect from 2015. region, provided local Maasai families with around 4 000 energy-efficient stoves. These new stoves Partnership with the Swiss Red Cross will not only reduce the impact on the surrounding As part of their new strategic partnership, the semi-arid ecosystem, but also reduce the time Swiss Red Cross (SRC) and Coop want more than families take searching for firewood. Similar proever to ensure that help is provided where it’s needjects are currently being supported in other value ed. Coop has been supporting the SRC’s annual chains, such as those involving coffee growers in “2 × Christmas” initiative since 1997. In the year under Tanzania and rice farmers in India. Moreover, since review, Coop donated goods worth 940 000 francs 2013, Coop has supported the World Food Sysand held information campaigns to encourage its tem Center of the Swiss Federal Institute of Techcustomers to take part in the initiative. Between nology (ETH) in Zurich to the tune of a million francs. ­October and December, Coop also donated 10 cents As part of the “Coop Research Programme”, reto SRC individual aid for each Grittibänz bread roll search is being conducted into ways of improving sold, totalling around 123 000 francs. This money the food value chain. will be used to support people in financial need in Switzerland. Society 41 Coop Group Sustainability Report 2015 Coop Sustainability Fund: 2015 projects Innovation Sensitization Research for sustainable food production Further training for domestic science teachers Partner: ETH World Food System Center I Each year, one million Partner: Pusch I Further training course for domestic science francs is allocated to research projects aimed at finding new teachers on the topic of “Sustainable nutrition” (2014–2016). solutions in the field of resource-efficient food production (2013–2017). Biore projects Partner: Biore Foundation | Promoting and supporting social Local water compensation in Morocco projects in the fields of training, health and nutrition for over Partners: Aquasis, GiZ | Coop’s water footprint in Agadir, a key 5 600 Biore cotton producers and their families in India and purchasing region for fruit and vegetables, is offset locally with Tanzania (2007–2016). comprehensive measures aimed at sustainable use of water (2014–2017). Slow Food Partner: Slow Food Switzerland | Partnership with Slow Food to Substituting copper in organic farming promote food culture and protect biodiversity and high-quality, Partner: FiBL I Development of selective, highly effective and artisanal products through Swiss presidia groups (2006–2017). economically viable copper substitutes from components of plants and micro-organisms (2011–2018). Fête de la nature Partner: La Salamandre | Contribution towards raising public Organic methods for combating citrus greening awareness of nature and sustainable consumption in western Partner: FiBL | Developing, testing and disseminating effective Switzerland via free-of-charge events organized by the local organic methods of curbing citrus greening disease on organic population (2012–2016). citrus plantations in Mexico (2014–2017). Pro Specie Rara Organic seed propagation Partner: Pro Specie Rara | Promoting traditional Swiss crops Partners: Sativa Rheinau AG, Getreidezüchtung Peter Kunz | and livestock by marketing products in Coop sales outlets and Promoting the cultivation and seed propagation of organic wheat accompanying communication measures, supporting open-air and spelt, and improving nitrogen efficiency along the bread value markets and the “urban tomatoes” campaign (2003–2017). chain (2003–2016). Small-scale projects Safeguarding organic cotton in India Partners include Stiftung éducation21, Helvetas Swiss IntercoopePartners: FiBL, Biore Foundation I Research into high-quality ration, ETH WFSC | Raising awareness of sustainable consumption, organic cotton seed and organic pest protection, plus training in biodiversity and climate issues via various initiatives (2015). improving cultivation techniques (2015–2017). Sustainable cocoa sourcing in Honduras Partners: Chocolats Halba, Helvetas Swiss Intercooperation | Project Employees and society on the comprehensive sustainable sourcing of cocoa from Honduras through environmental and social initiatives such as reforestation, training and infrastructure-related measures (2009–2017). Goods donations and emergency aid Partner: Swiss Red Cross I Donation of goods for the “2 × Christmas” initiative, donations for emergency aid and reconstruction in the Sustainable rice value chains event of disasters abroad (since 1997, ramped up since 2015). Partners: Reismühle Brunnen, Helvetas Swiss Interco­operation | Establishing fair, ecologically compatible rice value chains in India “Schweizer Tafel” / “Tischlein deck dich” and Thailand (2010–2017). Partners: “Schweizer Tafel”, “Tischlein deck dich” I Donations of perfectly edible food past its best-before date from supermarkets CO2 offsetting to organizations for controlled distribution to the needy and to Partners: WWF, Fair Recycling | Offsetting the carbon emissions accommodation for the homeless. Additional financial support for generated by airfreight, business travel and Coop@home deliveries the two organizations (since 2004). via WWF Gold Standard projects and Swiss Charter certificates from a fridge recycling project in Brazil (2007–2019). Caritas Partner: Caritas I Donations of basic foodstuffs by Coop production companies, for resale to impoverished people at reasonable prices in Caritas shops (occasional donations up to 2010, annual donation of goods worth 100 000 francs from 2011 onwards). Young Enterprise Switzerland Partner: Young Enterprise Switzerland I Promoting practical business programmes for school children with the aim of connecting businesses and schools (since 2011). Excerpt from 2015 project list. You can find a full list of all Coop Sustainability Fund projects at www.coop.ch/fund-sustainability. 42 Emergency supplies for refugees Another result of the SRC partnership is a project Providing sustainable help together in which Coop is supporting the SRC with goods for refugees arriving in Switzerland. From November Annemarie Huber-Hotz President of the Swiss Red 2015 until January 2016, Coop regularly delivered Cross goods to the railway station in Buchs (SG) so that SRC staff can provide the refugees there with water, food and toiletries. During this period, Coop donat“ The Swiss Red Cross works to protect people’s lives, health and dignity. It ed goods worth a total of 21 000 francs. supports particularly vulnerable, disadvantaged people at home and abroad. In this way it has been able to Participating in the “Schweizer Tafel” (Swiss Table) count on Coop’s assistance for a long time – with an annual substantial donation of goods for the “2 × Christ­ Soup Day mas” initiative and repeatedly with assistance followIn November 2015, Coop took part for the third time ing natural disasters. Acting sustainably is the best in Soup Day – the Schweizer Tafel’s national fundway of preventing disasters. We are grateful that Coop raising initiative. In addition to Coop’s fixed contrifocuses on sustainability and also that our cooperation has taken on a long-term nature in the form of an bution of 200 000 francs to “Schweizer Tafel”, the official partnership. SRC and Coop will continue to company also donated a sum of money for each ­accept their responsibility jointly in order to help peoserving of Coop own-brand soup sold in stores and Coop restaurants. The additional 18 000 francs ple in need rapidly, purposefully and sustainably. ” raised in this way will be used to provide logistical support for the organization. further three years. Under this programme, which is supported by Coop and other members of the Using food responsibly Swiss retailers association (IG DHS), the two organizations receive large donations of products and Information and awareness-raising 680 000 francs a year, of which 350 000 francs was Coop is making concerted efforts to prevent food donated by Coop. Coop Mineraloel AG also supports that is still perfectly edible from being thrown away. Tischlein deck dich (Table Be Set) with fuel con­ With its new information brochure “Fresh – how to tributions worth 50 000 francs per year. keep food for longer”, Coop explains how to handle food safely and store it sensibly at home. By exCommitment at Transgourmet France panding its Ünique own-label sustainability brand In the year under review, Transgourmet France range, Coop is also championing the consumption ­informed its customers and its own staff even more of products that do not meet the usual standards emphatically about avoiding food waste. For exambut are perfectly fine to eat. It is making consumers ple, at its staff canteen in Valenton, Transgourmet aware of this initiative by means of a TV advertiseFrance recorded how much waste was generated ment. And Coop is also taking action with regard to per week on average, and gave tips on how this quanfood expiry dates. Surveys show that some consumtity could be halved. In September 2015, Transgourers are confused by the double dating generally met France signed the national “Pact on combating used by Coop. In line with the recommendations of food waste”, thereby recognizing the commitment its a Federal working party on reducing food waste, employees are making to limiting the amount of Coop therefore began to phase out double dating in stored food that is wasted (by managing best-before the year under review, switching over to “best bedates, donating food to social o ­ rganizations, reusing fore” dates wherever possible. organic waste, etc.). Donations of food and money Since 2005, Coop has been donating perfectly Coop Aid for Mountain Regions ­edible food that can no longer be sold to the organizations “Schweizer Tafel” (Swiss Table) and Direct aid for mountain regions “Tischlein deck dich” (Table Be Set). The number In 2015, Coop Aid for Mountain Regions supported of sales outlets participating in this system rose 165 self-help projects with a total of 5.4 million from 373 to 387 in the year under review. In the francs. In the year under review, Coop also covered year under review, 7 580 tonnes of food were handall the organization’s administrative costs. Since ed out to the two organizations. 30% of the food 2001, Coop has been running its annual 1 August is from Coop. In 2015, the agreement relating to the bread roll campaign, during which a percentage of Foodbridge industry solution was extended by a the sales proceeds from bread rolls and sausages Society 43 Coop Group Sustainability Report 2015 Actions, not words No. 280 Providing help where it’s needed We have worked together closely with the Swiss Red Cross (SRC) for many years in order to provide people in need with fast, ­unbureaucratic assistance. We stepped up this cooperation in 2015 and since then have been an official partner of the SRC. Thanks to this preferential partnership with the SRC we can make an even more targeted contribution to emergency aid and ­reconstruction in the event of disasters in Switzerland and abroad. With its worldwide network, the SRC ensures that donations get to the right place. We are also continuing to support the SRC’s long-standing “2 × Christmas” campaign to which we donate goods worth 500 000 francs each year. We have been putting this commitment into practice since 1996. Since 2005, Coop has donated a considerable amount of date-expired food, which is still in perfect condition but can no longer be sold, to the social organizations “Schweizer Tafel” (Swiss Table) and “Tischlein deck dich” (Table Be Set). Coop additionally donates 350 000 francs per year to each of these organizations. Since 2010 Selgros Romania, a Transgourmet Group company, has been supporting the “Speranta pentru copii” (Hope for Children) association. This primarily helps the countless street children in Romania, giving them homes in hostels. The children make items such as bracelets and bookmarks that Selgros Romania uses as advertising gifts for its customers. With the money this generates the association buys clothes and school supplies for the children. Every year, Coop Aid for Mountain Regions supports nearly 170 self-help projects that go some way to improving the future for many mountain farming families and boosting mountain regions. Tell-Tex collection containers for clothing and shoes can now be found at more than 500 Coop locations. The proceeds generated from these discarded garments benefit the charity. are used to fund a specific project. Coop then dou“Simply cooking” bles this amount. In 2015, a total of 320 000 francs With support from the Coop Sustainability Fund, was raised, which will be used to renovate Alp PorTransgourmet Germany published a unique cookbook carescio in the Osernone valley. in 2015. Elderly people in twelve retirement homes recalled their favourite recipes and cooked them Projects to protect bees ­together. These tales led to the cookbook entitled Coop Aid for Mountain Regions continued to offer “Wir haben einfach gekocht” (Simply cooking), which the bee sponsorship programme it introduced in has been selling well since September 2015. This 2014. This raised 13 400 francs to support bee-­ book is intended to convey the importance of eating related projects. A new children’s book containing as a factor in emotional well-being. Some of the useful information on bees and other insects has ­proceeds will be used to provide professional develalso been published, thereby making very young opment for chefs in retirement homes. children aware of the issue. For each copy sold, one franc is donated to Coop Aid for Mountain Regions. Sustainability week at Transgourmet France In June 2015, Transgourmet France took part in Collecting textiles – another way to help ­European Sustainable Development Week (ESDW). Coop has now installed containers for collecting The company organized collections of clothing, clothes and shoes at 500 sales outlets. The recybooks, school materials, toys and electrical applicling company Tell-Tex ensures that this clothing is ances at seven locations and passed these items either reused or recycled. Long-term unemployed on to various social organizations. people and people with disabilities sort the clothes and shoes, and the proceeds obtained from recycling these items go to Coop Aid for Mountain Regions. In 2015, around 500 000 francs of funding was raised for Swiss mountain farmers in this way. In October 2015, Coop also launched a pilot project in selected Coop City department stores. Customers can donate clothing regardless of its brand, quality or condition. These clothes are also passed on to Tell-Tex. For every five items of clothing donated, Coop gives customers a 20 franc discount voucher they can use on purchases over 100 francs. Additional selected projects Timber sales for avalanche protection In 2015, Coop Building & Hobby supported the Sitenwald avalanche protection project near Engelberg with a donation of 151 300 francs. For every Swiss timber product sold between October and ­December, 15 cents went to this Coop Aid for Mountain Regions project. All of this money will be used for reforestation and construction activities to extend the protective forest. Contracts for integration workshops The Coop Group is committed to awarding a variety of contracts to social institutions that seek to integrate people with disabilities into working life. For example, since 2015 Pearlwater Mineralquellen AG has had its work clothing cleaned by the local “Atelier Manus” integration workshop. And the Sunray manufacturing company regularly awards packaging contracts to similar workshops. 48 Key sustainability data 50 Sustainable products and services 50 Sustainable ranges in retail 51 Sustainable ranges in wholesale 51 Sustainable ranges in production 51 Packaging 52 Resource efficiency and climate protection 52 Energy consumption 52 Renewable energy sources 52 Carbon dioxide emissions (CO2) 53 Carbon offsetting 53 Water consumption 53 Waste 54 Employees and society 54 Employee headcount and turnover 54 Diversity 55 Training and professional development 55 Occupational health management 55 Social commitment Prior-years figures restated You can find further key figures in the Coop Group Annual Report. Key sustainability data 49 Coop Group Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainable products and services Sustainable ranges in retail in CHF million 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Naturaplan 779 816 940 954 987 Naturafarm 450 442 453 435 443 Oecoplan 121 128 138 142 139 Naturaline (textiles and cosmetics) 66 66 62 59 60 Others (Pro Montagna, Ünique, Pro Specie Rara, Slow Food, Fairtrade 586 606 573 662 823 Max Havelaar, organic, MSC, FSC, Topten, Hochstamm Suisse, Swiss Parks, Natrue, BDIH, Ecocert, Blue Angel, EU environmental label, Bird Life) Sales of own-label brands and quality seals with the most stringent 2 002 2 057 2 166 2 252 2 454 sustainability standards Sales of quality seals that offer sustainable added value (ASC, UTZ, Rainforest – – – – 209 Alliance, animal welfare programmes, PEFC, Natureplus, Nordic Swan, GOTS, Label Rouge, Bluesign) Regional organic products (Naturaplan regional organic, Oecoplan regional organic) – – – – 15 Miini Region – – – – 140 Others (Pro Montagna, Swiss Parks, AOC) – – – – 179 Sales of own-label brands and quality seals that offer added value for the region – – – – 334 Special products for people with allergies (Free From, Aha, ear of wheat – – – – 135 symbol, milk jug) Products for vegetarians and vegans (Karma, Délicorn, V label) – – – – 193 Weight Watchers – – – – 40 Sales of own-label brands and quality seals for special dietary needs – – – – 358 Sales of sustainability products – – – – 3 076 (total sales of own-label brands and quality seals that offer sustainable, regional and nutritionally relevant added value)1 in CHF million 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Organic own-label brand products 784 914 1 034 1 048 1 067 Organic branded products 15 20 26 34 37 Sales of organic products 799 934 1 061 1 082 1 104 Naturafarm 450 442 453 435 443 Naturaplan (meat, eggs) 77 87 102 105 107 Animal welfare programmes – – – – 71 Sales of products that offer added value in the area of animal welfare – – – – 620 Fairtrade Max Havelaar 158 187 219 260 334 Naturaline products made from fairly traded organic cotton 64 64 59 56 56 Pro Montagna 34 38 38 38 40 Other quality labels that offer social added value (Rainforest Alliance, UTZ) – – – – 96 Sales of products that offer social added value – – – – 527 1 Total without double counting. 50 as a % 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Organic percentage of farmed seafood (fish and shellfish) sales 30.5 34.9 40.0 37.2 34.6 Percentage of wild-caught seafood sales that is MSC-certified 46.8 51.6 54.6 56.4 62.4 Percentage of organic and MSC certified products in total seafood sales 36.7 39.9 45.6 45.5 45.9 Percentage of sustainable seafood (WWF rating recommended/acceptable) in 98.0 98.2 98.5 98.5 99.5 total seafood sales Percentage of wood and paper products from sustainable sources – 59.9 61.6 64.9 70.8 (FSC or recycling): supermarkets, department stores, Building & Hobby, office supplies, Coop member press and advertising Percentage of physically sustainable palm oil (RSPO Identity Preserved / 22.8 27.9 62.0 86.3 92.7 Segregated, Bio-Suisse bud logo) in the total palm oil used for own-label food products 2 Percentage of non-food direct supplier sales from high-risk countries 51.0 66.0 82.2 90.0 90.0 that come from direct suppliers with BSCI status “good” or “improvement needed”, “A”, “B” or “C”, SA8000 certification or ICTI certificate Percentage of non-food direct supplier sales from high-risk countries that 95.0 98.0 96.0 97.0 96.0 come from direct suppliers with an ongoing BSCI process Percentage of total sales of fruit and vegetables from high-risk countries – 25.3 51.7 70.5 82.4 cultivated in line with social standards (Fairtrade, GRASP, BSCI PP) Percentage of peat in the total range of soils 34.0 27.0 13.0 8.0 5.4 Sustainable ranges in wholesale Sales in CHF million 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Organic products – – – – 28 Products that offer social added value (Fairtrade Max Havelaar, UTZ, – – – – 12 Rainforest Alliance) Sustainable ranges in production3 as a % 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Percentage of products with a sustainability standard (Naturaplan, – – – 19.7 21.5 Bio-Suisse bud logo, Fairtrade Max Havelaar, Oecoplan, Naturaline Natural Cosmetics, Maya and others) in total sales Sales in CHF million 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Organic products – – – 181 261 Products that offer social added value (Fairtrade Max Havelaar, Naturaline, UTZ) – – – 60 85 Packaging in tonnes 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Packaging reduction and optimization, retail 216 530 1 285 1 045 85 Packaging reduction and optimization, production 3 – – – 1 306 145 2 The remaining palm oil in food and non-food own-label brands is covered by certificates (Book and Claim). 3 Coop production facilities and Bell Schweiz AG. Key sustainability data 51 Coop Group Sustainability Report 2015 Resource efficiency and climate protection Energy consumption in megawatt-hours 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Retail 725 344 719 534 710 748 708 003 716 654 Wholesale 390 675 408 606 408 942 414 458 409 791 Production1 160 328 160 166 242 534 247 972 246 802 Electricity consumption 1 276 347 1 288 306 1 362 224 1 370 433 1 373 247 Retail 229 342 222 310 223 303 200 081 199 170 Wholesale 123 123 131 833 131 989 103 806 112 033 Production1 96 523 97 274 154 046 148 876 140 654 Energy consumption for heating purposes 448 988 451 416 509 338 452 763 451 856 Retail 2 215 737 215 685 212 785 208 409 213 878 Wholesale 257 210 274 314 283 271 289 027 299 316 Production 3 31 202 33 028 37 421 54 629 59 596 Fuel consumption 504 149 523 027 533 477 552 065 572 791 Retail 2 1 170 423 1 157 529 1 146 837 1 116 494 1 129 702 Wholesale 771 008 814 753 824 201 807 292 821 140 Production 1 288 053 290 468 434 001 451 477 447 051 Total energy consumption 2 229 484 2 262 749 2 405 038 2 375 262 2 397 894 in kilowatt hours 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Retail: Sales outlets per m 2 485 474 467 454 452 Cash & carry business western Europe per m 2 251 256 248 232 229 Cash & carry business eastern Europe per m 2 569 583 578 558 552 Delivery wholesale business per tonne of delivered goods 342 362 352 344 361 Renewable energy sources Percentage 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Retail 2 64.3 64.7 65.6 67.2 66.5 Wholesale 26.3 25.5 25.3 26.1 29.0 Production 1 65.0 66.2 48.8 47.6 47.8 Percentage of renewable energy sources 51.3 50.8 48.8 49.5 50.2 Carbon dioxide emissions (CO2) in tonnes 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Retail 2 118 402 115 994 112 553 106 382 107 731 Wholesale 229 218 242 138 246 089 245 931 248 465 Production1 27 345 26 896 72 221 76 372 75 604 Total carbon dioxide emissions (CO 2) 374 964 385 028 430 863 428 685 431 800 in grammes 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Retail: Sales outlets per m 2 29 908 28 644 27 992 25 707 26 359 Retail: Coop’s own goods transport per tonne-kilometre 32.2 30.5 30.3 29.1 28.7 Cash & carry business western Europe per m 2 43 158 44 445 43 362 40 097 38 212 Cash & carry business eastern Europe per m 2 306 369 313 297 309 892 305 691 302 444 Delivery wholesale business per tonne of delivered goods 78 657 81 843 80 281 78 849 81 690 52 Carbon offsetting in tonnes CO 2 equivalent 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Air freight 71 877 71 096 81 181 84 605 81 260 Business travel by road 6 443 5 693 5 461 5 192 5 066 Business travel by air4 1 666 1 638 1 902 3 824 4 126 Coop@home deliveries 1 504 1 603 1 614 1 616 1 633 Total carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions offset 81 490 80 030 90 158 95 237 92 085 Water consumption in thousands of cubic metres 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Retail 1 023 1 086 1 118 1 154 1 059 Wholesale 557 633 615 661 734 Production 3 2 120 1 907 1 860 2 394 2 418 Total water consumption 3 700 3 626 3 594 4 209 4 211 Waste in tonnes 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Retail 87 669 93 740 96 260 99 136 100 670 Wholesale 5 – 22 996 25 532 26 766 29 625 Production 6 5 489 11 875 16 011 17 036 16 052 Recycled waste 93 159 128 611 137 803 142 938 146 347 Retail 3 183 3 264 3 505 3 202 3 234 Production 6 198 430 535 445 179 Waste used as heating fuel (wood) 3 381 3 693 4 040 3 648 3 412 Retail 30 044 27 851 25 677 24 124 25 925 Wholesale – 14 198 11 581 16 719 15 514 Production 6 4 000 6 005 3 896 3 970 3 916 Disposed waste (incineration, dump) 34 044 48 054 41 154 44 812 44 355 Retail 333 102 52 133 46 Production 6 156 56 97 16 121 Waste disposed of separately 489 158 149 149 167 Retail 121 230 124 956 125 494 126 595 129 875 Wholesale – 37 194 37 113 43 484 45 139 Production 6 9 843 18 366 20 539 21 467 20 268 Total waste production 131 073 180 516 183 146 191 547 195 282 as a percentage 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Waste recovery rate: Retail 74.9 77.6 79.5 80.8 80.0 Waste recovery rate: Wholesale – 61.8 68.8 61.6 65.6 Waste recovery rate: Production 6 57.8 67.0 80.6 81.4 80.1 1 Up to and including 2012 excl. Bell abroad. 2 Including goods transport by third parties in Switzerland on behalf of Coop. 3 Up to and including 2013 excl. Bell abroad. 4 As of 2014 including Wholesale and Production. 5 Including wood waste used as heating fuel (percentage < 0.5%). 6 Coop manufacturing companies and Bell Schweiz AG. Key sustainability data 53 Coop Group Sustainability Report 2015 Employees and society Employee headcount and turnover Number (as at 31 Dec.) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Retail 45 237 45 407 44 333 46 268 45 998 Wholesale and Production 30 124 29 902 30 622 30 819 33 955 Employees (incl. trainees) 75 361 75 309 74 955 77 087 79 953 Retail 27 409 26 852 25 560 26 342 26 330 Wholesale and Production 24 745 25 697 26 076 26 234 29 034 Full-time employees (incl. trainees) 52 154 52 549 51 636 52 576 55 364 Retail 2 878 2 683 2 700 2 734 2 711 Wholesale and Production 513 538 565 537 699 Trainees (employees) 3 391 3 221 3 265 3 271 3 410 in percent 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Retail 15.1 15.1 14.9 15.2 14.3 Wholesale and Production 18.7 18.7 16.7 18.6 18.7 Turnover rate 16.7 16.5 15.7 16.6 16.2 Diversity in percent (as at 31 Dec.) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Retail 62.9 62.5 63.4 63.2 62.9 Wholesale and Production 46.5 46.4 45.1 45.2 43.9 Percentage of workforce who are women 56.4 56.2 55.9 56.0 54.8 Retail 46.4 44.9 45.7 45.5 45.4 Wholesale and Production 41.7 42.1 40.8 40.8 39.8 Percentage of full-time staff who are women 44.2 43.9 43.2 43.2 42.5 Retail 11.8 12.5 12.5 13.4 13.7 Wholesale and Production 31.4 28.9 30.1 30.1 32.0 Percentage of part-time staff who are men 16.3 15.6 16.0 16.5 17.4 Retail 25.6 23.3 24.7 24.9 25.6 Wholesale and Production 20.5 21.4 22.6 24.1 24.3 Percentage of staff over 50 years of age 23.2 22.6 23.8 24.6 25.0 Percentage of women in the Delegate Assembly 39.7 40.0 46.6 50.8 51.7 Percentage of women on the Board of Directors 40.0 40.0 40.0 40.0 40.0 Retail 11.9 14.4 13.5 12.4 11.3 Wholesale and Production 16.5 16.0 16.2 16.1 15.7 Percentage of women on the Executive Committee and in senior management 15.4 15.4 15.1 14.6 14.1 Retail 38.9 38.6 40.1 41.4 41.4 Wholesale and Production 27.2 27.5 32.6 31.9 32.0 Percentage of women in middle management and departmental management 35.3 35.0 37.3 38.1 37.8 54 Training and professional development in thousands of participant days 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Retail 59.1 56.0 52.4 55.7 62.9 Wholesale and Production 28.5 19.4 23.8 19.2 20.6 Internal training and professional development 87.6 75.4 76.2 74.9 83.4 Occupational health management as percentage of working days 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Sickness rate for Retail 3.7 3.7 3.7 3.8 4.0 Sickness rate for Wholesale and Production 4.1 3.8 4.1 4.1 4.2 Occupational accident rate for Retail 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Non-occupational accident rate for Retail 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 Occupational accident rate for Wholesale 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.5 Non-occupational accident rate for Wholesale Switzerland 1 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.4 Occupational accident rate for Production 0.2 0.3 0.5 0.6 0.5 Non-occupational accident rate for Production Switzerland 1 0.2 0.5 0.6 0.6 0.6 Social commitment 2 in CHF thousands 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Coop Sustainability Fund 15 505 15 871 15 309 16 550 17 000 Coop Aid for Mountain Regions 857 981 1 088 939 860 Additional contributions for social projects 6 847 6 677 7 820 6 003 5 964 1 Can only be recorded for Switzerland. Under EU law, non-occupational accidents are paid for by the health insurance provider rather than the employer. 2 Retail and Production. Key sustainability data 55 Coop Group Sustainability Report 2015 56 Publishing details Any statements in this report that do not refer to historical facts relate to the future and do not constitute guarantees of future products and services. They incorporate risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, future global economic conditions, exchange rates, statutory regulations, market conditions, competitors’ activities and other factors beyond the company’s control. This report is published in German, French, Italian and English. The German version is authoritative. An online version can be downloaded from www.coop.ch/report Published by: Coop Cooperative, CH-4002 Basel, Jörg Ledermann (Head of Communication / Quality / Sustainability), Bruno Cabernard (Head of Sustainability), Barbara Irniger Furtwängler (Head of Public Relations) Editing / Coordination: Alexandra Sauer, Andrea Schmitt, Nicole Stocker Translation: BMP Translations AG Concept / Design: YJOO Communications AG, Zurich Realization: gateB AG, Steinhausen / Zug Photography: Klaus Andorfer, Zurich, and other photographers Printing: W. Gassmann AG, Biel Binding: Scherrer AG Buchbinderei, Urdorf Print-run: 4 500 Ge / 900 Fr / 400 It / 600 En Publication date: April 2016 Information / contact / ordering Coop Info Service Postfach 2550 CH-4002 Basel Tel. +41 61 336 66 66 www.coop.ch
