February 2015 I am pleased to confirm that Algae Systems, LLC reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Algae Systems is growing but is still in an early stage so we have not had the same challenges many larger organizations have had to face in protecting the Ten Principles. We continue to develop our team, technology and community support for our Renewable energy technology. As an early stage company we hope to define a new way of not only producing clean energy and clean water for developed and developing countries, but also to create a culture shift in how the cleantech new industrial revolution can provide skilled jobs that consider safety, quality of life and overall health of all global citizens. With this shift, we will see a new type of company and community that is interested in more than just work ethic we will grow a team where ethical commitment will exist not just in the work place, but in local government, global policy and in every child as they see the change for the better in the world around them. Sincerely yours, Matthew Atwood CEO Human Rights • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Algae Systems is committed to supporting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. As an early stage company, we hope to be able to positively impact the lives of people with our first commercial project bringing clean fair wage jobs to a local community and over time being able to do that at a global level as well. As we have our eyes set on develop and expansion, we look closely at actions and decisions that impact Human Rights in the communities our business grows and ensure we have appropriate policies in place. Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. To date we are a small team and our stakeholder group mainly includes research firms, universities, a global engineering and a firm. These groups have been assisting the company in completing R&D to be able to move forward to build our first commercial plant. Key executives in the company have requested that, when applicable, a stakeholder board to ensure that production is not violating any human rights and avoiding any risks. The system will allow for better and quicker reporting if there were any violations Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. As an early stage company we expect this will evolve over the next few years, but initially our human rights activities will include local community outreach to help bring safe fair paying jobs with no discrimination. As we move more into the global market for growth we will look to global organizations with a good track record to mentor us on putting in metrics for any and all relevant business practices. Labor Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of labor rights for the company (i.e. labor rightsrelated risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labor rights. As a small company we believe that all team members who join our organization or are employed by our vendors and customers should not be discriminated against for any reason, should receive fair wages, access to healthcare, a quality of life that allows for family needs and continued education/skills in their career. We will do our best to partner with companies that share our belief. When doing business in countries not known to have a strong support of labor rights, we will also look to partner or be mentored by an organization that has a strong track record of ethical actions in those situations. Implementation • Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labor policies, address labor risks and respond to labor violations. We have minimal documentation other than what is required by US Human Resources tax and legal bodies. We have worked with a Professional Employer Organization that confirms our labor policies are legal and guides the company on necessary actions. Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Currently we have safety policies in place for our pilot plant. We will implement necessary metrics for our first commercial plant coming on line that will be communicated to all team members as part of onboarding them into the organizations. Environment Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. One of the main aspects of our business and technology is environmental clean-up of wastewater that currently gets dumped into the local eco-system via outfalls and causes ocean deadzones We work closely with the US EPA and local state environmental organizations about how we can safely leverage capturing that waste water and clean it using our enclosed algae cultivation technology. We believe if engineered effectively, we can utilize a great deal of the tertiary wastewater as well as atmospheric CO2 draw down to grown Algae based fuels. Turning environmental waste into a needed resource. Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. We have completed site assessment for our pilot plant and have undergone necessary permitting as well as developed back-up plans for system failures. As part of this effort many policies and risk assessment activities will take place in later this year. Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. The expectation based on research and modeling is our fuels will be one of the first true carbon negative (not just zero carbon) fuels in production. In order to track that the fuel is indeed utilizing the amount of Carbon as well wastewater and sunlight, we expect to have significant metrics designed by that time to collect and validate data. Additionally we expect external bodies will participate in that process. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. We recognize that corruption has been problematic in the Energy and Oil and Gas Industries. Algae Systems has a commitment to conduct fair business practices and stands behind anti-corruption principles. We will create an advisory subboard, as necessary, with known industry leaders that will help guide us in decisions on partnerships – especially as we begin work in emerging markets and the developing world. Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. Strict guidelines in our operating agreement and employment letters preventing illegal activities Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. We have our books completed by a third party accounting firm.
