United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress | 2015 Statement of Continued Support I am delighted to announce our partnership with the United Nations Global Compact and express QuickMobile’s full support of the Ten Principles that cover the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual report we describe our policies and practices that we have enacted to lead by example in these areas. These ten principles are being integrated into our business at the strategic and operational levels. We look forward to demonstrating our commitment to continuous improvement in future reporting periods. This report and all future Communication on Progress reports will be made available publicly through our primary channels of communication including our official website. Yours sincerely, David Smith CEO QuickMobile 2 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress | 2015 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Businesses all around the world are used to competing for the finite resources available on our planet, and are increasingly aware of their impact from emissions, increasing energy demands and the great inequalities of our world. The scarcity of resources is seen as we continue to consume non-renewables such as fossil fuels, and the impact of pollution through shifts in sea temperatures and levels, and larger climate patterns around the globe. QuickMobile is committed to the reduction of its environmental footprint and encouraging our clients, channel partners and service providers to do the same. As the recognized leader in our industry, we are dedicated to leading by example and demonstrating that environmental stewardship is not only a differentiator, but also a requirement for businesses to thrive in the modern world. QuickMobile’s primary product offering is a mobile application platform that is transforming the meetings and events industry. Our mobile applications greatly reduce or eliminate the need for printed materials at conferences and events. By growing our business, we are able to eliminate large quantities of paper waste, while providing faster access to information. QuickMobile set a precedent for sustainability in the meeting and events industry in 2008: more than 90,000 pages of paper were eliminated when the industry’s first app was launched at the PhoCusWright Travel Innovation Summit, creating 3 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress | 2015 a compelling proposition for adoption that thousands of organizations have since pursued. We have provided in-kind application development and support while forging relationships with sustainability leaders in the industry including the Green Meetings Industry Council (GMIC), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainable Brands, and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). In 2014, we further extended our commitment to sustainability and resource renewal through an incentive program with weforest.org, a global organization committed to reforestation in the world’s most ecologically sensitive zones. This ‘pay it forward’ program involves making a contribution in a client’s name whenever they agree to provide a testimonial for use in marketing and promoting our solutions. Cash donations support a reforestation program in Burkina Faso, Africa. As of December 2015, we donated CAD$2800 on behalf of our clients, which was used to plant 7,000 trees of varying types. This program will continue through 2016. In March 2015, we moved to a newly renovated office in Vancouver’s Coal Harbour district. The building, managed by Golden Properties, maintains an active recycling/ reclamation program for all tenants, with an aim to become a zero-waste building in 2016. Attached please find a report on the zero-waste initiative as of the end of September 2015. Located in Downtown Vancouver, our office is easily accessible by bicycle and public transit. The building offers extensive bicycle parking and on-site shower facilities to promote bicycle commuting. While mostly a seasonal endeavor due to the onset of rainy and occasionally snowy conditions, we do have some employees who bike to work all year long. In the spring and summer, the numbers grow substantially to more almost 15% of our workforce. As part of our ongoing commitment to sustainability and community, QuickMobile has donated a stake in the company to the David Suzuki Foundation in partnership with VanCity Equity. 4 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress | 2015 Labour and Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals QuickMobile provides fair and beneficial practices toward the communities in which we operate and gives back by contributing to their strength and growth. QuickMobile supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights as well as the Human Rights Code of British Columbia (http://www.bclaws.ca/Recon/ document/ID/freeside/00_96210_01). QuickMobile is committed to fair hiring practices. Hiring is based on the principle of merit including skills, knowledge, personal attributes and experience, and is guided by values that are inherent in QuickMobile’s culture including respect, initiative, integrity, entrepreneurial spirit, accountability and fun. 5 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress | 2015 We also endeavor to ensure that our hiring practices are non-discriminatory (according to The Human Rights Code in BC and Ontario), objective, transparent, consistent and legally defensible. We use a collaborative approach to assess and select candidates by involving several assessment members and a team-based decision-making process. QuickMobile supports the abolition of forced labour and child labour. All QuickMobile staff and contractors meet legal the requirements for employment according to British Columbia Law. Reports of the use of forced labour or child labour by any of QuickMobile’s resources will be investigated and reported to executive management. QuickMobile is committed to providing a working environment that is free from violence, the threat of violence, harassment and hazing and abuse of employees, supervisors and authority, verbal abuse and discrimination in contravention with the BC’s Human Rights Code and Canadian Citizenship and Multiculturalism Acts. This policy does not replace the rights an individual may have under law. The policy applies when the personal security of a member of QuickMobile’s business community has been violated on the QuickMobile premises or at a QuickMobile sponsored event or activity. QuickMobile recognizes the need to protect freedom of expression in a work context. Nothing in this policy should limit freedom of expression related to public life and professionally debating and having frank discussions to further develop QuickMobile’s strategies and business policies. QuickMobile strives to provide each employee with a safe work environment that complies with applicable health and safety laws. The Company’s policy is to ensure business decisions made at all levels of the organization take the company’s health and safety commitments into account. QuickMobile also expects each employee to take personal responsibility for his/her health and safety while working at all times and to report on workplace issues that jeopardize the safety of others. QuickMobile has a Health and Safety Committee to address workplace health and safety issues. 6 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress | 2015 We are also aware of potential risks arising from natural disaster, fire or other emergencies. The Health and Safety committee will create and make modifications to QuickMobile’s emergency preparedness plan. The Health and Safety Committee will meet on a monthly basis to review any issues that have occurred and will work to identify areas for improvement. The QuickMobile Human Resources department will immediately undertake or direct an investigation into any allegation of labour and human rights violations. The investigation will be completed and a determination regarding the report will be made. However, if the complaint relates to an employee in the Human Resources department, the complaint will be investigated and resolved by a neutral management member in another department. 7 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress | 2015 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery The company adheres to a strict anti-bribery policy that applies to all employees, regardless of location. QuickMobile and its employees and directors are prohibited by law and QuickMobile policy from giving or offering to give or promise money or anything of value including company work to a foreign official, political party or official in order to influence that person to obtain or retain business or secure any improper advantage. No payment can be made to a government official indirectly through an agent, such as an independent contractor or service provider. In certain instances, QuickMobile can provide travel and entertainment to foreign officials when it is directly related to the maintenance of the QuickMobile business. Determining whether such an expense is a permissible payment and therefore allowed under the law, or is possibly a violation of the law, is a legal judgment and not a decision to be made without consulting with the Company’s Officers. All employees and directors are required to obtain permission before providing anything of value to the above parties, including expenses related to travel and entertainment. QuickMobile does not currently have a committee qualified to assess allegations of corruption. As such, reports of violations are handled on a case-by-case basis. Employees who know of or suspect any violation are required to immediately report this to their manager or Human Resources. If a conflict of interest is apparent, a neutral third party will be appointed to escalate the issue as appropriate, which may or may not include consultation of experts and/or legal council. 8 ZEROWASTE 2015 Q3 Report GO LDEN P R OP ERT IES 1177 WEST HASTINGS With one more quarter to 70% go in 2015, we are well on our way to exceeding 72.2% this target! ! 2015 Target Current Diversion Compared to Q2 97.5% 23.4% 12.6% 29.4% 100% 33.8% 100% 0% 35.5% Monthly Garbage Index per Person 1177 W. Hastings 1111 W. Hastings = 1.1 kg = 0.8 kg Through proper 16.5 kg 0.5 kg Alkaline recycling of Lithium batteries, we can 2.25 21 kg prevent toxic Lead chemicals and Acid 0.5 kg Ni-MH heavy metals from 0.5 kg kg 1 kg entering into our Ni-Cd NiCd local soils and water streams. Batteries recycled For more information about this report, please contact Sabrina K.Tse, Project Coordinator at stse@goldenproperties.ca
