For more information, visit www.erm.com/sustainabilityreport2016 ERM Sustainability Report 2016: Overview This document provides an overview CEO message of ERM’s Sustainability Report 2016, including our approach, performance and As we engage with our clients, key industry highlights from the past year. leaders and thinkers from around the world, we are hearing consistent themes Learn more about our strategy, programs about the sustainability challenges they and results in the full online report at face. These challenges present both www.erm.com/sustainabilityreport2016. risks and opportunities – with leading businesses taking bold steps to sustain Who we are their organizations in the longer term while managing the needs of today. ERM is a global provider of environmental, health, safety, risk, sustainability and social The challenges include navigating the consulting services. Sustainability describes transition to a lower emissions future while what we do, day in and day out — through the global demand for energy grows. This ERM CEO John Alexander the services we provide to our clients, the requires doing more with less (fewer people, way we deliver our projects and how we lower volumes of capital and far less time), manage our own operations. We focus overcoming natural resource constraints and At the UN Sustainable Development on serving our clients’ needs across the delivering the required changes in uncertain Summit in September 2015, world life cycle of their assets and business. We market conditions. With this backdrop, global leaders adopted the 2030 Agenda believe the greatest impact we can have is leaders have worked to build consensus on for Sustainable Development, which through helping our clients seek solutions to pathways for the future at several key events. includes a set of 17 Sustainable sustainability challenges they face now and Development Goals (SDGs) to end into the future. Access to sources of energy that are reliable, poverty, fight inequality and injustice, affordable and lower in emissions is essential and tackle climate change by 2030. The business of sustainability for sustainable development. ERM played an active role in the UN Climate Change ERM, along with many of our clients, ERM’s strapline, “The business of Conference in Paris (COP21), which delivered identified linkages between the SDGs sustainability,” reflects what we do to the Paris Agreement that was adopted and our business strategy, and we have support our clients as they strive to by every country present and built on a mapped our material issues against attain their business goals. Sustainability groundswell of commitments and initiatives the relevant SDGs. The ERM Foundation and business are now inextricably linked from business leaders, academia, civil society also has aligned its priorities to selected and as an expert in sustainability, we and nongovernmental organizations. SDGs and is working with other play a role in helping companies achieve corporate foundations on opportunities their objectives with an understanding of The challenge facing us is to deliver on the for collaboration to make progress how this impacts wider society and the commitments made at these global events. towards the SDGs. environment. We are actively working with clients at a strategic and operational level on how to We intend to contribute even more to build resilience in their supply chains and the global dialogue on sustainability businesses, secure their energy needs and expect our work on sustainability and identify opportunities as the economy challenges and opportunities to deliver transitions to a lower emissions future. growth in our business. Sustainability is our business. John Alexander Chief Executive Officer The business of sustainability For more information, visit www.erm.com/sustainabilityreport2016 ERM Sustainability Report 2016 Impact through client work Sustainability at ERM is about the services we provide to our clients as well as our own impacts on communities and the environment. We have focused on identifying material issues throughout our value chain, and At ERM, we view world-class health and measuring, and improving our performance safety performance as the most essential in these areas. Our material sustainability element of everything we do. issues include: “I am excited to engage with ERM • Attracting, developing, rewarding and employees throughout the region as we retaining employees continue our journey to improve our health • Business conduct, ethics and compliance and safety culture and programs.” • Climate change across our value chain • Contributing to society and the José Dias environment Sao Paulo, Brazil • Financial performance • Health and safety • Technical expertise and independence Building a community around Our people innovation ERM is fundamentally a people-centered In October 2015, we inaugurated our business. The attraction, development, first-ever global Innovation Tournament, reward and retention of our talented to facilitate creative and technologically employees across the world is of the greatest advanced ideas through developing importance to our ongoing success. solutions to sustainability challenges faced by our clients. Over 3,000 employees from Health and safety all around the world participated in our inaugural Tournament. We place an extraordinary focus on health and safety performance. We provide health and safety systems, processes, procedures, equipment and training for all Highlighting human rights issues ERM employees, enabling our work to be impacting business performed in a responsible manner. Every ERM employee and contractor is required to ERM held a roundtable at our Washington be an active participant in managing the safe D.C. office entitled, “Trends in Business execution of our work. in 2016 Affecting Human Rights.” The discussion included many human rights Our performance leaders from various North American entities, including international financial ERM operates with a number of important institutions, leading human rights NGOs guiding principles and values. These and private corporations. important values remain the foundation of our culture and the engine that drives our sustainability performance. For more information, visit www.erm.com/sustainabilityreport2016 ERM Sustainability Report 2016 Impact through client work We understand the sustainability challenges of our clients and work together to deliver cost-effective solutions. The greatest business impact we can have is through helping our clients develop solutions to sustainability challenges, now and into ERM reports key environmental the future. We support clients in managing risk in areas including risks for clients in India accelerating energy transition, ongoing resource constraints and everincreasing regulatory requirements. To help clients understand the environmental risks presented by rapid growth in India, ERM “As companies transition to conducted a survey to contribute energy sources with lower discussion on how businesses emissions, ERM has had many can manage a lack of regulatory great opportunities to assist our compliance, environmental clients on their paths forward. degradation, resource shortages, We help our clients develop and and other pertinent issues. assess potential compliance strategies, based on robust technical assessments and practical options to meet new Innovative approaches to water regulatory requirements.” management Lisa Campbell Treated reclaimed produced water Raleigh, North Carolina, US can serve as an important way to augment water supply in droughtstricken areas. In a recent ERM study, we combined risk Supporting clients affected by assessment methodologies and chemical blast in Tianjin, China thresholds to establish healthbased benchmarks to assess A number of multinational reclaimed water for long-term use companies requested assistance in agricultural irrigation. from ERM following a series of chemical explosions in Tianjin, China. A special ERM task force Life cycle analysis and sustainable packaging at was created to manage demands, AstraZeneca coordinate ERM resources and ensure an integrated approach In 2015, AstraZeneca selected five products that represented to our clients’ requests. ERM’s their portfolio, and engaged ERM to conduct a full life cycle work in the immediate aftermath analysis for each product focused on five key impact areas – helped our clients ensure the climate change, water depletion, ecotoxicity, ozone depletion and safety of their employees and resource depletion. The results of these assessments are helping operational continuity. Astra Zeneca focus efforts to reduce its environmental impact. For more information, visit www.erm.com/sustainabilityreport2016 ERM Sustainability Report 2016 Contributing to society ERM is making a tangible contribution through our thought leadership activities and our support for sustainable development. The ERM Foundation was established in 1995 and, over the past two decades, has given Measuring the impacts of sustainability more than $3 million in grants to around reporting in Hispanic America 250 organizations in five continents. An additional 10,000 hours of technical pro bono GRI engaged ERM to identify and examine support has been provided to not-for-profit the sustainability reporting practices organizations and social enterprises globally. of smalland medium-sized and multinational enterprises in Colombia and Throughout FY16, ERM played an active part Peru to determine the impacts of these in thought leadership on global, national and practices. ERM developed case studies that local sustainability platforms. From managing illustrated the benefits generated by the non-technical risks to safeguarding human use of GRI Guidelines. rights, we shared technical insights and best practices on a range of subject matters that will help organizations respond to the world’s sustainability challenges now and in the Our employees create the unique culture future. of ERM, where everyone has equal opportunity to contribute to ERM’s success. “The Aspire Program has been an amazing opportunity for me to meet and collaborate with colleagues across the region and beyond, allowing me to appreciate ERM’s global reach and capabilities.” Wanjiku Githinji Nairobi, Kenya Contributing to the Sustainable For more information, read our reports: Development Goals: empowering 2016 ERM Sustainability Report: www.erm.com/sustainabilityreport2016 women and girls 2016 ERM Foundation Report: www.erm.com/en/about-us/erm-foundation In response to the launch of the SDGs in September 2015, the ERM Foundation finalized its process to align its activities with selected SDGs and targets. As part of this process, we have adopted “empowering women and girls” as a new priority area. We welcome feedback on this report. Please submit any questions or comments to sustainability@erm.com. The business of sustainability
