August 26th, 2016 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to say that Amarantus BioScience Holdings, Inc. (AMBS) will continue to support the ten principles of the Global Compact in human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. I wish to renew the company’s ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principals for the upcoming year. With the submission of this communication, I am expressing our intent to implement those principles in our company further. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles a continual part of a strategy, culture and day-today operations of our company, and will continue to engage in collaborative projects to advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the Sustainable Development Goals. Amarantus BioScience Holdings, Inc. is a publicly traded biotechnology company focused on developing therapeutic products with the potential for orphan drug designation in the areas of neurology, psychiatry, ophthalmology and regenerative medicine, and diagnostics in neurology. We intend to specifically promote health-related and human rights solutions through our work and research. I recognize that this expression of continual support by myself as the CEO of Amarantus is the first step in the requirements needed for continual participation in the Global Compact. Following this letter, the United Nations Global Compact will receive our annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles and other related goals. We support public accountability and transparency and will include a description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken or plans to undertake to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas of human rights, labor, environment, anti-corruption. Additionally, a measure of outcomes will be presented in this COP in order to further disclose Amarantus’ degree of which it has addressed its targets, the indicators that were met, and any other qualitative or quantitative measurement of results. Kind Regards, Gerald Commissiong Chief Executive Officer Amarantus BioScience Holdings Human Rights ● Assessment, Policy, and Goals Amarantus’ goal is to ensure that all of our employees and business partners respect and achieve the articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Every person in the world is entitled to freedom, justice, and peace. Amarantus’ stance on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is that, “Amarantus actively engages in philanthropic initiatives around the world and through our corporate social responsibility organization. Our aim is to empower staff, patients, partners, and clients to make positive changes in their communities at home and abroad.” Amarantus is focused on bringing about affordable healthcare, healthier and longer lives in addition to empowering individuals to make positive social changes in both the community as well as in the business world. This is conveyed through presentations and dissemination of overall company orientations. Amarantus is committed to the highest standards of conduct in our relationships with each other, as well as with our clients, consultants, sponsors and others involved. This requires that we conduct our business in accordance with the highest standards of both personal, research, and business conduct. Our employee training helps us in this endeavor by providing a statement of fundamental principles and key policies and procedures that govern the conduct of our employees with general information about employment with Amarantus. All business partners, suppliers, and manufacturers are expected to adhere to the principles on Human Rights. Any violation of the articles outlined in this universal declaration would lead to Amarantus’ disassociation with this organizations and reporting the violations to the proper authorities. Amarantus has sectors spanning: Biotechnology and Healthcare, Consumer Products, and Medical Research. To ensure that violations do not occur, Amarantus and our affiliates take a hands-on approach to the implementation, production, and development of each sector and product in each respective region. Our goal is to empower people to become more self-sufficient, healthier, employ more local people, and develop in a way that is sustainable from a business and ecological standpoint. Related risks and impact in industry sector: Biotechnology and Healthcare: Often times, the dignity of people is overlooked in this sector in regards to access to medical necessities and healthcare. Discriminations exist between race, color, sex, language, religion, and political views in many of countries. Inconsistencies particularly exist in regards to Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights stating that, “Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.” Amarantus’ specific goals in the area of human rights for the upcoming year: ● Bring affordable and effective medications into markets and places that lack proper medical alternatives, or access to medications in general. ● Encourage the advancement of medical assisting devices for therapeutic, precautionary, and protective services. ● Maintain a supply chain for all affiliations that is in compliance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. ● Promote the advancement of research and technologies that are geared towards improving the quality of life in individuals spanning all economic, religious, ethnic, and political barriers. ● Aligning with the Sustainable Development Goals Number 3; Ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all at all ages Implementation ● A reporting structure has been implemented throughout the workplace which allows for any person to report a violation to their superior, or if uncomfortable with reporting that that individual, they can communicate directly with the upper management. ● Goal setting and reporting for all layers of management and staffing in respect to wider philanthropic initiatives. Measurement of Outcomes ● As reported, Amarantus has maintained 100% accountability throughout its supply chain of various offerings without a single report of human rights violations. Labor ● Assessment, Policy, and Goals Amarantus’ policy on labor principals acknowledges the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; and stands behind the principals of eliminating all forms of compulsory labor, the effective abolition of child labor, and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Additionally, Amarantus has an active stance against discrimination ranging from traditional forms such as sex, race or religion, to newer forms based on age, sexual orientation, HIV/AIDS status, and disability. Implementation ● Company orientation manual highlights the assessment, policy and goals of our labor principals as well as standards on personal behavior, harassment, and discrimination. ● Amarantus has an open door policy allowing for individuals to bring forward any concern or complaint that they may have regarding their employment, or the employment of others associated with Amarantus. Any item that cannot be solved in this manner will be subject to arbitration before the executive team. Measurement of Outcomes ● Amarantus has hired, brought on associates, and conducted business with companies, individuals, countries, and foundations with equal opportunity and without discrimination. ● Amarantus has had zero reports of any form of compulsory labor or child labor in any of its operations in which it has had involvement. Environment ● Assessment, Policy and Goals The environmental policy of Amarantus is reflective of our environmental commitment to individuals alike. Amarantus will continually strive to find ways to increase efficiencies, support technologies that are better for the environment, and seek to enact change at all levels of corporate engagement. Specific Goals for our environmental commitment: ● Continue to provide treatment methods and a healthier overall environment in developing nations through the company’s platform of increasing accessibility of affordable medications that are easy to administer and improve the quality of life for people affected with these diseases. Amarantus remains committed to improving the overall environment and health care options globally while upholding environmental best practices and standards. ● Continue to involve high profile individuals in humanitarian efforts worldwide in order to increase knowledge and solutions to problems that the world is currently facing. Implementation ● It is our policy to comply with all environmental laws of the respective region in which we are doing work, and when possible, institute changes that will have a positive impact on the community from an environmental standpoint. Measurement of Outcomes ● As reported, no laws or environmental concerns were raised by Amarantus’ work, supply chain, and partners. Anti-Corruption ● Assessment, Policy and Goals It is the policy of the Amarantus that corruption, fraud, theft, maladministration or any other dishonest activities of a similar nature will not be tolerated. In addition, such irregular activities will be investigated and followed up by the application of all remedies available within the full extent of the law(s) internationally, and in the country in which we are operating. Outlined in our company’s vision, employees are expected to uphold at all times, standards of integrity and behavior that will reflect positively upon themselves, their community, and Amarantus. All information and materials are regarded as confidential or proprietary. Employees should treat all of Amarantus business affairs, information, materials, plans and projects as confidential information. Amarantus complies with all anti-corruption regulations set by the national government where we do business and international bodies worldwide. The company does not tolerate or engage in any actions constituting corruption, fraud, theft and maladministration collectively such as: theft, misconduct while handling money or transactions, insider trading, false or misleading reporting, or the omission of any acts under similar contexts. Implementation ● Amarantus has an open door policy allowing for individuals to bring forward any concern or complaint that they may have regarding their employment, employment of others associated with Amarantus, or the business actions of the company. Any item that cannot be solved in this manner will be subject to arbitration before the executive team. ● Amarantus has a system of checks and balances between its divisions, executives, and managers that intends to disclose any concerning issue as they arise. ● Proper diligence into transactions and business proposals is mandatory between advisors, managers, lawyers, and executives involved in order to ensure that infractions do not occur. Measurement of Outcomes ● Amarantus has specific personal to review and look into past transactions of the company to identify any irregularity. ● New reporting and communication procedures have been put into place to streamline the dissemination of information.
