COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS For the United Nations Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Issue area – Human Rights Policy Actions Measurable outcome • Upon joining the company all Human Rights new starters are required to • Healthy Environment adhere the code of ethics. and no human rights violations or reportings. • All staff are committed to identify, prevent and mitigate any possible human rights impacts which may arise from our business activities. • Employees receive training on human rights issues so that their workplace is free from all discriminations and harassment. • Reporting procedures have been established in the event that an employee believes human rights have been violated. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Issue area – Human Rights Policy Actions Measurable outcome • The company recognizes its • Degree of satisfaction Human Rights impact on the communities amongst local stakeholders in which it operates. who will have experienced the impact of our operations. • Ensures ongoing discussions with key stakeholders and • Building confidence between the general public to ensure our company staff and the that minimal negative impact ultimate stakeholders. occurs as a result of key projects. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Issue area – Human Rights Policy Actions Measurable outcome • The company provides a • Monitoring of exceptions healthy and safe workplace which are non complied Human Rights which complies with legal relevant rules and regulations and internal regulations. requirements. • Identification of hazards and remediation of health and safety issues is constantly being investigated and any potential hazards that are identified are rectified immediately. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Issue area – Labour Policy Actions Measurable outcome • Regular announcements and • Employees are fully aware of Labour updates are sent to all employees the current position of the regarding human rights issues as company and our updated well as the business plan and internal policies. company position. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Issue area – Labour Policy Actions Measurable outcome • Bi-annual performance review is held • Satisfied Staff who with all employees to ensure standards recognize that there are Labour are being met and to identify future future career enhancing improvement and development of staff. opportunities within the company. • The company abides by the UN Global Compact principle 5 whereby we • Passports are checked prohibit the hiring of individuals that prior to employment are under the age of 18 years old for hiring to verify age and positions in which hazardous work is identity. required. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Issue area – Labour Policy Actions Measurable outcome • The company compensates employees relative to the • Salaries paid on time. Labour industry standard and sector. • Benefits paid based on each • The company operates employee performance and strictly within the local labour grade. laws terms and conditions with regards to wages and • Low turnover in terms of staff work hours and staff numbers which leads to benefits. stability within the company. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Issue area – Environment Policy Actions Measurable outcome • Create, plan and maintain • Measure existing traditional healthy green communities. methods against the new Environment initiatives we are putting in • Monitor all facets of utility place in our new supply including temperature developments. reduction, soil erosion, air quality, leak detection…,etc. • Install and maintain water saving and recycling facilities in order to achieve the environmental benefits. • To further ensure and develop increase farming productivity we are putting in place systems to ensure watershed and natural resource management is harnessed in such a way that plants and trees preserve the fertility of agricultural land. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Issue area – Environment Policy Actions Measurable outcome • Adapt light and water heating • Conservation and saving of Environment systems to solar power as energy. apposed to fossil fuel resources in our communities. • Reduced cost of power consumption. • Improve quality of sewage and waste of water disposal • Ultimate benefit to the end through dedicated sewage user. treatment plants including the option of recycling waste water. • More hygienic environment and less reliance on fossil fuel consumption. • Measure positive impact of new environmental initiatives. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Issue area – Environment Policy Actions Measurable outcome • Provide the recycle bins to the • Monitor waste reduction. Environment communities to ensure that household waste is disposed of • Measure effectiveness of the correct manner to avoid recycling initiatives. contamination of the surrounding environment. • Gauge the feedback on the Clean Up the World • Promote the Clean Up the campaign. World Campaign in our communities. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Issue area – Environment Policy Actions Measurable outcome • We extend the use of our • Percentage of our success Environment facility to further enhance ratio in attracting both the betterment of the business and charity events community and regularly back to our venue which hold charity events. helps create a sustainable relationship with both our customers and the general public. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Issue area – Anti-Corruption Policy Actions Measurable outcome • We have an initiative to monitor the • Measurement of the accuracy of Anti-Corruption community that can contribute to the financial reports and compliance. detection of corruption and potential reduction of the leakage of funds which • Continuing to identify gaps between will also improve the quantity and legislation and internal audit quality of the services provided. regulations. • Ensure robust anti-corruption measures • Measure accountability and and practices are in place to protect the transparency. company reputation and the interests of our stakeholders. (Risk assessment, reporting and supply chain practices) • A ongoing system is in place focusing on improving financial management, such as disclosure of budget information, which prevents waste and misappropriation of resources. • Studying the current smart government which would transform all the governmental authorities into e-services this would give us additional protection against the treat of petty corruption. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Issue area – Anti-corruption Policy Actions Measurable outcome • We have and continue to • Measured by the return on strive to deliver a sustainable investment and continued Anti-Corruption strategy for all our business repeat business. projects ensuring we work with all clients to deliver • Retention of customers and responsible, safe, effective, positive customer feedback is social, educational and key measurement. ethical partnerships. • No non conformance issues • Limit our liability by ensuring with regulatory authorities. we adhere to all rules and regulations that are required at a legislative level. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Issue area – Anti-corruption Policy Actions Measurable outcome • We have adopted an international • This measure results in Anti-Corruption Risk Management Framework robust planning, strategy which is COSO Enterprise Risk setting and more focus on Management (ERM) Framework– achieving the objectives. 2004. It helps to ensure that all the risks related to human rights, fraud, • We consider the measures corruption, security breach, system taken, and reduce the level objectives, etc. are identified of risks as per our Risk assessed and addressed if needed Appetite statements. as per internationally recognized standards. ERM assists us to ensure that objectives and goals of Union Properties, including those linked with UNGC are achieved by continuously monitoring the hindrances and risks associated with those objectives and addressing them with effective, efficient and timely mitigation plans. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Issue area – Anti-corruption Policy Actions Measurable outcome • All departments are audited • Any shortcomings will be Anti-Corruption internally, and externally by the rectified. Dubai Government Audit Control every year to ensure compliance. • All employees are vetted by the • Any employee who fail in National Security Department prior the vetting process aren’t to employment being confirmed. offered employment in order to ensure competent employees are hired. Thank You
