TOTO Corporate Report 2016 Preface The Spirit of TOTO Unchanging for 100 Years Words of Our Founder Philosophy System for TOTO Group Management Kindness must always come first. Bring the concept of service to your work. Company Mottos Your goal should be to provide good products and TOTO Group satisfy the customer. Corporate Philosophy Accomplish that, and profit and Charter of TOTO Group Corporate Behavior compensation will follow. Many in this world chase after the shadow of profit. Common Group Philosophy The common group philosophy represents the But, in the end, they never capture the real thing. inherited values of TOTO that are shared among employees and will be carried forward into the future. A letter written by the TOTO’s first president, Heart Kazuchika Okura, to his successor, Saburo Momoki, contains words that have been treasured as the Body “Words of the Predecessor.” In 1962, we formulated the Company Mottos based Visions for Business Activities on our corporate activities in the future while respecting Our vision and mission are positioned as the course of our business activities that change in accordance with the tradition of TOTO's founding. the demands of the times. These established ideas from our founding are formulated into philosophy system for TOTO group Vision management so they are appropriate for this time and Mission can be shared by the TOTO Group. Midor Long-Term Management Plan Contents Preface TOTO NOW The Spirit of TOTO Unchanging for 100 Years 1 Manufacturing 19 Message from the President 3 Global Expansion 21 TOTO’s History 5 Strengths Supporting Business Midor Long-Term Management Plan CSR Management 23 TOTO V-Plan 2017 7 For Customer Satisfaction 24 Global Housing Equipment Business 9 All Employees Together 25 Japan Housing Equipment Business Together with Suppliers 27 Global Housing Equipment Business 11 For the Society 28 China & Asia Housing Equipment Business and Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business Stakeholder Engagement 29 New Business Domains 13 Advanced Ceramics Business/Green Building Materials Business Third-Party Opinion 30 Marketing Innovation 14 Demand Chain Innovation/Management Resource Innovation 15 Corporate Governance 16 TOTO Global Environmental Vision 17 1 TOTO TOTOCorporate CorporateReport Report2016 2016 Preface TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy The TOTO Group strives to be a great company, trusted by people all around the world, Midor Long-Term Management Plan and contributing to the betterment of society. To achieve our philosophy, TOTO will: Create an enriched and more comfortable lifestyle and culture built on our plumbing products. Pursue customer satisfaction by exceeding expectations with our products and services. Provide high-quality products and services through ongoing research and development. Protect the global environment by conserving finite natural resources and energy. Create an employee friendly work environment that respects the individuality of each employee. Charter of TOTO Group Corporate Behavior (Purpose) The TOTO Group wants to contribute to socio-economic development and be a broadly helpful entity for society by creating added value through fair competition and encouraging job creation in the countries and regions in which its businesses are promoted. To realize that, all people working for the TOTO Group strive to play an active role with a strong sense of duty based on the concepts indicated in the corporate motto and philosophy, and to fulfill their social responsibilities. The Charter of TOTO Group Corporate Behavior stipulates the basic stance of behavior of all people working for TOTO Group to realize all stakeholders’ satisfaction. TOTO NOW For details regarding the Charter of TOTO Corporate Behavior, please see the Common Group Philosophy section on our website at: http://www.toto.co.jp/en/company/profile/philosophy/group/ Vision Toward a Dynamic, Vibrant and Excellent TOTO Mission Strengths Supporting Business TOTO CORPORATE REPORT 2016 Editorial Policy TOTO Group Communication Tools This report has been published as an integrated communication tool for all of our ● A Brief Introduction to the Essence of TOTO Group stakeholders. This report introduces information such as the origins of the TOTO Group and business activity topics in addition to annual financial/ESG (Environmental, Social, and TOTO Guide Governance) data. This corporate report communicates TOTO's corporate stance to be ● Overview and Details on TOTO Group Activities committed to linking its past and present performance with initiatives designed to further enhance corporate value for the future. TOTO Corporate Report 2016 ● Period of reporting: FY2015 (April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016) ● Containing the Activities and Technical Data of *: This report includes some information pertaining to before or after the period. the TOTO Group ● Scope of reporting: TOTO Corporate View 2016 TOTO LTD. and Group companies http://www.toto.co.jp/en/company/profile/library/ ● Guidelines: ● Latest TOTO Group Information Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Reference guidelines are available on the TOTO Group website. http://www.toto.co.jp/en/company/csr/stakeholder/gri/ TOTO Group Website http://www.toto.com/ TOTO Corporate Report 2016 2 Preface Message from the President We will progress toward the next generation with unchanging spirit of our predecessors close to our hearts. Unchanging Spirit The TOTO Group conducts corporate activities with the aim of continuing to widely contribute to society and to the earth’s environment. Underlying this is our founder’s conviction to improve the lifestyle and culture of the people, and to provide a healthy and civilized way of life. This belief has been passed down unbroken to each and every employee as the Common Group Philosophy, and is collectively regarded as the starting point for customer satisfaction. The TOTO Group's view on CSR management is that corporate activities should be promoted from a perspective of ESG (Environment, Society, and Governance). By doing so, we are working towards a strategic integration of our business and CSR activities. The core of our business is deeply rooted in the way we think about CSR. This sentiment is clearly recorded in a letter entitled “Words of the Predecessor” which was written by TOTO’s first president to his successor, and in our Corporate Mottos. The conviction inherited at our founding is the heart of our manufacturing and the core of management. Company Mottos 4 3 2 1 1 Take pride in your work, and strive to do your best 2 Quality and Uniformity 3 Service and Trust 4 Cooperation and Prosperity 3 TOTO Corporate Report 2016 Together with all of our stakeholders Global expansion I believe our business is for all of our stakeholders from We must strengthen our global expansion of our our customers and employees to our shareholders. businesses even further to evolve by achieving the TOTO Preface Continuing to provide products that have social V Plan 2017, and then track the sustainable growth. value at the appropriate price is vital to bring Based on the idea that Japan is one part of the world, satisfaction to our customers. we integrated our independent Japan Housing Equipment Midor Long-Term Management Plan An environment that is always able to bring out Businesses from a global perspective in a new system the fullest potential of employees is necessary to composed of the Japan Housing Equipment Business, achieve this. Therefore, we respect the individuality of China & Asia Housing Equipment Business, and the people with diverse backgrounds and seek to develop Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business. We will self-motivated human assets who can think and act on enhance the sustainability and speed of our businesses as their own. well as improve our corporate value by accelerating TOTO will contribute to society through our decision making and reinforcing global links. business, which makes practical use of fresh ideas that are borne from our will to challenge to create rich and Official Partner (Plumbing Equipment) of the Tokyo comfortable lifestyles. 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games In addition, one important management priority is TOTO has entered into an official partnership (plumbing to see a return of profit to all our shareholders. We are equipment) agreement for the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and striving to maintain a stable dividend while aiming to Paralympic Games. TOTO NOW bring returns on the profit generated from our I hope to contribute to the specific vision of the business performance. games based on our corporate philosophy to create an enriched and more comfortable lifestyle and culture TOTO V-Plan 2017 built on plumbing products by creating and continually In 2009, The TOTO Group developed our long-term providing plumbing spaces that can be used safely, Strengths Supporting Business management plan, TOTO V-Plan 2017, towards securely, and comfortably by all of the athletes coming celebrating our 100th anniversary. In this plan, we are to Japan to compete in the games and all of the people focused on becoming a company trusted by everyone who come to cheer for them. in each of our global business regions. In addition, our products aim to continue to realize For the next generation lifestyles with a low environmental impact while Although TOTO V-Plan 2017 is our goal for the supporting our customers to live comfortably. We are company’s centenary, I see it only as a transit point on working to realize this objective as a Group with the our way to the future beyond. We will heighten TOTO Global Environmental Vision as the driving force corporate value by sustaining and accelerating this behind these business activities. momentum to exceed the expectations of today for a As the issue of water resource becomes severe, better tomorrow as a company able to create and TOTO will offer products that consider the environment provide lifestyle value. to customers around the world as a company that has been closely tied to water since the founding to Providing the World a New Every Day. contribute in realizing a truly sustainable society. Everyone in the TOTO Group will work in unison to achieve the goals we have set forth. Madoka Kitamura President, Representative Director TOTO Corporate Report 2016 4 Preface TOTO’s History We walk a path of innovation with 1914 Japan’s First Seated Flush Toilet Prompted by exposure to advanced lifestyles overseas, TOTO founder Kazuchika Okura developed a strong desire to provide comfortable and sanitary living spaces. He subsequently established a ceramic sanitary ware laboratory, when the concept of public sewage systems was not yet widespread in Japan. And then in 1914, we completed Japan’s first ceramic seated flush toilet. 1964 First Prefabricated Bathroom Module Japan's first prefabricated bathroom modules (based on Japanese Industrial Standards) were delivered to the Hotel New Otani in 1964. The construction period was dramatically reduced and the aesthetic also improved. WASHLET® Transformed 1980 ‌the Japanese Lifestyle The WASHLET®, a toilet seat featuring a warm water shower that transformed the Japanese lifestyle and environment of toilet equipment, was released in 1980. 5 TOTO Corporate Report 2016 the spirit passed down since the founding of TOTO. Preface Evolution of the Toilet Midor Long-Term Management Plan Technology to realize water conservation and cleanliness * * Conventional toilet Cefiontect Tornado Flush System Cefiontect The NEOREST tankless toilet realizes water conservation The swirling tornado stream uses a The concave ceramic surface is smooth and cleanliness like never before thanks to the Tornado small amount of water effectively to at a nano level of one to the one efficiently clean even tough stains. millionth millimeter. This unique TOTO Flush System and Cefiontect technology. This flushing system evenly and fully technology repels dirt and makes cleans the toilet bowl. cleaning easy. Evolution of the Bathroom TOTO NOW Technology to realize comfort and environmental performance * Strengths Supporting Business Easy-to-Clean Warm, and quick AIR-IN SHOWER showerhead SAZANA is a system bathroom that realizes great drying Floor Technology to aerate the water comfort and environmental performance thanks to the More ease of cleaning of the Hokkarari enabled larger water droplets Floor, with comfortable softness and providing users with an enjoyable easy-to-clean warm, and quick drying floor, AIR-IN keeping warmth by special hydrophilic shower experience. SHOWER showerhead, and thermal insulating bathtub. treatment. Evolution of the WASHLET® Leading WASHLET® Technology * * ewater+ Instantaneous Heated Toilet Seat WASHLET® Apricot provides ewater+ to guarantee TOTO’s clean Antibacterial A sensor detects the people’s a clean toilet bowl and nozzle as well as electrolyzed water technology cleans movements to only heat the toilet the source of dirt. seat during use. an instantaneous heated toilet seat. *: Illustrative images TOTO Corporate Report 2016 6 Midor Long-Term Management Plan TOTO V-Plan 2017 The TOTO Group formulated the TOTO V-Plan 2017 as a long-term management plan in July 2009. This strategic framework is to reinforce corporate governance and has three core businesses; domestic housing equipment, overseas housing equipment, and new business domains. This framework also promotes marketing innovation, demand chain innovation, and management resource innovation as three companywide, cross-departmental innovation activities. The TOTO Global Environmental Vision will be the driving force behind these business activities and promoted in the entire Group. Moreover, we have integrated our housing businesses from a global perspective in fiscal 2016 to further reinforce and promote our two core businesses; the global Housing Equipment Business, which is made up of the Japan, China & Asia Housing Equipment Be a truly global company by 2017 Provide customers over the world with a new “everyday” and continue to be indispensable to society. Business, and Americas & FY2017: Achieve net sales of ¥650 billion, operating income of ¥61 billion and ROA/ROE of 10% or more* 1 Europe Housing Equipment Business, and our new Realizing environmental contribution through “TOTO Global Environmental Vision” business domains, which are ing sing s IN STI C ous ess houusines DO MA nes s made up of ceramics and DO ME e s tic ht busin BAL GLO seas r t b NEW busi n e men w Dom ip m e O v ip N e ains equ equ dom green building materials. Strengthen corporate Cultivate new markets, Restructure new structure to ensure drive growth domain business from The management plan profit generation a global perspective Targets of V-Plan 2017 Targets of V-Plan 2017 Targets of V-Plan 2017 goals* for fiscal 2017 target net 1 Net sales: ¥455 billion Net sales: ¥158 billion Net sales: ¥37 billion Operating income: ¥37 billion Operating income: ¥22 billion Operating income: ¥3 billion sales of 650 billion yen, an operating income of 61 billion Marketing innovation yen, ROA of 10% or more (on a Demand chain innovation basis of operating income), and Management resource innovation ROE of 10% or more (on a basis of net income). Strengthen corporate governance Actual Results since the Formulation of TOTO V-Plan 2017, Projected Results for Fiscal 2016, and Targets for Fiscal 2017 (Unit: Billion yen, rounded down) FY2009 actual FY2010 actual FY2011 actual FY2012 actual FY2013 actual FY2014 actual FY2015 actual FY2016 planned FY2017 target*1 Net sales 421.9 433.5 452.6 476.2 553.4 544.5 567.8 600.0 650.0 Operating income 6.5 14.0 18.7 23.3 47.1 37.4 46.1 51.0 61.0 Operating margin 1.6% 3.2% 4.1% 4.9% 8.5% 6.9% 8.1% 8.5% 9.4% ROA (on a basis of 1.7% 3.7% 5.0% 6.0% 10.7% 7.5% 8.8% 9.4% More than 10% operating income) ROE (on a basis of 0.5% 2.8% 5.2% 8.8% 19.4% 10.0% 13.1% 13.1% More than 10% net income) *: TOTO ‌ Group focuses on the operating income margin, ROA (on a basis of operating income) and ROE (on a basis of net income) as management indicators to monitor improvements in the growth and profitability of our business and to ensure the efficient management of our assets. *: ROA ‌ = Operating income / Total assets, ROE = Net income / Equity (Unit: billion yen) (Unit: billion yen) 9.4% 800.0 80.0 8.5% 8.5% 8.1% 6.9% 600.0 60.0 400.0 4.1% 4.9% 40.0 3.2% 200.0 1.6% 20.0 0.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 0.0 (Planned) (Target*1) Net sales (left axis) Operating income (right axis) Operating margin *1: This ‌ Medium-term Management Plan based on assumptions, estimates and plans as of May 23, 2014. Actual performance may differ materially from these forward-looking statements, competition and foreign currency exchange rates. 7 TOTO Corporate Report 2016 TOTO V-Plan 2017 Overview TOTO Global Environmental Vision The TOTO Group established the TOTO Global Environmental Vision in 2014 for the purpose of taking its environmental Preface contribution activities an evolutionary step further while facing up to the environmental problems of each country and region. Based on six themes of global environmental activities, the entire TOTO Group is committed to making contributions to the global environment through our business activities. Midor Long-Term Management Plan p.17 Core Businesses Domestic housing equipment business Overseas housing equipment business New business domains As Japan continues to transition to a stockAs a driver of growth, the foundations of This business is expanding globally, with based society with a declining number of new the Overseas housing equipment business TOTO “Only One” technologies for ceramic housing starts, we will further accelerate our will be strengthened to withstand products built on our experience with remodeling strategy, which is one of TOTO’s changing markets and environments in ceramic sanitary ware, and with strengths. TOTO is promoting the construction countries we operate. This business will HYDROTECT technology, which uses of a highly-profitable corporate constitution by develop new markets and lead to growth photocatalytic technology to provide also pushing ahead with cost structure reforms for the TOTO Group. environmental cleaning through for sustainable growth. p.9 p.11 the power of light. p.13 Cross-organizational Innovation Activities Marketing Innovation In charge of product strategy from an optimal company-wide perspective p.14 Demand Chain Innovation Early and efficient response to the demands of customers p.15 TOTO NOW Management Resource Innovation Drives innovation through the efforts of diverse human assets p.15 Strengthen corporate governance For matters requiring management decisions, TOTO recognizes the importance of systematizing “who makes the decision, on what and where” as well as “what checks are implemented” in a fair and honest manner. TOTO has adopted the Audit & Supervising Board system and been promoting more efficient and effective decision-making, supervision, and business execution, with the aim Strengths Supporting Business of continuously increasing corporate value. p.16 Based on the TOTO V-Plan 2017 formulated in 2009, Sales Breakdown Ratio (FY2015) two years in fiscal 2010 to 2011 was building the New business domains etc. foundations and medium-term management plan for 4% fiscal 2012 to 2014 was formulated in 2012. In fiscal 2013, targets for fiscal 2014 were achieved ahead of time and new medium-term management ¥567.8 billion plan for fiscal 2014 to 2017 was formulated. Japan Our performance in fiscal 2015, which was the 74% second year of our medium-term management plan, saw a net profit of 567.8 billion yen (4.3% increase China & Asia and Americas & Europe from previous year) and an operating income of 46.1 22% Europe billion yen (23.3% increase from previous year). Americas 3% 24% ¥127.3 billion Asia China 24% 49% TOTO Corporate Report 2016 8 Midor Long-Term Management Plan TOTO V-Plan 2017 Core Businesses Global Housing Equipment Business Japan Housing Equipment Business *: The ‌ domestic Housing Equipment Business is now referred to as the Japan Housing Equipment Business from fiscal 2016 in the TOTO V-Plan 2017. FY2015 actual Year-on-year net sales Net sales ¥420.3 billion + 5% Difference from previous year Operating income ¥28.5 billion + ¥9.5 billion Year-on-year net sales Growth in remodeling segment +8 % Business Performance (Unit: billion yen) (Unit: billion yen) 500.0 446.6 455.0 50.0 433.9 420.3 386.8 400.0 375.4 37.0 400.0 354.1 361.0 36.1 40.0 31.5 323.0 293.0 28.5 300.0 248.4 258.1 263.7 303.4 30.0 236.2 248.0 284.4 21.8 19.0 200.0 17.2 20.0 11.0 100.0 4.7 10.0 0.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 0.0 (Planned) (Target*) Net sales (left axis) Operating income (right axis) Remodeling net sales (left axis) *: This ‌ Medium-term Management Plan based on assumptions, estimates and plans as of May 23, 2014. Actual performance may differ materially from these forward-looking statements, competition and foreign currency exchange rates. Fiscal 2015 Achievements The housing market in Japan is recovering with the launch of support measures for housing by the government in addition to the ongoing and steady improvement of the employment and income environment which followed the economic recovery. The TOTO Group has gained overall traction, especially in house remodeling, with the growth of the remodeling segment. Detached homes are in an upward trend even in the new construction segment. Profits in hotels for the public are also steadily shifting. In terms of products, profits mainly in WASHLET ®, WASHLET ® with integrated toilets, and system baths are steadily shifting. The three companies of TOTO, DAIKEN and YKK AP (“TDY”) continued to promote Green Remodeling. Remodeling TDY Remodeling is a promise to go beyond ordinary alterations and extensions, proposing TDY is an alliance that began as a partnership which is not founded in a capital and realizing a new lifestyle for customers which surpass their expectations. relationship between TOTO, a manufacturer of plumbing equipment for housing, Green Remodeling is a collaborative concept between the TDY proposed in the Daiken Corporation, a construction material company, and YKK APP, a window 2008. This system is proposing products and building spaces to realize health and exterior company, in February 2002 consciousness, long-term housing, and CO2 reductions by cooperating and to undertake efforts that include utilizing the technology of each company. The initiative realizes living spaces cultivating awareness of the Green friendly to both people and the Earth while making the life and lifestyle dreams of Remodeling business as well as each family come true. developing and collaboratively providing products with synergy. 9 TOTO Corporate Report 2016 Preface Midor Long-Term Management Plan TOTO offers residential products for the restroom, bathroom, kitchen, and washroom, along with faucets, to meet both new construction and remodeling demand. We also offer products for restroom and washroom spaces in public facilities such as offices, commercial facilities, and hotels. TOTO can offer complete plumbing system solutions with products featuring unique TOTO technology to reduce environmental impact by conserving hot and cold water and saving energy. National Expansion of TDY Cooperation Showrooms TOTO NOW Cooperation Showrooms are expanding throughout Japan as sites to communicate Cooperation Showrooms information about remodeling by the three in Japan Showroom (as of July 2016) TD Sapporo TDY companies. The TDY Nagoya Cooperation Showroom opened in March 2016. TY Niigata (Planned to open Dec. 2016) Strengths Supporting Business TDY Kanazawa The twelfth Cooperation Showroom in (Opened Apr. 2016) TDY Osaka Japan is scheduled to open in Niigata in TDY Hiroshima TDY Tokyo December 2016. We are advancing proposals TY Yokohama TY Shizuoka of green remodeling to realize comfortable yet environmentally-friendly lifestyles through TDY Nagoya TDY Takamatsu exhibition of interiors and consulting enhanced TDY Fukuoka (Opened Jul. 2016) TY Kumamoto by this three company partnership. (Opened May 2016) *: There are 89 other unique TOTO Showrooms throughout Japan. Green Remodeling Fair 2015 The Green Remodeling Fair 2015 was held in four Japanese cities (Tokyo, Nagoya, Osaka, and Fukuoka) through the TDY three company cooperative from April to July 2015. We have generated appeal for interiors that have been further improved, such as with energy-saving performance, durability, and ease of cleaning, by collaborating with housing-related manufacturers and energy companies that approve of the green remodeling concept proposed by TDY. Green Remodeling Fair 2015 TOTO Corporate Report 2016 10 Midor Long-Term Management Plan TOTO V-Plan 2017 Core Businesses Global Housing Equipment Business China & Asia Housing Equipment Business and Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business *: The ‌ Overseas Housing Equipment Business is now referred to as the China & Asia Housing Equipment Business and Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business from fiscal 2016. FY2015 actual Year-on-year Net sales ¥127.3 billion + 2% Difference from previous year Operating income ¥21.4 billion ¥-0.6 billion (Difference from previous year 2012 ratio of WASHLET® unit sales excluding the effects of foreign Dramatic increase in Approx.1.9 times exchange + 100 million yen) WASHLET® unit sales Shift in Results (Unit: billion yen) (Unit: billion yen) 200.0 80.0 158.0 150.0 127.3 130.0 60.0 124.8 101.1 100.0 40.0 75.1 62.6 23.2 52.4 55.7 22.0 21.4 22.0 50.0 15.4 20.0 5.6 7.2 7.0 7.7 0.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0.0 (FY) (Planned) (Target*) Net sales (left axis) Operating income (right axis) *: The ‌ fiscal 2017 targets are the same as those announced on May 23, 2014 These figures are subject to change in the future. Fiscal 2015 Achievements In the overseas housing equipment market, we have been promoting steady growth strategies while focusing on economic and social trends in each country and region. WASHLET®, which are one of our primary products, are showing steady growth by strongly appealing to customers in each country with Group-wide activities such as awareness, experience, and sales activities to the increasing number of people visiting Japan from abroad, including the promotion of installations at upscale hotels around the world. China We are promoting business activities by utilizing our strength as a luxury brand while focusing on changes in the market environment and the purchasing of consumers centered upon metropolitan areas in leading cities. Asia We are enhancing our production systems in Vietnam and Thailand as the supply base of the world and strengthening our sales capabilities in the markets of developing countries. Americas We are increasing brand value and differentiating ourselves from the competition through product superiority and value transmission in intermediate and luxury markets. Europe We are advancing the configuration of sales channels especially in Germany, France, and England, and furthering exhibitions of our products at distributor showrooms. We are also promoting the application of our products on high-class sites such as hotels by improving brand awareness. 11 TOTO Corporate Report 2016 Preface Midor Long-Term Management Plan TOTO is expanding products for the restroom and washroom, along with bathtubs and faucets, that feature unique technologies developed in Japan. TOTO proposes total solutions for plumbing spaces with low environmental impact as well as unified design. Try Toilet Space Opens in the Aerial Gateway to Japan GALLERY TOTO opened in April 2015 in the skyway inside the Terminal 2 building at Narita International Airport where visitors can “try out” the latest model. This toilet space of course has fixtures such as WASHLET® NEOREST installed, and integrates cultural sensitivities from both the east and west. This is represented by open, high-quality spaces existing in ten different booths to share Japanese toilet culture and technology with people visiting Japan from abroad. “GALLERY TOTO” toilet showcase ©DAICI ANO Constructing a Sanitary Ware Production Factory in Vietnam TOTO NOW TOTO is constructing a production factory for new sanitary ware in Vietnam. We are aiming to begin full operations in 2018 to enhance Strengths Supporting Business our production system as a supply base in Asia for the world, including our production system for local consumption that we have had up until now. We have brought together the latest technology and know-how in its construction based on the TOTO Global Vision Exterior image of the new TOTO Vietnam Factory (tentative) formulated in 2014 to realize an environmentally-friendly green factory with measures such as the implementation of the newest and most energy efficient tunnel kilns. Increasing the Adoption of WASHLET® at European Hotels We are increasing the adoption of WASHLET® in all rooms of European Hotels: Total Number of WASHLET® *: ‌Number of WASHLET® installations in all rooms is indicated in European hotels by improving brand awareness. brackets 41 rooms We delivered plumbing equipment, including WASHLET® (6 rooms) such as the NEOREST, to Schloss Elmau, which is a renowned five star hotel and resort in Germany. 12 rooms (0 rooms) 2010 2015 TOTO Corporate Report 2016 12 Midor Long-Term Management Plan TOTO V-Plan 2017 Core Businesses New Business Domains Advanced Ceramics Business/Green Building Materials Business FY2015 actual Year-on-year Net sales ¥19.8 billion Year-on-year +3% Advanced Ceramics Business Net Sales ¥10.6 billion Year-on-year + 1% Green Building Materials Business Net Sales ¥9.2 billion +4% Shift in Results (Unit: billion yen) (Unit: billion yen) 40.0 37.0 16.0 30.0 12.0 23.0 19.4 19.8 18.0 20.0 16.5 8.0 15.0 14.4 14.1 3.0 10.0 4.0 1.3 0.0 ‒1.5 ‒0.3 0.0 ‒2.1 0.0 ‒2.7 ‒2.9 ‒3.6 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) –4.0 (Planned) (Target*) Net sales (left axis) Operating income (right axis) *: The ‌ fiscal 2017 targets are the same as those announced on May 23, 2014 These figures are subject to change in the future. Fiscal 2015 Achievements All of our new domain businesses have become profitable with the growth of revenue in the advanced ceramics business. Advanced Ceramics Business Production adjustments of popular products in the optical communication market have continued and revenue has decreased. However, growth in the future is expected as the technical migration to the next generation of high-speed communications is clear. In the semiconductor market, the revenue increased from the previous year, especially with the growth of new product revenue of electrostatic chucks, by proposing solutions for state-ofthe-art semiconductor devices in a timely manner. We are improving profitability while effectively enhancing quality around customers. We have also strengthened our profit infrastructure. Green Building Materials Business HYDROTECT is a TOTO environmental cleaning technology brand that uses photocatalysts to make the world and even lifestyles cleaner through the power of light and water. Many of our partnership companies are already using a wide range of green building material products on building exteriors as well as interior walls and floors. In addition, we are furthering our environmental contribution while popularizing HYDROTECT with business strategies that expand from the center of Japan overseas as well as with more global partnerships across business categories. Advanced Ceramics Business Green Building Materials Business 6th Monozukuri Nippon Grand Award TOTO manufactures and sells a range of high-quality, TOTO offers paints and building materials utilizing Prime Minister's Prize high-precision ceramics for the semiconductor, plasma HYDROTECT, an environmental purification technology. This award was presented for the development of low display manufacturing, and fiber optic communications TOTO also enters license agreements and technology dusting materials for manufacturing devices that industries, including air bearings, electrostatic chucks, introduction contracts with companies worldwide support the next-generation of semiconductor devices. bonding capillaries, and receptacles. handling exterior building materials (including tile, paint, metal panels, glass, and architectural stone). Advanced Ceramics Green Building Materials 13 TOTO Corporate Report 2016 Midor Long-Term Management Plan TOTO V-Plan 2017 Cross-organizational Innovation Activities Marketing Innovation Marketing We will comprehensively advance our development and production activities for creating attractive product designs and functions globally that will put a smile on our customers’ faces. Preface Additionally, we are strengthening our product planning and development based on the markets and characteristics of each area while leveraging our core technologies created in Japan as global commonbase technologies. Midor Long-Term Management Plan Technology Core Technologies Created in Japan Tornado Flush System The Tornado Flush efficiently cleanses even the most stubborn grim and effectively uses a small amount of water. ewater+ TOTO’s clean technology ewater+ cleans from the roots. Cefiontect The roughness of the ceramic surface is minimized to a nano level of one to the one millionth millimeter. This unique TOTO technology repels dirt and makes cleaning easy. * * * Conventional toilet Cefiontect Tornado Flush System ewater+ Cefiontect *: Illustrative images TOTO NOW Strengths Supporting Business Expanding Together with Communities and the World Design Products to sell overseas are commercialized through functions of core technologies developed in Japan that are tailored to each country and region with likable designs. We also provide a product line-up with a variation of designs and functions that are not sold in Japan through the integration of Japanese technological capabilities, environmental performance, and overseas toilet culture by taking into account the difference of lifestyles in each country and region. Japan China Asia Americas Europe Technology + Design Gaining International Praise Award The technology, functions, and polished integrated designs unique to TOTO have been highly praised and presented with several international awards. iF Product Design Award /Red Dot Design Award. GREEN GOOD DESIGN AWARDS Neorest DH Aqua Auto (Automatic selfNEOREST AIR-IN OVERHEAD SHOWER sustaining powered faucet) TOTO Corporate Report 2016 14 Midor Long-Term Management Plan TOTO V-Plan 2017 Cross-organizational Innovation Activities Demand Chain Innovation Demand Chain We are striving toward demand chain innovation by integrating supply chain innovation and manufacturing innovation. Supply chain innovation builds a high-speed supply chain for the entire process from raw material procurement to the delivery of goods to customer construction sites. Manufacturing innovation furthers manufacturing with new ingenuity that surpasses existing conventions with company-wide production and technology development systems. This allows us to integrate product planning, research and development, production technology, purchasing, manufacturing, logistics, sales, and aftercare services to advance the configuration of a system able to more quickly respond to the demands of customers. Main Progress in Fiscal 2015 Supply chain innovation establishes procurement and platforms (more efficient design), next-generation distribution networks through the restructuring of production methods, and global production site distribution sites and integrates production and sales optimization. We are also promoting a global platform departments based on the basic policies for action to further cost reductions with more similarity of according to unified production, sales, distribution, products and centralized purchasing of raw materials as purchasing, and information. This further minimizes well as shorter development periods and improved delivery divergence, inventories, and supply chain costs. production. In addition, we are working to improve Manufacturing innovation advances innovation production through manufacturing that integrates activities with new perspectives on materials, global development and manufacturing departments. Management Resource Innovation Management Resource TOTO positions human assets as the most important of all management resources. By aiming to continue selflearning, securing distinctive human assets and actualizing a challenge-oriented corporate culture, we are promoting diversity while strengthening our HR development. In addition, we are evaluating and organizing our assets in parallel with aggressive investments to achieve financial growth in order to streamline and enhance our financial standing. Main Progress in Fiscal 2015 We are providing support to facilitate enthusiasm in In terms of human asset development, we have the workplace by promoting the efforts of women in enhanced programs such as training and internships various fields, opening of management positions, for core management sites overseas by advancing furthering the employment of people with surveys and research for global human resource disabilities in conjunction with improving the management. We have reinforced our enlightenment working environment. activities in order to build a self-learning atmosphere while strengthening and enhancing stratified training to nurture a climate in Japan able to step up to the challenges in every generation. 15 TOTO Corporate Report 2016 Midor Long-Term Management Plan TOTO V-Plan 2017 Corporate Governance Basic Stance on Corporate Governance The TOTO Group strives to be a great company, trusted by people all around the world, contributing to the betterment of society. In addition to being a corporate entity engaged in the pursuit of profit through fair competition, the Group conducts Preface its business in such a way as to continue to benefit society broadly. In order to realize this target, we believe it is important to build a system for pursuing and supervising fair and equitable management, and clearly define a philosophy that serves as the Midor Long-Term Management Plan basis of such a system. 1 The TOTO Group has developed a philosophy system for of four members, including two outside members. We TOTO Group management. This includes a common have built a system to ensure their effective audits Group philosophy, representing the inherited values of through their attendance of major meetings, including TOTO that will be carried forward into the future. This meetings of the Board of Directors, and the exchange of represents the “heart” of our philosophy. Also, our opinions with Directors on a regular basis. philosophy system includes visions for business activities representing the direction of our action to be 3 To complement audits by Audit & Supervisory Board reviewed in accordance with the demands of the times. Members and independent accounting auditors and to This is positioned as the “body in action.” All of our build a stronger internal control system, we have business activities are based on this philosophy system. established the Internal Audit Office in-house, which is independent of operational divisions. With the 2 To ensure operational decisions and business execution establishment of the Internal Audit Office, we have in compliance with relevant laws and regulations and strengthened our internal audits under the direction of TOTO’s Articles of Incorporation, TOTO has a Board of the President. Audit & Supervisory Board Members, TOTO NOW Directors and an Audit & Supervisory Board, and retains independent accounting auditors and members of the independent accounting auditors. The Board of Internal Audit Office carry out audits as a three-party audit Directors, emphasizing fairness, objectivity, and team. In addition, we strive to enhance the quality and transparency, has appointed three Outside Directors effectiveness of audits through close collaboration among who are independent of the TOTO Group. The Outside the three parties, which involves reviewing audit results by Directors give various advices and make proposals on Audit & Supervisory Board Members and exchanging Strengths Supporting Business our overall management. The Audit & Supervisory Board information at meetings, among other activities. audits the business execution of directors and consists Corporate Governance and Business Operations Appointment/Dismissal TOTO General Meeting of Shareholders Three-party audit team Appointment/Dismissal TOTO Audit & Compensation Advisory Committee Supervisory Board Audit Report TOTO Board of Directors Nominating Advisory Committee TOTO Independent Special Committee Accounting Auditors Report Appointment, delegation, supervision Direction Consultation TOTO Internal Audit Office President TOTO Management Committee Executive Officer Internal audits Delegation CSR Committee Other meetings and committees Direction, supervision Japan Housing Equipment China & Asia Housing Americas & Europe Housing New-Domain business Company-wide Divisions Business Equipment Business Equipment Business Cross-organizational tasks TOTO Corporate Report 2016 16 Midor Long-Term Management Plan TOTO V-Plan 2017 TOTO Global Environmental Vision The TOTO Group Environmental Vision is promoted together with our business activities. The TOTO Group established the TOTO Global Environmental Vision in 2014 for the purpose of taking its environmental contribution activities an evolutionary step further while facing up to the environmental problems of each country and region. Based on six themes of global environmental activities, the entire TOTO Group is committed to making contributions to the global environment through our business activities. With a view to realizing the TOTO Global Environmental Vision, the TOTO Group established Global Environment Goals to be pursued until the end of fiscal 2017, the century of our foundation. As a company that is largely involved with water, we are committed to setting clear targets for each of the six themes centered around conserving water. We are aiming to realize the TOTO V-Plan by promoting the Global Environmental Vision. Global Environment Goals until FY2017 We are working at setting targets through the global introduction of waterReduction of water consumption saving products, with the aim of reducing water consumption during during product use* FY2015 actual product use by 700 million m3 by fiscal 2017 compared to the amount of Conserving Water water consumed by products with 2005’s performance that are still in use. Fiscal 2015 saw a reduction of 660 million m3. In addition, shipping ratios of water-saving toilets (less than 4.8 liters) progressed favorably with 78% domestic and 59% overseas. From here onwards also, we will be 660 million m3 FY2017 target contributing to conserving water resources through our business by popularizing water-saving products around the world. Water-saving Toilets in Each Country 700 million m3 *: Targets take into account the usage period of general products and the year of reference changed from 1990 to 2005 in 2016. Japan Americas China Asia 17 TOTO Corporate Report 2016 We are striving to prevent global warming through our business activities. Amount of CO2 Emissions Reduction at We are promoting efforts to improve productivity and save energy by Business Sites Through These Measures FY2015 actual setting a target to reduce CO2 emissions by 29,000 t compared to levels in Preventing Global Warming 2013 by 2017 through measures at each business facility in Japan and overseas. Fiscal 2015 saw a reduction of 16,100 t. We are working at setting targets for waterand energy-saving products, with the aim of reducing CO2 emissions during product use by 3.3 million tons 16.1 thousand tons Preface FY2017 target by fiscal 2017 compared to levels from products with 2005’s performance that are still in use. Fiscal 2015 saw a reduction of 2.87 million tons. 29 Midor Long-Term Management Plan thousand tons Shiga Factory Exterior Conservation of the natural environment is essential for sustained social Number of Green Volunteer development, corporate business sustainability, and conserving water participants FY2015 actual environments. The TOTO Group is pushing ahead with regional and Contribution to Local Communities community-based environmental contribution activities in Japan and overseas, such as regenerating and conserving water resources and woodlands as sources of water. In addition, we are promoting participation in social contribution activities such as tree planting and local cleanup 42,200 TOTO NOW Participation Rate of activities, which we call Green Volunteers. There were also 42,200 Green All Volunteer Activities* Volunteer participants around the world as a result of the various activities FY2017 target 100 planned at each site in fiscal 2015. Strengths Supporting Business % *: ‌The management indicator changed to the participation rate of all volunteer activities in 2016 in conjunction with the expansion of the range of volunteers Green Volunteers in China Conserving Natural Keeping the Earth Conservation of Resources Clean Biodiversity We are actively advancing our efforts in We work to reduce our environmental In our raw materials procurements, we take waste reduction and recycling activities impact and prevent pollution before it into consideration the impact on the with a 3R (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) happens by defining independent environment and ecosystems in our perspective by setting targets for recycling management reference values that are production locations. We are moving ratios at manufacturing business sites to even stricter than legal and regulatory forwards with our CSR procurements while effectively use limited resources. The compliance through the promotion of an balancing sustainable resources utilization recycling ratio at manufacturing business environmental management system. There and stable procurements. sites was 100% in Japan and 87.5% were no legal violations in fiscal 2015 for The usage rates of legal and recycled overseas in fiscal 2015 for the fiscal 2017 our fiscal 2017 target of zero violations wood materials among the wood materials targets of 99% in Japan and 90% overseas. against environmental laws and regulations used for products in Japan came to 99% in in Japan. fiscal 2015 for our fiscal 2017 target of 100%. TOTO Corporate Report 2016 18 T T N W 1 Manufacturing Research and Technology Supporting Manufacturing Since our founding, through the development of a diverse array of products and services, TOTO has cultivated numerous manufacturing technologies. We organically integrate these technologies to create value for our customers and bring magnificent products and technologies into existence. “materials processing” and been highly praised in Japan “material analysis,” which are and overseas for a delightful “material appreciation” techniques shower with dramatic water for improving the sophistication, savings brought about by our antifouling properties and unique technology. durability of materials by modifying material surface Technology to Manage Water characteristics. This has Technology to manage water is continually generated attractive functionally used to always keep products by organically the toilet clean. TOTO’s clean integrating these technologies. technology ewater+ cleans from the roots. Toilets stay clean longer Technology to Observe People by dispersing this ewater+ onto Technology to observe people is utilized in TOTO manufacturing by Manufacturing Technology to quantifying the movement and Ample Plentiful Support TOTO Products sensations of people via Soft Since our founding, through the technology such as ergonomics Comfortable Shower development of a diverse array of and sensitivity engineering to products and services, TOTO has logically realize comfort. Stimulating cultivated numerous The AIR-IN SHOWER manufacturing technologies. showerhead technology, which Technology to observe people allows for a comfortably logically realizes ease-of-use and delightful shower even with a comfort by quantifying the small amount of water, has been movements and sensations of made even smaller. We people. Next, came “fluid control,” meticulously quantified the state AIR-IN SHOWER “electronic control” and “water of water to bring a comfortable To Observe People: Sensation Model modification,” which are “water amount of water to people in the for Comfortable Showers with the manipulation” techniques for stage of development. This led to AIR-IN SHOWER Showerhead We quantified feedback from many people realizing more comfortable and a numerical value that realized about the various sensations for the feel of a cleaner functionality by modifying both water savings and comfort shower from the sensation for a plentiful amount of water from the shower, a plentiful water flow and water quality. This after repeated analyses. The amount of water on the body, and the softness is followed by “surface control,” AIR-IN SHOWER showerhead has as well as stimulation of water on the skin. 19 TOTO Corporate Report 2016 The evolving water-saving performance of toilets in Japan *: Volume of water per large flush C150E 20L 13L Reduced the volume of water per large flush by approx. 70% 3.8L CS Series CS Series NEOREST AH/RH/DH Preface (Floor drainage) 13L NEW CS Series 10L Restica Series Midor Long-Term Management Plan 8L NEOREST AH/RH/DH NEOREST A NEOREST AH (Floor drainage) 6L NEOREST AH/RH GREEN MAX 5.5L 4.8L 4.8L 3.8L 1965 1976 1994 1999 2006 2007 2009 2012 (FY) TOTO has been promoting the reduction of amount of water used to flush and transport bacteria, germs, and dirt while comfortably using toilets since the release of water saving toilet CS Series in 1976. Currently, we have released 3.8L flush products, continuing to further advance the water conservation technology. the surface of the toilet bowl and Material Appreciation Image of the Future cleansing both the inside and Technology Products that are attractive to outside of the nozzle. Technology to appreciate customers are products that are Furthermore, the Tornado materials is also contributing to able to satisfy all of the qualities Flush System, which is one of our the development of even more from functionality to design and technologies to manage water, sanitary toilets. Cefiontect is price. The foundation able to TOTO NOW was realized through research in achieving the ideal self-cleaning create these kinds of products is the flow of cleansing water to fully capabilities by making the manufacturing technology. wash the interior surface of the ceramic surface smoother to By providing revolutionary toilet without fail. Technology weaken the ability for dirt to products to the world with the able to cleanse with a smaller adhere to surfaces. This unique technological capabilities amount of water through the TOTO technology has been cultivated in Japan, the TOTO Strengths Supporting Business tornado flow of water which acts recognized worldwide with the Group will continue to be an like a whirlpool can conserve acquisition of patents in Japan, indispensable company. We will water resources and contribute to America, Europe as well as continue to create attractive the global environment. countries in Asia. products in the future. * Conventional products Cefiontect *: Illustrative images Water manipulation: Analyzing Toilet Cleansing with Material appreciation: Revealing the Super Computers Mechanism Causing Dirt in Plumbing Fluid control technology is required for the creation of value in plumbing Products products such as toilets and showers. The cleansing of toilets is analyzed by We analyze mechanisms from the mechanism of using the Tokyo Institute of Technology’s “TSUBAME” supercomputer. From bacteria that causes dirt to the mechanism the standpoint of “water manipulation” techniques, which are based on allowing dirt to adhere to material surfaces. We fluid dynamics, analyzing water flow by computer simulation has will find an effective way to control dirt that is streamlined the process. usually hard to remove. TOTO Corporate Report 2016 20 T T N W 2 Global Expansion TOTO Global Expansion To become a company that is rooted at home and overseas and to continue to be indispensable to our customers in the locations where they live. We established our brand in each country and region around the world to promote further global expansion. WELCOME TO JAPAN http://www.toto.com/en/wtjapan/ GALLERY TOTO ©DAICI ANO Creating Opportunities to toilets opened at Narita products and engage in the clean Try TOTO International Airport in April toilet culture of Japan. In the future, We believe it is important to 2015. This space aims to nurture we will continue to communicate provide more opportunities for a desire in customers who visit relevant information to the world customers overseas to touch from overseas to own a toilet through media such as our website and try our products in order to like the one they used in Japan in a timely manner while we expand TOTO products after they return to their expand opportunities like these to worldwide. As a first step, country by offering a chance to experience TOTO in Japan. GALLERY TOTO digital gallery of experience the comfort of TOTO 21 TOTO Corporate Report 2016 Performance and Forecast for the Number of WASHLETS® Sold Overseas (Index of 100 units for 2012) 300 256 250 200 189 150 114 133 Preface 100 100 Midor Long-Term Management Plan 50 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Year) (Forecast) Overseas Sales Expansion of a 30% increase from the previous Sanitary and Heating 2015, which WASHLET® year in the Americas (North is the largest specialized Since the WASHLET® was first America/Canada) and a 50% international trade fair for released in America in 1986, the increase in China. residential equipment held in TOTO Group has expanded sales Germany, in March 2015, at the worldwide to China, Asia and TOTO Businesses Rooted in American Kitchen & Bath Industry Oceania, and Europe. Currently, Local Communities Show 2016 in January 2016, and at we are steadily increasing the We are advancing a system for the Kitchen & Bath China 2016, which TOTO NOW demand in each country with smooth purchase and installation is the largest international trade greater awareness about of TOTO products such as the fair of plumbing equipment in WASHLET® worldwide as a key WASHLET® by customers in each Asia held in Shanghai, in June. item that represents the country around the world. In We are aiming to reach out comfortable toilet culture of addition, we are increasing more globally unified as the TOTO Japan. The number of overseas communication opportunities Group by strengthening links to Strengths Supporting Business WASHLET® sales in 2015 increased with local customers and are each site and building business roughly 1.9 times that of 2012. We exhibiting products at various models rooted in local can expect a further increase in exhibitions in each country to communities in the future. sales in the future with further generate fans of TOTO products. growth in each country, including We exhibited at International International Sanitary and Heating (ISH) 2015 held in Frankfurt Kitchen & Bath Industry Show (KBIS) 2016 held in Las Vegas TOTO Corporate Report 2016 22 Strengths Supporting Business CSR Management TOTO Group CSR http://www.toto.co.jp/en/company/csr/management/ *: CSR: Corporate Social Responsibility TOTO Group considers CSR management to be management by the use of CSR initiatives for the purpose of bringing TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy to life. CSR Philosophy Materiality Map TOTO Group considers CSR management to be management by the use of CSR Significance for society initiatives for the purpose of bringing TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy to life. The Water resource conservation TOTO Corporate Philosophy outlines the purpose of the company's existence, our Preventing global warming business fields and the desired image for all of our stakeholders as the basis of what Local community contribution the company motto strive to communicate. We are promoting CSR activities by using a materiality (critical issues) map and by clarifying the critical issues that we should prioritize to strategically endeavor toward Significance for the TOTO Group solving global social issues. CSR Promotion System We started CSR activities by setting up a CSR Committee and a full-time CSR department in 2004. The CSR Committee is held once a year and chaired by the President, and it is working to strategically integrate our businesses and CSR activities by taking a bird's eye view of the Environmental, Social, and Governance fields. In addition, subcommittees that make up each field of the CSR Committee formulate promotion plans, and then expand those plans to relevant departments and Group companies in Japan and overseas to facilitate cross-departmental activities. CSR Committee (chaired by the President) (Secretariat) ESG Promotion Department TOTO announced its participation in the Global Compact, which is put Environmental (E) Society (S) Management (G) forward by the United Nations, and Products and services Supply chain management Group management registered as a participant company subcommittee subcommittee subcommittee on November 8, 2011. Energy-saving measure Customer satisfaction Risk management subcommittee subcommittee subcommittee Packaging and logistics Human resource environmental Compliance subcommittee management subcommittee subcommittee Social contribution and Waste management global harmony subcommittee subcommittee Risk Management Every year, we identify the major risks that could have a significant impact on stakeholders and promote our risk prevention measures. Each major risk is mapped out on a matrix evaluating degree of impact and frequency of occurrence from the viewpoints of damage to the brand, and impact on personnel and financial consequences. Risks scoring high in risk points are flagged as priority risks and monitored by the Risk Management Committee, and risk mitigation activities are promoted throughout the entire Group. Strengthening of Compliance In order to prevent violations, we believe that we must strengthen our management system and create an organization that respects compliance. For this reason, we developed two training courses throughout the Business Group, namely, Interactive Compliance Training and Compliance Management Training. 23 TOTO Corporate Report 2016 For Customer Satisfaction For Customer Satisfaction http://www.toto.co.jp/en/company/csr/cs/ Preface The TOTO Group will continue to provide products and services to offer even greater satisfaction to all of our customers. Midor Long-Term Management Plan Sharing Customer Feedback and Utilizing It in Manufacturing We aim to attain a level of satisfaction in our products and services exceeding customer expectations. TOTO makes full use of customer feedback as the starting point in product development and quality management. The Customer Division promptly sorts opinions and requests from user questionnaires and through the Customer Consultation Center and conveys them to the division in charge while posting such information on the intranet to also share information with employees who generally do not deal directly with customers. We also collect and analyze customer feedback, utilizing it in manufacturing, such as in new product development and product improvement. Customer Consultation Center Sharing and Implementation of Model Activities from the Customer Perspective Under the slogan of Implementation! Cooperation! For the smiles of customers whenever, everywhere!, all the divisions in the TOTO Group (manufacturing, indirect and sales and services divisions) engage in activities that aim to improve customer satisfaction. For fiscal 2015, we held the TOTO Group Customer Satisfaction Convention and a meeting in which presentations on divisional activities were given. TOTO NOW This made it possible to share practical activities among all the participants, and expand the ring of collaboration with other colleagues. In addition, this convention has also helped us to better approach activities from the customer’s perspective. FY2015 TOTO Group Meeting of Customer Satisfaction Quality and Aftercare Service TOTO Group products are used daily by a diverse array of people. Therefore, our Strengths Supporting Business mission is to provide products capable of safe use with confidence. The TOTO Group implements quality management system based on ISO 9001 standards and is working on continual improvement of the quality. In addition, “TOTO quality” refers not just to the quality of the products themselves but also encompasses product installation and maintenance if a problem arises. We work to enhance all aspects of after-sales service: improving maintenance technology, educating staff on appropriate behavior when making a service call, and speeding up Aftercare Service the process from booking a service call to repair completion, so that we can render after-sales service by the date and time promised. Quality Management System TOTO Group Products Market Customers Information Product Design and Aftercare Purchase Production Distribution Sales Construction gathering planning development service Quality Quality review review Suppliers Quality management Quality audit/Understanding of Customer Satisfaction/Management of Non-conforming Products TOTO Corporate Report 2016 24 Strengths Supporting Business All Employees Together All Employees Together http://www.toto.co.jp/en/company/csr/employees/ We are promoting an array of activities to create an animated working environment in which the privacy of every individual working in the TOTO Group is respected. Promoting Diversity The TOTO Group respects the individuality of its workforce, which differs in such Ratio of female managers respects as age, gender and nationality. We believe we can create prosperous and FY2015 actual*1 6.9 comfortable lifestyles by leveraging the fresh new ideas born from these differences. Led by the Diversity Promotion Section within our Human Resource Division, we are currently promoting a wide range of activities, including the career advancement of % women and the hiring of persons with disabilities. Career Advancement of Women Having set a target of increasing the percentage of female managers at TOTO to 10% by fiscal 2017, the centenary of our foundation, we have promoted a number of initiatives. In particular, we are creating stronger management skills by introducing training for supervisors in the training for female employees. As a result of these efforts, in 2013, we were the chosen company of the “Diversity Management Selection 100” Selected as Nadeshiko Brand and, in March 2016, we were selected as the “Nadeshiko Brand” at the Tokyo Stock Exchange for the second consecutive year. Promoting Employment of Persons with Disabilities The TOTO Group aims to achieve normalization in its workplaces, and to this end, we Employment rate of persons with continue to recruit individuals with disabilities. We achieved our 2.5% employment disabilities rate of persons with disabilities set for fiscal 2017 in fiscal 2014. We are presently FY2015 actual*2 2.52 working to expand occupational fields for persons with disabilities, such as promoting more employment of persons with intellectual and mental disabilities, throughout the entire Group. % Common Global Corporate Philosophy Overseas core management is invited to Japan to debate and share what they feel TOTO represents while sharing their own ideas with other management. Moreover, we are inviting employees who contributed to our businesses to Japan to increase motivation and provide an exchange between our human assets and the relevant business departments by presenting direct commendations from management. In the future, we will also further the understanding and prevalence of our Corporate Philosophy. Exchange between Local Overseas Employees *1: Regular employees of TOTO Ltd. (Japan) *2: TOTO Group (Japan) 25 TOTO Corporate Report 2016 Preface Midor Long-Term Management Plan Work-Life Balance We are committed to promoting a work-life balance under the notion that having our workforce to review their working hours to harmonize their work and home lives, which will lead to enhanced productivity and a sense of reward from work. We promote employees to take make more than 12 paid days of leave a year. In fiscal 2015, over 70% of our employees took more than 12 days of paid leave. We also have various systems that include paid leave that can be taken in hourly units in order We have also obtained the Japanese Ministry of Health, to support diverse ways of working and systems to allow employees to choose a Labour and Welfare’s “Kurumin” certification in recognition shortened work day or shift in their start or end times as well as flextime as support for of its activities in support of child rearing. both childcare and nursing care and work commitments. We introduced a new paid leave system “Papa-Mama Holiday System” for employees that have children in 2015 for the purpose of employee participation in family chores and raising of their children. This has furthered support to allow employees to make an even greater commitment to chores and raising of their children. Cultivating a Self-Learning Climate We are implementing training that includes stratified training, Open Training in which TOTO NOW individuals can select the items they want to learn, distance-learning courses with a wide-variety of content, Level Up training for employees to grow by learning skills in different business categories, the TOTO Management School (Keiei-Juku) that fosters next-generation leaders, and Middle Power-up Training for veteran employees. Strengths Supporting Business In the future, we will continue to create a chain of inspiration as a desire to learn and develop in order to nurture a climate of self-learning for all generations. Middle Power-up Training Promoting Physical and Mental Health In order to achieve that, we are developing health-conscious initiatives on the three pillars of health care, mental health measures and health promotion. We have put in place comprehensive periodic physical examinations and measures thereafter for health management. In addition, we have introduced internal walking and blood pressure measurement events to enhance the prevention of physical disorders and sustain health. As one of our mental health measures, we conduct surveys and communication training at the time Internal blood pressure measurement event new employees enter the company and implement mental health seminars for our employees in their third year. As a result of these activities, we were selected for the Health & Productivity Stock Selection for the second consecutive year in January 2016. Safety and Health TOTO has been working to increase awareness of safety and stop unsafe work practices Work-related Accident Frequency in Japan and conditions in order to eliminate work-related accidents. In recent years, we have FY2015 actual*2 0.17 been concentrating on raising the level of safety management activities through mandatory activities at workplaces where improvements were needed, putting in place activities appropriate for each workplace and the number of work-related accidents in Japan has declined for five consecutive years. TOTO Corporate Report 2016 26 Strengths Supporting Business Together with Suppliers Together with Suppliers http://www.toto.co.jp/en/company/csr/customers/ The TOTO Group endeavors to meet its corporate responsibilities in the areas of the environment, society and governance and to achieve the sustainable development of the Earth. Together with our suppliers, we offer products and services of value to our customers. CSR Procurement Activities The TOTO Group implements CSR activities together with all our suppliers and with the contractors that assemble our products. When implementing our activities, we positively advance them by taking into account the state of the industry by conducting policy briefing sessions and survey questionnaires for all our suppliers, and through visiting corporate auditors, as mainstays of our procurement activities. For our overseas business sites in particular, with the aim of deeper mutual understanding and mutual growth with suppliers, we promote CSR activities that are in line with the conditions of each country while complying with its relevant local laws, regulations and practices. In addition, we actively hold briefing sessions and also monitor suppliers through company visits, while also striving to enlighten them on the necessity of CSR initiatives and support their endeavors. In this way, constant efforts are made to raise the level of CSR initiatives Japanese supplier policy briefing (top); exchange of throughout the entire TOTO Group supply chain. opinions with overseas suppliers (bottom) PDCA Cycle for Supply Chain Management Standard achievement rate of Japanese Plan Do supplier compliance items ‌Activity plans Training ‌ for purchasing FY2015 actual Continued managers 100 Improvements ‌Presentation for suppliers ‌Dialogue Action ‌Individual consultation ‌ Site Check audits and monitoring % ‌Support and follow-up ‌Online surveys activities ‌CSR interview sessions Suppliers include 1 Raw materials and components suppliers in Japan 2 Raw materials and components suppliers overseas 3 Contractors in Japan that assemble TOTO products Procurement Respecting Biodiversity For earth and stone raw materials used for factories in Japan, we confirm the legality and Compliance rate of requested standards sustainability at all mines through questionnaires or the results of informational of mines interviews via trading companies, including whether TOTO-designated standards FY2015 actual (for domestic production sites) concerning reforestation or restoration of areas where mining has ended and measures to prevent pollution of rivers and lakes from mining or tailings are being met. As a result, we were able to verify that all of the mines achieved the standards required by TOTO. TOTO Group Purchasing Policy 100 % 1 Partnership in mind 2 Fair and equitable transactions 3 Priority given to business with superior suppliers 4 Compliance with laws, regulations, and ethics 5 Consideration for the environment 27 TOTO Corporate Report 2016 For the Society Social Contribution Activities http://www.toto.co.jp/en/company/csr/social/contribution/ Preface The TOTO Group uses its management resources effectively in conducting social contribution and community coexistence activities aimed at the resolution of local and global social issues. Midor Long-Term Management Plan Concepts for Social Contribution and Community Coexistence Activities We carry out various activities in the three priority areas of preserving the water environment, creating a sanitary and comfortable living environment, and developing the next generation. Preserving the Water Environment The TOTO Group is popularizing water conservation products around the globe as a TOTO Water Environment Fund company providing plumbing products. Moreover, we established the TOTO Water 10th Grant assistance Environment Fund in 2005 to contribute to the preservation of water catchment forests, water quality conservation, and the conservation of biodiversity through conservation activities for water environments. It is not only citizen groups and people from the local community but also our group employees who actively participate in 22 Organizations ¥14.3 million these activities. We have donated a total of 14.3 million yen to 22 organizations as of 1st to 10th Grant assistance total fiscal 2015. We have also decided to provide our first grant to a local overseas organization (an Indian organization) in fiscal 2016. 180 Organizations Approx. ¥180 million Creating a Sanitary and Comfortable Living Environment TOTO NOW The TOTO Group is promoting the development and standardization of sanitary devices and universal design products through its business activities according to the strong founding spirit to improve the lifestyle and culture of the people, and to provide a healthy and civilized way of life. We are promoting lifestyles in a clean and comfortable living Strengths Supporting Business environmental for people worldwide even in our social contribution and community coexistence activities. We are surveying and researching plumbing equipment through efforts such as The Research Group on School Toilets in Japan and installing wells able to NPO Water Aid Japan's well installation in Nepal, sponsored provide safe drinking water overseas through the TOTO Water Environment Fund. by the TOTO Water Environment Fund Grant Development of the Next Generation The TOTO Group is promoting the globalization of its businesses, but our business activities in each country and region are made possible with the cooperation of the people in the community and the local environment. We are building an infrastructure for permanent growth of our business activities by educating the youth who will lead the next generation and by contributing to the rejuvenation, sustainability, and growth of local communities. TOTO Museum The TOTO Museum opened in August 2015 as a site to communicate the culture of plumbing. This museum was established as a business to commemorate our 100th anniversary in 2017 to introduce the footsteps taken to create comfortable lifestyles and share the ideals for manufacturing that have been passed down to today. In addition, we are running the TOTO GALLERY MA in Nogizaka, Tokyo as a gallery dedicated to architecture and design. The ideas and philosophy of architects and designers in Japan TOTO GALLERY MA (Sou Fujimoto: FUTURES OF THE FUTURE) © Nacása & Partners Inc. and overseas have been shared since the gallery opened in 1985. TOTO Corporate Report 2016 28 Strengths Supporting Business Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement http://www.toto.co.jp/en/company/csr/stakeholder/ TOTO considers the concept of stakeholder engagement to be vital in building relationships of trust with stakeholders and to facilitate cooperation. By doing so, we aim to improve society for generations to come. Promoting Two-Way Communication The TOTO Group places importance on communication with all stakeholders, including customers, employees, and shareholders, and endeavors to develop closer relations with them. We deepen interaction with our customers through various occasions, such as events at our showrooms, factory tours and summer festivals, and we engage in direct dialogue with our business partners through policy briefing sessions and CSR questionnaires. As for our shareholders, we disclose appropriate information in a timely manner, and we offer invitations to tour factories and showrooms so that they can appreciate the spirit of TOTO manufacturing. We will continue trying to improve stakeholder satisfaction through communication as a way of further advancing our corporate activities. CSR Communication with Stakeholders Showroom Sending lecturers to seminars and educational Customer Consultation Center institutes for training Exhibitions Assistance for NPOs and community organizations, Dialogue with Stakeholders and volunteer activities Customers Cultural support activities (TOTO GALLERY・MA, Workplace meetings TOTO Publishing) Employee awareness surveys Factory tours, summer festivals Intranet, Group magazine Skull session with NPO, CSR specialists Whistleblowing system Society Employees* (in-house/external contacts) Policy briefing sessions General Shareholders’ Meeting CSR questionnaire Presentations CSR interview sessions Shareholder questionnaires Whistleblowing system (external contacts) Business Shareholders partners *: At the TOTO Group, all persons working for the TOTO Group are referred to as “employees.” Shareholder and Investor Engagement IR Activity Transparently and Fairly Communicates the Most Recent Information TOTO undertakes to engage in communication with institutional investors and shareholders as well as with individual shareholders and investors in Japan and other countries on the basis of IR policy in order to treat them with transparency and fairness. In addition to disclosing information in a timely manner through its dedicated website, TOTO also holds separate meetings as well as briefings to explain its financial results. Meeting with overseas investors Recognition of Our CSR Management in Japan and Overseas The initiatives of TOTO have received recognition in Japan and overseas, and we have incorporated the SRI* Index. SRI Index is a group of corporations that are selected for being excellent in not only profitability, but also CSR activities such as compliance with laws, good practice in employment, respecting human rights, good consumer relations, and contribution to society and to local communities. *: SRI: Socially Responsible Investment 29 TOTO Corporate Report 2016 Third-Party Opinion So-Tech Consulting Inc. Community and Social Activities Managing Director TOTO has enhanced practical examples overseas that utilize the Mizue Unno TOTO Water Environment Fund. Activities focusing on water So-Tech Consulting Inc. provides comprehensive consulting services on management in the fields of the resource conservation in Japan differs with the focus on environment and CSR. The company uses its unique conducting activities that are related to solving sanitation and analytical capabilities to provide practical guidance on CSR-related management based on the fundamental health issues of community residents in developing countries. idea that a company’s set of values forms the I expect strategic growth connected to product development foundation of CSR and raises corporate value. and marketing by creating contact points with communities through social contribution activities while utilizing the trust TOTO is steadily expanding its business activities that began in earned with these efforts to build the brand. technological innovation based on the TOTO V-Plan 2017 at the TOTO Group. In the future, ESG (Environment, Society, and Improving Key Performance Indicators (KPI) Governance) factors will become the key to the markets of The results of CSR activities are visually understood by organizing developing countries which are expected to grow. and systemizing ESG factors. The next challenge is to re-examine the target values and what to work toward for items that have Global expansion already been mostly achieved. Please also consider both In emerging countries, the upcoming challenges will not only be substantial target settings in additional to numerical targets. high-end markets centered upon WASHLET® but also the expansion to insufficient markets building social infrastructure. TOTO cannot Employees simply introduce Japanese products and technology in places with TOTO is sufficiently expanding the configuration of a human differing penetration of sewage systems and toilet habits. resource platform such as a framework for the workplace and labor Therefore, the key word is “sanitation”. Directly confronting management. Next, recognizing strategic strengths for measures to sanitation issues is important as a global social issue, and it has also reinforce human assets such as diversity and globalization as well been included even from the standpoint of Sustainable as an emphasis from the perspective of creating added value in Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations. Positioning TOTO’s businesses are important. sanitation at the same level as saving water and preventing global warming is necessary in the Global Environmental Vision. Stakeholder Engagement TOTO should expand engagement with stakeholders in overseas Supply Chain business regions suitable to further global growth. Actively The requirements for CSR procurement that includes not only creating links by utilizing the contact points of social activities in biodiversity but also social aspects are becoming stricter in the each region is necessary. Moreover, the company needs to execute supply chain of natural resources. The problem of deforestation is of the element of communication by have dialogue with the various particular interest overseas and even closer attention is paid to the representatives who want contact points such as in the supply procurement of timber. TOTO has been conducting surveys at its chain and overseas natural conservation fields following the procurement partners in regards to the raw materials of stone and growth in business expansion regions. timber up until now, but more in depth initiatives such as surveys and monitoring of the realities in procurement regions are required. Comments and feedback from the questionnaire on the TOTO Group Corporate Report 2015 (340 items received as of April 2016) Opinion of the report as a whole Standpoint of the report readers Content that attracted interest (multiple answers) (top 10) Company staff in charge of Very unclear Very clear CSR/environment Company staff in charge of IR 1 TOTO – Taking Care of Water 171 4 20 1 1 2 TOTO Manufacturing 147 Unclear 3 Manufacturing Supporting TOTO 68 Business partners Other 29 4 TOTO’s Global Strategy for Today and 68 5 3 Tomorrow 5 Midor Long-Term Management Plan 64 6 TOTO Group Business Expansion 54 7 Results of FY2014 Activities 42 Customers 8 Ensuring Customer Satisfaction 39 Can’t say either way Clear Shareholders, investors (Users) 9 Message from the President 29 104 183 119 211 10 Common Philosophy and Business Vision 26 Corporate Data (as of March 2016) Company Name TOTO LTD. Headquarters 1-1, Nakashima 2-chome, Kokurakita-ku, Kitakyushu, Fukuoka, Japan Establishment: May 15, 1917 Number of Employees Consolidated: 28,148 Capital ¥35,579 million Non-consolidated: 7,283 TOTO Corporate Report 2016 30 Public & Investors Relations Dept. TOTO LTD. 1-1, Nakashima 2-chome, Kokurakita-ku, Kitakyushu, Fukuoka, 802-8601, Japan URL: http://www.toto.com/ Published in September 2016 No. 1190
