Our Responsibility PART OF AKER SOLUTIONS’ ANNUAL REPORTING FOR 2015 Content Aker Solutions has been a key part of PROMOTING SUSTAINABILITY 6 Norway’s offshore industry since before oil was RESPONSIBILITY AT AKER SOLUTIONS 10 Our Approach 10 Strategy and Material Aspects 10 Stakeholders 10 even found. We delivered the rig that discovered Commitments and Memberships PEOPLE 10 12 the giant Ekofisk deposit in the North Sea in Safeguarding Diversity and Equal Opportunity 12 Respecting Human and Labor Rights 12 Leadership, Talent and Performance 12 1969. That field is still going strong and so are Rewarding Hard Work 15 Protecting Personal Information 15 Turnover and Exit Process 15 we. Building on 175 years of technological and Employee Representation 15 Targets and Initiatives for 2016 16 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY 18 engineering excellence, we are now driving Entrenching a Safety Culture Zero Incident Mindset Knowledge Sharing and Monitoring 18 18 18 development to help solve the world’s energy Security From Sick Leave to Wellness Targets and Initiatives for 2016 20 20 20 needs safely and sustainably. INTEGRITY Compliance Framework 22 22 Preventing Unethical Behavior 22 Targets and Initiatives for 2016 23 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT 24 Responsible Supply Chain Management 24 Targets and Initiatives for 2016 24 ENVIRONMENT 26 Leadership in Environmental Technology 26 Managing Our Footprint 26 Reducing Energy Consumption and Emissions 26 Handling Waste and Spills 26 Targets and Initiatives for 2016 28 SOCIETY 30 Transparency 30 Local Content 30 Sponsorships and Donations 30 About This Report 34 Appendix 1: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 35 Vision. Building on 175 years of technological and engineering excellence, Aker Solutions is at the forefront in forging a sustainable future for the global energy industry and the world it serves. A spirit of collaboration and openness is at the heart of this effort as we set new standards and solve new challenges. ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | RESPONSIBILIT Y RESPONSIBILIT Y | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Promoting Sustainability Aker Solutions last year introduced a new vision that will build on the strong foundation we have proactively created to tackle the challenges our industry faces. Collaboration and innovation are central to the with this phase, but we all have to steel ourvision. Our ambition is to assume a ­leadership selves that things could still get tougher. We are role in forging a sustainable model for the in close dialogue with employee representaindustry and the world it serves. tives and unions to ensure that all are treated fairly as we also safeguard key competencies This is a reflection of the aspirations of our to maintain our execution abilities. employees, carrying on from the 2014 split that transformed and streamlined how we operate. Our top and bottom lines were impacted There are now two main reporting segments, by lower oil prices and spending cuts at oil Subsea and Field Design, down from nine busicompanies, particularly in Norway, our singleness areas earlier. This will help us in our drive largest market. This was partially offset by an for operational excellence across the company. expansion in key markets in Africa, the UK and Asia Pacific. Two-thirds of our revenue was But we are not resting there and we are examgenerated outside Norway in 2015, compared ining the challenges on a micro level – project with below 50 percent in 2013. by project – questioning every decision. This is part of #thejourney, a global effort started last We had consistently strong execution with year to improve cost efficiency by at least 30 milestone deliveries, including the world’s first percent. Early feedback indicates that we can subsea gas compression system to Statoil in lower costs by 50 percent on some projects. September. Our equipment also ensured first oil in December at Total’s Moho field in Congo Last year was my second as CEO and we faced and we delivered record volumes of subsea some very difficult decisions. The hardest, of equipment to Petrobras in Brazil. C ­ onstruction course, was seeing valuable colleagues depart. of a new state-of-the-art subsea plant in Brazil I would like to be able to say that we are done and a Luanda base upgrade progressed. 6 AKER SOLUTIONS AKER SOLUTIONS 7 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | RESPONSIBILIT Y RESPONSIBILIT Y | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 People, integrity, the environment and society are key focus areas for our CR efforts Yet first and foremost is the safety of our technology contributes to reducing CO2 emisthat we will be able to tap our considerable employees. While we have seen steady health, sions while our anti-corruption efforts promote reserves of experience and our pioneering safety and environment improvements in sustainable business practices. spirit to lead the way on this important journey. recent years, we tragically lost a colleague in December when a large wave hit the living The results from the materiality assessment quarters of a North Sea rig. We are together and input from the stakeholder dialogues have with the rig owner and operator investigating shaped the basis and scope of this report, the incident to learn what, if anything, could which has been prepared in accordance with have been done to prevent it. the Global Reporting Initiative’s sustainability LUIS ARAUJO reporting guidelines. Information needs and Chief Executive Officer As a member of the UN Global Compact, expectations vary among different stakeholders. we are committed to its principles and to r­esponsible and sustainable business This is a pivotal time for our industry. While we ­practices. The company is continuing to are prepared for oil prices to remain lower for strengthen its anti-corruption compliance longer, we also see that current investments program. There is a high priority in ensuring are now insufficient to ensure production good corporate governance that safeguards ­levels will remain high enough to satisfy global sustainable operations and value creation. energy demands ahead. We are preparing for a market recovery by taking the necessary steps Equal opportunities and a work environment to emerge stronger when that time comes. free from discrimination are essential. We are establishing an inclusion and diversity council We are committed to doing our utmost to to promote these issues and we will continue ensure a sustainable future. We will find the to provide career development opportunities. best solutions to bring down costs, boost efficiency and create value. We will develop Last year we conducted a materiality assesstechnology to improve our customer’s enviment and stakeholder dialogues to map expecronmental performance and work to reduce tations for how we should exercise and report our own energy use and carbon emissions. on corporate responsibility. People, integrity, We will contribute to a positive development the environment and society were defined as of the communities where we operate as we key areas to focus on, which is in line with our help meet global energy needs. CR strategy for 2013-2017. We see that our work in these areas has significant positive There is no quick fix. But as we celebrate our potential. As examples, our carbon capture 175-year anniversary now in 2016, I predict 8 AKER SOLUTIONS AKER SOLUTIONS 9 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | RESPONSIBILIT Y RESPONSIBILIT Y | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Responsibility at Aker Solutions We recognize our responsibility to run sustainable and efficient operations with positive social, environmental and economic impacts. Our corporate responsibility efforts are focused on having a positive influence and are tailored to local conditions as part of our daily operations. OUR APPROACH internal and external stakeholders to identify workshops, customer meetings, quarterly preorganization promoting transparency and antiTo us, corporate responsibility (CR) is about key sustainability issues. Through an internal sentations and investor meetings, articles and corruption, and participates in informal compliGLOBAL FOCUS proactive and precautionary business deciworkshop, digital survey and interviews, key interactive blogs on the company intranet, ance forums with other Norwegian companies. People are at sions that reflect responsibility, integrity and stakeholders defined people, integrity, environfeedback from training courses and dialogue the core of our sustainability. ment and society as material topics that shall with customers, including structured feedAker Solutions reports and communicates on business be central in the company’s CR work going back on our health, safety and environment corporate responsibility based on recommenPeople, integrity, society and environment are forward. These results are well aligned with (HSE) performance after project completion. dations of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). the main focus of our CR efforts. Taking care the CR strategy. We receive input from forums such as the UN The report has been prepared in accordance of our people is sound business, because we Global Compact Nordic Network and various with the GRI core level guidelines. need them to continuously develop, improve The results from the materiality assessment anti-corruption initiatives. and innovate. Our code of conduct and business have shaped the basis and scope of this integrity policy are the foundations of our drive report. The report’s content has not been In 2015, we actively interviewed customer to uphold the highest levels of integrity and significantly changed from past editions, and supplier representatives, investors, govavoid becoming complicit in unethical or illegal although some environmental indicators used ernment officials, and representatives from behavior. We strive to minimize harm to the earlier were excluded because they are no non-governmental and industry organizations. environment and societies around us by prolonger relevant. Following the demerger of Within the company, representatives from our viding environmentally sound technology for Aker Solutions in 2014 the company has a corporate office, business areas and global our own and our customers’ activities. limited number of operations that have a direct, offices took part in an internal workshop and negative impact on the environment, since 70 digital survey. Participants were selected The governance and responsibility for the percent of our workforce is office based rather based on ongoing dialogues, previous CR implementation of CR is regulated in the than engaged in production. The initiatives reports and a similar effort in 2011, and procompany’s business integrity policy, with the highlighted in this report include those that vided information that helped us better underoverall direction and strategy set by the board have an impact on our employees, customers, stand their information needs, interest in and of directors. The corporate business integrity investors and societies where we are present. influence on our business and CR work. and compliance department assesses, mainThe full list of material aspects can be found tains and reports on CR, while each business in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index COMMITMENTS AND MEMBERSHIPS area implements, monitors and reporting on at the end of this report. Aker Solutions respects and recognizes CR activities. An internal CR network supports the UN guiding principles on Business and the business areas in setting and meeting their STAKEHOLDERS Human Rights, the Organization for Economic specific CR goals. Aker Solutions uses dialogue with stakeholders ­C o-operation and Development (OECD) to ensure that our CR efforts are relevant to ­Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and STRATEGY AND MATERIAL ASPECTS our context, market and strategy, and meet the fundamental principles defined in the Aker Solutions’ global CR strategy for 2013internal and external expectations and infor­Universal Declaration of Human Rights and 2017 sets our vision and goals and was develmation needs. the International Labor Organization (ILO) oped based on an assessment of sustainability ­Convention on Fundamental Principles and risks and communication with stakeholders. Our stakeholders are or can be affected by Rights at Work. We adhere to the Voluntary The strategy builds on four main areas: people, Aker Solutions. We interact with investors, cusPrinciples on Security and Human Rights. integrity, environment and society. It provides tomers, suppliers, governments and national a detailed framework with clear objectives for authorities, banks, NGOs and industry groups, As a member, Aker Solutions is committed to the direction and ambition of our CR activities. owners, employees, collaborative partners the UN Global Compact and its ten principles, and the like through a variety of channels. and this report represents our Communication Aker Solutions in 2015 conducted a m ­ ateriality Such channels include our internal CR neton Progress (COP). The company is also a assessment that included a dialogue with work, management meetings, seminars and member of Trace International, an international 10 AKER SOLUTIONS AKER SOLUTIONS 11 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | RESPONSIBILIT Y RESPONSIBILIT Y | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 People Attracting and retaining highly skilled and motivated employees globally is key to Aker Solutions’ success. The company has a diverse workforce, which it seeks to maintain and motivate through strengthened management of recruitment, training, benefits, welfare rights in the workplace and dialogue between employees and management. SAFEGUARDING DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY pation that promotes job creation for nationals. Local management teams are responsible for Like our supplier declaration and other internal measures, this agreement demands similar Hindering Harassment Aker Solutions is committed to non-discrimincluding and building on local talent, ensuring standards in our supply chain. Under the Indian Sexual Harassment of Women ination and equal opportunity, regardless of legal compliance and securing the long-term at Workplace Act of 2013, the company estabgender, nationality or other factors. Only about operations. The company is also a partner No human rights grievances were reported lished an internal complaints committee led 20 percent our employees are women, due to of Global Future, an organization focused on through formal channels in 2015. by one of our senior female managers and historical reasons and industry tradition. We increasing cross-cultural competence in comincluding an external lawyer. The effort includes seek to reach the desired balance in our workpanies and supporting highly-skilled staff with LEADERSHIP, TALENT AND ongoing training and awareness sessions about force through clear requirements for diversity multicultural backgrounds. PERFORMANCE sexual harassment across the company. In Sepin recruitment, development of individuals and Revised leadership principles were introduced in tember 2015, Aker Solutions’ chief HR officer programs supporting equal opportunity, as RESPECTING HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS November 2015 to set the standards for current joined a gender diversity meeting of about 30 stated in our people policy. Aker Solutions respects and supports interand future leadership and consistency for every key female employees in India to focus on nationally accepted human and labor rights manager in the Aker Solutions system. This is female leadership and harassment. With over 90 nationalities represented in our principles. The company also understands a prerequisite for driving change and achieving workforce we have a wide range of skills and that as a global organization we risk being our vision of leading the way to a sustainable insights to benefit our customers and busidrawn into human or labor rights violations. future for our industry and the world it serves. ness that make us stronger in an increasingly We consider the risk of direct involvement in competitive global environment. human and labor violations to be low; however, Building a strong, rewarding and diverse career indirect involvement in human and labor rights at Aker Solutions is what attracts ­talented As a part of the 2014 demerger, a separate violations could constitute a risk considering employees to our company. We have over organizational development function was the size of our supply chain. 90 nationalities working together in more formed to promote gender and global diversity than 48 locations across the globe. We are among current and future leaders. Measures Our code of conduct, business integrity an ­international organization with a strong include systemizing the annual processes for policy and UN Global Compact membership ­Norwegian heritage. We actively welcome global talent management and assessment, clearly show our respect and support for diversity of thought and perspective and regular leadership reviews with the executive such human and labor rights standards as encourage innovative and creative thinking. management and building a robust talent pipethe ­Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Our employees are highly motivated supline within the organization. This will be done the ILO ­Declaration on Fundamental Principles porting a strong culture of exceptional perthrough deliberate moves into and out of roles, and Rights at Work, and the OECD Guidelines formance. We take pride in identifying and stretch assignments, deputizing opportunities, for Multinational Enterprises. developing talent across the organization, proand by scouting for and attracting talent both viding challenging projects and opportunities internally and externally. Our commitment to human and labor rights for our people to excel. Talent management is also covered by the Global Framework through calibrated talent review sessions is Aker Solutions in 2015 decided to establish ­A greement between Aker ASA and the a key component of ensuring transparency an inclusion and diversity council chaired by ­Norwegian and international trade unions and fairness in the development of our talent. the chief executive officer, mainly to promote, Fellesforbundet, IndustriALL Global Union, raise awareness and spread knowledge about NITO and Tekna dating from 2008. This agreeAnnual performance dialogues between manthose issues within the company. ment was renewed in 2013, and focuses speagers and employees ensure that we all strive cifically on standards for general employment for common goals, accelerate performance Aker Solutions is strongly committed to equal terms, employee relations, non-discrimination, and help people grow and develop. The diaopportunity and enabling local staff to move health and safety practices, the prohibition of logue process is mandatory for all employees into management. This is mandatory in some child and forced labor, and the right to freeand was simplified in November 2015 to make places under rules for local content and particidom of association and collective bargaining. it more efficient and future oriented. u 12 AKER SOLUTIONS AKER SOLUTIONS 13 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | RESPONSIBILIT Y RESPONSIBILIT Y | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Employee Representation in the UK and Malaysia In 2015, the UK Employee Representative Forum of elected information requests. The company has a similar setup employee representatives was established to improve comat our facilities in Port Klang, Malaysia called Just Voice munications between employees and local ­management. Committee, which is made up of elected r­ epresentatives It is also an avenue for employee feedback on ideas, from various departments who meet ­regularly with ­comments and suggestions to management, which can ­management to discuss, recommend or resolve issues in turn use it for business and organizational updates and raised by employees. u REWARDING HARD WORK Aker Solutions offers professional development, of individuals within the meaning of European law. These rules are further described in our Work Place Accolades PEOPLE AND TEAMS worldwide career opportunities, competitive pay data protection standard which defines the In 2015, the company’s Brazilian office particiEmployees at Aker and benefits, and a healthy work-life balance. company’s global policy on protecting personal Solutions’ subsea pated in the Great Place to Work® Institute’s plant in Port Klang, data and the international transfers of personal (GPTW) annual survey. The survey measures Malaysia. Talent is our greatest asset; we want everyone data within the same corporate group. corporate culture and employee satisfaction on our team to feel challenged and fulfilled. against the global standard of a great workThe company seeks to build ‘win-win’ relationTo that extent, the BCR ensure that all personal place. For the first time, Aker Solutions was ships by nurturing the skills and careers of data transfers that are made within a group named one of the best companies to work our employees so they can strengthen us as benefit from an adequate level of protection. for in the Brazilian state of Rio de Janeiro, a company. We also want our employees to This is an alternative to the company having to where Aker Solutions is present both in Rio reap professional and economic benefits for sign standard contractual clauses each time it de Janeiro and Rio das Ostras. meeting business targets and performance needs to transfer personal data to a member goals, as reflected in our total rewards system. of its group. In 2015, the company reviewed and strengthTURNOVER AND EXIT PROCESS ened the reward governance and process. This In 2015, a challenging and unpredictable market helped to embed a commercial and compliant forced us to reduce our global workforce by 15 approach to managing reward and to maxipercent, much of that in Norway. We worked mize the return in our people whilst mitigating with employee representatives and unions in associated risks. The outcome of this proa process conducted in accordance with local cess demonstrated positive impacts on both laws and regulations. We also offered our own individual lifestyle and organizational culture. redundant employees outplacement help in finding opportunities outside Aker Solutions. We also strengthened our global reward team to make sure remuneration for employees was When employees choose to leave the company, consistent, fair and based on regional and Aker Solutions’ structured exit process aims to global standards. ensure that departing employees leave with dignity and a positive view of the company. The notice PROTECTING PERSONAL INFORMATION period ranges from one to 24 weeks depending Aker Solutions is vigilant about protecting peron location and length of service. Structured exit sonal data. We care about protecting employees’ interviews are conducted, compiled and analyzed personal interests such as the right to access data to help understand why people choose to leave. and to have data corrected and our collective This serves to help reduce employee turnover interest such as prohibiting abuse of power and globally. The global voluntary workforce turnover protecting the individual’s human right to privacy. averaged 5.2 percent in 2015 compared to 6.2 percent in 2014, with an especially big decrease We are therefore proud to announce that Aker in India due to an improved company culture and Solutions is the first company in Norway to a good project pipeline last year. receive approval for its binding corporate rules (BCR). The BCR were established to adduce EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION adequate safeguards for the protection of the Good industrial relations are an important privacy and fundamental rights and freedoms part of Aker Solutions’ history and culture. u 14 AKER SOLUTIONS AKER SOLUTIONS 15 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | RESPONSIBILIT Y RESPONSIBILIT Y | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 u We encourage employee representation in our KEY STAFF FIGURES* KEY STAFF FIGURES CONT.* business units worldwide. This is also part of 2015 2014 20131 2015 2014 20131 our commitment to human and labor rights. Employees have the right to be heard, repreTotal staff 17,673 20,974 19,851 Turnover 5.2% 6.2 % sented and to form and join trade unions of their own choice. Employee representatives Own employees office2 10,898 12,218 12,067 provide employees with influence and lines of Own employees non office2 4,497 4,476 3,901 Gender Distribution % female communication through participation in workContract staff 2,278 4,280 3,883 Own employees office2 26.5 % 26.6 % 27.0 % ing committees, on the board of directors, and % own employees 87.1 % 79.6 % 80.4 % Own employees non office2 3.6 % 3.2 % 3.4 % in operational improvement and organizational % external contracts 12.9 % 20.4 % 19.6 % Total own female employees 19.9 % 20.9 % change projects. During 2015, the union repreOwn office employees % 70.8 % 73.2 % 75.6 % Own female leaders %2 22.3 % 21.8 % sentatives in Norway had regular meetings with Own employees non office % 29.2 % 26.8 % Total female leaders 21.8 % management both on a regional and local level, % Norway of total own employees 48.8 % 49.1 % in addition to more regulatory discussions in accordance with union agreements entered *Included in the numbers are 385 own employees who had their last workday on December 31, 2015. Own employees 15,395 16,694 15,968 into by the company. An annual conference 1) The 2013 and 2014 figures in this table are estimated to reflect Aker Solutions and exclude numbers from Akastor North America 868 923 868 with a formal election process is held once a 2) Regular and temporary employed on our payroll (judicially employed) year for all union representatives in Norway. Brazil 1,378 1,485 1,259 3) Regular employed Africa 187 157 139 TARGETS AND INITIATIVES FOR 2016 Asia Pacific 2,994 3,595 3,425 The below targets are the same as for 2015, but Europe (excl. Norway and UK) 112 127 104 will be revised during 2016. During 2015, the HR UK 2,348 2,216 1,816 Parental Leave Own Regular Employees* Employees taking parental leave in 2014 Employees taking parental leave in 2013 function had regular meetings with the global Norway 7,508 8,191 8,357 Female Male Total Female Male Total process owner network to strengthen and standardize our global HR processes, and the interAge Groups Own Employees Norway faces between these. The last three targets are <30 19.5% 22.6 % 23.3 % Employees taking parental leave 144 233 377 123 226 349 ongoing initiatives and will continue also in 2016. 30-50 59.6% 57.8 % 57.3 % % still employed in Aker Solutions 12 months after parental leave ended 88.2% 89.3% 88.9% 89.4% 86.3% 87.4% ¡¡Be the preferred employer for top performers in the oil and gas industry globally through >50 20.9% 19.6 % 19.4 % integrated talent management process that UK crosses borders and business areas Part Time Own Employees Employees taking parental leave 25 52 77 32 30 62 ¡¡Continue to focus on robust governance, leading Part time own employees Norway 0.8% 0.9 % 1.0 % % still employed in Aker Solutions 12 months after parental leave ended 84.0% 94.2% 90.9% 81.3% 90.0% 85,5% practices and infrastructure to improve HR Part time own employees UK 1.8% 1.4 % 1.9 % operations across business areas globally Malaysia ¡¡Increase local representation in the skilled workRecruited Employees taking parental leave 46 138 184 37 96 133 force across all locations Own employees office3 689 1464 2261 % still employed in Aker Solutions 12 months after parental leave ended 76.1% 83.3% 81.5% 91.9% 83.3% 85.7% ¡¡Achieve globally connected workforce that is Own employees non office3 847 517 646 effectively sourced, developed and managed India across regions and business areas Age Groups Recruited3 Employees taking parental leave 21 75 96 ¡¡Deliver operational excellence through high<30 37.6% 41.5 % 39.2 % % still employed in Aker Solutions 12 months after parental leave ended 90.5% 86.7% 87.5% quality execution, synergy realization, cost effectiveness, cost savings and standardization 30-50 49.7% 52.4 % 53.0 % >50 12.8% 6.1 % 7.5 % * Included in the numbers are 385 own employees who had their last workday on December 31, 2015. 16 AKER SOLUTIONS AKER SOLUTIONS 17 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | RESPONSIBILIT Y RESPONSIBILIT Y | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Health, Safety and Security HSE Just Care Week Safe operations are at the core of our values and what we offer customers. In October 2015, the company conducted a global HSE awareness campaign called “Just Care Week”. A broad range of presentaWe believe all accidents are preventable. We work hard to make sure our employees tions, stands, activities and new HSE initiatives were available and others working on our behalf make it home safely. Our work is often challenging, to all employees, including lectures on improving quality of life, so the safety of employees and customers, subcontractors, consultants and others healthy lifestyle and diet, courses in first aid, group workouts, competitions and HSE drills. Employees could also test their is imperative. Goals for protecting health, safety and human rights of our workforce health, be vaccinated and donate blood. The Just Care Week are clearly defined in our corporate responsibility strategy. was well received and a similar event is planned for 2016. ENTRENCHING A SAFETY CULTURE In addition, an employee suffered a permaKNOWLEDGE SHARING AND MONITORING Aker Solutions’ health, safety and environment nent arm injury when trying to tighten a tube All employees have access to HSE ­information (HSE) standards set a clear and simple goal: straightener nut with a crescent wrench. and documents through online libraries, HSE zero incidents. We have an HSE management Results of our investigation were shared for eLearning courses, and to all incident registrasystem, based on our HSE operating system, learning purposes. tions in the Synergi database. In addition, the to ensure that executive management remains HSE community enables professional discusfocused on HSE performance and that all busiFor 2015, the lost time injury frequency (LTIF) sions, information, and document sharing, ness areas set HSE initiatives and goals for was 0.5, while the total recordable injury internal networking and resource sharing. the coming year. ­frequency (TRIF) score was 1.3. Apart from the two serious incidents above, most incidents We continuously improved our internal HSE The global Just Care™ program launched were minor cuts and fractures caused by manweb pages in 2015. The HSE community in 2005 promotes a simple message to our ual handling, operation of equipment and hand of practice was among the 10 most visited ­employees: health, safety and security are your tools, as well as slips, trips and falls (to same sites on our internal webpages in 2015, with personal responsibility. Some jobs account for level). In 2016, we will continue to focus on inspiring dialogue, discussion, shared tips many of the serious incidents in our industry. personal HSE behavior and awareness, aiming and experience, and improvements on the To target those incidents, the company in 2008 at reducing the number of incidents. In addition, corporate level. introduced Just Rules, company-wide safety the safety focus for 2016 is on serious incidents measures to prevent injuries and save lives. based on experience with near misses, such A new database for HSE lessons learned Since then, our operations have become increasas pressure testing, dropped objects, lifting was launched 1 October. The new tool will ingly workshop based, with less shipyardand operations and equipment failure. ensure that high quality lessons learned are construction work. In 2014, Just Rules were easily accessible for all employees, and the revised to reflect this change and two new rules A key element of the zero incident mindset is the main learning points will be included in audits, for pressure testing and use of tools and equipHSE leadership program in which senior managreviews and the annual HSE self-assessment. ment were added. Following this update, the ers discuss the link between HSE performance Just Rules scheme was revitalized companyand business results. The program includes two From 2016, an annual self-assessment review, wide last year through new training sessions half days of interactive team learning supported which is mandatory for all units and larger and awareness campaigns, and followed up by by advance and follow-up work. The aim is to projects, will be linked with this new datainspections and compliance checks. ensure that management pays enough attention base to ensure that key points and potential to and integrates the Just Care mindset and HSE improvements are implemented across the ZERO INCIDENT MINDSET initiatives into business decisions. We reached organization. Aker Solutions has a zero incident mindset. our goal of training all top leaders in 2013, but Health and safety assessments are integrated continue to train new leaders, external project in all aspects of our operations from techpartners and new hires as needed. nology development to project execution to ensure that the health and safety of our 2015 2014 2013 employees, customers and subcontractors is safeguarded. Lost time incident frequency (LTIF), including subcontractors 0.5 0.3 0.3 EMPLOYEE Total recordable incident frequency (TRIF), including subcontractors 1.3 1.2 1.3 ENGAGEMENT Sadly, the company suffered one fatality in 2015. Fatalities, including subcontractors 1 0 0 HSE Just Care A veteran employee was killed on December 30 Week sparked Sick leave rate (%) 2.8 2.6 2.5 when a large wave hit the living quarters of the Zumba fever in COSL Innovator drilling rig. The incident is under As seen in the table above, our lost time incident frequency (LTIF) and total recordable incident frequency (TRIF) increased in Malaysia. investigation. 2015 from 2014 and we did not meet our KPI goals for the year. u 18 AKER SOLUTIONS AKER SOLUTIONS 19 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | RESPONSIBILIT Y RESPONSIBILIT Y | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 u SECURITY In a changing and more volatile global security FROM SICK LEAVE TO WELLNESS Sick leave in Aker Solutions increased from also worsen an existing personal health problem. To diminish these risks and avoid unnecessary Emergency Preparedness in environment, identifying and analyzing security 2.6 percent to 2.8 percent in 2015, possibly health incidents while abroad, the travel risk the Republic of the Congo threats to better protect employees, clients due in part to uncertain times and layoffs. The assessment form now includes preliminary and assets is a top priority for Aker Solutions. Maintenance, Modification and Operation health questions defined by International SOS. During a security risk assessment in the Republic of the We see a continuous increase in the formal (MMO) business unit had the highest sick leave This “fit for travel” certification is mandatory for Congo in late 2014, we learned about a possible and hotly security requirements from key clients. Steps rate, after also being hardest hit by workforce those visiting high and extreme risk countries. contested move by the ruling president, to change the taken include establishing a corporate security reductions over the past two years. ­constitution to allow him a third presidential term. Aker function with global responsibility. Solutions was at the time establishing operations in the The company’s commitment to the health and TARGETS AND INITIATIVES FOR 2016 country. Evaluation of potential risk situations were conseCultural awareness is the basis of any security wellbeing of its employees goes beyond simply Our top target for 2016 is to have our best quently included in the planning, and local management, operation. As such, the international Voluntary preventing illness and injury. We also focus on health and safety performance ever, with supported by corporate security, established plans for security, Principles on Security and Human Rights have preventive action by nurturing wellness and by no fatalities, a lost time incident frequency emergency response and evacuations. As the tension built been one of the focus areas when conducting providing the right environment for a healthy (LTIF) of under 0.3, a total recordable incident toward an October 2015 referendum on the amendment, security risk assessments in 2015. Corporate lifestyle. The company has rolled out several ­frequency (TRIF) of under 1.2 and a sick leave with unrest and riots, evacuation trigger points had been security also serves as an enabler in new markets initiatives globally and locally, including the Aker rate of below 2.5 percent. set in advance in case the situation deteriorated, allowing and projects. Active fitness program, and better systems to safe, secure and uninterrupted operations. follow up with employees on long-term sick These targets are approached in our HSE plan, During 2015, some of our employees experileave. where we have set long-term goals for health, enced armed robbery, burglaries, theft, fraud safety, security and emergency response, and and threats. None of these incidents caused Aker Care environment, and a strategy for 2015-2017 on physical injury or impact on productivity or The company’s healthcare service, Aker Care, how to reach these goals. In the third quarter of materials. Several international crises also was active throughout Norway in 2015. 2015 we also initiated a process of a ­ nalyzing triggered response and preventive measures potential HSE risks and challenges for 2016 by our corporate security unit. Aker Care helps reduce sick leave through and made a set of internal projects to lessen ­preventative measures and follow up. Our healththe risks, and improve on the areas where Emergency Preparedness and Response care personnel also assisted management and we have the most important challenges. Emergency preparedness has improved staff during workforce capacity reduction proThese activities range from i­mproving internal ­significantly in recent years, with a high level cesses in 2015. The service seeks to discover ­procedures, processes and tools, and enforcing of training and exercises in 2015. On the corand mitigate health risks linked to unhealthy work proper HSE performance by our subcontractors, porate level, we refreshed our strategic crisis or lifestyle habits and conducted more than 1,000 to focus on behavior based safety and establish management methodology for emergencies by health screening tests followed by professional a stronger security culture. adding many new members to the corporate advice as needed. Aker Care has also offered emergency response team. We had several lectures and courses on healthy nutrition and Plans for 2016 are in line with the overall health mobilizations of local emergency response exercise, as well as Just Care HSE week, health and safety goals outlined in our CR strategy. teams in 2015, and learned from all incidents promotion services on akeractive.com and stress and exercises, including crisis management. management courses at our offices in London, Our emergency response team was proved to Mumbai, Gothenburg, Aberdeen and Paris. OFFSHORE be robust during the severe weather c ­ onditions AND ONSHORE in the North Sea in December where regretTravel Health HSE is a key tably one of our colleagues lost his life. Traveling to or staying in locations with poor priority wherever sanitation and foreign microorganisms clearly we operate. increases risk of contagious disease. It can 20 AKER SOLUTIONS AKER SOLUTIONS 21 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | RESPONSIBILIT Y RESPONSIBILIT Y | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Integrity Aker Solutions’ footprint spans the world and our steadily growing global portfolio brings new integrity, political and reputational risks that we recognize and seek to reduce. Integrity defines who we are and how we do business, as highlighted in our corporate responsibility work and our anti-corruption compliance program. COMPLIANCE FRAMEWORK of potential partners and projects and business also completed separate training in Aker ASA’s Project Screening We are determined to conduct our business ethics training are under development and are zero tolerance approach to corruption. In 2015, broader tender activities brought There has been a steady increase of cases in an ethical and lawful manner, everywhere expected to be finalized in early 2016. increased political, security and corruption reported to the whistleblowing channel since and always. Our code of conduct, business In 2016, training tailored for our employees risks, which we seek to minimize through back2010. There were 116 reports in 2015, up integrity policy and anti-corruption compliance In 2015, neither Aker Solutions nor any employee working with suppliers and subcontractors will ground checks and pre-screening of projects, from 112 in 2014 and 40 in 2013. About half program set the standard for our business faced legal action related to corruption, nor were be developed to ensure greater awareness of including services, materials delivered and the reports concern employee relations and practices and personal conduct. The code contracts with partners terminated or allowed potential integrity risks in our supply chain. sourced, delivery model and partners involved. human resources issues. When a report is builds trust and sets expectations, while to lapse due to violations related to corruption. We also conduct general non-financial risk ­substantiated it may result in actions ­ranging the business integrity policy that our board There were also no legal actions against us for assessments for each market or country, and from internal communication and policy Number of approved last year defines the principles for anti-competitive, anti-trust behavior or monopoly assess the direct or indirect risk of becoming updates to warnings and dismissals. The employees (incl. the company’s business integrity work focusing on violations or fine or sanctions for other violaCourse Type contract staff) complicit in human rights violations. In 2015 company has a lessons learned database to anti-corruption, country risk and CR. We last tions in 2015. we conducted 57 such assessments, up from share experience within the organization. year further strengthened focus on increasing 30 in 2014, in addition to an increased number resources dedicated to compliance, including PREVENTING UNETHICAL BEHAVIOR Classroom course in of integrity due diligence studies of projects TARGETS AND INITIATIVES FOR 2016 business ethics (total) 10,720 a compliance manager for each business area Awareness Training and partners. A separate corporate commitWe reached our 2015 targets for the integrity and a full time compliance manager in Africa. Managing, preventing and reducing integrity Classroom course in tee evaluates any project seen as having an and compliance work as set out in last year’s risks are central to the company’s compliance business ethics (2015 only) 2,093 extraordinary risk. annual report and we are determined to reach We have implemented an anti-corruption comwork. Our main focus is to reduce the risk of Business ethics instructors the goals outlined below for 2016. pliance program to increase awareness of real becoming involved in corruption and unethical trained in 2015 42 This process is regulated in the company’s and potential challenges that our employees or illegal behavior. Aker Solutions has zero eLearning: country risk standard, an internal procedure ¡¡Further drive and ensure full implementation may encounter, particularly in countries where tolerance for corruption and our efforts are Corruption and Bribery 9,546 that aims to prevent Aker Solutions from of the business integrity policy corruption is commonplace. The approach is continuously directed at preventing such eLearning: becoming directly or indirectly involved in ¡¡Implement a gifts and hospitality register and risk based in order to apply additional efforts behavior from happening in or on behalf of Human and Labor Rights 9,831 illegal or unethical activities. The standard is procedure and attention when and where needed. the company. eLearning: Conflict of Interest 9,909 accompanied by a markets watch list of areas ¡¡Continuous strong focus on awareness training eLearning: Gifts and Hospitality 9,848 with potentially high non-financial risks. The ¡¡Monitor the progress of the 2016 business All business units last year assessed their own Our mandatory business ethics awareness list is updated twice a year to reflect changes integrity plans covering key focus areas and anti-corruption compliance standards and level training includes a classroom course and in the global geo-political environment. processes both for the business areas and * The table shows only current employees who have of risk, forming the basis for our 2016 efforts. eLearning. In 2015, we launched a new manbusiness units completed business ethics training, and does not This year, we will step up efforts with quarterly datory training that consists of four 15-­minute account for previous employees who have left the Reporting Breaches ¡¡Perform an employee survey to measure reviews and increased monitoring activities by eLearning courses covering topics such as company. Whistleblowing is an important and positive compliance implementation introducing quarterly compliance reviews and human and labor rights, corruption and b ­ ribery, contribution to the company and society ¡¡Ensure cross-Business Area cooperation audits to verify implementation and compliconflict of interest, gifts and hospitality, and because it helps correct negative conditions. and knowledge sharing ance with the business integrity policy and how to maintain focus on these issues by Aker Solutions established its own whistle¡¡Increase the use of audits to verify compliance anti-corruption compliance program. our staff. The courses also provide informablowing channel in 2010 for all those who tion about the company’s ­whistleblowing openly or anonymously want to report real or We also developed new procedures to help ­channel. The course is a refresher of our suspected breaches of our internal policies, clarify and further strengthen our compliance business ethics classroom course, and is laws and regulations. The corporate business framework. During 2015, a new whistleblowing designed to strengthen awareness among integrity and compliance function (BIC) owns procedure was set up to explain how to report our ­employees. We also launched a mandatory and follows up on whistleblowing channel. For concerns and how they would be handled. eLearning module in January 2016 to teach general questions about ethics and integrity, We also clarified rules for giving or receiving new employees about our code of conduct the company has its own ethics helpline at gifts and hospitality in a new procedure. New and business integrity policy. More than 11,000 ethics@akersolutions.com procedures for integrity due diligence, handling of our employees including contract staff have 22 AKER SOLUTIONS AKER SOLUTIONS 23 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | RESPONSIBILIT Y RESPONSIBILIT Y | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Supply Chain Management Aker Solutions’ suppliers help us deliver the highest quality at the right cost and at the agreed time. We aim to be open and transparent in our dealings with these partners, and expect them to adhere to our standards and terms set out in our code of conduct. RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT cation process includes screening based on criteria that include health and safety, envi¡¡Launch new HSE procedure for supply chain ¡¡Revise supplier self-assessment for the Supply Chain Newsletter Supply chain management in Aker Solutions is ronmental management, CR practices and qualification process to enable a risk-based Two-way communication between Aker Solutions and key the management of supply chain on a strategic human resources. approach to CR performance evaluation suppliers is vital to our mutual success. During 2015, the and an operational level. Our supply chain orga¡¡Establish more CR criteria in the supplier company’s subsea organization in the UK sent several newsnization consists of around 1,000 employees, We also conduct audits to verify information management and development processes letters to its supply chain to give suppliers the best possible most in Norway, Brazil, India, but also at all our provided in the qualification process and to ensure an adequate control of high risk chance to succeed by: locations. With between 50 to 70 percent of to confirm a supplier’s ability to meet Aker suppliers revenue spent in procurement, our supply chain ­Solutions’ standards. The SQiS also includes ¡¡Providing information that allows them to align with Aker organization can have a significant impact on risk screenings for political, corruption and Solutions’ priorities the business as a whole. Our suppliers serve HSE risks on a country level and makes this ¡¡Providing a vehicle to request and receive supplier input us globally mainly with products, materials and information accessible to all of our purchasing on certain key topics technology such as tubes, valves, actuators, departments. That information, combined with ¡¡Broadening the discussion with suppliers to include strategic forgings, and steel. We also source a variety of the supplier performance evaluation that rates priorities and initiatives, as well as crystallizing new and different services such as IT support, verificasuppliers on performance measurements, gives existing lines of communication tions and people-related services. us a solid understanding of the risk picture for our suppliers. Each year, we identify potential This new platform contributes not only to ensuring the Aker Solutions expects suppliers to operate risks amongst our suppliers, and only approve required standard from our suppliers but also supports our in accordance with our values, national laws them after investigation and review. effort in providing the best quality results for our customers. and regulations, and our standards of health and safety, quality management, environment, The company did not identify significant actual ethics, anti-corruption and social responsibility, or potential negative impacts on s ­ ociety, including human rights and labor standards. human rights, labor practices or the environWe strive to create shared value with commument in 2015. However, the company did nities by focusing on local sourcing, knowledge identify poor health and safety management transfer and close dialogue with suppliers from at two suppliers, which caused the death of from countries such as Europe, Brazil, Asia two of the suppliers’ employees. The deaths Pacific, the United States, Angola and the were not related to Aker Solutions projects or Republic of Congo. deliveries. Nevertheless, Aker Solutions has investigated the cases to improve the suppliAker Solutions has a supplier qualification ers’ internal health and safety procedures and and information system (SQiS) to make sure prevent similar incidents. suppliers meet our standards. The system measures and predicts supplier performance TARGETS AND INITIATIVES FOR 2016 through a rigorous qualification, monitoring We reached our 2015 supply chain targets and performance evaluation process, providing as set out in last year’s annual report and we a fact-based approach to supplier selection. are determined to reach the goals outlined As part of the registration process, all suppliers below for 2016. must sign our supplier declaration committing ¡¡Roll-out mandatory supply chain related to our ethical standards. business ethics and compliance training ¡¡Cooperative engagement with our suppliers In 2015, 545 new suppliers were added to the on the importance of business integrity, CR company’s qualified supplier list. The qualifiand our code of conduct 24 AKER SOLUTIONS AKER SOLUTIONS 25 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | RESPONSIBILIT Y RESPONSIBILIT Y | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Environmental Safety Through Design Environment Aker Solutions’ engineers have worked with flare systems and process safety for many years to limit emissions to the atmosphere. The use of best available technology (BAT) continued this philosophy during phase 2 of the Nyhamna onshore gas processing plant. The overall idea of a closed flare system has been maintained both for the low pressure and in our engineering projects is an important high pressure flares. In a closed flare system, The oil and gas industry – particularly in deepwater drilling – carries significant tool in combination with system design. We maintenance flaring is limited, and flare gas is environmental risks, including oil spills and CO2 emissions. Managing risks is designed a closed-flare system for the Ormen recovered, which significantly reduces potential Lange phase 1 project off Norway for Shell, and CO2 emissions. critical to Aker Solutions, our customers and the future of our industry. The company strives to minimize the enviall governmental guidelines, directives and HANDLING WASTE AND SPILLS ronmental impact of its own and customers’ regulations on the environment. The company continues to focus on waste SOLVING CHALLENGES activities by providing leading technologically reduction. Total waste varies from year to Aker Solutions’ Advanced and environmentally sound products and serREDUCING ENERGY CONSUMPTION year, depending on the project portfolio. For Carbon Capture Technology vices. We continuously challenge ourselves AND EMISSIONS example, a decommissioning project will has been successfully tested to reduce the environmental footprint of our As a global provider of products, systems ­naturally produce more waste than other at Mongstad, Norway own operations. and services to the oil and gas industry, Aker kinds of projects. Solutions’ activities and related impacts LEADERSHIP IN depend almost entirely on customers’ needs In recent years, Aker Solutions’ corporate goal ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY and activities. We recognize and accept our has been the “best year ever approach” in We see many opportunities to address enviown responsibility within the framework of combination with a minimum goal of recycling ronmental impacts by being at the forefront the fluctuations that are a natural part of our at least 80 percent of total waste in each busiof technological developments and ­predicting project-based endeavors. ness area. The recycling factor dropped from ­the future needs of customers. We must an all-time high of 94 percent in 2014 to 86 increasingly contribute to our clients’ own Our main corporate environmental goals are percent in 2015. The goal for 2016 is a recyperformance. part of the annual HSE plan. For 2016, we cling factor of more than 90 percent. will focus on personal involvement and local MANAGING OUR FOOTPRINT action in environmental goals, in part through Hazardous waste includes components that Aker Solutions’ commitment to reducing its our global operational excellence program, require special handling before disposal. The environmental impact is expressed in our #thejourney, which focuses on efficiency and company collected 592 tons of hazardous waste health, safety and environment (HSE) policy. the reduced use of energy and materials. in 2015, an increase from the two previous Our products and services are designed to be years that reflects differences in our project safe, minimize environmental impact and be The company has decided not to set a corpoloads. However, we always seek replacement efficient in using energy and natural resources. rate target for CO2 emissions due to the nature products and better solutions to reduce hazWe want to recycle or safely discard products of our customer-based business. ardous waste quantities in our own production whenever possible. and products. At the end of 2013 a new travel policy was Management systems, eLearning and leaderlaunched to reduce costs and environmental ship development initiatives are all part of our impact by replacing travel with video conferenvironmental program. We actively seek to encing when possible. In 2015, data from our monitor and improve energy use and to reduce travel agencies in Norway and UK showed a CO2 emissions and waste, and to manage decline in travel. Emissions from air travel were potential environmental risks in every project incorporated in our 2015 CO2 balance, but and location. The company also conducts life travel accounts for just 2 percent of our total cycle analyses and best available technology CO2 emissions. The other 98 percent comes analyses in its product and technology develfrom electricity consumption, and use of fuel for opment projects to increase our own and our our mobile equipment and industrial machinery. customers’ environmental performance. Some 44 percent of our total CO2 emissions come from electricity consumption at our Asia In 2015, Aker Solutions did not receive sigPacific sites, despite them only representing 17 nificant fines, sanctions or other grievances percent of our total electricity consumption. for non-compliance with environmental laws That is because Asian energy sources generally and regulations. We monitor and adjust to emit more than European ones. u 26 AKER SOLUTIONS AKER SOLUTIONS 27 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | RESPONSIBILIT Y RESPONSIBILIT Y | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 u TARGETS AND INITIATIVES FOR 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL DATA The targets and initiatives for 2016 are in line 2015 2014 2013 TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION with the environmental goals set in our CR strategy for 2013-2017. We aim to have zero Aker Solutions in Houston Energy consumption (MWh)1 126,750 116,339 134,404 delivered subsea components spills and to reach a recycling factor of over 90 Energy intensity (MWh per million worked hours) 3,257 2,627 3,405 to help limit environmental risks percent. As a part of our long-term HSE plan, from oil and gas production in Energy intensity (GJ) 456,300 418,820 483,854 we are working on performing lifecycle assessthe U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Energy intensity (GJ per million worked hours) 11,725 9,458 12,259 ments on key products to assess the environmental impact associated with all stages of CO2 emissions (tons)2 27,193 21,188 29,050 a product’s lifecycle. In the engineering and CO2 emissions (tons per million worked hours)2 699 478 736 design phases of our projects, we will continue Recycled waste (tons) 29,891 25,126 13,482 to apply best available technology analyses to Total waste (tons) 34,875 26,636 15,482 make sure we choose the solutions with the Recycling factor (%)3 86 94 86 least environmental impact. Hazardous waste (tons) 592 420 431 Accidental oil spills (number) 0 0 0 After the company split in 2014, we used 2015 to collect detailed energy consumption 1) Travel activity is not incorporated into energy consumption data from all remaining locations. As a part of 2) For 2015, CO2 emissions from travels in Region Norway and Region UK are incorporated. However, emissions the internal mapping project in 2016, we will from travelling are insignificant compared to CO2 from energy consumption conduct a comparative study of our offices 3) Water recycling is not incorporated into the recycling factor, even though recycling is performed at sites where water is regarded as a scarce resource and workshops and check for improvement opportunities and solutions that can be applied at other sites. ELECTRICITY Energy source Consumption in MWh (2015) Electricity electricity Asia/Australia ex China (MWH) 15,965 Electricity electricity Europe (MWH) 633 Electricity electricity Scandinavia/Brazil (MWH) 64,324 Electricity electricity UK (MWH) 10,587 Electricity electricity US (MWH) 3,078 NON-RENEWABLE FUELS Fuel Source Consumption (2015) Diesel (liter) 1,631,275 Heavy fuel oil (liter) 51,585 Natural gas (m3) 338,989 Petrol/gasoline (liter) 992,209 When calculating from energy to CO2 emission, we use GHG protocol conversion factors. 28 AKER SOLUTIONS AKER SOLUTIONS 29 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | RESPONSIBILIT Y RESPONSIBILIT Y | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Society Our global presence and large workforce clearly affects our surroundings. We recognize our responsibility to the local communities where we operate, and seek to contribute through local hiring, sourcing, and transferring knowledge and technology. We seek to be transparent in how we conduct business so that our impact can be easily measured. TRANSPARENCY Transparency is essential in an industry that Revenues Investments in assets Paid taxes Educational Program can have a significant impact on local comCountry Employees 1 (NOK million)2 (NOK million)3 (NOK million)4 With University in Pune munities. Openly sharing information is necessary to build trust wherever we do business. Norway 7,508 16,786 440 6 Training and developing future engineers for the oil and Aker Solutions operates globally, including UK 2,348 7,904 273 23 gas industry is an important part of the Aker Solutions’ way in places that depend heavily on oil and gas India 1,493 791 10 56 of thinking. In 2013, Aker Solutions signed a partnership revenue, suffer from poverty or struggle with agreement with the Maharashtra Institute of Technology Brazil 1,378 2,281 461 49 potential corruption. Open and direct dialogue (MIT) in Pune, India. Senior engineers from APGS and Malaysia 1,086 1,825 28 with internal and external stakeholders is one ­professors from MIT jointly developed the syllabus for a USA 719 2,945 84 6 course in subsea engineering. The course was approved of the company’s core values. Brunei 362 1,009 13 by Pune University, and has been offered to final year of The table to the right reflects the 2015 revenues, Canada 149 251 2 -8 master level students of civil and petroleum engineering employees, investments and paid taxes as Angola 143 740 13 436 and final year bachelor level of civil structures students. reported by the various Aker Solutions comSweden 110 122 2 In 2015, the first 25 students completed the subsea panies in each country. Australia 50 99 -5 ­engineering courses. Aker Solutions is also developing a subsea laboratory jointly with the institute, as a part of an Congo 25 535 3 130 LOCAL CONTENT initiative to build competencies for the petroleum sector. Nigeria 15 160 Aker Solutions is subject to local content This will be the first subsea lab in Pune with a complete China 3 subsea production system. In phase I, tie-in and manifold requirements in many places. Although formal requirements exist, the company believes Cyprus 2 281 41 4 models will be developed. The aim is to enhance the subsea that using local staff, products and services is Other 4 61 2 2 engineering skills of young graduates by allowing them important. We depend on local knowledge to Sum of countries 15,395 35,789 1,330 742 hands-on experimental work. succeed while striving to contribute to improvEliminations2 -3,893 ing local social and economic conditions. Total Aker Solutions 15,395 31,896 1,330 742 SPONSORSHIPS AND DONATIONS Aker Solutions uses sponsorships to promote 1) The locations of employees are based on the location of the company where they are employed. Branches are therefore included in the figures for the legal entity. the company and its business. Our sponsor2) Revenue figures per country include internal and external revenues and are based on location of the Aker Solutions ships are strategic and aligned with the comcompany that has recognized the revenue. Intercompany sales are subtracted in the line “eliminations” to present pany’s values. As part of building relations external Aker Solutions revenues as in the income statement. with local communities and stakeholders, we 3) Investments in assets includes additions to property, plant and equipment as well as technology development contribute to a variety of good causes and and other intangible assets during the year projects. Our local offices lead these initiatives, 4) Paid taxes include income taxes, withholding taxes and other corporate taxes, but does not include value added often employee driven, so they can be tailored taxes (VAT) and other indirect taxes. to local contexts and needs. The company does not sponsor political or religious groups. PROUD SPONSOR Aker Solutions is supporting the Karanba soccer movement for disadvantaged youth. 30 AKER SOLUTIONS AKER SOLUTIONS 31 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | RESPONSIBILIT Y RESPONSIBILIT Y | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 United Way Year ‘Round at Aker Solutions Employees in locations across North issues, like family financial ­stability, America participated in our annual United ­education and quality of life for r­ eturning Way campaign. veterans. Through o ­ pportunities to ­p articipate in fundraising events, United Way is a global o­ rganization with ­service projects and education-related local chapters that invest in n­ on-profit ­activities, we partner with United Way agencies and programs by ­working to make a difference in the communities to transform individual lives and bring where we live, work and play. long-lasting, systemic change to tough Renovation and Expansion of Schools in Brazil’s Underprivileged Areas Aker Solutions in 2015 initiated a social project related to the renovation and expansion of two community schools, the State School Eunice Borges and the Municipal School Luiz Singer, for 1,351 children. The project includes the resizing and relocating of the sewage tanks system, filters and consumers to provide better conditions to these schools that are located in an underprivileged area in the city of São José dos Pinhais. The opening of the schools is expected in 2016. During the course of the year employees raised funds and volunteered over 100 hours of service to our local communities, for United Way in North America. 32 AKER SOLUTIONS AKER SOLUTIONS 33 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | RESPONSIBILIT Y RESPONSIBILIT Y | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 About This Report Appendix 1: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index This report presents Aker Solutions ASA’s with the “core” reporting level. Our overview The report boundary is, in general, companies This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 ‘core’ level. We have sought to report fully on all possible dimensions of the corporate responsibility performance and of disclosure according to GRI, including under operational control of Aker Solutions ­indicators, but where this is not possible, we have reported as comprehensively as possible, based on the data systems we have. The table activities in 2015. It complies with the legal ­references to sections of the report where ASA. However, for some aspects, we also refers to where information about each aspect / indicator is presented in our corporate responsibility report, Annual report or company website. requirements for company reporting as GRI indicators are disclosed, can be found ­provide information on aspects where we For a complete description of the individual indicators, please see GRI’s website (www.globalreporting.org). specified in the Norwegian Accounting Act at the end of the report have the potential to influence but not have (“­Regnskapsloven”) for reporting on corporate direct control. Aker Solutions demerged from social responsibility. The content of this report has been shaped Akastor and was listed on the Oslo Stock GRI Standard Disclosure by our analysis of material impacts and our Exchange on September 29, 2014. The historical STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Section in Report The report is also our Communication on stakeholders’ expectations obtained through ­operational and financial figures for the group G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization CEO introduction ­Progress in 2015 to the UN Global Compact monitoring and dialogue. The report’s ­content are ­presented as if the demerger occurred at and presents our continued commitment to has not been significantly changed from the start of the earliest period presented in implementing the principles of the UN Global past editions, although some environmental this report. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Section in Report Compact. Aker Solutions has published CR ­indicators used earlier were excluded because G4-3 Name of the organization Aker Solutions ASA reports since 2006, with annual releases since they are no longer relevant. Data Quality G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Board of Director’s report in the Annual report 2010. We continue to work to improve our data G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Snarøyveien 36, Report Boundaries quality to enhance the reporting processes Fornebu, Norway Our 2015 CR report has been prepared on the We have prepared the report on the basis of and transparency, and continuously strive to G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the Subchapter: Transparency basis of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) the GRI reporting principles and guidance on improve our internal data reporting procedures. organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics Main chapter: Society G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The boundaries. covered in the report Note 26 in the Consolidated Financial Statement in report has been prepared to be in accordance the Annual report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Note 1 and 28 in the Consolidated Financial Statement in the Annual report Note 12 in the Financial Statement of the Parent Company in the Annual report G4-8 Markets served Subchapter: Transparency Main chapter: Society Note 3 and 4 in the Consolidated Financial Statement in the Annual report G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization (employees, operations, net sales, capitalization, Subchapter: Key Staff Figures products and services) Main chapter: People Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Note 3, 4, 16, 17 and 26 in the Consolidated Financial Statement in the Annual report G4-10 Scale of the reporting organization (employees by contract and gender, region etc.) Subchapter: Key Staff Figures Main chapter: People G4-11 Scale of the reporting organization (employees covered by collective bargaining agreements) About 65 percent of employees in Norway and about 33 percent of employees in Brazil are covered by collective bargaining agreements. G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain Subchapter: Responsible Supply Chain Management Main chapter: Supply Chain Management G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, No significant changes in the reporting period structure, ownership, or its supply chain G4-14 How the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization Subchapter: Our Approach Main chapter: Responsibility at Aker Solutions G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives Subchapter: Commitments and Memberships to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses Main chapter: Responsibility at Aker Solutions Subchapter: Human and Labor Rights Main chapter: People 34 AKER SOLUTIONS AKER SOLUTIONS 35 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | RESPONSIBILIT Y RESPONSIBILIT Y | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Appendix 1: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international Subchapter: Commitments and Memberships GOVERNANCE Section in Report advocacy organizations Main chapter: Responsibility at Aker Solutions G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body Subchapter: Our Approach Subchapter: Human and Labor Rights Main chapter: Responsibility at Aker Solutions Main chapter: People Corporate Governance Statement http://akersolutions.com/corporate-governance/ IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Section in Report G4-17 Operational structure of the organization Note 26 in the Consolidated Financial Statement in ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Section in Report the Annual report G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics Subchapter: Compliance Framework G4-18 Process for defining report content, aspect boundaries and reporting principles Subchapter: Strategy and Material Aspects Main chapter: Integrity Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethics and integrity, such as helplines Subchapter: Reporting Breaches About this report or advice lines Main chapter: Integrity G4-19 Process for defining report content, material aspects Subchapter: Strategy and Material Aspects G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior Subchapter: Reporting Breaches Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and Main chapter: Integrity About this report G4-20 Boundary of the report, within the organization Subchapter: Strategy and Material Aspects Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and About this report G4-21 Boundary of the report, outside the organization Subchapter: Strategy and Material Aspects Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and Specific Standard Disclosures About this report ECONOMIC G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information No information has been restated Material Aspect: Economic Performance Section in Report G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods Subchapter: Strategy and Material Aspects G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapter: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and Main chapter: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and Society About this report G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Subchapter: Transparency Main chapter: Society STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Section in Report G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Note 18 in the Consolidated Financial Statements in G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Subchapter: Stakeholders the Annual report Main chapter: Responsibility at Aker Solutions G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Subchapter: Stakeholders ENVIRONMENTAL Main chapter: Responsibility at Aker Solutions Material Aspect: Energy Section in Report G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Subchapter: Stakeholders Main chapter: Responsibility at Aker Solutions G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and Environment G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement and response Subchapters: Strategy and Material Aspects and Stakeholders G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Subchapter: Environmental Figures Main chapter: Responsibility at Aker Solutions Main chapter: Environment G4-EN5 Energy intensity Subchapter: Environmental Figures Main chapter: Environment REPORT PROFILE Section in Report G4-28 Reporting period Calendar year (2015) G4-29 Date of most recent previous report March 2015 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents ethics@akersolutions.com G4-32 “In accordance” option, GRI Index Appendix 1: GRI Index G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance No external assurance on the Corporate responsibility report 36 AKER SOLUTIONS AKER SOLUTIONS 37 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | RESPONSIBILIT Y RESPONSIBILIT Y | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Appendix 1: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. Material Aspect: Emissions Section in Report Material Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Section in Report G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and Environment Environment G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Subchapters: Reducing Energy Consumption and G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Subchapter: Managing our Footprint Emissions and Environmental Figures grievance mechanisms Main chapter: Environment Main chapter: Environment G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Subchapter: Reducing Energy Consumption and SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Emissions and Environmental Figures Material Aspect: Employment Section in Report Main chapter: Environment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Subchapter: Reducing Energy Consumption and People Emissions Main chapter: Environment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, Subchapter: Key Staff Figures gender and region Main chapter: People G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Subchapter: Environmental Figures Main chapter: Environment G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Subchapter: Key Staff Figures Main chapter: People Material Aspect: Effluents And Waste Section in Report Material Aspect: Labor/Management Relations Section in Report G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and Environment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and People G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Subchapters: Handling Waste and Spills and Environmental Figures G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in Subchapter: Turnover and Exit Process Main chapter: Environment collective agreements Main chapter: People G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Subchapter: Environmental Figures Main chapter: Environment Material Aspect: Occupational Health And Safety Section in Report G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and Material Aspect: Products And Services Section in Report Health, Safety and Security G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and G4-LA6 Injuries, occupational diseases, absenteeism, and work-related fatalities Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and Environment Health, Safety and Security Subchapter: Zero Incident Mindset G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services Subchapters: Leadership in Environmental Technology and Managing our Footprint G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation Subchapters: From Sick Leave to Wellness Main chapter: Environment Main chapters: Health, Safety and Security G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Subchapter: Respecting Human and Labor Rights Main chapter: People Material aspect: Compliance Section in Report G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and Environment Material Aspect: Training And Education Section in Report G4-EN29 Significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental Subchapter: Managing our Footprint G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and laws and regulations Main chapter: Environment People G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Subchapters: Leadership, Talent and Performance and Rewarding Hard Work Material Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment Section in Report Main chapter: People G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions, G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender Subchapters: Leadership, Talent and Performance Supply Chain Management, and Environment and by employee category Main chapter: People G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Subchapter: Responsible Supply Chain Management Main chapter: Supply Chain Management G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Subchapter: Responsible Supply Chain Management Main chapter: Supply Chain Management 38 AKER SOLUTIONS AKER SOLUTIONS 39 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | RESPONSIBILIT Y RESPONSIBILIT Y | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Appendix 1: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. Material Aspect: Diversity And Equal Opportunity Section in Report Material Aspect: Child Labor Section in Report G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions, People People, and Integrity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to Subchapter: Key Staff Figures G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures Subchapter: Responsible Supply Chain gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Main chapter: People taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Management Corporate Governance Statement Main chapter: Supply Chain Management http://akersolutions.com/corporate-governance/ Subchapter: Respecting Human and Labor Rights Main chapter: People Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment For Labor Practices Section in Report G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and Material Aspect: Forced Or Compulsory Labor Section in Report Supply Chain Management G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions, G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria Subchapter: Responsible Supply Chain People, and Integrity Management G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory Subchapter: Responsible Supply Chain Main chapter: Supply Chain Management labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Management G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions Subchapter: Responsible Supply Chain Main chapter: Supply Chain Management taken Management Subchapter: Respecting Human and Labor Rights Main chapter: Supply Chain Management Main chapter: People HUMAN RIGHTS Material Aspect: Security Practices Section in Report Material Aspect: Investment Section in Report G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions, People, and Integrity G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and Integrity G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that A percentage of trained personnel is not provided; are relevant to operations however, a description of how we work with security G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human Subchapter: Project Screening is provided here: rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Main chapter: Integrity Subchapter: Security G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human Subchapter: Awareness Training Main chapter: Health, Safety and Security rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Main chapter: Integrity Material Aspect: Assessment Section in Report Material Aspect: Non-Discrimination Section in Report G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions, Integrity People, and Integrity G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact Subchapter: Project Screening G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Subchapter: Reporting Breaches assessments Main chapter: Integrity Main chapter: Integrity Subchapter: Respecting Human and Labor Rights Main chapter: People Material Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment Section in Report Our global systems do not yet register incidents of G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and discrimination in a consistent way to enable us to Supply Chain Management report fully on this indicator. G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria Subchapter: Responsible Supply Chain Management Material Aspect: Freedom Of Association And Collective Bargaining Section in Report Main chapter: Supply Chain Management G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions, G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Subchapter: Responsible Supply Chain People, and Integrity Management Main chapter: Supply Chain Management G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective Subchapter: Responsible Supply Chain bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Management Main chapter: Supply Chain Management Material Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Section in Report Subchapter: Respecting Human and Labor Rights G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and Main chapter: People People G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Subchapter: Respecting Human and Labor Rights grievance mechanisms Main chapter: People 40 AKER SOLUTIONS AKER SOLUTIONS 41 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | RESPONSIBILIT Y RESPONSIBILIT Y | ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Appendix 1: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. SOCIETY Material Aspect: Anti-Corruption Section in Report G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions, Integrity, and Supply Chain Management G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant Subchapter: Project Screening risks identified Main chapter: Integrity G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Subchapter: Awareness Training Main chapter: Integrity G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Subchapter: Compliance Framework Main chapter: Integrity Material Aspect: Public Policy Section in Report G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and Integrity G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary Subchapter: Sponsorships and Donations Main chapter: Society Material Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior Section in Report G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and Integrity G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their Subchapter: Compliance Framework outcomes Main chapter: Integrity Material Aspect: Compliance Section in Report G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and Aker Solutions ASA Integrity Snarøyveien 36 1364 Fornebu G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Subchapter: Compliance Framework non-compliance with laws and regulations Main chapter: Integrity Postal address: P.O. Box 169 Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment For Impacts On Society Section in Report NO-1325 Lysaker G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions, Telephone: +47 67 51 30 00 Integrity, and Supply Chain Management Telefax: +47 67 51 30 10 G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society Subchapter: Responsible Supply Chain E-mail: ir@akersolutions.com Management Web: www.akersolutions.com Main chapter: Supply Chain Management COPYRIGHT AND LEGAL NOTICE Copyright in all G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken Subchapter: Responsible Supply Chain published material including photographs, drawings Management and images in this publication remains vested in Aker Main chapter: Supply Chain Management Solutions and third party contributors to this publication as appropriate. Accordingly, neither the whole nor any part of this publication can be reproduced in PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY any form without express prior permission. Articles and opinions appearing in this publication do not Material Aspect: Customer Health And Safety Section in Report necessarily represent the views of Aker Solutions. While G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Main chapters: Responsibility at Aker Solutions and all steps have been taken to ensure the accuracy of the Health, Safety and Security published contents, Aker Solutions does not accept any responsibility for any errors or resulting loss or damage G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are Subchapter: Zero Incident Mindset whatsoever caused and readers have the responsibility assessed for improvement Main chapter: Health, Safety and Security to thoroughly check these aspects for themselves. Enquiries about reproduction of content from this publication should be directed to Aker Solutions. 42 AKER SOLUTIONS AKER SOLUTIONS 43 Design: REDINK Photo: p. 6: Jannecke Sanne Normann, p. 11: Rolf Estensen, p. 13, 25: Ole Walter Jacobsen, p. 14: Jeffrey Lim, p. 21: Hjalmar Otto Fjøsne, p. 29: Velasquez Photography, p. 31: Brede Korsmo ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | RESPONSIBILIT Y 44 AKER SOLUTIONS
