COP 2015-2016 General This COP covers the period: From: 02-10-2015 T0: 02-10-2016 Statement of continued support by the chief executive officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Atelier 2000 Uniforms-skrædderi A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. When working with the Global Compact ten principles during the 2015-2016 period, Atelier 2000’s focus has been on environmental management as well as diversity and non-discrimination at the work place. In the light of the refugee crisis culminating last year, we have made a special effort to integrate local refugees in our company. Also, we have continued our work with due diligence and with implementing the Global Compact ten principles in our company’s policies and strategies. In the coming year we will work on creating synergy between our environmental management system and our system for occupational health and safety. For further implementation of the Global Compact ten principles in our value chain, we will work towards certification of our suppliers in Asia. Sincerely yours Heidi Moisen Adm. Director Human rights Assessment, Policy and Goals Atelier 2000’s policy confirms the Global Compact human rights principles and supports The Universal Declaration of Human Rights as well as the ILO and other internationally accepted standards. Principles: Atelier 2000 will not trade with companies that do not comply with these principles and standards. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Assessment of the risks within our operational value chain occurs protection of internationally through the use of our code of conduct and the requirement that all proclaimed human rights our suppliers must follow this code. We have filled-in questionnaires from all our suppliers showing their commitment to Human Rights Principle 2: Make sure that and Atelier 2000’s code of conduct. they are not complicit in human rights abuses Implementation and Measurement of Outcomes Atelier 2000 has in place procedures regarding human rights issues covering our internal operations as well as our business partners. We have re-drafted our Human Rights policy and it will be ready to be communicated to our suppliers placed in “high-risk” countries very soon. In our own organisation, we make sure that all new employees are informed about their rights, our policies and procedures upon commencement of work at Atelier 2000. Each new employee receives a contract that covers amongst other things, human rights issues. We have clear policies regarding human rights issues concerning our suppliers and we are undertaking due diligence as a way of managing human rights issues. Labour Assessment, Policy and Goals Atelier 2000 respects the employees’ right to representation, including the right to join industry associations. Principles: We do not tolerate harassment and we are committed to providing Principle 3: Businesses should equal opportunities in employment and avoiding unlawful uphold the freedom of discrimination. association and the effective recognition of the right to The well-being of our employees, both physically and collective bargaining psychologically, is one of our priorities and our aim is to keep improving our working conditions and working environment to Principle 4: The elimination of ensure this priority. all forms of forced and compulsory labour Implementation and Measurement of outcomes Principle 5: The effective We continue working with our yearly work environment assessment, abolition of child labour as well as the 2-3 evaluation meetings we are holding each year to determine whether our solutions and actions have been successful. Principle 6: The elimination of In this connection, we also go through employee/management input discrimination in respect of and examine any new applicable laws and regulations on work employment and occupation. environment issues. In the 2015-2016 period, we have focussed on stress management and on developing our emergency plan. We held a course on stress management for all our employees, and conducted a fire practice, which led to improvements in our emergency plan. In addition, we have made an effort to integrate local refugees in our organisation, which resulted in several internships and the regular employment of a Syrian tailor. Non-discrimination and diversity at the workplace are very important to us, and we are a wellfunctioning international team at Atelier 2000. For next year, we plan to hold a course on psychological first aid in order to implement the psychological element in our emergency plan, and to make an action plan for possible crisis situations. We also plan to develop a management system for occupational health and safety. In relation to our supply chain, we have re-drafted our “Responsible Sourcing” document, which we expect to replace our standard questionnaires to suppliers. We plan to have the document ready in 2017, so we can communicate it to our suppliers. As a result of our work with third party standards and certification, our most important supplier in Pakistan could show an official certificate concerning child labour after an independent audit. We will continue working on getting similar certificates from our other suppliers in “high risk” countries. Environment Assessment, Policy and Goals Our aim is to reduce environmental impacts throughout our operations and uphold applicable laws and regulations. We expect that our business partners as a minimum uphold the laws Principles: and regulations that are applicable to their business. Principle 7: Businesses should We encourage our suppliers to work with environmental issues by support a precautionary using third party official certification schemes and standards. approach to environmental challenges; Implementation and Measurement of Outcomes During the 2015-2016 period, we have primarily been working on Principle 8: undertake drafting our environmental management system which includes our initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; environmental policy, environmental risk assessment, our goals, and implementation responsibilities and communication. Principle 9: encourage the In this connection, we are planning to merge our existing quality development and diffusion of management system with our environmental management system, environmentally friendly as well as our management system for occupational health and technologies. safety, which we are planning to develop and implement. We expect this to result in a better synergy between the three interlinked areas. Regarding our suppliers, we have in place an environmental requirements document and it is used in our due diligence work. Additionally, we have been working with third party standards and certifications. The result is that one of our important suppliers in Pakistan has been able to present valid certificates concerning environmental management (ISO 14001) and child labour after an independent audit, and we have been able to get valid ISO 14001 and OEKO-Tex certificates from our suppliers in Slovakia and China. We will continue working with our other suppliers in Asia on standards and certification. We inform our suppliers about the Ecolabel possibilities concerning textiles. Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy and Goals Atelier 2000 makes it clear in our code of conduct that we do not tolerate corruption in all its forms. In addition to this, we have been re-drafting out anti-corruption policy, which we expect to be ready in 2017, so it can be Principle 10: Businesses communicated to our supply-chain. should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Implementation and Measurement of Outcome Our anti-corruption policy will be part of our Responsible Sourcing guidelines, which we expect to be finalised in 2017. Further Comments: Activities for the next year include: 1. Re-drafting and finalising of the following documents:  Anti-corruption policy  Human rights policy  Responsible Sourcing guidelines 2. Implementing our environmental management system 3. Draft our management system for occupational health and safety 4. Create a better synergy between our quality management system, environmental management system and the management system for occupational health and safety 5. Update our emergency plan / include psychological elements 6. Continue working towards certification in the areas of environment, child labour and human rights with our suppliers in “high risk” countries.
