tech and touch annual report 2015 good to know you contents overview Performance by revenue category 72 2015 at a glance 2 Investor relations & share performance 74 Investor Relations 74 Message from the CEO 6 Capital structure 74 Share performance 76 Profile 8 Risk & opportunity management 78 Our business environment 12 Risk profile 78 Structural growth drivers 12 Risk & Control management approach 78 Regulatory environment in our markets 14 Risk appetite 79 Risk & Control framework 79 Tech and touch 16 Our main risks 82 Conclusions 86 value proposition & strategy governance How we create value 21 Executive Board 88 Strategic priorities and targets 23 Supervisory Board 90 Sustainability framework 26 Report of the Supervisory Board 92 Value for our clients and candidates 28 Composition, diversity and independence 92 Our value for clients 28 Induction, training and performance assessment 93 Our value for candidates 29 Supervisory and advisory activities in 2015 93 Our strategy: strong concepts 30 Supervisory Board Committee activities in 2015 94 Our strategy: excellent execution 34 Supervisory Board remuneration 96 Our strategy: superior brands 36 Report of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 97 Engaging with our clients and candidates 37 Financial statements for 2015 98 Value for our employees 40 Remuneration report 99 Our strategy: best people 40 Remuneration policy 99 Making strong concepts work 40 Executive Board remuneration 2015 99 Randstad leadership 40 Supervisory Board remuneration 2015 and 2016 102 Attracting the best people 40 Developing great people 40 Corporate governance 103 Company culture and retention 43 Principles 103 A healthy and safe environment 45 Executive Board 103 Diversity and inclusion 45 Supervisory Board 103 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 104 Value for society 47 Exceptions to the Code 105 Our role in society 47 Legal transparency obligations 105 Stakeholder dialogue 47 Industry involvement 48 financial statements 109 Partnerships and social involvement 48 supplementary information Sustainability basics 50 Summary quarterly income statement 2015 168 Summary quarterly statement of cash flows 2015 169 performance Ten years of Randstad 170 Glossary 172 Introduction 56 Sustainability and industry memberships and partnerships 176 Certifications, rankings, and awards 177 Financial performance 59 Financial calendar 180 Country performance 66 The following sections are considered to be part of the Executive Board report: overview, value proposition & strategy, performance, remuneration report and corporate governance. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 1 overview 2 2015 at a glance 4 Key figures 5 Core data 6 Message from the CEO 8 Profile 12 Our business environment 16 Tech and touch 19 Safe harbor statement 2 2015 at a glance Microsoft wins the Global Randstad Award Revenue at € 19.2 billion, an all-time high. 2015 and becomes the most attractive employer worldwide. Randstad Innovation Fund invests in chatRandstad acquires a 100% stake in RiseSmart, based platform Brazen, web-based reference market leader in innovative, technology-led tool Checkster, and the all-in-one career transition services. collaborative recruiting platform gr8people. After a year-long engagement program, all Randstad France launches innovative Big Data employees celebrate Randstad’s 55th solution, providing real-time insights into anniversary on September 26. available talent in the labor market. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 3 Randstad’s efforts in sustainable business are Tackling scarcity in engineering early on by recognized by the inclusion in the Dow Jones the launch of the Randstad Williams Sustainability Index. Engineering Academy. Proposed dividend of € 1.68, a record. Randstad joins Pact for Youth, a pledge on the joint delivery of jobs, growth, and investment for young people in Europe. Randstad launches public offer on all shares EBITA margin improvement to 4.5% in line of Proffice, aiming to become a leading player with guidance. in the Nordics. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 4 key figures Revenue in € million Underlying EBITA Adjusted net income margin (%) in € million 19,219.2 59 4.5 62 608.3 63 Free cash flow in Leverage ratio Proposed dividend € million per ordinary share (€) 498.8 65 0.2 65 1.68 76 Net Promoter Score Number of Randstad (no. of countries candidates working outperformance with Top 3 positions) (on a daily basis) 19 36 597,400 58 66% 43 % of women in Number of VSO Number of senior leadership volunteer hours employees trained in positions business principles 46.4 45 10,200 48 8,300 50 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 5 core data in millions of €, unless otherwise indicated 2015 2014 Δ% Key financials Underlying 1 Revenue 19,219.2 17,249.8 11 Gross profit 3,594.5 3,180.0 13 EBITA 2 861.9 706.0 22 Actual Revenue 19,219.2 17,249.8 11 Gross profit 3,594.5 3,177.6 13 EBITA2 832.0 660.7 26 Net income 518.8 340.1 53 Free cash flow 3 498.8 487.7 2 Net debt 4 173.2 422.0 (59) Shareholders' equity 3,861.7 3,313.1 17 Ratios (in % of revenue) Underlying1 Gross margin 18.7 18.4 EBITA margin 4.5 4.1 Actual Gross margin 18.7 18.4 EBITA margin 4.3 3.8 Net income margin 2.7 2.0 Share data Basic earnings per ordinary share (in €) 2.79 1.83 52 Diluted earnings per ordinary share, underlying (in €) 5 3.32 2.54 31 Dividend per ordinary share (in €) 1.68 1.29 30 Payout per ordinary share (in %) 6 50 50 Closing price, year-end (in €) 57.53 40.06 44 Market capitalization, year-end 10,529.1 7,215.2 46 Enterprise value, year-end 7 10,702.3 7,637.2 40 Employees/outlets Average number of candidates 597,400 580,300 3 Average number of corporate employees 29,750 28,720 4 Number of branches, year-end 8 2,750 2,816 (2) Number of Inhouse locations, year-end8 1,723 1,595 8 1 Underlying: actual gross profit and EBITA adjusted for one-offs, such as restructuring, integration costs, and acquisition-related expenses. 2 EBITA: operating profit before amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill. 3 Free cash flow is the sum of net cash from operating and investing activities, excluding the acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries and associates. 4 Net debt: cash and cash equivalents minus borrowings. 5 Before amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill, integration costs, and one-offs. 6 Payout per ordinary share in %: dividend per ordinary share on basic earnings per ordinary share adjusted for the net effect of amortization and impairment of acquisitionrelated intangible assets and goodwill, integration costs, and one-offs. 7 Enterprise value: the total of market capitalization and net debt. 8 Branches are outlets from which various clients are served with a various number of services and which are located in residential/commercial areas. Inhouse locations are outlets from which one client is served with a limited number of job profiles and which are located on the site of the client. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 6 message from the CEO 7 Dear Stakeholder, 6%, and most major divisions grew at or above the market. The combined European operations picked up in 2015, In 2015, Randstad celebrated its 55th anniversary. Over the growing 6%. Key contributors were the Netherlands, France, past decades, the Staffing & Recruitment industry has Spain and Italy. Growth in North America accelerated to 5%, developed steadily to become an integral part of today's driven by the continued outperformance of our US Staffing flexible labor market. Helping talent develop their potential division. Gross margin increased 30bp to 18.7%, showing that and providing clients with the best people to reach their goals our focus on higher-value-added services (e.g., permanent is what drives our employees every day. In 2015, we proudly placements, which grew 14%) is paying off. EBITA was up filled more than two million temporary positions (around 16% organically, with an EBITA margin improvement to 4.5%, 600,000 on a daily basis) and placed over 120,000 people in in line with our guidance. permanent jobs all over the world. We further enhanced our financial position, as witnessed by a One of the key enablers in helping us to execute our strategy drop in the leverage ratio from 0.5 to 0.2. For 2015, we is the use of technology. We use technology to engage talent, propose an all-cash dividend of € 1.68 per ordinary share to optimize the recruitment and matching process, and to (2014: € 1.29), representing a payout of 50%. improve productivity. Randstad Innovation Fund, which focuses on investments in technology innovation to deliver 55 years ago, our company was founded on our core values of client value and accelerate growth, made four investments in 'to know, serve & trust, striving for perfection, and 2015. This brings the total to eight since inception. A particular simultaneous promotion of all interests'. And these values still highlight was the acquisition of RiseSmart, a technology guide us today. That is why we are glad that our efforts in the platform in outplacement, which perfectly complements our area of sustainability as a professional services provider have offering in career transition services. been recognized by our inclusion in the 2015 Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). At the same time, we need to safeguard the competitiveness of our core staffing divisions by applying the right delivery I would like to thank all our stakeholders and investors for models and looking carefully at our cost structure. With our their continuous support and trust. I also thank our consultative approach towards large clients, called Total employees, who made 2015 such a special year, organizing Talent Architecture, we aim to increase our share of wallet. unforgettable anniversary celebrations. We are on track to achieve the goals of our cost-saving There are many challenges ahead of us, but the motivation program in 2015/16 (€ 60-70 million targeted, € 50 million and commitment of our roughly 30,000 colleagues, our clear realized so far). Additional measures were announced in 2015. vision of the road ahead, and our strong values mean we can These include the creation of a global IT infrastructure, which face the future with confidence. should reduce IT expenditure by 20% over time. This project is another result of the ongoing benchmarking of all functions. Good to know you, Looking back at our operational performance in 2015, Jacques van den Broek significant progress has been made: our revenue increased by Revenue Candidates placed in jobs in millions of € 625,000 140,000 20,000.0 3,816.4 600,000 Temporary placements Permanent placements 15,000.0 3,424.5 3,306.9 120,000 4,216.4 575,000 3,223.5 3,622.5 10,000.0 550,000 100,000 5,000.0 11,186.4 10,037.9 10,202.8 525,000 0.0 500,000 80,000 Total: 16,568.3 Total: 17,249.8 Total: 19,219.2 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Temporary placements (average per day) Staffing Inhouse Services Professionals Permanent placements (annually) annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 8 profile Randstad is always on the lookout for the latest HR technologies, assessing how digital innovations impact the way we interact with our stakeholders. Who we are 'Good to know you' Our shared culture, expressed through our behavior, is a clear Randstad is a global staffing and recruitment company, indicator of the way we live our values. At Randstad, we offering various solutions in the HR services space. We are a believe that creating the best solutions in HR services means sparring partner on total talent management. Our services always doing more, going further. This starts with include regular temporary staffing and permanent placement continuously deepening our understanding of the of candidates. Through our unique Inhouse Services concept, environment and marketplace in which we operate. We need we offer dedicated on-site workforce management. In to understand the present and future needs of our clients, addition, we provide many other HR solutions, such as candidates, shareholders, and other stakeholders. Many Recruitment Process Outsourcing (RPO), Managed Services companies say that their people are their most important Programs (MSP), payroll services, and outplacement. We take asset. As we are in the people business and one of the world's the lead in shaping the world of work, by matching biggest employers, we could not agree more. As success candidates with companies that will help them reach their full depends largely on the people you employ, it also depends on potential, and matching clients with people who will work to the people you employ to find them. The better we know our successfully develop their business. clients and candidates, and the better our rapport with them, the better we are at matching their needs and exceeding their Randstad was founded in 1960 in the Netherlands. In 2015, expectations. They should experience us as friendly and open, Randstad generated revenue of € 19.2 billion, employing as well as professional and driven. After 55 years, 'Good to 29,750 corporate employees, who worked in some 4,500 know you' continues to represent the Randstad culture – what branches and Inhouse locations in 39 countries. On average, we stand for, and how we behave. It invokes our core values we deployed almost 600,000 candidates per day in temporary of to know, serve and trust. jobs, while we placed over 120,000 candidates in permanent positions. We are proud to find jobs for more than two million people annually. Our core values Our core values and culture To know We are experts. We know our clients, their companies, our We continue to adhere to and live by five core values, candidates and our business. In our business it is often the established in the company's early days: to know, to serve, to details that count. trust, striving for perfection, and simultaneous promotion of all interests. Our values shape our culture, and help us to To serve better serve our stakeholders. We succeed through a spirit of excellent service, exceeding the core requirements of our industry. We can only promote the interests of all our stakeholders if we know them well. Our thorough knowledge of them and To trust our business experience enables us to serve them better. Our We are respectful. We value our relationships and treat engagement with our stakeholders and the service we people well. provide them with builds mutual trust. This trust is enhanced by continuously striving for perfection and simultaneously Striving for perfection promoting the interests of all our stakeholders and society as We always seek to improve and innovate. We are here to a whole. We believe that this creates an essential foundation delight our clients and candidates in everything we do. for our business. This gives us the edge. The values we share serve as a compass for everyone at Simultaneous promotion of all interests Randstad, guiding our behavior and representing the We see the bigger picture, and take our social foundation of our culture. Our continuing success and our responsibility seriously. Our business must always benefit reputation for integrity, service, and professionalism are based society as a whole. on these values. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 9 What we do By helping candidates find suitable careers and develop their full potential, and by finding employers the people who best fit into their organization to sustain their success, we create value for society as a whole. It is our ambition to be an employer of choice and to attract, retain, and develop the best people, who will in turn provide our clients with excellent service. We ensure first-class service delivery by using best practices and proven standardized business models across our global network. We contribute to a better society by leveraging the experience and expertise in the labor market we have gained over 55 years. As such, we help to maximize future employment and economic growth. Our service concepts Staffing In Staffing, our largest business, we focus on recruiting blue-collar and white-collar candidates. The concept covers temporary staffing and permanent placements. Inhouse Services Inhouse Services is a unique solution for managing a highly efficient workforce with specific skill sets for which there is a fluctuating level of demand. It is aimed at improving clients’ flexibility, retention, productivity, and efficiency. We work onsite, exclusively for our clients, providing a large number of candidates. We jointly determine specific performance criteria and provide total HR management, including recruitment and selection, training, planning, retention, and management reporting. Professionals For middle and senior leadership positions, we recruit supervisors, managers, professionals, interim specialists, and consultants from a wide range of industry backgrounds. These include engineering, IT, finance, healthcare, and other disciplines, such as HR, education, legal, and marketing & communications. This concept covers both temporary and permanent placements. HR Solutions Through HR Solutions, we provide clients with a range of services, including Recruitment Process Outsourcing (RPO), Managed Services Programs (MSP), payroll services, outplacement, outsourcing, and consultancy. As a part of RPO, we take on primary responsibility for the recruitment and selection of a client's workforce. MSP is one of our key offerings, whereby we take on primary responsibility for the organization and management of a client's contingent workforce. Our payroll services take over clients' administrative burden, so that they can focus on their core business. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 10 profile our global presence  North America  Germany Revenue € 4,653.4 million Revenue € 1,969.6 million 6,430 corporate staff 2,570 corporate staff 108,800 candidates 45,800 candidates 1,119 outlets, of which 423 Inhouse locations 550 outlets, of which 276 Inhouse locations  Netherlands  Belgium & Luxembourg Revenue € 3,076.9 million Revenue € 1,350.3 million 4,150 corporate staff 1,890 corporate staff 76,600 candidates 41,400 candidates 644 outlets, of which 333 Inhouse locations 303 outlets, of which 153 Inhouse locations  France  Iberia Revenue € 2,845.1 million Revenue € 1,193.5 million 3,460 corporate staff 1,750 corporate staff 74,600 candidates 61,000 candidates 728 outlets, of which 207 Inhouse locations 306 outlets, of which 99 Inhouse locations We have the following alliances to expand our reach: Ancor (Russia and Commonwealth of Independent States) and Barona (Finland). annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 11 Split by geography geography 2015: Total revenue € 19,219.2 million 2014: Total revenue € 17,249.8 million 9% 8% 8% 24% 22% 6% 5% 5% 6% 8% 16% 7% 16% 10% 11% 15% 16% Geographic spread of Staffing revenue (incl. HR Solutions) Geographic spread of Staffing revenue (incl. HR Solutions) Staffing revenue € 11,186.4 million Staffing revenue: € 10,202.8 million 9%9% 17% 19% 9% 10% 1% 9% 9% 1% 19%17% 9%8% 10%9% 17% 18% Geographic spread of Inhouse Services revenue Geographic Inhouse spread Services revenue of million € 4,216.4 Professionals revenue Professionals revenue: € 3,424.5 million 6% 10% 22% 2% 8% 1% 4% 16% 5% 40% 7% 3% 19% 11% 15% 9% 12% 10%  United Kingdom Geographic spread of Professionals revenue Revenue € 909.5 million Professionals revenue € 3,816.4 million 1,560 corporate staff Geographic spread of Inhouse Services revenue 16,000 candidates Inhouse Services revenue: € 3,622.5 8% 2% million 139 outlets, of which 64 Inhouse locations 7% 16% 19% 9% 42%  Other European countries 5% Revenue € 1,576.6 million 1% 3% 2,820 corporate staff 4% 12% 60,100 candidates 10% 8% 406 outlets, of which 118 Inhouse locations 10% 8% 20% 16%  Rest of the world Revenue € 1,644.3 million 4,930 corporate staff North America Germany United Kingdom 113,100 candidates Netherlands Belgium & Luxembourg Other European countries 278 outlets, of which 50 Inhouse locations France Iberia Rest of the world North America Germany Iberia France Belgium & Luxembourg Other European countries Netherlands United Kingdom Rest of the world annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 12 our business environment Introduction Global market share 2015 Total HR services market: € 342 billion Randstad operates in an industry with structural growth potential. In this section, we highlight several technological 6% 6% developments in our industry, elaborate on the structural 5% growth drivers, and provide an update on the regulatory environment in our markets. In combination, these form the foundations of our strategy, through which we create value for our stakeholders. The world of work is constantly changing. HR services represent one of the world's fastest-growing industries, with a 83% global market size of about € 342 billion (up by an estimated 6% compared to last year). In many major economies, staffing Randstad Manpower and other HR services are still in development. As one of the Adecco Rest of the market global leaders in HR services, we see it as our responsibility to Source: Randstad estimates and 2015 Bloomberg consensus play an active role in developing the industry in the long term. Changing labor market trends and client needs, including an aging population, shifting surpluses and shortages, and increased flexibility, require the development of new professionals and candidates from a wide range of industry solutions. By finding the right balance between the changing backgrounds. Many candidates have previous work needs of employers and employees, we bring supply and experience. demand together. Global HR services market 2015 Structural growth drivers in billions of € Geographically, Randstad is active in countries representing 3% over 90% of the global HR services market, and our strategy has been designed to capitalize on the structural growth in these markets. Randstad has defined four structural growth 31% drivers for our industry. These are (1) a need for greater flexibility and outsourcing, (2) changing demographics, (3) regulation, and (4) a continued demand among our clients for a total offering. We believe these structural growth drivers 66% will define the HR services market for decades to come. We have designed our strategy to anticipate and respond to these drivers, throughout economic cycles, as effectively and agilely as possible. Staffing: € 225 billion Executive search: € 10 billion Professionals: € 107 billion Source: Randstad estimates Structural growth drivers The HR services industry is divided roughly into three main segments: staffing, professionals, and executive search. Fle ou xibil Randstad is primarily active in the first two. The global staffing tso ity urc & ion ing lat market is worth an estimated € 225 billion, and accounts for Re gu Mid-term market around 80% of our revenue. Staffing (52% of our revenue) focuses predominantly on recruiting white-collar and bluecollar candidates for temporary or permanent placements. Market This segment also includes Inhouse Services (22% of our 2015 revenue), which provides on-site workforce solutions, and HR € 342 billion Solutions (around 6% of our revenue). Through the latter, we offer other HR services, such as Recruitment Process Outsourcing (RPO), Managed Services Programs (MSP), payroll or De kf mo services, outsourcing and consultancy, and outplacement. The oo ing gra nts l ffer ph e o global professionals market is worth around € 107 billion, and Cli otal ics at accounts for around 20% of our revenue. This segment includes permanent and temporary placement of qualified annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 13 Flexibility and outsourcing is a clear correlation between labor market effectiveness and One of the most important drivers of long-term structural competitiveness. growth in our industry is the need for increased flexibility among clients and candidates alike. A flexible workforce helps The staffing penetration rate (i.e., the number of temporary our clients improve their productivity and competitiveness. workers as a percentage of a total labor force) is an important Moreover, outsourcing is a key driver for our industry, as indicator of the structural growth of our industry. As we strive clients increasingly focus on core activities, and they realize to improve global employment participation, we use the that outsourcing certain HR functions results in efficiency development of penetration rates to report on our gains. We see that flexibility and outsourcing continue to rise performance in this area. Penetration rate is a metric that we on our clients' strategic agenda for the years ahead. Clients have identified as an employment market KPI in our need to take care of their long-term planning, while they also sustainability framework. need to be able to adjust their workforce, even during the course of a day. As a result, they are actively managing the Penetration rates are usually higher in mature markets, where flexible component of their workforce, also with a view to the staffing has long been a reputable solution for flexibility in macroeconomic circumstances. In addition, there is a growing the workplace. Growth in such markets is achieved in different demand for more flexibility among candidates, with jobs-forways, because they are ready for differentiated propositions life being a thing from the past. Candidates increasingly want when it comes to staffing and hiring professionals, and they to choose themselves where, when, and how they work, often also embrace additional added-value services, such as which may include self-employment, remote working, partoutplacement, RPO, and MSP. time work, and so on. Demographics Some countries still maintain unjustified restrictions on flexible A number of academic studies commissioned by Randstad and work arrangements, and these will need to be reviewed and carried out by SEO Economic Research ('The Gap' series lifted. The recent economic crisis has shown that countries 2007-2012) reveal that aging and declining population growth with unreformed labor markets that do not allow for enough is already leading to a shortage of people with vital skills in flexibility tend to have higher unemployment, lower most developed countries. In addition, there is a growing participation rates, and fewer new jobs, leading to a lower mismatch between the qualifications and skills of workers and rating on the World Economic Forum/WEF competitiveness the rapidly evolving demands of the labor market. The study index. This in itself provides a strong case for reform, as there 'Into the Gap' suggests that by 2020, both in the EU and the US, there will be a surplus of medium-skilled workers, a Talent gaps by 2020 and beyond Strong talent shortage trend Talent shortage trend Low / no shortage trend Strong employability challenge Medium employability challenge Note: Color codes based on compound annual growth rates of talent supply and demand by 2020 and 2030 2010-20 2020-30 Talent gap trend Source: Boston Consulting Group Analysis annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 14 our business environment substantial shortage of highly skilled workers, and a steady demand for those with elementary skills. This development is often characterized as the 'squeezed middle'. At the same time, labor market demands are also changing, driven by the continuous development of technology. This is creating new jobs, while making others obsolete. These studies predict that unless we can improve labor participation rates, education and training, productivity, and employee mobility, the potential employment gap is set to grow beyond 35 million people by 2050 in the EU alone. The current economic environment in Europe and the consequent slowdown in the creation of new jobs will lead to fewer job vacancies in the next decade. The long-term shortfall is still set to be dramatic, unless governments take action. Clients look for a total offering Clients are not only looking for fewer suppliers, they are also looking for a broader range of HR services from the suppliers they use, ranging from temporary staffing and permanent is concerned, some unjustified, economically unhelpful placements to outsourcing and managed services. Many regulatory restrictions are still in place, which we would like to clients are looking for a long-term customized talent strategy see lifted. And we strive for a fair and effective regulatory that covers their total workforce. This offers us a unique environment in markets where this has yet to be introduced. opportunity to engage our clients in a strategic discussion New opportunities are arising, as an increasing number of about their HR strategy and how they may be able to further governments are recognizing the need for flexibility in their optimize their entire workforce. We call this Total Talent labor markets. Architecture (TTA). Randstad is well-positioned to provide total talent solutions based on our broad service offering and We believe the best way of finding the most appropriate international coverage, as well as on our labor market balance of regulations for our services is through constructive knowledge at both global and national level. In many cases, social dialogue. This is in line with our core value of we can build on long-standing relationships with clients to 'simultaneous promotion of all interests', which lies at the whom we already provide part of our service offering. heart of our labor market relationships and stakeholder dialogue. Through proactive collaboration with governmental We analyze future needs and developments from both the authorities, industry associations, unions, and others, we can macro and the micro perspective. This is necessary to play an help influence legislation and regulations in positive ways that influential role in the regulating process. By applying our stimulate sustainable growth, employment, flexibility, and public affairs and labor market knowledge, we translate equal opportunities. We strongly believe that our business general economic trends into labor market needs and issues. must always benefit society as a whole. Following these analyses, we provide guidance to society on a macro level and to our clients on a micro level. Randstad believes government authorities will have to take measures to encourage the creation of jobs and participation Many international clients are looking for global or multiin the labor market. Key to this will be the stimulation of lifecountry solutions, and Randstad's Global Client Solutions team long learning and flexible labor contracts. Randstad could play leverages the Group's knowledge and capabilities across local a vital role as transition manager here, as we move to the next markets to successfully meet this demand. We have dedicated stage in the evolution of labor markets. teams of specialists focusing on specific industries to provide a full range of service concepts in both established and emerging markets. Today, international clients generate Regulatory environment in our around 25% of our revenue. markets Regulation Another important driver of market growth is regulation. A major step forward in the regulation of the European Well-regulated markets that encourage temporary staffing market was taken in 2008, when the European employment recover more quickly from economic downturns, Parliament adopted the Agency Work Directive (AWD). The and also have lower unemployment rates. We support more AWD recognizes the role of agency work and allows for balanced legislation, and try to influence it positively. It is greater flexibility, which provides greater scope for further important to stress that Randstad is championing appropriate evolution. The aim of the AWD is twofold: to identify and lift regulation for our business activities. Certainly where staffing all unjustified and/or disproportionate restrictions on annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 15 temporary agency work, while still protecting the rights of State of play on staffing regulation and trends, 2015 temporary-agency workers, including their right to equal treatment and equal pay. Country Regulation Regulatory trend Argentina ↔ We observed that, since the introduction of the AWD in 2008, Australia ← several countries in southern and eastern European have lifted Austria ↔ or eased restrictions on temporary work. Recent relevant examples include the following: Belgium → In France, the restriction on the number of times an Brazil → assignment can be renewed was eased (from once to Canada ↔ twice), as well as the restriction on the maximum length of China ↔ assignments. In addition, the waiting period between Czech Republic ↔ assignments for open-ended contracts was abolished in Denmark ↔ 2015; France ↔ In Greece, the grounds for using temporary workers were Germany ← removed and sectoral bans were lifted, while restrictions Greece ↔ on rehiring after dismissal were eased; In Italy, the restrictions on the use of vulnerable workers Hungary ↔ and young people as temporary-agency workers were India ↔ eased, as well as the justification for using them, while the Italy → maximum length of assignments was extended; Japan → Spain saw several reforms in the past few years, including Luxembourg ↔ the lifting of legal bans in the public and construction Mexico ↔ sectors, and the introduction of specific training and Netherlands ↔ learning contracts for agency workers and apprenticeship New Zealand ↔ contracts; Poland ↔ In Luxembourg, the requirement for on-the-job training contracts between assignments was lifted; Portugal ↔ In Portugal, the financial guarantee was lowered; Spain ↔ In the Czech Republic, the restriction on hiring disabled Sweden ↔ people was lifted. Switzerland ↔ Turkey ↔ The regulatory environment in some other large economies is UK ↔ showing both favorable and unfavorable developments: US ↔ Japan Appropriate/liberal regulation Trend has improved The amendment bill on the Worker Dispatch Law was Workable regulation/to be improved Trend has not changed approved in 2015. This regulatory reform, which has already been implemented, scraps the prohibition to assign temporary Restrictive/ no specific regulation Trend has reversed agency workers for more than three years to one post. As a result of the reform, companies will be able to use staffing as a solution for an indefinite period of time, on condition that the same post is filled by new individuals every three years the current CLA for agency work, the new legislation has led and that the companies' labor unions are consulted on these to an extended flexibility period from 3.5 years to 5.5 years. matters. If the temporary work agency has the opportunity to Also in July 2015, the new Act on Combating Sham offer an open-ended (indefinite) employment contract, the Arrangements ('Wet aanpak schijnconstructies') came into agency worker can continue work beyond the three-year force, introducing a new chain liability. This legislation makes period in the same position at the client company. every user company in the chain liable for the correct payment of wages to temporary employees. The Netherlands In July 2015, the new Work and Security Act came into force. This law represents the conversion into law of an agreement between the principal associations of employers, employees, social partners, and government. The new law simplifies dismissal regulation, reduces the disparity between permanent and fixed-term contracts, and increases income protection for employees on a flexible contract. The new legislation does not affect agency work. In combination with annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 16 tech and touch A software developer in Spain deploys on-demand Java developers half way around the world to keep projects moving. A talent manager in the US accesses a wealth of newhire data with one tap on a mobile device. A passive candidate is converted into an active job seeker when automated recruitment marketing catches his attention on social media in China. All around the world, cutting-edge technology is transforming how we live and work, and how companies engage, acquire, and utilize talent. At the same time, candidates have unfiltered real-time access to the inner workings of employers, empowering them to make more informed career choices. Welcome to the new 'hyperconnected' world of work. In today’s intensely dynamic market, the relationship between employer and employee is evolving rapidly. Driven by accelerated investments in innovation, both sides are enabled like never before. There is more transparency than any other time in history. Access to talent is no longer limited by organizational silos, geographic boundaries, or even the time of day. The candidate experience is paramount in winning Hybrid model talent, and innovation sits at the heart of the shift. Randstad delivers tools for both clients and candidates that help to increase efficiency and engagement But with this also comes complexity. Making sense of innovation, what technologies to adopt, and how to use them to benefit your organization requires deep expertise, comprehensive market knowledge and human intelligence. Now more than ever, employers need consultative support to Technology with a human touch fulfill their talent needs and meet their business imperatives. With technology having an increasing impact on the way we Under pressure to quickly adapt, they need a strong partner live, work, and play, this raises the question of how and where who can guide them forward in a time when hundreds of to connect to people in real life, in person, face-to-face. technologies are coming to market every quarter, and there is Through the Randstad Innovation Fund we try to discover and a burning need to turn HR and talent analytics into business learn what is out there in terms of HR technology solutions insights, strategic choices, and quantifiable impact. and what these technologies mean for the way we work. But there is more to technological developments than investing in In 2015, Randstad was at the forefront of talent technology solutions and tools. What all our innovations have in common enablement, providing clients with strategic advice, support, is that they combine technology with our human touch. 'Tech and solutions, even when the landscape was seemingly and Touch' is what will differentiate Randstad from the changing overnight. We made significant investments in competition. various trend-forward recruiting and HR technologies through the Randstad Innovation Fund (RIF). RIF is our way of staying agile, constantly scoping the rapidly evolving HR technology space for new innovations that will help our clients to Reimagining the future: transform their strategy, and to attract and engage the innovations at work people they need across the entire talent lifecycle, from entering the company to transitioning to new careers. HR technology in the past was viewed as complex, difficult to Offerings such as Crunchr HR analytics, Checkster screening implement, and slow to provide a return on investment. We automation, VONQ recruitment marketing, and many others are shattering this perception with impactful, practical tools. position us as the go-to experts in technology and people By providing clients with simplified but powerful technology, solutions. we accelerate market adoption and help them gain value more quickly. More importantly, strong partnerships with These investments greatly benefit our clients by helping them many leading global businesses give us a view into the future access the best possible talent more quickly and costof their workforce. This is a powerful vantage point, which effectively. They also complement our internal innovation provides a roadmap for developing new tools to address any efforts. Our subject matter experts have greater experience company’s – large or small – future challenges well before with and insights into technology deployment. It is a winning they need them. combination that builds confidence and trust in our commitment to evolving the HR and talent solutions market. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 17 While many of the technologies we have invested in are still approach. TTA is about future-proofing our clients' maturing, some are already producing great results for clients. workforces and giving them the strategic support they need, To accelerate this process, we are committed throughout all of so they can focus on their core business: building sustainable, our businesses to delivering innovation to clients. Part of this successful organizations. commitment is to ensure we are optimally implementing new tools to demonstrate success. This will also help us to speed up adoption among our customers. Every 'Tech and Touch' innovation we bring to market should be scalable, data-driven Big Data working for you and measurable from end to end. This provides us with the Randstad France has developed a Big Data solution that is input for driving continuous improvements in our offerings. based on data aggregation. This solution is innovative in its capacity to build bridges between jobs through skills analysis. Our clients know the talent landscape has shifted dramatically. It also aims to improve decision-making by providing targeted They must adapt to attract the critical talent they need to real-time insight into the labor market. This new approach to drive their business. As for us, we have to not just adapt, but employment-related data will help companies, candidates, stay ahead of the curve. By investing in technology, tools, and and public organizations to gain a detailed picture of expertise to create market foresight and appropriate available skills and skill shortages in every local labor market solutions, we are in the best position to meet our clients' across France. For example, if a company is growing, we can needs. help them to target the right population with the right skills. They will know who their competitors are, and they will have insight into how they can best present themselves in a Driving business results through particular labor market to attract the best people. holistic talent management On the other hand, we can provide outplacement options in many local markets to help transitioning employees find new CEOs around the world worry about attracting and retaining jobs. For candidates, this Big Data tool is ideal for identifying the right talent for their business. According to our global local companies seeking the skills being outplaced. For survey of nearly 400 C-suite HR and talent leaders, most government organizations, the tool gives them insight into businesses (72%) are negatively affected by talent scarcity. To how to attract companies as well as developing training address this concern, 82% said their business leaders are now programs that prepare outplaced workers for a career making talent acquisition a top organizational priority. So transition. This newly developed algorithm combines data what does this mean? Companies overwhelmingly believe from CV databases with job orders received and geographical that a holistic talent management approach will enhance information, enabling our consultants to present the required resources to drive business growth. By breaking down organizational silos and choosing optimal talent, regardless of whether it is permanent or contingent, companies gain talent quality, agility, and cost efficiency. To enable clients to take such a holistic approach, Randstad is increasingly serving as a talent advisor. As a provider of the complete range of talent and HR services, from staffing and recruiting to RPO, MSP, outplacement, and career transition, we are strongly positioned to analyze and create effective tactics in support of their strategies. At the same time, their needs are leading us into new territory, where our voices are having a strong influence on those strategies. For instance, they want greater value from their recruiting programs, and one way to achieve this is through integrated talent management solutions. For some global clients, we already fulfill both permanent and contingent talent needs under one program, which offers an array of benefits. In many instances, our role is to meet a client’s immediate need. But as they continue to seek greater value, we evolve into strategic advisors. We use analytics and insights to predict supply and demand, determining the right kind of talent for the work that needs to be done to achieve the client's shortand long-term business goals. For our large The French Big Data solution: a new approach to clients, we call this the Total Talent Architecture (TTA) employment-related data. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 18 tech and touch information in real time to clients. This tool is a prime example of Randstad's internal innovation, helping to transform the The future of sourcing is now way our consultants work and accelerate the delivery of The talent market place is rapidly evolving. Job vacancies are services and solutions for our clients. staying open longer. Business leaders are expressing greater concerns about their companies’ ability to secure critical skills. Companies are under greater pressure than ever to adapt to RiseSmart: innovative career challenging conditions. Today’s talent scarcity means that a generic approach to recruiting hard-to-win talent will not transition solution work – the power has shifted from employers to candidates, who now have more choices when it comes to where they The rapidly evolving HR technology landscape has led us to want to work. invest in RiseSmart, an outplacement service challenging the traditional model of offerings in today's market place and To accelerate our ability to find, attract, and engage transforming the way in which employers interact with talent. candidates for our clients in this competitive talent RiseSmart provides transitioning solutions to companies environment, we have invested in a global network of whose employees are impacted by restructuring, downsizing, sourcing centers of expertise. We combine world-leading mergers, and similar events. Powered by a virtual, scalable subject matter expertise, state-of-the-art technology, and model, RiseSmart is considered disruptive to traditional predictive analytics across all types of talent, industries and competitors by taking a proprietary, smart-technology-driven geographies. Our centers are staffed by highly skilled talent approach that accelerates the time to place transitioning sourcing specialists, who are trained to search and engage candidates (60% faster than average). They have already potential candidates using today's complex array of digital helped thousands of people find new jobs quickly, while also and social media channels. They use their combined helping some of the world's leading companies reduce costs experience, our global Boolean Builder technology, and our and protect their valuable employer brands. By adding proprietary Total Talent Sourcing Methodology (TTSM) and RiseSmart to our mix, we are able to further strengthen our tools to define job roles, map markets, customize recruiting position as a true HR partner for all phases of the talent life and search strategies, and engage candidates. cycle. The result for our clients: greater insight and foresight to redefine the way they find and engage the talent our Market intelligence with the Sales competitors simply cannot find, leading to faster time-to-fill Navigator for business-critical roles and improving the hiring manager and candidate experience. Tempo-Team Netherlands has developed an internal app for lead generation: the Sales Navigator. This app uses 'smart matching', and its data is easy to understand and apply. The insights provided by the app enable consultants to optimize matches between candidates and clients. It not only combines knowledge about seasonal peaks with customer history, but also with data from Statistics Netherlands (CBS) and various other sources of internal and external data. On this basis, the app generates a list showing the most promising leads, rated with one to five stars. The more stars, the more promising the commercial lead. An additional advantage of the tool is that we find new prospects thanks to a complete market view and up-to-date company information. So by extending our customer base, Tempo-Team can offer candidates a larger number of interesting jobs. For Tempo-Team, it is one of the first applications developed from a data-driven perspective, and we are convinced it provides clear direction for the future of the staffing industry. The accuracy and effectiveness of the app are continuously being refined, as feedback and user experiences are incorporated into the software. With this app, Tempo-Team was nominated for the Dutch Business Intelligence Award − the Smartest Organization. Can we predict demand? And can we help our salesforce to find promising leads easier and faster...? annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 19 safe harbor This annual report contains Such factors can include They are made at the time of forward-looking statements on general economic publication of the annual statement Randstad Holding nv’s future circumstances, scarcity on the financial statements of the financial performance, results labor market, demand for company and in no way from operations, and goals and (flexible) personnel or our provide guarantees for future strategy. By definition, other HR services, entry into performance. All operating forward-looking statements new markets, the provision of and business environments are generate risk and uncertainty new services, changes in subject to risk and uncertainty. because they refer to events in staffing and labor legislation, For this reason, we can offer no the future and depend on personnel costs, future assurances that the forwardcircumstances that cannot be exchange and interest rates, looking statements published foreseen in advance. Numerous changes in tax rates and here will prove correct at a factors can contribute to subsidies, future corporate future date, and the company material deviation from results mergers, acquisitions and assumes no duty to update any and developments indicated in divestments, and the such forward-looking forward-looking statements. development of technology. statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forwardlooking statements. 20 value proposition & strategy 21 How we create value 23 Strategic priorities and targets 24 How sustainability is embedded within Randstad 26 Sustainability framework 28 Value for our clients and candidates 40 Value for our employees 47 Value for society 50 Sustainability basics 21 how we create value Introduction Since the introduction of our core values, we have aspired to grow sustainably, our aim being to safeguard the business Having as many people as possible at work is a good thing for and its long-term viability, while taking the interests of all society as a whole. It makes companies productive and it stakeholders into account, and making our business provides people with a fulfilling life. It is our ambition to be increasingly relevant to all parties involved. This aspiration is an employer of choice ourselves, so that we can continue to clearly reflected in our core value of 'simultaneous promotion attract the best people, who in turn will provide our clients of all interests'. As a result, we also adhere to the integrated with the excellent execution they need. In this way, we can reporting guidelines for the structure of this annual report. contribute to a better society, leveraging the experience and expertise we have gained over more than 55 years. As such, we help to maximize future employment and economic Value through our strategy growth. In 2015, Randstad placed over 2 million people in temporary jobs (~600,000 on a daily basis) and over 120,000 Helping people to find work is our key driver, it supports the people into permanent positions. role of Randstad in society. The same objective also translates directly into the company's financial ambitions. This Helping more people to find work connection is a huge inspiration for our corporate employees. 20,000 1,000,000 Geographically, Randstad is active in countries representing 900,000 over 90% of the global HR services market. As described in the 17,500 800,000 section ‘Our business environment’, in these geographies, we Revenue (x € million) Avg no. of candidates 15,000 700,000 aim to capitalize on the structural growth drivers of our 12,500 600,000 industry. 10,000 500,000 7,500 400,000 The diagram 'Our strategy and strategic roadmap' shows how 300,000 5,000 200,000 our structural growth drivers, via the strategic building blocks, 2,500 100,000 create value for our stakeholders. Our strategy to capture the 0 0 growth opportunities consists of four strategic building blocks, 1995 2005 2008 2015 which will be explained in the following sections. The #9 # 19 # 53 # 39 combination of our strategic building blocks will enable us to Revenue serve the interests of our stakeholders and to create Average number of candidates (on a daily basis) sustainable value for all of them. # Number of countries Randstad operates in Creating value through our strategy Strategic building blocks Strong concepts Best people Excellent execution Superior brands We create and We attract bright, We use best practices We guarantee to our clients Clients manage a balanced agile and adaptable and proven procedures that they will receive the workforce by employees and to ensure candidate highest quality service and get connecting challenge them engagement and firstaccess to the best candidates candidates with to outperform class service delivery suitable employment towards clients Candidates opportunities and candidates We are well-known for making the best jobs available and Stakeholders giving people the opportunity to develop their talents Our strong concepts We aim to be the Our high-performance Superior brands help us to Employees drive excellent most attractive culture helps us to attract, recruit and retain development employer for recruit, retain and the best people opportunities for our employees develop the best people our employees Society Simultaneous promotion of all interests: we help to maximize future employment and economic growth Including and we create shareholder value shareholders annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 22 how we create value Our strategy and strategic roadmap Randstad core values: to know, serve and trust, striving for perfection and the simultaneous promotion of all interests Structural growth drivers Strategic building blocks Value for our stakeholders Optimal The best jobs workforces for candidates Flexibility & outsourcing Strong concepts for clients Demographics Best people Clients look for a Excellent execution Expertise for a The employer of total offering better society choice for our Superior brands and shareholder employees Regulation return Sustainability basics Today Objectives Progress in 2015 Activity-Based Field Steering Driving productivity through commercial excellence ABFS Activity levels up +15% (2014: >30%) SME picking up in Netherlands, France & Germany Brand strength, leads and conversion World League People, at the right place, at the right time € 60-70m cost savings on track (2015-16) Optimized organization structure Org New IT strategy (incl. cost savings) High-performance culture and people engagement New Sourceright EMEA organization in place Continuous process improvement Vertical approach in Professionals Total Talent Architecture, World Class Customer Experience Creating quantifiable business impact by addressing the TTA implemented in 10 countries entire workforce of our clients TTA Growth in MSP (+30%) & RPO (+24%) Increasing share of wallet Inhouse surpassed € 1b revenue in Q2 1,000 large clients targeted Talent management, unique candidate engagement Sourcing Centers (Hungary, India, Malaysia) Optimum integration of technology and touch Leader in speed of matching and quality of hire Talent Talent engagement programs End-to-end marketing Fostering talent engagement and communities HR Technology Randstad Innovation Fund (RIF): 8 investments made to date Being the most agile integrator of technology & services in Career Transition – RiseSmart our industry Tech Business systems development/innovation Randstad Innovation Fund Sales Navigator Capturing trends and future business in HR technology 'Big Data' matching tool M&A, seamless fit integrations Strategic fit Acquisition of Proffice and RiseSmart Value creation M&A Leverage ratio at 0.2 Manageability EVA positive after 3 years Shape the world of work Optimized workforces for clients 6.2% revenue growth The best jobs for candidates EBITA margin improved from 4.1% to 4.5% Grow to 5-6% EBITA Goals Productivity (GP/FTE) up 4% Profitable growth >2 million candidates placed Improving margin >120,000 permanent positions filled Increasing productivity annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 23 strategic priorities and targets Strategic priorities specialties and permanent placements. For Professionals, we have modified our approach to accelerate profitable growth. Our strategic priorities and roadmap (see previous page) will In mature markets, we will apply a verticals approach, enable us to capitalize on the structural growth drivers in our allowing us to better align our delivery models to the markets. To further guide this process, we have formulated dynamics of the core segments of IT, finance, and the following financial targets: engineering. We will 'copy and paste' these best practices EBITA margin of 5% to 6% over time, through revenue globally to ensure our consultants reach the desired growth and mix improvement; productivity levels faster. In new and emerging markets, we Continuous profitable market share gains. will focus on accelerating growth by providing our companies with standardized toolkits to ensure strong growth in the startup phase. At the same time, we aim to broaden our Targets within reach service offering by stepping up growth in other HR services, such as MSP, RPO, and outsourcing. As the Group sustained growth throughout 2015 (6.2% revenue growth), our focus is on leveraging our strategic On our Capital Markets Day (held on November 17, 2015), we initiatives and on improving our profitability (EBITA margin up indicated that our 5-6% EBITA margin target could come 40bp to 4.5%). These initiatives should help us to improve our within reach in 2016, assuming: business mix by accelerating growth in the Professionals high-single-digit sales growth; segment, permanent placements, and small and mediumincreased productivity through ABFS; sized enterprises (SMEs). Given the trends in our industry, € 60-70 million cost savings following our global headthese segments will play a greater role in our markets, and we office and back-office benchmark study; are ready to capture growth in these segments. In Staffing, we continued mix changes towards permanent placements, aim to grow in the SME segment of the market by focusing on Professionals, and SMEs (2015: € 50 million realized). Targets within reach € 30-35 million savings in 2015 and Cost € 30-35 million in 2016 Assumptions: high-single-digit sales On track, Topline growth in 2016 more to come ABFS growth 2015-2016 9Qs of low-mid singledigit sales growth Business mix Improved growth & productivity More permanent placements, Professionals and SME Activities +15% FY, productivity (GP/FTE) +4% FY Perm/SME double-digit growth, competitive market 4.4% 4.6% EBITA margin 2015 2016 5.0% 6.0% target within reach FY2015 at 4.5% annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 24 how sustainability is embedded within Randstad introduction materiality matrix as elaborated on below. The sustainability framework has now been updated including those material It is our job to make work work − in the long term and for issues which are ranked as having the highest importance to everyone. Sustainability is at the heart of our strategy and our stakeholders and/or the highest impact on the Randstad operations. Our engagement with our stakeholders and the business. We also added the related risks, Key Performance service we provide them with builds mutual trust. This trust is Indicators (KPIs), and relevant measurable targets. enhanced by simultaneously promoting the interests of all stakeholders and society as a whole. We believe this creates an We have communicated and promoted our sustainability essential and long-term foundation for our business. framework across all layers of the organization. Several of our Simultaneous promotion of all interests, one of our core larger operating companies publish their own detailed values, is the basis for our social responsibility and our sustainability report to facilitate their local stakeholder sustainability framework. dialogue. Our Executive Board bears ultimate responsibility for the Our sustainability framework contains KPIs. Several of these Group's social responsibility and our sustainability framework, KPIs have already been in place for years, while other KPIs are while related topics are discussed frequently with the under development. New KPIs will be added, while others Supervisory Board. Randstad not only contributes to society at may be relinquished if they turn out to have become obsolete. an international level, but the wider Randstad community also Assessing KPIs for feasibility, and validating them in light of participates in many socially involved and volunteering developments in the company and society, has become a initiatives on a local level. These activities are listed on our continuous process. Our operating companies report on these corporate website. Our operating companies have their own KPIs through the reporting system on a quarterly basis. Our Sustainability Managers or a dedicated coordinator for non-financial reporting is therefore embedded in the sustainability matters, depending on their size. As from planning and control cycle of the organization, and CFOs of mid-2015 the Group Sustainability Manager reports directly to operating companies bear final responsibility for its quality. the Company Secretary. Elements related to sustainability reporting are explicitly included in our key control framework. In the area of sustainability in the workforce, in dialogue with a number of highly influential global companies, Randstad Given the relevance of sustainability for Randstad's business, focuses on several key topics to identify the principal global its ambition, and long-term viability, the Supervisory Board dilemmas facing today's world of work and possible solutions. has added KPIs from the sustainability framework − one from These dilemmas include knowledge transfer and leadership each pillar − to the Executive Board's long-term incentive skills. performance targets, in a ratio of 80% Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and 20% sustainability. For the performance This year, we are again publishing an integrated annual period 2015−2017, the performance targets are (1) our Net report, in which we not only provide legally required Promoter Score; (2) increased focus on health & safety and information, but also give an update on the development of relative reduction of fatalities and injuries; (3) proportion of the interests of Randstad's stakeholders, including our females in senior management positions; (4) increased staffing contribution to society and the environment. penetration rates; and (5) return to/inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. Sustainability framework Materiality matrix Identifying material issues is an important part of our With regard to sustainability, until 2011, we reported on a approach to reporting. It helps Randstad to prioritize our number of sector-specific topics, based on indicators proposed reporting on what matters most to the business and to our by GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and the United Nations stakeholders. It makes those items more explicit which are key Global Compact. In 2012, we published our Randstad-specific to Randstad's strategic direction. To identify these matters, we sustainability framework, which sets the direction for our take input from both inside and outside Randstad. In the first ambitions. It is based on a series of dialogues with multiple half of 2015, we had a materiality analysis conducted by stakeholders. The Executive Board and Supervisory Board independent consultants in order to validate our sustainability were involved in developing the framework, which forms the framework, involving almost 8,000 stakeholders. The heart of our value proposition and therefore reflects our stakeholder groups included clients, candidates, employees, activities from the perspective of our clients, candidates, suppliers, authorities, investors, the financial sector, trade employees, shareholders, employment markets, and society at unions, civil society, and sector organizations. The analysis large. encompassed desk research, interviews with internal stakeholders, client and candidate surveys, and the Great Through stakeholder engagement during 2015, we identified People Survey for employees. Based on a ranking of the 27 key material issues in the social, economic, and stakeholders (their power to influence, the urgency of issues environmental domains. These issues have been captured in a they deemed important, and the legitimacy of their interests) annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 25 and an extensive analysis of all data generated during the terms of revenue growth, gross-margin protection, and cost process, we identified 27 key material issues in the social, reduction. Issues identified as having the highest overall economic, and environmental domains. These issues are relevance to stakeholders are ranked on the y-axis. The captured in a materiality matrix. The matrix has been adopted materiality matrix was compiled of overall results for each by the Executive Board. stakeholder group globally and therefore does not reflect regional or cultural differences. The x-axis of the matrix outlines issues we have identified internally as having the strongest impact on our business in Materiality matrix High • Business principles and • regulation Legislation and human rights • Corporate governance • Training and education • Health and safety management • Economic and social impact of labor on society Importance to stakeholders • Performance and risk management • Sustainable supply chain management • Stakeholder engagement • Environmental impact of the company • and Increase of labor market flexibility mobility • Environmental policy • Employment security • CRM Innovation management • • Talent attraction • Investing in emerging • Competitiveness and staff retention of the company markets • Product and service • Corporate citizenship responsibility • Climate change • Labor management •Customer protection • Social reporting relations • Environmental • Reputation management Low reporting • Employee engagement Low Impact on Randstad's business High The Top 20 materialities and their location in this report: 1. Business principles on page 50 and human rights on page 51 11. Talent attraction on page 40 & staff retention on page 43 2. Training and education on page 38 12. Customer protection on page 82 3. Increase of labor market flexibility and mobility on page 13 13. Competitiveness of the company on page 12 4. Economic & social impact of labor on society on page 12 14. Employee engagement on page 43 5. Stakeholder engagement on page 24 15. Reputation management on page 36 6. Performance on page 55 & risk management on page 78 16. Labor management relations on page 48 7. Legislation & regulation on page 14 17. Corporate citizenship on page 48 8. Health & safety management on page 39 18. Corporate governance on page 87 9. Client relationship management (CRM) on page 37 19. Sustainable supply chain management on page 52 10. Innovation management on page 35 20. Environmental impact of the company on page 53 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 26 we strive for the simultaneous promotion of all interests pillar key material matters risks vision 2020 optimal workforces for Client relationship management Adapting to economic conditions We are the leading HR solutions partner Innovation management Contract liability clients Increase of labor market and support our clients in creating a balanced workforce, and in becoming flexibility and mobility more attractive employers and effective organizations, now and in the coming years. the best jobs for candidates Training and education Candidate screening We give as many people as possible Health & safety management Contract liability access to jobs, providing them with options to develop themselves, with equal opportunities for all, with respect for health and safety, and with unyielding integrity. We also play a crucial role in guiding people from unemployment to employment. the employer of choice for Talent attraction and staff Attraction and retention of We want to be an attractive employer retention talent our employees Employee engagement with equal opportunities for everyone in an environment in which knowledge, shaping the world of work Training and education Health & safety management trust, and diversity are highly valued. We Labor management relations are aware that we can only achieve this through serving others. expertise for a better Increase of labor market Increased complexity of laws and We aim to shape a better society by flexibility and mobility regulations society Legislation & regulation Competition law compliance activating our knowledge and expertise. This is focused on (but not limited to) Economic and social impact of Tax and labor law compliance labor on society our knowledge of employment markets. Corporate citizenship We advocate developments which benefit individuals as well as society at large. value for our shareholders Performance & risk management Credit risk Competitiveness of the company Other financial reporting risks Adapting to economic conditions sustainability basics Business principles & human Protecting our reputation We aim to have a set of management rights Data protection and system tools, business principles and policies in Stakeholder management development & integration place that are in line with or exceed the Customer protection Business continuity and data Reputation management recovery standard for our industry and that Environmental impact enable accountability for all elements of Corporate governance our sustainability framework. Sustainable supply chain management annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 27 key drivers 2012 2020 KPIs measurable targets We provide innovative concepts for flexibility, Net Promoter Score (NPS) NPS: Top 3 position or position improvement in our based on our core values. Market share Top 15 markets We support diversified workforces at our clients. Client consideration, preference; client retention Increase market share in our main markets We have a continuous dialogue with and advise Investments in innovation clients on the simultaneous promotion of all interests. We provide clients with the best candidates. We measure our success through surveys. We advance the employability of candidates. Candidate consideration, preference; candidate Zero fatalities and relative reduction of injuries We provide candidates with the right jobs. engagement Increasing # of initiatives to place candidates with We make sure that our candidates work in a safe Injuries and fatalities during work disabilities and healthy environment. # of initiatives to place candidates with disabilities Increasing # of initiatives to guide people from We guide people from unemployment to # of initiatives to guide people from unemployment to employment employment. unemployment to employment We measure our success through surveys. # of training hours; training costs # of matches # of permanent placements We attract, recruit, develop, and retain the best Internal leadership appointments as % of total Fill 80% of our leadership roles internally people. Proportion of males and females in senior Proportion of females in senior leadership The composition of our workforce is such that leadership positions positions: 50% in 2017 employees are able to understand and work with # of training hours; training costs Zero fatalities and relative reduction of injuries the diverse groups that make up our markets. Injuries and fatalities during work Outperformance score higher than benchmark We insist on ethical behavior and further embed Employee retention rate with a participation rate of 70% or higher business principles in our global organization (e.g., Outperformance score health and safety, human rights and environment). We measure our success through surveys. We contribute to the removal of barriers for global # of hours and employees involved in VSO Send 20–25 volunteers on overseas assignments mobility. Contribution to the appropriate regulation of annually We strive to improve global employment labor markets Staffing penetration rates: increased in Top 8 participation. Staffing penetration rates in our markets markets, where measurable We strive to increase our role in the regulation of Other community engagements employment markets. We contribute to the social dialogue at key forums. We create partnerships that enable us to use our knowledge to benefit society. We engage in a proactive and continuous EBITA EBITA margin of 5% to 6% over time stakeholder dialogue. Incremental conversion ratio Incremental conversion ratio ≥ 50% Recovery ratio Recovery ratio ≥ 65% Dividend payout ratio of 40% to 50% of net profit Increase of market share We create mechanisms to safeguard our core # of employees trained in business principles All our corporate employees trained in business values, business principles, and good governance. # of business principles incidents (misconduct principles We strive for a responsible supply chain. reporting procedure) Sustainable supplier code fully rolled out We strive to limit our environmental footprint by % of vendors who have agreed to our sustainable throughout Randstad using sustainable energy sources, reducing use of vendor policy, % of purchase value Included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index water and paper. Environmental footprint measures on % of electricity from sustainable sources: 50% in consumption of energy, % of use of green energy 2018 sources, water and paper annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 28 value for our clients and candidates Introduction Total Talent Architecture In this section, we explain our value proposition for clients and candidates, in line with our strategic priorities. We will analyze Executive Board a number of non-financial KPIs as presented in our sustainability framework. This section also includes an Managing Director operating company overview of our strategic building blocks, which ensure value creation for our clients and candidates. Total Talent Architecture Our value for clients Staffing Inhouse MSP & Profs Profs We help our clients become more attractive as employers and RPO non-tech tech more effective as organizations. We do this by assisting our clients in creating and managing a balanced workforce, with employees who have the right skills, competencies, and Marketing, HR, BCD concept-specific cultural fit. In short, we play a key role in managing our clients' key assets: their people. Companies continue to compete for the best talent to drive organizational strategy, Support SSC (Finance, IT, Legal, Facilities) workforce productivity, and business performance. To compete, they increasingly look for a strategic talent partner with the expertise and scope to provide holistic HR solutions. By finding the candidates with the talents and skills our clients Traditional talent acquisition is typically executed in silos by need, when they need them, we give our clients the necessary many stakeholders concerned only with filling their particular flexibility and agility to improve their productivity and talent needs at a certain moment. Hiring managers may competitiveness. We provide our clients with a large range of utilize insourced, outsourced, or a mix of such services to services, partnering with them throughout economic cycles acquire talent. As a result, process overhead is unavoidable, and structural changes in their organization. We help them to and the lack of transparency and internal communication can address these challenges. Moreover, our clients are lead to cost, quality, and compliance issues. increasingly outsourcing their HR processes to us. In addition, we provide value by putting our knowledge of local TTA encompasses much more than a set of services. It employment markets and our innovative solutions at our examines an organization's business objectives and provides clients' disposal. In short, our people's knowledge and services an in-depth analysis of the workforce planning and shape our clients' businesses for the better. forecasting to deliver a talent strategy aligned to growth ambitions and profitability targets. This strategy may comprise Our range of services includes regular temporary staffing and various and flexible talent supply models based on differences the permanent placement of candidates. We also offer in business needs, geography, and workforce demographics. dedicated on-site workforce management with Inhouse Employers may adopt these models in local business Services – an offering unique in our industry – as well as other operations, across multiple geographies, or even globally. HR solutions, such as Recruitment Process Outsourcing (RPO), managed services programs (MSP), payroll services, and Randstad is well-positioned to provide these total talent outplacement. We deliver our services in multiple ways, using solutions based on our broad service offering and multiple service concepts. Our service concepts, which are international coverage. TTA connects all our business lines, explained in the section 'Our strategy: strong concepts', offer where we see ample opportunities to increase our presence in a wide range of solutions and are always based on higher-value-added services (such as Professionals and standardized best practices and proven procedures. permanent placements). In most cases, we build on existing, long-standing relationships with clients. Through a Total Talent Architecture (our large-client approach) comprehensive customer and market intelligence exercise, we Total Talent Architecture (TTA) is a large-client approach review all internal and external data sources available in order (roughly 1,000 accounts), by which a company builds a holistic to compare their results with those of other companies in the talent strategy with the optimal balance and supply of same industry. We review with clients their organizational permanent, contingent, and freelance talent, making a performance and current HR/talent state with their desired measurable impact on business goals and growth. Achieving future position. Drawing up a roadmap, we proactively show this requires a rigorous approach and deeply unified them their future talent strategy, demonstrating organizational behavior. opportunities and barriers to success and potential business impact in terms of growth, financials, and competitive position. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 29 Total talent roadmap Total Talent Architecture Engagement models Strategic planning Total cost of Includes all workforces ownership MSP Holistic approach Preferred RPO Global and local optimization suppliers Transparency SSC Applied innovations Longer-term view Process improvement Aims for industry leadership Ad-hoc Consolidated Process efficiencies Aims to add value Compliance Aims to lower total costs Diversified Aims to control Single categories and save costs Aims to meet local needs Our total talent roadmap engages our clients in a strategic Our value for candidates conversation. It serves to demonstrate our capabilities in helping them shape their optimal workforce and serves as a Our mission is to make the best jobs available to as many guideline to help them gradually implement our broader people as possible, providing people with the opportunity to range of solutions across all layers of their organization. develop themselves. We strive to do this while providing equal opportunities for all, respecting health and safety, and with Through expert consultation, the TTA framework is built to unyielding integrity. We advocate equal opportunities and meet a set of business goals common to all organizations. It unbiased competence management, irrespective of gender, aims to improve the alignment of organizational strategy and race, religion, age, or background. In addition, we play a workforce planning, impacting: crucial role in helping people make the transition from Quality of talent; unemployment to employment, for example, with a number Workforce productivity; of programs to help unemployed youth. Internal mobility (local, regional, and global); Process efficiency; By connecting our candidates with suitable employment Organizational agility; opportunities, we provide them and their families with Risk mitigation; independence, as well as job satisfaction, dignity, and respect. Social responsibility; Through both temporary and permanent placements, we Profitability and growth. offer candidates opportunities to gain experience and improve their skills, while achieving personal growth and This approach keeps us agile, as we continuously adjust our developing their career. Furthermore, by developing longdelivery models to serve our clients in the most suitable way. term relationships with our candidates, we are able to As these models evolve, we share insights and drive strategic understand and help them formulate the best career path and conversations with clients so that they can benefit from our help them achieve their long-term career ambitions. We depth of service offering, from staffing and recruitment of enable freelancers to share their knowledge and experience professionals through to highly customized RPO and MSP. with organizations, ensuring a good cultural and creative fit. Through TTA, we build long-term, sustainable relationships that are focused on value creation. In this way, we proactively For many candidates, temporary work either represents their shape the world of work. first step on the way to a permanent job, or liberates them from unemployment. It is the best possible training for a permanent job, as it gives candidates an opportunity to enhance and broaden their experience, which makes them more highly valued by organizations. On average, only 46% of workers were employed before agency work, but 72% are annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 30 value for our clients and candidates employed after agency work (source: Ciett, Economic Report In 2015, we continued to focus on implementing the right 2015). For other candidates, the services we provide enable delivery models for clients and on client profitability. For small them to build a career, to earn additional income, or to adjust and medium-sized clients, we offer Staffing and Professionals their work/life balance to their own circumstances, needs and services through our branch network. Our units or teams in wishes. these businesses each focus on a specific market segment and/or job profile, offering temporary staffing and/or By finding work for people, we contribute to the optimization permanent placements. For larger clients requiring higher of talent allocation. By helping candidates manage their initial volumes, we have developed segment-specific delivery expectations and ambitions in terms of sector, client, and job models. As the profiles of our clients continue to change, we profiles, and by providing training where necessary, we help adapt our service offering accordingly. Two good examples them adapt to changing requirements. We recognize that are Randstad Inhouse Services and Randstad Sourceright. The various groups of people in society are distanced from work. latter focuses on Recruitment Process Outsourcing (RPO) and We run a variety of local joband skills-oriented training Managed Services Programs (MSP). programs designed to help these people integrate or reintegrate into the employment market. Across the Randstad Group, as depicted by our client-delivery adaptability model, we continuously analyze our clients' requirements and assess whether the existing delivery model Our strategy: strong concepts is the most effective and efficient one to meet our clients' needs. In addition, we analyze whether the existing contract To ensure value creation for clients and candidates, we offer and delivery models generate the desired profitability. Based them our strong concepts: on this assessment, clients may be transferred to an alternative Staffing; delivery model to ensure we continue to tailor our services to Inhouse Services; their specific needs and challenges. For example, we may Professionals; transfer a large Professionals client, serviced through our HR Solutions. office network, to RPO, so that we can handle recruitment at the client's premises. Other examples involve launching an These four concepts are based on best practices and proven MSP for a large client to manage its supplier base, transferring procedures. This ensures efficient working methods and firstStaffing from the branch network to Inhouse Services, or class service delivery. The concepts can be rapidly replicated centralizing the recruitment of candidates through our and leveraged in other markets, and are relatively easy to international sourcing centers. adapt to meet specific needs. Our service concepts are wellknown for the consistency and quality of their delivery. As a Such a dedicated delivery model increases the fill rate of the result, all of our clients know they can trust Randstad to meet orders and hence leads to greater efficiency and client their needs throughout the world. Our concepts offer clients satisfaction. What is more, by transferring a larger client from in-depth knowledge of their business and provide them with the branch network to a segment-specific delivery model, we the right talent at the right time. Addressing the need of our also ensure that the units and teams at the branches are clients for increased flexibility is something we do every day. better able to focus on their SME market segments and related job profiles. Client strategy Client SME Large account Traditional model Segment-specific Staffing Professionals Total Talent Architecture specialties verticals Temp Perm Temp Perm Staffing Inhouse MSP & Profs Profs RPO non-tech tech annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 31 Adaptability of the client-delivery model industry and are jointly responsible for client service, candidate selection, and the matching of clients and candidates. The consultants work as a team, ensuring that, at all times, at least one of them is available to assist our clients and candidates. All consultants are experts in their local labor Analysis market, and become experts in their clients' businesses, understanding client needs and the candidate profiles that will best meet their requirements. Consultants are dedicated Transfer criter to clients and by having in-depth knowledge of our clients, we live can anticipate our clients' needs. This is one of Randstad’s greatest differentiators, and provides a major boost to team ia Client r y criteria performance and directly impacts productivity. The structure enables our consultants to dynamically address changing client demands as they arise. As clients' needs change, we may De implement different ways of delivering services, such as De centralizing the recruitment of candidates and digitizing parts live of our services. ry model Inhouse Services Randstad has developed Inhouse Services to meet the structural needs of companies requiring large-volume workforces with client-specific skill sets. To support the continuous improvement of our concepts and We provide dedicated consultants and process managers who to create new delivery models, we innovate by being the most work on-site, tailoring our processes to our clients' specific agile integrator of HR technology. Some of the HR technology needs, and improving workforce flexibility, productivity, and trends we see are big data analytics, social sourcing, talent efficiency. We focus mainly on the following segments: fastnetworks, and human cloud platforms. We are running moving consumer goods (FMCG), contact centers, several projects to embrace these new trends, which allows us manufacturing, and logistics. By providing a flexible work to use these technologies in our service delivery to clients. In solution designed exclusively for each client, we optimize the this context, the Randstad Innovation Fund (RIF) plays an workforce and drive cost effectiveness. This results in a important role. number of notable client benefits, including improved labor flexibility and productivity, increased employee retention, and We offer four distinct service concepts: Staffing, Inhouse stronger employee engagement. Services, Professionals and HR Solutions. A detailed explanation of our service offering is given in the following Being on-site is as close to a client as we can get, and it sections. An overview of our performance by revenue provides us with a unique opportunity to obtain a thorough category in 2015 is given in the section 'Performance'. understanding of how their business operates and what they need to do in order to become more agile, efficient and Staffing successful. As a result, hidden needs are easier to discover, and In Staffing, our largest business, the concept covers both relationships often become long-lasting, providing a high level temporary staffing, where we charge our clients based on the of trust, enabling clients to focus on core strategic issues, hours worked, and permanent placements, where we charge confident in the knowledge that their staffing needs are our clients a fee based on the candidate's salary. In 2015, our being met. focus on permanent placements continued to pay off. In a growing number of countries, we now have blended units Over the years, we have gained valuable experience in that offer both temporary staffing and permanent providing Inhouse solutions across the industrial segments of placements. our markets. We are now implementing our Inhouse Services concept in the administrative segments and in Professionals, Our Staffing service offering includes a range of specialties, where we see significant opportunities. In addition, we with dedicated units that focus on staffing for certain market continue to see increasing demand for permanent placements segments that require specific skills or experience (e.g., through the Inhouse concept. logistics, airports, and contact centers). Professionals In the majority of our markets, we operate a unit structure in Finding and retaining talent is an ongoing challenge for many the Staffing segment. Each unit typically consists of two of our clients. Even in volatile times with increased consultants who work within a given geographical area or unemployment, there are many scarce profiles (especially IT and engineering professionals). We know where to find the annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 32 value for our clients and candidates Key figures by revenue category HR Solutions in millions of € HR Solutions frees up the time of our clients' HR managers by revenue growth% taking over several of their tasks, enabling them to focus on 2015 2014 total organic their company's strategic HR issues. Our HR Solutions services, which have been developed on the basis of our extensive Staffing (incl. HR Solutions) 11,186.4 10,202.8 10 6 experience in this field, are typically complementary to Inhouse Services 4,216.4 3,622.5 16 11 Staffing and Professionals, especially with long-standing client Professionals 3,816.4 3,424.5 11 3 relationships. In addition, our HR Solutions offering provides Total 19,219.2 17,249.8 11 6 an ideal opportunity to establish and deepen client relationships. Sometimes we start a client relationship by providing payroll services, and we also have many examples of talent with the right skills and competencies, and are able to now much larger clients for whom we initially only provided support our professionals in gaining additional skills through outsourcing or other HR Solutions services. By sharing our training if required. Our professionals, both those placed on expertise and added value, we can often expand our service temporary projects and those added as permanent staff, will offering to Staffing and Professionals. We provide our clients add value from the moment they start the job and help with a number of key HR Solutions, which are described achieve our clients' business goals. below. Within Professionals, our experienced consultants are experts In 2015, client demand for strategic talent solutions continued in their own specific fields, and have well-developed networks to drive demand for Randstad Sourceright's services. Through of contacts. We source professionals and executives across a ongoing consultation and extensive partnerships, we helped range of sectors, including engineering, IT, finance and organizations navigate constant market changes by providing accounting, healthcare, and other disciplines, such as HR, the critical skills required to compete and succeed. Our insight, education, legal affairs, and marketing & communications. We deep expertise, and services help clients fulfill their strategic place candidates on a temporary or interim basis, as well as in business vision through a commitment to shaping an permanent positions. organization's 'talent readiness'. By delivering the right talent at the right time in the right modes of employment and at the We continue to see big opportunities to leverage the strong right cost, we drive quantifiable and lasting business impact relationships with our existing client base, where we already for our clients. have a solid exposure to their staffing spend. Going forward, we will focus on verticals in mature markets, while aiming at As clients seek new ways to stay ahead of the competition and accelerating growth in emerging markets based on a more secure the best talent faster, we see growth in market generic approach. opportunities in Recruitment Process Outsourcing (RPO) and Managed Services Programs (MSPs). Our verticals approach to mature markets is initially focused on the larger Professionals markets: IT, finance, and Within the HR Solutions sector, the global RPO market engineering. The emphasis is on further tailoring our continues to see strong demand at 15-20% growth annually. Professionals concept to the dynamics of these markets and The largest market is North America, followed by EMEA, Asia making use of the in-depth knowledge and experience in the Pacific, and Latin America. As the market matures, RPO buyers most mature operating companies. Special attention is paid to are looking beyond traditional drivers, such as flexibility, on-boarding programs for new consultants and helping them scalability, and cost. In addition, they are attaching greater to get to desired productivity levels faster. Our field steering importance to business impact – including improving quality model further supports our growth in these markets. of hire, reducing time-to-hire of business-critical talent, measurable process improvement, and greater visibility and In emerging markets, we apply a more generic approach, and insights. we have standardized toolkits available for accelerating growth across these markets. These toolkits include blueprints for working processes, databases, and dashboards. Special attention is paid to people, training, and development, to ensure we have the right level of expertise on board. By making use of the standardized toolkit, we ensure that best practices and proven procedures are used. Once these businesses grow in maturity, the activities will be aligned with the verticals approach, as explained above. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 33 Recruitment Process Outsourcing (RPO) service provider landscape. Organizations are starting to look RPO is designed to increase the quality of a client's process of at talent holistically, with talent acquisition encompassing the hiring permanent employees, and to reduce their temporary, contracting, freelance, and permanent workforce, administrative burden and costs. Our RPO services take control as well as statement of work consultants. As organizations of a client's entire recruitment and talent acquisition process. continue to recognize the value contributed by contingent We provide tailor-made, own-branded, and on-site HR services workers, they are increasingly paying attention to the quality to deal with: of hires and the satisfaction levels of hiring managers. Management of all vacancies; Response screening and assessment; Both RPO and MSP are offered under the global Randstad Selection and management of external agencies; Sourceright brand. Randstad Sourceright has seen rapid Cross-border services. adaptation and expansion in Anglo-Saxon markets over the past few years, as clients become increasingly aware of the RPO is used by large, multinational organizations seeking benefits. The long-term growth potential in Europe and the strategic, operational and financial benefits. Clients need an increasing proportion of multi-country deals have recently led RPO provider that can align organizational strategy with the us to realign our EMEA organization to capture this growth. workforce plan, adding value through innovative services around strategic sourcing, employer branding, diversity, talent Payroll Services community management, workforce planning, and talent Our Payroll Services take over the administrative burden of analytics. Randstad Sourceright is well-positioned to capitalize our clients, so that they can focus on their core business needs. on these developments through our global capabilities, our We provide a broad range of services, including: network of renowned thought leaders, and expert Taking care of the entire personnel administration, payroll communities, as well as the innovation demonstrated by our accounting, and contract management; centralized recruitment centers in the US, UK, Hungary, India Monitoring and addressing absenteeism; and Malaysia. These recruitment centers are proving an Providing a 24/7 service portal, which enables clients to important resource to clients, because of their innovations in register new employees, make changes, or find specific sourcing, social media, recruitment and HR technology, and management information. employer branding. These centers are growing very rapidly, having demonstrated how they can quickly and cost Outplacement and Career Transition Services effectively find the right talent for clients throughout our Within Outplacement, we advise and support organizations in regions. situations in which employment contracts need to be ended due to a strategic decision or for other reasons. We help Managed Services Programs (MSP) employees to find suitable new employment, and try to make In our Managed Services Programs, we take primary the transition as smooth as possible. In this segment, we are responsibility for the organization and management of a market leader in the Netherlands and Belgium. Our recent client's contingent workforce. acquisition of RiseSmart significantly enhances our standing, not only providing Randstad with a strong position in the We manage the entire supply chain of all staffing providers on North American market, but also enabling us to be the behalf of the client. This gives clients greater control of their leading innovator in this field. recruitment activities and greater transparency regarding their spending. These services are particularly useful for companies Outsourcing wanting a single point of contact in order to ensure greater In Outsourcing, we manage several client activities with transparency and compliance in managing large volumes of output responsibility in both production/logistics and professional skills from many different suppliers. We regularly administrative environments, while we also have a large operate in more than one country. We have experience with outsourcing business in IT. most Vendor Management System technologies that are used to automate the hiring process and to provide clients with Consultancy statistical management information. Through our Consultancy services, we support clients by providing expert advice on organizational development and The MSP market continues to evolve rapidly, showing global personal improvement, which includes: growth of 15−20% in 2015. The largest MSP market is in Personal employee development and coaching; North America, followed by EMEA, Asia Pacific, and Latin Optimization of HR processes and policies; America. Besides the traditional MSP adoption drivers (such as Strategic workforce planning. cost reduction, improved compliance, and greater spend and workforce visibility), new drivers focusing on optimizing the blend of permanent and temporary workers and talent quality are also emerging. This development is driving change in MSP solutions, such as roles and functions in scope, delivery models, pricing approaches, geographic coverage, and the annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 34 value for our clients and candidates Our strategy: excellent execution Best practices for field and back-office activities We standardize both front-office and back-office processes Our building block 'excellent execution' is based on best and, where possible, marketing processes. This improves the practices, which we have made the cornerstone of all our consistency and quality of our business and our execution. For activities. We take best practices that have either been our head-office activities, we are adopting a new way of developed centrally at Group level or in any one of our working that is based on lean management principles and operating companies, and translate them into standardized continuous improvement, ensuring that we deliver services work processes that we can use right across our business. This with the right quality at the lowest costs to our internal and means we can spend more time with clients and candidates, external customers (clients and candidates). In addition we increasing client and candidate engagement, and enabling us continuously benchmark our local organizations and to gain market share. By standardizing, we can rapidly 'copy processes, in order to further drive the effectiveness and and paste' our concepts across markets around the world, efficiency of our head-office activities. because the required processes and execution are fully developed, and we can replicate them with only minor IT strategy adjustments to take account of local business practices or the By integrating services and technology, Randstad aims to local labor market culture. continuously increase the value it creates for its clients, candidates, and employees. Given the fast pace of Activity-based field steering (ABFS) technological developments, Randstad strives for maximum Our activity-based field steering model (ABFS) is designed to agility to ensure that new technologies are integrated quickly, optimize adaptability and to drive productivity, which is both locally and globally. essential in generating a strong conversion of gross profit into EBITA. ABFS is an input-driven (calls, visits) field steering To increase agility and to reduce time-to-market for new model. It drives our daily operational activities, and enables us developments, Randstad is moving its current physical to improve our organizational readiness. One of our core infrastructure into 'the cloud', whilst simultaneously looking strengths is being able to adjust to changing market to create a Shared Service Center (SSC) infrastructure. This circumstances quickly and adeptly, enabling us to provide follows the successful rollout of Google for Work as our email clients with the services they need, when and where they and collaboration platform. need them. Building on the foundation of our strong concepts, we use our ABFS model to manage and direct Randstad's application landscape is a balanced mix of global performance across our businesses. and local elements, ensuring that we are able to adapt to the vast variety of regulatory environments. In addition to Our ABFS model drives decisions to exploit profitable growth enabling compliance with local regulations, these core systems potential or to reduce costs when needed. Both may apply in are selected and configured to support Randstad's business parallel – even in a growing operating company – which is concepts and other standards (e.g., our Blue2 web portal why we align those decisions with local operational standard). developments and local market trends at the lowest level in our organization. This means that we do not manage on the Local IT directors have discretion to optimize and extend these basis of averages or predictions, but on actual real-time, platforms (e.g., by integrating components newly available on bottom-up figures. Furthermore, by embedding operational the market). Randstad aims to have a repository of (mostly performance tools at every level of our organization, the ABFS external) components that operating companies can integrate model also helps operational managers to take the right locally with relatively little effort. Given this focus, local decisions, at the right time, and translate them into action. Randstad IT staff are selected for and trained in business Managers receive up-to-date, accurate reports on a weekly acumen and integration skills. basis, covering a range of key performance indicators. The consolidated data enables them to manage their units and Randstad's Group-wide systems are geared, among other teams in the field by adapting to changing client and market things, to consolidate financial and operational data and demands as they occur. The field steering model also helps us provide relevant management information to our identify best practices, which can then be rolled out globally international clients. Randstad aims to keep this international as part of our strong concepts. layer of systems relatively light and flexible, and non-intrusive to local operating company developments. By ensuring the adaptability of the field organization, our field steering model helps us to achieve an efficient front-staff We are continuously scanning the HR technology market for cost structure. In addition, we closely monitor the productivity promising new components and ideas. The Randstad and efficiency of the whole organization, including overhead Innovation Fund (RIF) plays an important role in identifying and head-office costs. As we grow, our focus is on the new technologies and inspiring ideas. Indeed RIF was conversion of additional gross profit into EBITA. Overall, we instrumental in our recent acquisition of the innovating aim to achieve an incremental conversion ratio of around outplacement and career transition placement business 50%. RiseSmart. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 35 Randstad recognizes that the traditional way of doing As a strategic venture fund dedicated to HR technologies, RIF business through our branch network is evolving. While our selects earlyto expansion-stage companies that are branch network remains an important way of connecting to strategically relevant to Randstad. The Fund is building both our clients and candidates, our visibility and presence is knowledge and expertise in targeted areas, such as social enhanced through the use of other sales and delivery sourcing and engagement, online platforms, and mobile channels. These include our online presence and the use of solutions. Our goal is to take minority participations, ranging mobile (location-based) devices. The 'Big Data' tool being between € 1−5 million, alongside reputable venture capital utilized by our French business is a prime example of internal firms or professional investors. Since its launch in March 2014, innovation, and demonstrates how our 'Tech and Touch' RIF has reviewed hundreds of opportunities across the HR approach is transforming the way we work. Randstad is technology landscape and made eight investments. evolving from its traditional branch-based business into a hybrid model, where we deliver multiples tools to both clients Our knowledge of the HR technology industry combined with and candidates, which help in increasing efficiency and our global brand and customer base provide unique value to engagement. all our stakeholders. Whether external or internal, a key pillar of our innovation strategy is to deploy successful concepts in a Randstad Innovation Fund (RIF) coherent way across the Group. An innovation board focuses Learnings and expertise acquired by RIF contribute to the on identifying the most promising practices that have the business strategy and innovation of the Group. With its potential of being rolled out. investments and cooperations, RIF supports Randstad in shaping the world of work, enhancing client value and accelerating corporate growth. HR technology landscape Enables innovative offerings in multiple strategic fields Talent Employer Succession Planning Outplacement People analytics Retention Compensation & benefits Training Performance Managing & developing talent Learning Onboarding Matching Reference checks Selecting Crowdsourcing platform Online freelance platform Acquiring Screening PEOPLE Online chat events Recruitment platform Sourcing Employee referral Job distribution annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 36 value for our clients and candidates Our strategy: superior brands awareness, consideration, preference, recommendation, and the image of our brands. Our superior brands are a guarantee to our clients that they will receive the highest quality service and the best employees We also measure our brand image using an international worldwide. Superior brands give us better pricing options and methodology for rating brands in different product the type of awareness that accelerates selling and prospecting, categories. We ask our target groups to what extent they as well as introducing new services. Superior brands also help associate 48 attributes − such as innovation, integrity, social us attract, recruit, and retain the best people, while enhancing responsibility, and best brand − with Randstad and competing our visibility and credibility with regulators and legislators. HR services companies. Randstad is our main brand in most of our markets. However, Net Promoter Score (NPS) in cases where the market situation makes this beneficial, we The Net Promoter Score represents the relationship between make use of other brands. This focused, centralized brand temporary employment agencies and their potential and strategy enables us to leverage brand recognition, generate actual candidates/clients. This indicator compares the number efficiency benefits for our online strategy, and share of respondents who would recommend the company in experiences across the Group. It also generates momentum question with the number who would not. Our goal is to behind our joint sponsorship initiatives, and we achieve always have a Top 3 NPS score in our Top 15 countries significant cost reductions by sharing campaign materials, (approx. 95% of our total sales). In 2015, Randstad scored a photo databases, and know-how. Top 3 position in 19 countries, compared to 10 countries in 2014. International brand awareness rose slightly in 2015 (+8%). This was attributable to a number of branding campaigns, Several of our operating companies also monitor client and targeted marketing actions, and another very good candidate satisfaction through bespoke surveys, ISO and other performance by the Williams F1 team, resulting in much certification systems, and review meetings. This enables them higher brand visibility. to not only measure NPS, but also the drivers behind the scores. In this way, we can continuously improve the Global traffic to our websites has continued to rise, partly in satisfaction levels of both clients and candidates. response to a larger percentage of our advertising budget being spent online. The relative share of job board and Reputation recruitment network spending has continued to decrease. In addition, we use RepTrak, a standardized scorecard, to analyze Randstad's reputation annually. This instrument Our international reports on the world of work continue their provides us with detailed feedback on how our various rapid rise in visibility and popularity. Randstad Sourceright stakeholders perceive our company: how investors and clients issues a well-received annual 'Talent Trends' report globally. rate our performance, whether they are willing to support us, The quarterly Randstad Workmonitor is now used in 34 whether Randstad is a good place to work for employees and countries, and the Randstad Award, our independent employer branding assessment of major employers in specific markets, has been extended to 23 countries. In addition, the Randstad's reputation within the global services industry Global Randstad Award ranking continued to gain traction in 100.0 its second year (see the section 'Employer branding research/ Randstad Award'). 83.8 81.2 73.2 75.0 According to Dow Jones Insight metrics, our global share of 66.2 65.0 66.8 63.8 voice in press increased from 20% to 24%, strengthening our 59.5 56.7 55.4 strong No. 2 position. 50.0 The level to which our clients and candidates are engaged with our activities is systematically measured and 25.0 benchmarked in all major markets and in comparison with all major competitors. 0.0 Brand image Randstad Adecco Falck Smith & Securitas TNS Nipo has conducted the Randstad Brand Tracker survey (NL) (CH) (DK) Nephew (SE) since 2004. This international study covers all countries in (UK) which Randstad is active. Its main purpose is to monitor the 2015 2014 positions of the Randstad brands, compared to our competitors and selected other benchmarks, by measuring Source: Reputation Institute’s Global Pulse study 2015 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 37 candidates, and how Randstad is perceived in society in terms impact through stronger employee engagement and of governance, citizenship, and leadership. We have been increased productivity of the workforce. among the Top 15 corporate brands in in the Netherlands for many years. The Reputation Institute's Global Pulse study Randstad issues the largest independent employer branding measures 600 companies globally. Companies are rated in research in the world. The companies with the highest scores their home country only. The graph 'Randstad's reputation per country/sector are granted the Randstad Award. First within the global services industry' shows Randstad's launched in Belgium in 1999, the research now includes over reputation on a scale of 0 to 100. Although scores have 200,000 respondents across 23 countries, covering 75% of the decreased somewhat compared to 2014, Randstad still has the global economy. In 2015, the Randstad Award celebrated its highest ranking in the international peer group. 15th anniversary. Brand image, reputation, and client and candidate satisfaction In the Randstad Award employer branding research, all contribute to gaining profitable market share, one of our respondents are asked which aspects they value in companies key performance indicators. In 2015, we consolidated our when choosing a new employer. They are then asked whether market share position in our seven key markets (market share they know the 150 companies selected in that specific position on page 66). geography and whether they would like to work for those companies. The survey includes a ranking of the most attractive industry sectors and a ranking of the means Engaging with our clients and candidates use to look for a new job. Our research provides vital insights into how one can best build a company's talent candidates attraction and engagement strategy, and drive future business success. The Randstad Award is an excellent Being a global leader in HR services, we see it as our benchmarking tool for ensuring companies' continued success responsibility to take an active role in developing our industry. in increasingly competitive talent markets. The participating Workforce360 is Randstad's platform for the latest insights, countries organize their own Randstad Award events, opinions, and research with regard to the world of work. attracting key players in the local HR industry. Besides our international research and reports, such as the Randstad Workmonitor, the annual Employer Branding In 2015, it was the second time that, in addition to the local research, and the Talent Trends report, many research projects Randstad Awards, we also organized the Global Randstad and events also take place on a country level, supporting us Award for the most attractive employer worldwide. The and our clients in making sound business decisions. winning company was elected from a list of the 50 largest Randstad Workmonitor The Randstad Workmonitor survey provides a comprehensive understanding of job market sentiments and employee trends. In addition to measuring mobility, it also measures employee satisfaction and personal motivation. The survey includes a rotating set of themed questions. It is conducted via an online questionnaire among a population aged 18−65, working a minimum of 24 hours a week in a paid job (not self-employed). The minimum sample size is 400 respondents per country. First introduced in the Netherlands in 2003, the survey now covers 34 countries around the world, encompassing Europe, Asia Pacific, and the Americas. The Randstad Workmonitor is published four times a year, making both local and global trends in mobility regularly visible over time. The results are published on our corporate website. Topics surveyed in 2015 include the impact of aging on employability; work-life balance; diversity in the workplace; and the growing need for STEM and digital profiles. Employer branding research − Randstad Award The impact of building a strong employer brand is immediate: stronger brands attract more and better candidates, and they benefit from faster hiring times, stronger employee engagement, increased retention rates, and lower recruitment Talent is drawn to the Randstad Award trophy, designed costs. These gains turn into longer-term measurable business by Marcel Wanders, symbolizing employer brand strength. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 38 value for our clients and candidates companies worldwide, based on a set of objective criteria: the of young people in Europe. Randstad was one of the colargest number of employees in corporate/profit writers of this mutual engagement of business and EU leaders, organizations (governmental organizations are excluded), drafting it jointly with, among others, CSR Europe and the operating in at least 25 countries, under the same company European Commission. name in all countries, with a minimum of 30% of its employees outside the home country. The winner of the 2015 Youth unemployment at large is projected to rise to 12.8% Global Randstad Award was Microsoft. The first runner-up globally by 2018. But unemployment does not paint the total was Sony, and the second runner-up was Samsung. picture, as many who have left education do not even appear in labor market statistics. The risks posed by having an entire Randstad Sourceright Talent Trends Report generation 'scarred' by negative long-term effects have The Randstad Sourceright 2015 Talent Trends Report is an prompted many governments to take firm action. However, extensive exploration of global workforce trends. The report is government programs cannot solve the entire issue alone, and based upon a global survey of 350 global HR and talent well-coordinated efforts must come from all key stakeholders, acquisition leaders from more than 40 countries. With this including employers, trade unions, NGOs, and young people report, we provide our clients with a comprehensive view of themselves. key developments in the world of work, based on identifying the 25 most important trends affecting talent, employers, and Recognizing skills and striving for an inclusive labor market business. By capturing the outlook of their peers, the report are key to helping youth navigate their way to sustained enables HR and talent acquisition leaders to benchmark how employment. Improving youth labor numbers requires an intheir strategies and execution stack up against fellow talent depth understanding of employment and labor market issues leaders. By sharing the thoughts of leaders from around the at local country level. Effective cooperation between the world, we believe it stimulates new ideas and creates greater private employment industry and various public partners will dialogue within our clients' organizations. be the recipe for success in combating youth unemployment. Employability advancement Our operating companies offer an array of initiatives to assist Ongoing skills development is essential for employability and people in getting the right job. In 2013, Randstad Netherlands sustainability in any workforce. Our training programs are launched 'Jeugd op zoek' ('Youth@work' program), which tailored to meet the needs of clients and candidates in helped approximately 10,000 young people find their way in individual employment markets. Such programs include the labor market in just five weeks, with the participation of courses specific to IT, sales, contact centers, hospitality, and the government. This successful program continued in 2014 technical skills. Specialized programs leading to additional and 2015 in the Netherlands. In the month of September, a professional qualifications are also part of training and futuristic mobile lab traveled through the country. By means development. More information about our local initiatives of of assessments, expert support, and modern technologies, employability advancement can be found on our corporate youngsters were invited to research what they really want and website. The development of funds invested in training and what their capabilities are. In 2015, Youth@work as a program development of candidates in recent years is shown in the was also copied by our operations in Greece, Poland, Italy, graph 'Candidate training costs'. Germany, and Switzerland. Candidate training costs Diversified workforces in millions of € We value diversity. We do not discriminate on the grounds of 100 age, skin color, disability, gender, marital status, nationality, race, religion, or sexual orientation, and we have a non78.4 75 72.3 71.8 discrimination policy to underline this. Many of our operating 67.6 companies have long-standing diversity and reintegration programs, and some provide consultancy services to clients on 50 equal opportunity and competency management. By forging links with local community stakeholders, including public, 25 private, NGO, and institutional partnerships, we stimulate diversity in the workplace. Our Randstad Institute in France 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 and our foundations in Germany and Spain provide access to employment for disadvantaged groups, such as immigrant workers, women at risk, victims of domestic violence, single From unemployment to employment: Youth parents, older workers, and the long-term unemployed. unemployment Addressing the challenges that the growing number of older During CSR Europe's Enterprise 2020 Summit, Randstad workers face in entering, re-entering, or staying active in the Holding announced the launch of the European Pact for workforce is also part of our approach to furthering Youth. This is a pledge from EU and business leaders on the employment market sustainability. joint delivery of jobs, growth, and investment for the benefit annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 39 In line with our aim to promote diversity in our workforce, we In the past year, we provided work to more than two million also welcome candidates with a disability. We have found that people. Our first duty as a company is to make sure we do not registration of disabled candidates varies in the different send anyone into a work environment that may be harmful to countries in which we operate. This may be related to local them. Despite our best efforts, we still have to report a legislation, but also to the personal wishes of the people number of accidents in the workplace. Accidents may cause concerned. We are also running a variety of local programs to injuries. The aggregated number of work-related injuries advance employment participation of minority groups. More among our candidates globally amounted to 23,288 (2014: information about our local initiatives regarding diversified 23,134), while the number of working days lost due to these workforces can be found on our corporate website. injuries added up to 308,820 (2014: 308,831). Based on these data, our 'injury rate' is 0.2%. Dialogue with clients Our consultants receive training and support to enable them Much to our regret, we were also confronted with fatal to promote diversity in their clients' workforces. For example, incidents among candidates: Randstad Portugal trained their consultants in presenting the benefits of hiring disabled people to clients in a partnership with a Portuguese NGO and identified the job positions Number of fatal incidents among candidates, 2015 suitable for people with low mobility on their website. We condemn agencies that cooperate with clients to exclude 2015 2014 candidates with specific ethnic backgrounds. We organize seminars and roundtables with clients to raise their awareness At work of selecting personnel based on actual skills and personal Germany 3 1 merit. More information about our local initiatives involving Belgium & Luxembourg 2 1 dialogue with clients can be found on our corporate website. France 3 Italy 1 A healthy and safe work environment India 4 1 Caring for people is embedded in our core values, which forms a mandatory part of our induction programs. It is in this In traffic (while working) context that our consultants work with clients and candidates Belgium & Luxembourg 1 to support workplace safety. Several of our operating India 1 1 companies have specialized health and safety managers to 15 4 provide guidance. We take a stance in advising our clients on matters of occupational health and safety; for example, by pointing out how to prevent workplace risks and by providing The Belgian and Indian cases of fatal incidents in traffic relate 'security at work' training. Formal audits at client locations are to car accidents. We have local health and safety policies in conducted in some business areas, such as construction, where place, as well as 'drive safely' workshops to help prevent such taking extra health and safety precautions is best practice. accidents. More information about our local initiatives for a healthy and safe work environment can be found on our corporate When accidents happen, despite our efforts to ensure safety, website. these always trigger investigations from our side. Not all accidents are avoidable by better procedures. For instance, in Health and safety is also an ongoing topic at the European 6 cases (1 in France, 2 in Germany, 2 in India, and 1 in Platform meetings, a Randstad network of national works Luxembourg) the fatalities were caused by natural reasons, council representatives, in which candidates are also such as heart attacks. In other cases, we were able to work represented. with the clients involved and to further improve safety conditions and instructions. All employees across the labor market have a right to a healthy and safe work environment. Our health and safety We treat prevention, training, and safety awareness in management is organized locally at operating company level, general as very important subjects. We realize that while a designed to safeguard business continuity and deal with risks. zero score may prove impossible to achieve at the scale we Our operating companies adhere to all applicable local operate, this is nevertheless the only acceptable target to standards and regulations, and many of them have a strive for. sophisticated health and safety structure in place. We track sickness rates, work-related accidents or incidents resulting in lost-time injury, and work-related fatalities, both for employees and candidates. Fatal incidents are immediately reported to the Executive Board. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 40 value for our employees Our strategy: best people both their own team and our global organization to success. This is what makes Randstad unique. The true value of our business lies in our people. We take pride in working with the best talent in the industry. Randstad attracts agile and adaptable people, capable of effectively Attracting the best people dealing with and responding to rapidly changing circumstances. We challenge them to perform to the best of We understand how important it is for people to have a their ability and seize the opportunities a multinational challenging job, as well as the opportunity to develop company can offer. We challenge ourselves to provide our themselves. It is our passion and pride to ensure that our employees with an open and inclusive climate, which engages people enjoy the best work environment, excellent training, and fosters development. The following key performance exciting opportunities, and all the support they need to indicators show the progress we made in 2015 strengthening develop their full potential. We attract the best people, and our strategic building block of ‘best people’: we invest in their development. 'Great people, great Retention rose from 77.1% to 77.2%, with more opportunities' − that's our promise. employees rotating within the Group; Overall outperformance of Randstad (engagement score) Great people, great opportunities increased from 63% to 66%, showing a steady improvement across almost all countries; Proportion of women in senior leadership has further Work together Diverse career paths improved to 46.4% , which means Randstad is taking a Great opportunities, because we offer: leadership position in the industry. Are customer-focused Global mobility Great people, because we: Can be trusted International trainee programs Making strong concepts work Are proactive World league programs At Randstad, attracting, developing and retaining the best people is facilitated by a strong partnership between Are driven and motivated A valuable brand Randstad's leadership and Randstad's human resources. As we Are high achievers A highly dynamic environment set high standards and ambitions, it is essential that our HR function focuses on continuous improvement. To this end, we Care about details 80% internal promotions follow a set of clear and simple HR Standards, which are designed to guide our HR professionals through robust HR Are industry experts VSO volunteering assignments processes. In 2014, the HR Standards were refreshed and revised. In 2015, new strategic HR metrics were added and monitored throughout our global operations. More datadriven processes were introduced in Randstad's strong HR To ensure we deliver on our promise, we measure employee practices, and pilots on predictive modeling were set up, all satisfaction and engagement through our internal Great with the aim of further improving the way we: People Survey each year. In 2015, the three criteria most Monitor the development of our global workforce; valued by Randstad employees were (1) a pleasant working Assess the effectiveness of our global HR practices; and atmosphere, (2) interesting job content, and (3) a good workAlign our global people strategy with the global business life balance. strategy. Developing great people Randstad leadership We believe that the ability to adapt to ever-changing business Randstad's leaders have always focused on supporting environments is critical in people's careers today. Continuous progress. They are always ready to fuel our clients' and talents' learning is a crucial part of this. At Randstad, we fuel ambitions, to create opportunities, and to help them achieve development by taking a multi-faceted 'blended' approach to success. In today's ever-changing world of work, our leaders learning and by continuously improving our offerings. Our will continue to take this approach. Randstad leaders are successful leadership development programs can now also be known for their ambitious strategy, combined with excellent followed by external talents, clients and stakeholders. In execution and agility, as well as their ability to 'think global collaboration with our partners, we are innovating in both and act local'. Making the most of technology, they make content and style. We are also shifting our organization intelligent choices, while not losing sight of the human side of towards digital and on-demand learning platforms. At the business. This means they can effectively connect with same time, we strongly believe that learning is most powerful stakeholders, partner with candidates and clients, and lead on the job and through mentors, both formal and informal. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 41 Our Learning & Development strategy defines the knowledge, aligned with Randstad's leadership vision and model, and was skills and competencies required by our workforce, and how renewed in 2015. these can be developed. To ensure a sustainable, successful organization, people development at Randstad is transformational, proactive and future-focused. We make use of 'blended learning' (70-20-10 model), which at Randstad Choose your own with ADVANCEMentor comprises the following: To further develop their skills and capabilities, employees On-the-job learning to develop employees within their in the US can choose from a wealth of mentor programs roles (70%); via the Randstad ADVANCEMentor: Post New Hire Coaching to support employees in achieving their personal Onboarding, high-potential programs, program-specific and professional goals (20%); mentoring, virtual mentoring, and peer networks. The Training programs to develop the knowledge, skills, and individual mentoring program is linked to the Individual competencies employees need for continued career Development Plan (IDP) of the employee. development within Randstad (10%). On-the-job learning Training programs All employees starting in a new role follow a formal induction In our training programs, we offer combinations of actionprogram in the first few months, which helps them to become based learning, classroom-based skills training, e-learning, successful in their new role as quickly as possible. The program virtual classrooms, and gamification. Our programs are always covers our ambitions, strategy, values, culture, history, and competency-based and focus on soft skills, sales, leadership corporate policies, as well as targeted and relevant job-related skills, and functional skills. They are offered to all levels within information. Randstad tracks the effectiveness of the the organization. For field positions, we have dedicated induction programs by measuring time to productivity. training programs that focus on operational skills and specific Immediately after the induction program, an individual knowledge required for the job. development plan is drawn up to further enhance the employee's skills and competencies. The graphs below show our commitment and investment in terms of both costs and time spent in developing our employees. Virtual onboarding experience Randstad Group in the Netherlands created a virtual Employee training costs in millions of € experience as part of the onboarding program. Before their first working day, new employees will receive a 25.0 Google cardboard kit at home, providing a virtual reality 20.0 18.6 experience that takes them through the history of our 17.6 16.2 15.7 company and our brands. 15.0 10.0 Coaching and mentoring 5.0 At Randstad, we work with the best and learn from the best. 0.0 Through developmental relationships, Randstad employees 2012 2013 2014 2015 are coached or mentored by a senior leader. These initiatives are generally organized locally, but are also offered as an Employee training hours integrated part of certain Learning & Development programs. Total training hours 2015: 753,662 Total training hours 2014: 606,906 Senior leaders are also offered coaching by professional external coaches to enable them to achieve specific personal 12% 15% or professional goals. As part of the Frits Goldschmeding Academy, the Sales Leadership Program and the Senior 38% Executive Program include professional coaching facilitated by 48% certified trainers and/or coaches. 40% Finally, Randstad employees receive 360-degree feedback 47% from their colleagues, their manager, direct reports and other stakeholders. This thorough process, which monitors the Induction Management & leadership programs organizational climate, leadership styles, and competences, is Other training annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 42 value for our employees Randstad offers programs at local, regional, and global level. and subsequently on the strengths and development needs of On a local level, the programs are developed by the operating our senior leadership, succession plans, pipeline development, companies, sometimes in cooperation with business schools. and future leadership talents. Regionally and globally, the Frits Goldschmeding Academy offers state-of-the-art leadership programs, aligned to our We believe that learning is most powerful when we strategic objectives. Key themes for Randstad are leadership, encourage growth by pushing our leaders out of their digitalization, and innovation. comfort zone. Enabling Global Mobility, we move them to new territories. This may involve a new geographical location, The programs are created in cooperation with leading global a new department, and/or a new business line. Such moves business schools and partners, such as INSEAD, TIAS, IMD, will deepen their understanding of our clients' needs. SMU, and Stand & Deliver Group. Our senior leadership is closely involved in the development and delivery of the As a company with a global footprint, we require our local programs. leaders to operate effectively and comfortably in a global environment. The nature of our company provides ample In 2015, the Frits Goldschmeding Academy trained 326 senior opportunities for employees to further develop their leaders in 11 different development programs. leadership skills, to acquire and build a global mindset and awareness, and to effectively manage and leverage cultural differences. E-learning platform catering to all Randstad's World League Programs are designed to develop The e-learning platform of Randstad UK is a key part of its our functional communities (Finance, Legal, HR, Marketing & Learning & Development offering. Over the past two Communications, and IT) in the areas of people and years, 85 courses have been produced covering a range of organization, and the way these functional communities act topics, business specialisms, and core compliance as business partners of line management. The programs requirements, which are accessible to all employees. Based provide a shared vision, mission, and language for key on the success of the platform, the tool has also been behaviors, skills, and knowledge within each function, opened partially to candidates, and expanded to supported by specific tools and development actions. World Randstad in Southeast Asia. League Programs enable the global functional communities to deal with performance and development needs in an aligned and constructive way. Talent management Randstad recognizes the importance of talent management as one of the key factors underpinning company growth and Talent development program ensuring the continuity of our business. We develop and The Young Executive Program in APAC was newly promote talent − both future leaders and highly skilled developed in 2015: a regional corporate program focusing experts − for our current needs, while also anticipating future on the development of a robust leadership pipeline in a needs and preparing the next generation for new roles. highly competitive market. This dynamic and interactive program, set up in collaboration with Randstad's global Through our talent management process, we use strategic academy, has already taken 21 leaders of 7 countries on a human resource planning to improve Randstad's business learning journey. value and make sure we reach our goals. Talent management enables us to: Attract high-caliber people; Achievements so far include development-related initiatives, Identify and develop our talents; such as High Performing Business Partner 2.0, which offers Continuously anticipate needs for future positions on a training for key talents in all functional areas. In the field of local and global level. marketing, we rolled out the Professionals Services Leadership Initiative (PSLI). In addition, targeted functional training The annual Talent Review process forms the foundation of programs and leadership programs for Finance (IFMP) and HR Randstad's leadership and talent management approach (HRDP) have been launched and rolled out. throughout the company, from the lowest organizational level up to senior management. This process addresses the The success of the World League Programs is reflected in solid performance and potential of all employees on an individual talent pipelines and global appointments in key talent level. Randstad's senior leadership (up to and including the functions. Executive Board) takes a keen interest in Randstad's human resources and continuously reviews the company's strategic HR planning, focusing on strategic human resource planning, annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 43 Performance management cycle For our senior leadership, a long-term incentive plan is in place in the form of a performance share plan. The purpose of the plan is to retain our best people and to drive and reward the Set performance objectives and formulate Discuss and evaluate performance objectives and competencies sustained performance of our company by allowing our senior Individual Development Plan (IDP) leadership to share in our success. To encourage our corporate employees' affiliation to Randstad and to enable them to participate in Randstad's success, an employee share purchase plan is in place, which currently has more than 10,000 active Plan participants. Performance review Company culture and retention Reward P e r fo r m Performance management One of our biggest assets for retaining talent is our engaging cycle culture. Our founder, Frits Goldschmeding, instilled our company with an entrepreneurial spirit. Our open, friendly, professional, and results-driven culture has always been part R e v ie w of the organization. Once every five years, when celebrating our anniversary, we take the opportunity to actively connect our people all over the world. Although last year's celebrations of Randstad's 55th anniversary had a high fun factor, we also inspired our employees to connect, share Rate performance objectives experiences, and inspire each other in a light-hearted and and competencies engaging way. In addition, we invited them to speak up in a 'CEO for a day' contest. Performance management and reward Each Randstad employee follows our performance management process, in accordance with the performance management cycle. This cycle, which is a fully standardized process across the Group, enables us to effectively manage and calibrate the performance of our global leadership talent pool. The cycle starts with a rigorous goal-setting process, which specifies expected business results and competency development. Relevant competencies are defined for each role and level. During the cycle, frequent and accurate feedback is provided. Towards the end of the cycle, results are assessed through a formal performance appraisal, both on business results and competency development. If merited, this results in performance rewards and IDPs. For senior leaders, we focus on leadership behavior as seen through the eyes of the client. This leads to insights that enhance our leaders' customeroriented behavior, which contributes to current and future success. The individual performance appraisal serves as the basis of our talent review process. Route 55 − an unforgettable Having a total reward strategy that is linked to our business strategy is crucial to attracting and retaining employees. It is journey through place and time our goal to provide our employees with meaningful rewards The engaging theme of Randstad's 55th anniversary, that have a positive effect on their performance while ‘Route 55’, was prominent in online and offline events encouraging desired culture and behaviors. leading up to the festive celebrations, when employees partied around the clock at 26 locations worldwide! annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 44 value for our employees We believe strongly in developing talent within the company. continuing to focus on organizational development, we aim Although we invest in retaining our talent, attrition rates are to achieve this in 2016. around 23%. This is a common development in our industry. The vast majority of our staff work as consultants at our branches. They are relatively young, well-educated, and Randstad outperformance by geography ambitious employees, who tend to want to move on in their as % of total number of respondents career relatively quickly. Outperformance score Benchmark 2015 2014 2015 2014 Nevertheless, we strive to limit our overall attrition rate to 20-30% on an annual basis, which provides us with the North America 1 75% 72% 73% 73% optimal balance between experienced employees and new Netherlands 68% 67% 69% 68% recruits. France 56% 51% 63% 62% Germany 64% 64% 68% 67% Belgium & Luxembourg 2 57% 54% 69% 68% Employee retention rate Iberia 3 70% 67% 66% 65% in % of total number of employees United Kingdom 70% 67% 65% 64% 2015 2014 Other European countries 64% 62% n.a. n.a. Rest of the world 62% 59% n.a. n.a. Employees staying with their operating company 75.5 76.6 Corporate 71% 73% n.a. n.a. Employees transferred within the Group 1.7 0.5 66% 63% 67% 70% 77.2 77.1 1 Benchmark only available for the USA. 2 Benchmark only available for Belgium. 3 Benchmark only available for Spain. Source: Great People Survey Outperformance at Randstad At Randstad we believe that our ability to empower and engage our people, our good leadership style, and our strong Internal promotion company culture all encourage innovation and accountability, 'Great people, great opportunities' is also reflected in our and that this will eventually lead to business outperformance. ambition to offer talented employees internal growth Once a year, we monitor our progress through our Great opportunities. When business allows, vacant leadership People Survey. This measures our employees' views on key positions are first offered to our own employees. In our factors that make our company an 'outperformance mature Staffing & Professionals markets, we strive to fill 80% organization'. of our leadership roles internally. Compared to 2014, we saw a downward move in the overall mix towards the 80% mark in 2015. The actual score in 2015 was 67.3% (2014: 74.6%). The Randstad outperformance number of internal leadership appointments (441) increased compared to 2014 (366). 1 2 3 Our people Our leadership Our organizational empowerment capabilities Internal leadership appointments by geography 1 and engagement Total number of % Internal appointments appointments 2015 2014 2015 2014 North America 68 127 67.6% 89.0% Randstad outperformance Netherlands 2 106 42 69.8% 92.9% France 19 35 73.7% 71.4% Germany 7 11 85.7% 54.5% Belgium & Luxembourg n.a. n.a. n.a n.a. In 2015, the participation rate was 81.7% (2014: 81.6%). Iberia 3 15 4 60.0% 75.0% Compared to 2014, our results on Empowerment & United Kingdom 29 27 72.4% 59.3% Engagement, Leadership, and Organizational Capabilities Other European countries 4 40 7 62.5% 85.7% increased. This resulted in a higher score on outperformance. Rest of the world 119 74 63.9% 55.4% Of all Randstad employees, 66% agree or strongly agree with Corporate 38 39 68.4% 61.5% the statement that Randstad is an outperforming 441 366 67.3% 74.6% organization. In 2015, our Organizational Capabilities score 1 Mature operating companies only (>500 FTEs). was even higher than the Service Provider Benchmark (Source: 2 In 2014, Tempo-Team and Randstad Netherlands only. 3 In 2014, the number refers to Spain only. TNS). More results above benchmark are now within reach. By 4 In 2014, the number refers to Italy only. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 45 A healthy and safe environment Diversity and inclusion Our operating companies use a variety of measures designed Randstad is strongly committed to gender equality. Our to advance employee well-being. These include procedures to efforts are paying off, as we see the number of women in promote safety at work, training programs, health checks, and senior leadership positions going up year on year (see table services and products to stimulate well-being. In several ‘Proportion of women in senior management), giving us an countries, we have formal agreements with trade unions on industry leadership position. We actively support women health and safety topics. climbing the career ladder, both in the core of our organization and at the top. A large-scale internal survey Our companies offer employees an array of programs, conducted in 2015 showed that 80% of our senior leaders are services, and products to stimulate their well-being. Randstad personally committed to gender equality, and we actively Belgium and Randstad Netherlands offer an online platform monitor gender equality using various HR metrics. that stimulates and helps employees with a healthy lifestyle. Employees can take several modules (e.g., stress, weight, or Inclusion sports), and if they have specific questions, they can consult At Randstad, we strive to offer an inclusive company culture. specialists. More information about our local initiatives for a We do not discriminate on the basis of age, skin color, healthy and safe work environment can be found on our disability, gender, marital status, nationality, race, religion, or corporate website. sexual orientation. We have a policy of hiring and promoting the best person for the job, based on proven performance and We aim to achieve a sickness absenteeism rate that is lower potential assessment, and in line with our business principles. than the national average. If this target is not met, we will We look at diversity and inclusion from a value-add implement performance improvement programs. In 2015, the perspective: it helps us to build a more agile, productive, and overall sickness absenteeism rate was 2.4% (2014: 2.2%). The innovative workforce. total number of working days lost due to sickness absenteeism amounted to 182,883 (2014: 166,766). Locally, many initiatives have been launched that go beyond gender equality to support diversity and inclusion in the Randstad has aligned crisis and continuity plans in place. broadest sense. For example, in 2014, Randstad joined Serious security incidents are reported (and in some cases Workplace Pride, a non-profit foundation that promotes dealt with) at central level. Despite our high safety standards greater acceptance of lesbian, gay, bisexual and and prevention measures, we have not been able to prevent transgendered (LGBT) people in the workplace. In 2015, all accidents. In 2015, we were faced with several incidents in Randstad was rated among the Top 5 companies that most the workplace, causing 280 (2014: 244) injuries among our improved in terms of LGBT inclusion. More local initiatives can corporate employees. The number of working days lost due to be found on our corporate website. these injuries amounted to 1,861 (2014: 1,564). This results in an overall injury rate of 0.02%. Proportion of women in senior leadership positions 1 % women in organization % women in senior leadership positions 2015 2014 2015 2014 North America 60.8 60.5 47.7 49.1 Netherlands 69.2 70.9 39.5 36.7 France 77.0 76.9 47.9 47.9 Germany 58.7 59.5 38.9 40.5 Belgium & Luxembourg 85.4 85.0 57.9 58.8 Iberia 77.7 77.9 54.7 52.8 United Kingdom 59.4 59.5 51.7 45.9 Other European countries 77.7 78.1 53.1 53.4 Rest of the world 57.2 56.5 44.1 39.9 Total 67.2 67.5 46.4 45.2 1 Senior leadership refers to all levels equal to or above district/regional management, including account management or commercial management reporting to a regional director or higher. Source: Great People Survey annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 46 value for our employees Social acceptance Composition of our workforce by gender Our commitment to diversity is reflected in the active stance Randstad takes when promoting diversity through 2015 2014 publications. In 2015, the Randstad Workmonitor, a quarterly 14% 15% external survey conducted in 34 countries, showed that, despite the fact that diversity is a hot topic (78% of 31% 31% respondents said they value diversity in the workplace), discrimination in the workplace remains an issue. On average, 20% of respondents said they had been subject to 1% 1% discrimination in the workplace on the basis of gender (21%), 54% 53% sexual orientation (15%), religion (16%), race (17%), or age (26%). Male full-time Female full-time Randstad is the industry leader in terms of diversity and Male part-time Female part-time inclusion, and serves its clients with this expertise to improve Source: Great People Survey social acceptance in the world of work. Our commitment and initiatives were recognized in the award of Gender Equality European & International Standard (GEEIS) accreditation, and Composition of our workforce by age group in our inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) in 2015. 2015 2014 9% 6% 9% 5% 20% 21% 25% 24% 22% 23% 18% 18% Age 18 24 Age 30 34 Age 40 49 Age 25 29 Age 35 39 Age 50+ Source: Great People Survey Composition of our workforce by type of contract 2015 2014 11% 10% Randstad Germany recognized for its womenfriendly work environment In 2015, Randstad Germany was named one of the most women-friendly organizations by the Frauen-KarriereIndex (FKi), but it also strongly supports diversity in all 89% 90% other areas, in line with Randstad's global ambition. Permanent/open-term contract Fixed-term contract Source: Great People Survey annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 47 value for society Our role in society website. In 2016, together with IZA (Institute for the Study of Labor) in Bonn (Germany), Randstad will publish a study of Our core values inspire us to conduct our activities, both inside the consequences for the labor market of global migration and outside the corporate environment, in a sustainable (including labor migration) and mobility. manner, and to use our knowledge and experience to make a positive contribution to the world around us. Besides our global research and publications, Randstad also collects industry insights and conducts research through its For example, we can make a meaningful difference by using operating companies around the world. This work yields a our knowledge and services to influence diversity, social valuable source of information for local stakeholders. Relevant cohesion, and inclusion in the world's employment markets. publications issued include the World of Work research (Asia Research shows that countries with more developed HR Pacific), the Workpocket (Netherlands, Belgium and others), services markets typically have lower overall unemployment various salary surveys tailored to specific target groups (e.g., and fewer people in long-term unemployment. These markets the Professionals segment), white papers, and online polls. are more inclusive and suffer less from unfair working More information about local initiatives regarding conditions, exploitation, and irregular work. stakeholder dialogue can be found on our corporate website. We are well-positioned to help address the growing HR Transformation Forum challenges the employment markets are facing around the Since 2014, Randstad has hosted the HR Transformation world. These challenges include structural shortages of skills Forum, bringing together a network of nearly 200 HR and talent, declining population growth, cultural changes in Directors from global blue-chip companies based all over the way new generations view work, as well as the Europe. The forum provides senior HR directors with a demographic challenges posed by aging populations in many platform to candidly discuss the issues they face in their Western economies. companies' transformations, spur cross-industry fertilization of ideas, and exchange views on the global themes of the future Of course, we also need to address the sustainability issues on a quarterly basis. common to all businesses, such as our environmental impact and how we affect the world around us. Our sustainability Workforce360 framework addresses those issues, and we measure our Randstad shares its insights, opinions, and research on the progress in this area. This is an integral part of how we world of work through the Workforce360 platform. This safeguard our business and its long-term viability, while platform has been implemented on randstad.com, taking into account the interests of all our stakeholders. At throughout Europe, the United States, India and the Asiathe same time, we believe our industry has a unique Pacific region, giving our stakeholders the latest industry opportunity to help create a truly sustainable future, both information and expert opinions from both a global and local socially and economically, by literally shaping the world of perspective. The platform will continue to grow, as more work. Randstad countries are adding it to their websites. Employment market KPIs Stakeholder dialogue In accordance with our sustainability framework, we also report on our contribution to employment markets. In this One of our key surveys is the Randstad Workmonitor. respect, two relevant KPIs are staffing penetration rates and Published four times a year, the Randstad Workmonitor our contribution to the regulation of labor markets. The reports make both local and global trends in mobility visible former shows the development of the number of temporary over time. The results are published on our corporate website. workers as a percentage of the total labor market, while the latter provides insight into the status of regulation in the main At the same time, we have developed leading programs to countries in which Randstad operates, as well as the expected enhance labor market knowledge. Together with partners trends. such as SEO Economic Research (affiliated with the University of Amsterdam), we have carried out studies into the A third relevant KPI is our involvement in national and implications of future demographic shifts for the employment international employment institutions. The overview 'Highest markets in Europe, among which the 'Gap' series. Since 2013, Randstad positions in industry associations' shows Randstad's Randstad annually publishes flexibility@work, an annual participation in staffing industry institutions in countries report on flexible labor and employment. The 2015 edition where we are active and where such associations exist. carried a study on self-employment across countries in the Great Recession of 2008-2014 by Prof. David G. Blanchflower Apart from our involvement within these institutions, we are of Dartmouth University. The 2016 edition will focus on also heavily engaged in key forums and other initiatives productivity growth and the evolution of high-tech through which we focus on social dialogue. How we do this is employment and will be published in April 2016. These and described under 'Industry involvement'. A list of all the more examples of our research can be found on our corporate annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 48 value for society memberships and partnerships we are engaged in can be Moderated by the European Commission's Directoratefound under 'Supplementary information'. General for Employment, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the committee met three times in 2015. The Our performance with respect to social involvement and our 2015/2016 work program included issues such as promoting partnership with VSO can be found under 'Partnerships and national social dialogue through presentations on national social involvement'. bipartite funds and collective labor agreements. For instance, the bipartite funds of Italy, Belgium, and France gave a Shareholder return presentation on temporary agency work in the context of the We maintain an active dialogue with existing and potential Agency Work Directive. Furthermore, a joint study called 'How shareholders, witnessed by the more than 650 contact temporary agency work compares to other forms of moments we had last year across the globe. By executing our employment' was conducted, with regard to which Eurociett strategy and achieving our mid-term targets (see 'Strategic and UNI Europa have adopted joint recommendations. priorities and targets'), we believe shareholders will be awarded with improved dividends. Please refer to the investor relations section for more information on this topic. Partnerships and social involvement Industry involvement Social involvement Since 2009, we have been measuring staff perception of We strongly believe that social dialogue and active sustainability in the organization to gain a better participation in industry bodies will help produce clear, fair, understanding of how our own people feel about Randstad's and workable regulations in the markets in which we operate. performance. More specifically, we asked them if they feel it is By investing in strong industry federations – on a national, important for their company to be socially involved, and regional, and global level – we believe we can contribute to whether they perceive Randstad as being so. The results are the future development of the HR services industry. shown in the graph 'Employee perception of social involvement'. The objectives and action plans of Ciett (International Confederation of Private Employment Agencies) and Eurociett Employee perception of social involvement (European Confederation of Private Employment Agencies) as % of total number of respondents are well aligned with Randstad's agenda. In May 2014, our Group Public Affairs director was elected President of Ciett for 100% a 3-year term. She has already chaired Eurociett since 2005. 81% 80% 75% Labor market relationships 67% 65% Randstad's core value 'Simultaneous promotion of all interests' lies at the heart of our labor market relationships 50% and stakeholder dialogue. Employee participation in social dialogue 25% Employee participation in social dialogue is promoted through a network of national works councils, in which managers and employees across the Randstad Group regularly 0% address workand HR-related issues. The results of these 2015 2014 dialogues are fed into Randstad's European Works Council, Importance of social involvement Perceived as socially involved which meets twice a year to discuss policy issues and information relevant to Randstad Group companies. UNISource: Great People Survey Europa, the representative trade union federation for services in Europe, is invited to attend the international platform Voluntary Service Overseas (VSO) meetings as an observer. We not only partner with research institutes, we also join forces with organizations that aim to have a direct impact on Active dialogue with labor unions creating more sustainable economic and employment Randstad also actively engages in national and international conditions, both inside and outside our remit. As part of our dialogue with labor unions. At EU level, UNI-Europa and commitment to provide expertise for a better society, we have Eurociett meet regularly in the sectoral social dialogue a global partnership with Voluntary Service Overseas (VSO) to committee on temporary agency work to discuss issues of provide support to communities in countries that need it mutual importance, and to further professionalize and gain most. more societal acceptance for the industry. As a Eurociett member, Randstad is represented in the Eurociett delegation. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 49 For more than five decades, VSO has worked relentlessly to Attitude of employees towards VSO help poor and marginalized people build a brighter future. as % of total number of respondents VSO's main activity is recruiting and placing qualified 80% volunteers from around the world to live and work in 67% 68% developing countries in Africa and Asia. Their high-impact approach ensures that people come together to share skills, 60% build capabilities, promote mutual understanding, and ultimately change lives to make the world a fairer place for all. 40% 37% 37% In 2015, 987 international volunteers, 1,370 youth volunteers and 294 national volunteers were dispatched to 31 countries. 20% Together, they reached 1,950,000 people, providing relief and support in the areas of education, health, HIV and AIDS, secure livelihoods, participation, and governance. 0% 2015 2014 In the 11th year of our partnership with VSO, we focused on Awareness of partnership Willingness to contribute continuous improvement. In September, business leaders from Source: Great People Survey Randstad and VSO got together to devise new, innovative ways of positively impacting the lives of some of the poorest people in the world. Harnessing the combined strengths of the partnership, it was decided to focus resources on three raise the number of overseas VSO volunteers in 2016. One way areas: we will do this is by offering assignments dealing with very 1. Improving employment and entrepreneurship specific recruitment issues that will strengthen VSO's internal opportunities for the most vulnerable, especially women organization. and youth; 2. Supporting VSO's core recruitment function, thus Other volunteer projects enhancing the organization's ability to bring In addition to these primary projects, Randstad participated in volunteering to scale; many other volunteer projects in 2015, including socially 3. Utilizing Randstad's specialist internal business involved and philanthropic initiatives. operations to source highly skilled volunteer talent across the globe. For example, Randstad Germany has a project called 'Ehrensache': Randstad employees are eligible to receive Randstad's support of VSO works on several levels. It allows funding for undertaking voluntary work in their free time. our company to provide expertise for a better society, while The purpose is to support projects for the common good, to also perfectly fitting in with our core value of 'simultaneous promote voluntary work by all employees, and to stimulate promotion of all interests'. Our partnership is proud to offer employees to broaden their personal outlook and build Randstad employees the opportunity to be at the heart of networks. incentives that simultaneously promote the interests of communities, employees, and the business. Randstad Argentina supports a program against child labor, called 'Jardines de Cosecha' (Harvest Kindergarten). The In 2015, 19 employees (10,200 hours) went overseas and program runs during harvesting seasons, and provides rural provided expertise in the areas of HR, recruitment, workers with a safe place to leave their children during the communications, business development, and marketing. Two work day. More information about these initiatives and other volunteers (1,300 hours) supported the VSO organization in examples of local volunteer initiatives can be found on our their home country, through pro bono work or fundraising. corporate website. The total number of overseas VSO volunteers was below target last year. We will therefore be making extra efforts to Randstad VSO volunteers overseas 2011−2015 Other volunteer projects during working hours 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2015 2014 Volunteer hours 10,200 10,300 10,500 12,000 15,000 Volunteer hours 16,500 10,000 Volunteers 19 16 15 21 18 Volunteers 1,000 1,400 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 50 sustainability basics 'Shaping the world of work' can only be achieved if attention Understanding of our business principles is measured through is also paid to sustainability 'basics'. These range from our annual Great People Survey. The results of this survey safeguarding ethical behavior, applying decent environmental relating to the understanding of our business principles can be care, taking supply chain responsibility with regard to being a found in the table 'Understanding of business principles'. good corporate citizen, and ensuring our organization is transparent. Our goal is to have a set of management tools, To further enhance awareness of the business principles, they business principles, policies, and a governance structure in are included in our HR Standards and communicated through place that are in line with, or exceed, the standards set for our various internal communication channels across the Group. industry, and that enable accountability for all elements of our sustainability framework. Corporate policies Business principles The majority of our corporate policies are directly linked to our business principles. They provide our people around the Randstad's business principles are based on – and support – world with specific guidance and instructions on their business our core values. They project a positive message, help us live behavior. up to our values, and ensure that the needs of the world in which we work, as well as our business and personal behavior, Over the years, we have developed other key corporate are well aligned and reinforce one another. Our business policies related to compliance with competition law; business principles can be found in the 'corporate governance' section principles, insider dealing, bribery, gifts & hospitality, data on our corporate website. protection, discrimination, intimidation and harassment, contract liability, and e-communications. These policies are a Our business principles − coupled with our key corporate mandatory part of our induction training, and are highlighted policies referred to below − have been an integral and during refresher training, tailored to the position of the mandatory part of our global induction program. Local relevant employee. Promoting best practices and raising induction training programs include an explanation of the awareness of relevant laws and policies is an ongoing process business principles, some of our policies, and the misconduct worldwide. reporting procedure. In 2014, training in business principles became part of our key control framework for ensuring global At the end of 2014, we made our tax policy more explicit. In execution. line with our core value 'the simultaneous promotion of all interests', and in order to safeguard our good reputation, In 2015, well over 8,000 employees (2014: well over 8,500) Randstad demonstrates ethical tax behavior by paying the received business principles training. To set a minimum proper amounts of taxes in the countries where value is standard, a new compliance induction training program, created. Our position with regard to tax control, tax including even more extensive reference to the business contribution, tax compliance, and tax planning is elaborated principles and corporate policies, has been communicated to on in our tax policy. VBDO (Dutch Association of Investors for all heads of Legal and the HR community. We made this Sustainable Development) in the Netherlands have included compliance induction training program compulsory in 2015. Randstad in its Tax Transparency Benchmark 2015 as an example of 'good practice', due to the way we 'report on effective tax rate (ETR) to statutory tax rate reconciliation, both quantitatively and qualitatively'. Understanding of business principles as % of total number of respondents Mid-2015, we established an environmental policy. Realizing 2015 2014 that the world's natural resources are limited and fragile, Randstad believes environmental protection is consistent with North America 84% 84% its overall goals and core values, and should therefore be an Netherlands 86% 87% important consideration in its activities. This commitment to France 77% 77% environmental protection is reflected in our sustainability Germany 95% 94% framework. It is validated through a materiality analysis, and is Belgium & Luxembourg 87% 86% included in all our programs and practices that encourage the Iberia 83% 81% conduct of operations in a manner that is both United Kingdom 75% 74% environmentally and economically responsible. Other European countries 83% 83% Rest of the world 74% 73% We have developed corporate HR Standards that are not only Corporate 96% 95% based on our core values and business principles, but also on Group 83% 82% our sustainability ambitions. These standards are designed to Source: Great People Survey guide our HR community and to safeguard the recruitment, development, and retention of our employees − our most annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 51 important asset. They are essential in helping us achieve our employees and management locally, and promoting strategic goals. That is why our policies and our sustainability organizational sensitivity to human rights issues in general. framework are both included in our HR Standards, and form a mandatory part of our induction training. In addition, as a signatory to the UN Global Compact, Randstad Argentina shared experiences with colleagues in a Randstad's corporate policies are published on our intranet human rights workshop. From 2014 to 2015, the CEO of sites, and summaries of the policies are published on our Randstad Argentina was the local network UN Global corporate website. Through our in-control framework (which Compact representative. More information about our local includes the key control framework), our operating companies initiatives in the field of human rights can be found on our certify, semi-annually, their compliance with these policies, or corporate website. explain any deviations. Benchmarks Human rights After having been excluded in 2014, Randstad was again We are signatories to, and participants in, the United Nations included in the 2015 Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Global Compact, and we support its Ten Principles regarding review. Launched in 1999, the DJSI World is the first global human rights, labor rights, the protection of the environment, index to track the leading sustainability-driven companies and anticorruption. We have posted more details about our worldwide, based on RobecoSAM's analysis of financially progress on the website of the UN Global Compact material Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) factors. (www.unglobalcompact.org). Randstad is the only HR services provider to be admitted to membership of the Professional Services industry section of The principles regarding labor are those outlined in the ILO the DJSI World and DJSI Europe indices. Of the 19 companies Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. within our industry eligible for inclusion in the DJSI World These are freedom of association and the right to collective index, only Randstad and one other company were included. bargaining, elimination of forced or compulsory labor, the abolition of child labor, and the elimination of discrimination We are also an active participant in other international in respect of employment and occupation. While always benchmarks and platforms, such as the Dutch Transparency complying with national laws and practices, we are also Benchmark, Euronext Vigeo, VBDO's tax transparency committed to making the Global Compact's principles part of benchmark, FTSE4 Good, Carbon Disclosure Project, Ecovadis, Randstad's strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations. We and Sedex. therefore regard the Ten Principles as forming part of our business principles. Our CEO explicitly expressed Randstad's support to the UN's Secretary-General. This statement is Integrity and grievance published on our corporate website. mechanism Randstad Holding's CEO and CFO signed the United Nations' Under the Randstad misconduct reporting procedure, we Call to Action to Governments to promote anti-corruption encourage the reporting of serious misconduct, preferably measures and to implement policies to establish systems of directly to local management and through established good governance. Signing this Call to Action underlines our operational channels. If, for any reason, these reporting lines commitment to work against corruption in all its forms, are considered inappropriate or are likely to be ineffective, or including extortion and bribery. We believe that corruption is if a complainant fears retaliation, use can be made of our one of the greatest obstacles to economic and social special reporting facility. This reporting facility consists of a development around the world. telephone hotline (accessible 24 hours a day via free local access numbers) and a secure webpage. Although reports can Over the past years, Randstad has participated in the business also be submitted anonymously, Randstad encourages and human rights initiative of the Global Compact Network complainants to reveal their identity when they submit a Netherlands. As part of this, we have embedded the Ten report, as this greatly facilitates the investigation of the issue. Principles into our corporate policies and developed a tool for Reports can always be drawn up in the local language. The human rights risk mapping. Our Human Rights Impact facility is operated by an independent external provider and Assessment Framework 2015 can be found on our corporate allows communication between the two parties, even if the website. We have also reviewed our global key control misconduct has been reported anonymously. This way of framework and expanded it to cover a number of relevant communicating with an anonymous complainant has proven risks and controls related to business and human rights, to be successful in several instances. Consistent with notably bribery, workers' rights, health and safety, and Randstad's decentralized organization, reports are received by discrimination. Other ways in which we monitor potential local integrity officers, who are responsible for handling human rights risks include continuous training of our complaints, supported, where appropriate, by other functions, annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 52 sustainability basics Misconduct reporting were still under investigation at the end of the year. The proven complaints (10) related to fraud (4), intimidation/ 2015 2014 improper management practices (2), non-compliance with internal policies and procedures (2), employment conditions/ New complaints 113 136 health & safety (1), and breach of confidentiality/privacy (1). Of which anonymous 35 52 In 2014, we assessed our grievance mechanism by means of Concerns referred to other channels/not the Management of Complaints Assessment tool developed legitimate 79 91 by CSR Europe. This tool reviews performance against eight Proven or partially proven 10 21 criteria as indicated by the UN Guiding Principles on Business Not proven 20 24 1 and Human Rights: legitimate, accessible, predictable, Under investigation 4 equitable, transparent, rights-compatible, a source of Total 113 136 continuous learning, and based on engagement and 1 The complaint reported as 'Under investigation' in 2014, appeared to be 'Not dialogue. Our overall score compared to our peers was well proven'. above average on most criteria. either locally or within Randstad Holding. Actions resulting from this procedure vary from apologizing to the complainant Supply chain responsibility and correcting mistakes to moving a temporary worker to a Our suppliers make an important contribution to the quality new assignment or even terminating an employment of our services. We therefore ask them to embrace our contract, be it of a corporate employee or a temporary standards and to comply with our Supplier Code. This code is worker. an integral part of our international terms and conditions. It aims to ensure that the procurement of goods, works, and Following up on our project in 2011, which considered the services takes place in a socially responsible manner and in implications of the UN's 'Protect, Respect and Remedy' conformity with our business principles. In this code, we framework, we continue to work on raising and maintaining explicitly request our suppliers to respect our regulatory, awareness of our grievance mechanism, including among our social, and ecological principles, and to adopt practices employees and candidates. Until last year, we continued to consistent with those principles. Suppliers must ensure that see a substantial increase in the number of complaints or their own suppliers and subcontractors also respect the concerns raised by these groups. However, they included a principles set out in the code. We consult with suppliers substantial number of complaints that bypassed the normal periodically in order to verify compliance with the code. If local reporting channels, such as the branch manager or local deemed necessary, Randstad may have an audit conducted at complaint desk. Through local communication efforts, we aim the supplier's premises. The Supplier Code is published on our to maintain and increase awareness of the correct routing. corporate website. Of a total of 113 complaints made in 2015, 34 were accepted The related purchasing blueprint was rolled out in 2014. as admissible. After thorough investigation of these 34 During the second half of the year, we audited usage of the complaints, 20 were found to be not proven, and 4 complaints blueprint and the Supplier Code, and found that implementation of the blueprint can be further enhanced in our operating companies. At the end of 2015, around 80% of Awareness of misconduct reporting procedure our procurement expenditure in the Netherlands was covered as % of total number of respondents by the Supplier Code. 2015 2014 A good example of supply chain management is the North America 72% 72% procedure followed by Randstad Argentina. This works as Netherlands 56% 54% follows: the first mandatory step for suppliers in formalizing France 85% 88% the relationship is to register on Randstad's website and Germany 83% 81% explicitly subscribe to the Supplier Code. Once they are in the Belgium & Luxembourg 63% 65% system, they are automatically notified when changes are Iberia 66% 65% made in the Supplier Code or in other conditions. Randstad United Kingdom 67% 64% Italy launched a new web portal for the qualifications of its Other European countries 73% 70% suppliers. This consists of a very detailed questionnaire with Rest of the world 67% 67% general information about the supplier company, its Corporate 87% 85% organizational structure, its approach to quality and social Group 70% 70% responsibility, and relevant certifications. Source: Great People Survey annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 53 Composition of the supply chain Our impact on the environment as % of total (supplier) costs (x 1,000) The fact that our business is a people business is also reflected Total costs: € 18,3811 Supplier costs: € 1,540 in our cost base. The vast majority of our costs consist of the 8% 14% salaries we pay to our own corporate staff and our candidates working for our clients. Because of the nature of our business, 10% our impact on the environment is much less than that of some other sectors, such as manufacturing. Almost all of our 9% 48% business is conducted in local markets, and we have many locations close to both clients and candidates, greatly reducing 12% travel and the resulting CO2 emissions. Despite this inherently 92% 7% minimal impact, we do what we can to limit our ecological footprint by conserving energy, using sustainable energy Other costs Cost of services Advertising and marketing sources, and reducing water and paper usage, while re-using Supplier costs Accommodation IT costs General costs or recycling wherever possible. Personnel expenses Mid-2015, we established a global environmental policy. This 1 Actual reported operating expenses and cost of services excluding commitment to environmental protection is reflected in our amortization, impairment and acquisition-related intangible assets. sustainability framework, validated through a materiality analysis, as well as in our programs and practices for conducting operations in an environmentally, as well as economically, responsible manner. The policy can be found on On a global scale, around 8.4% of our cost base consists of our corporate website. supplier spending. The graph 'Composition of the supply chain' shows the proportions of the various supplier categories across the globe. Our CO2 footprint 1 2015 2014 Usage CO2 emission Usage CO2 emission Scope 1 (direct emissions) Gas for heating (m3) 3,405,584 6,215 2,163,420 3,948 Fuel for heating (ltr) 54,000 172 72,000 229 District heating (Gj) 12,940 259 4,571 91 Business cars petrol (ltr) 4,470,000 12,427 4,232,000 11,765 Business cars diesel (ltr) 10,868,000 34,071 11,170,000 35,018 Business cars gas (ltr) 42,000 80 CO2 metric ton scope 1 53,224 51,051 Scope 2 (indirect emissions) Electricity (Gj) 183,953 22,132 131,159 14,815 Sustainable electricity (Gj) 66,034 275 40,468 169 Airplane (km) 53,055,054 10,611 47,219,004 9,444 CO2 metric ton scope 2 33,018 24,428 Scope 3 (remaining emissions) Water use (m3) 263,411 78 194,865 58 Paper use (kg) 626,000 756 720,000 870 Paper waste (kg) 2 666,000 633 446,000 424 Waste general (kg)2 1,207,000 1,147 1,169,000 1,111 CO2 metric ton scope 3 2,614 2,463 Total CO2 metric ton 88,856 77,942 1 Based on 90% of our operating companies. 2 Based on Randstad estimates. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 54 sustainability basics CO2 footprint Travel and company cars As a part of our framework, we continue to improve the We are limiting our business travel impact on the completeness and accuracy of our Group environmental data, environment by increasing the use of video and phone using a step-by-step approach. In 2012, we concentrated on conferencing and VoIP. Increasingly, we are digitizing time measuring our impact due to travel, in particular journeys sheets and staffing contracts, including signatures, which made using company cars. In 2013, we added to this the reduces paper use and traveling by both candidates and our distances traveled by air. In 2015, we performed an internal consultants. Several operating companies in other countries review on the environmental data reported in 2013 and 2014. have switched their cars to hybrid or fuel-efficient cars, or cars The main operating companies (constituting 90% of the total) with capped CO2 emissions. In addition, various operating were asked to check their data and make adjustments where companies run bike schemes, commuting projects, gas-saving necessary. This gave us better insight into the challenges contests, and other initiatives to reduce conventional energy related to collecting and reporting environmental data, which usage. If traveling cannot be avoided, we prefer train travel led to improvements and more extensive coverage. In over plane or car travel, which in several countries is previous years, we had only been able to calculate the CO2 supported by strict policies. In the Netherlands, we participate footprint of our Dutch operating companies, but now we can in a CO2 compensation program for business flight emissions calculate a global CO2 footprint, based on 90% of our with our national airline. operating companies. Having said that, our CO2 emissions in 2015 were higher than in 2014. This was due to the rise in the More information about our local initiatives on the number of FTEs and branches, as well as due to the fact that environment can be found on our corporate website. we are now reporting more actual figures rather than estimates. We still face challenges collecting actual figures on paper waste and general waste. We use mostly estimates to Company cars calculate the numbers, because only a few operating companies are able to receive this information from their Average number of Kilometers driven (x suppliers. Most of our branches are located in collective tenant cars 1,000) buildings where the collection of waste (including paper 2015 2014 2015 2014 waste) is centralized, which means we cannot collect our own data. North America Netherlands 3,237 3,265 107,932 98,683 Energy resources France 1,646 1,637 33,925 33,764 To limit the use of fossil fuels, we constantly seek to increase Germany 1,634 1,636 50,248 48,122 the use of alternative, efficient, and natural energy resources Belgium & Luxembourg 1,612 1,467 37,300 35,664 (e.g., by replacing traditional lighting by LED lighting in our Iberia 595 638 19,503 20,196 buildings). We are in the process of migrating our computing United Kingdom 227 249 3,314 3,673 capacity to the cloud on a global level. As we are sharing Other European countries 543 508 11,539 12,111 capacity and optimizing our usage of servers by only making Rest of the world 572 554 9,766 10,324 them available when we need them, we expect our energy Corporate 125 118 3,257 3,495 consumption to decrease further. The Randstad corporate Group 10,191 10,072 276,784 266,032 head office is the only major building we actually own, almost all other buildings worldwide being rented. Our head office uses 100% certified green electricity, while its environmental Business flights management system is ISO 15001 certified. The Randstad Total distance traveled (x 1,000 km) Belgium head office is certified for BREEAM (Building 2015 2014 Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method). North America 32,248 30,682 Increasing our people's awareness of simple ways to reduce Netherlands 314 286 the use of energy in our offices is the least we can do. At the France 3,188 3,412 same time, its impact is difficult to measure, given the fact Germany 2,570 2,514 that our offices are often leased all-in, and we share buildings Belgium & Luxembourg 31 40 with other tenants. We continue to try and convince our Iberia 3,683 3,454 landlords to provide us with specifications of energy use, United Kingdom 1,081 916 separate from lease costs, or to install smart meters. Our Other European countries 1,911 1,863 European operating companies have taken the necessary Rest of the world 1 19,864 11,618 steps to comply with the European Commission's Energy Corporate 8,560 8,787 Efficiency Directive and will increasingly have better insight Group 73,450 63,572 into their energy consumption and possible improvements. 1 2015 increase due to reporting of more actual figures and inclusion of Singapore. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 55 performance 56 Introduction 59 Financial performance 66 Country performance 72 Performance by revenue category 74 Investor relations & share performance 78 Risk & opportunity management 56 introduction How we measure performance Market share Gaining profitable market share is an important strategic Randstad has an extensive performance management system target. Where possible, we aim to measure market shares at in place. Performance management at Randstad starts at the the lowest possible level (units and teams). lowest level in our organization in the context of what we call 'activity-based field steering' (ABFS). Our ABFS model requires Profitability our units and teams to translate commercial goals (active Profitability indicates the quality of our top line and clients, people at work) into actual activities on a daily basis. operational efficiency. Our overall financial goal is to achieve As our planning and control cycle is operationally driven, the an EBITA margin of 5% to 6% over time. More information data acquired through ABFS drives action right up to the on our performance in 2015 can be found in the 'Financial Executive Board level. As a result, Executive Board members performance' section, and information about our targets can are closely involved with the operating companies under their be found in the 'Strategic priorities and targets' section. responsibility. Gross margin Performance management We focus on temp margin (gross profit generated through The performance of each operating company is measured at temporary staffing) and the contribution of permanent various stages during the year: placements and other fee-based business. Gross margin is, Weekly overview of activities (ABFS tracker), temporary however, not a strategic target as such. In order to realize our employees working (volumes), and permanent EBITA-margin target, we focus on the extent to which gross placements; profit is converted into EBITA. Monthly income statement, balance sheet, cash flow, selected non-financial data, and a forecast with analysis; Cost control Quarterly income statement, balance sheet, cash flow, Personnel costs are the largest contributor to operating non-financial data, and a forecast with extensive analysis expenses. By using our ABFS model, we know when and and benchmarking. where we need to add or reduce staff. Relatively high staff turnover facilitates a good degree of flexibility of these costs. Each month, the Executive Board discusses performance with Other costs are also highly flexible and tightly controlled. the management team of each operating company. The agenda includes financial and operational performance, Incremental conversion ratio We measure the percentage of gross profit converted into forecasts, risk management, and the progress made in EBITA. In the early stages of recovery, we generally require the achieving strategic goals. Internal and external benchmarks incremental conversion ratio (ICR) of a company to be over are used to challenge performance and to identify points for 70%. Once recovery has developed further, an ICR of 50% is improvement. In addition to the monthly control cycle, a required. In a period of contraction, we aim for a recovery yearly strategic planning cycle takes place in the spring, and ratio of 50%. This means that 50% of lost gross profit is an operational planning cycle takes place in the fall. The recovered through reduced operating expenses. In the planning and control cycle is embedded in our Risk & Control framework. Key performance indicators Key performance indicators Our day-to-day performance overview includes key Weekly indicators performance indicators (KPIs) showing our growth, productivity, profitability, working capital, and cash flow. We Market share use a variety of tools within our planning and control cycle to Gross margin assess our performance and align future strategic and Profitability Cost control investment decisions to best utilize commercial and Key performance indicators Incremental organizational opportunities. KPIs are used to measure and Productivity conversion ratio monitor performance against budgets, forecasts, the previous year, and our strategic targets. These indicators are described Working capital below. Financial position Weekly indicators Weekly volumes of employees working are an important Cash flow generation indicator within our field steering model and measure the success of the units and teams. In addition, we track weekly Number of candidates working information on permanent placements. Number of permanent placements annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 57 'Financial performance' section, we have included an overview Cash flow generation of conversion ratios in recent years. Better profitability and more efficient use of working capital result in sound cash generation, which we measure on the Productivity basis of the amount of free cash flow generated. Free cash Productivity improvements (see 'Financial performance' for flow includes operating profit and movements in working more details) are important in helping us to achieve our capital plus capital expenditure. In a normal year, our free profitability targets. We measure productivity in three ways: cash flow moves in line with the seasonal pattern in our Gross profit per staff member (GP/FTE); business. While the free cash flow in the first quarter is Gross profit in relation to personnel expenses GP/PE); normally low, it is negative in the second quarter, as working The number of candidates per staff member (Temps/FTE). capital requirements increase in line with higher revenue and the payment of holiday allowances in Belgium and the Working capital Netherlands. Free cash flow in the second half of the year is There is a strong focus within Randstad on Days Sales normally higher, based on higher revenue and profit. Outstanding (DSO), the amount of overdues, and working Traditionally, we experience unwinding of working capital in capital. This focus is also reflected in the bonus targets set for December, impacted by the holidays. The development in free our senior management. As a further incentive, through a cash flow per quarter is shown in the graph 'free cash flow simplified EVA method, operating companies are charged for development'. In a downturn, we typically see significant their use of operating working capital. Within working unwinding of working capital. More information on cash flow capital, the 'trade receivables' component is the most analysis can be found in our quarterly press releases, and in important for us to influence. Our liabilities comprise mainly the section 'Performance'. wage tax and social security payments to tax authorities. Clearly, those payment terms are more difficult to influence. Free cash flow development 1 Over the years, we have shown substantial progress in in millions of € improving our working capital management. In the 'Financial 400 performance' section, we have included a more detailed analysis of our historical performance. 300 Financial position 200 To maintain a solid financial position, we monitor our leverage ratio (net debt divided by 12-month EBITDA). This is 100 used as guidance for dividend payment on ordinary shares and as a basis for our acquisition policy. Strategically, our 0 target range is between 0 and 2, while our bank covenants allow for 3.5. In certain cases, we are now allowed to report to -100 a maximum leverage ratio of 4.25x EBITDA for a limited amount of time. This provides us with a cushion in managing -200 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 through the cycle. More information on our financial position and capital structure can be found in the section 'Investor 2013 2014 2015 relations and share performance'. 1 Q4 2013 is adjusted for a payment of € 131 million to the Dutch tax authority. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 58 introduction Number of candidates working Number of permanent placements In order to determine our success across the various markets in Matching candidates with clients for temporary assignments which we operate, we also regularly monitor the number of has always been the biggest part of our business. However, candidates we place with our clients, as well as our market over the past few years, permanent placements have become share across countries. See the graph 'Candidates working split a growing proportion of our daily work. The table 'Number of by geography' for more details on the development per permanent placements' reflects the 2015 numbers compared region. Performance relating to market share can be found in to 2014, broken down by geography. the section 'Country performance'. Candidates working split by geography Number of permanent placements as a % of total number of candidates working per day 100 2015 2014 19% 19% 19% 19% North America 19,700 19,900 Netherlands 7,300 6,800 6% 10% 10% 8% France 32,400 21,000 8% Germany 3,800 3,100 9% 10% 10% 4% Belgium & Luxembourg 2,900 2,700 4% 3% 3% 7% Iberia 14,600 9,100 7% 7% 7% 9% United Kingdom 9,900 9,100 8% 8% 8% Other European countries 10,200 9,800 13% 14% Rest of the world 19,500 23,900 12% 12% Group 120,300 105,400 13% 13% 14% 15% 18% 18% 18% 18% 0 2015 2014 2013 2012 Total: 597,400 Total: 580,300 Total: 567,700 Total: 581,700 North America Germany Iberia Netherlands Belgium & Luxembourg Other European countries France United Kingdom Rest of the world annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 59 financial performance Income statement with a small impact from acquisitions/disposals and working days. Overall reported revenue for the year increased 11% to For a meaningful analysis of our results, we need to look at € 19,219.2 million. Our European operations grew 6% in 2015 the underlying results, which excludes the impact of foreign (2014: up 3%), North America grew 5% (2014: up 3%), Asia exchange movements, mergers and acquisitions, and one-off grew 8% (2014: up 10%), and Latin America grew 15% (2014: items such as restructuring costs, integration costs, and certain up 14%). More detailed information is included in the section incidental benefits or charges. 'Country performance'. More information about the three main business lines (Staffing, Inhouse and Professionals) can be found in the section 'Performance by revenue category'. Income statement, underlying in millions of €, unless otherwise indicated Permanent placements were up 14% (2014: up 14%). note 1 2015 2014 organic ∆% Permanent placements made up 2.0% of revenue (2014: 1.8%). Revenue from temporary Staffing increased by 6% Revenue 4.4 19,219.2 17,249.8 6 organically (2014: up 4%) Cost of services 8.1 15,624.7 14,069.8 Gross profit 5.1 3,594.5 3,180.0 7 On average, we employed 597,400 candidates per day, and we made around 120,300 permanent placements in 2015. Personnel expenses 2,077.0 1,854.7 Annually, we employ around two million people. Other expenses 655.6 619.3 Operating expenses 8.2 2,732.6 2,474.0 4 Organic growth per working day EBITA 861.9 706.0 16 in % Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 full year Gross margin 18.7% 18.4% Operating expenses Geographic areas margin 14.2% 14.3% North America 5 5 4 4 5 EBITA margin 4.5% 4.1% Netherlands 10 15 10 9 11 1 Note refers to the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which present France (0) 4 3 10 4 actual numbers. Germany (3) 0 2 1 0 Belgium & Luxembourg 7 6 1 6 5 Iberia 12 8 8 11 10 Revenue United Kingdom 3 0 1 (4) 0 At Group level, organic revenue increased 6.2% in 2015 Other European countries 12 9 11 13 12 (2014: 3.9%). Currency effects had a positive impact of 4.6%, Rest of the world 12 12 11 7 11 Revenue categories Year-on-year organic growth Staffing 5 6 5 6 6 25% Inhouse 11 12 9 12 11 Professionals 3 3 4 3 3 20% Group 6 7 5 7 6 15% 10% 5% 0% -5% -10% Q1 2013 Q2 2013 Q3 2013 Q4 2013 Q1 2014 Q2 2014 Q3 2014 Q4 2014 Q1 2015 Q2 2015 Q3 2015 Q4 2015 Temp revenue Perm revenue Other revenue annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 60 financial performance Gross profit targets, we aim to maximize conversion of gross profit into Gross profit reflects our effectiveness in pricing, cost of EBITA. employee benefits, and idle-time management. In 2015, gross profit amounted to € 3,594 million, an increase of 7% Gross margin, conversion ratio and EBITA margin compared to the previous year (2014: up 6%). Gross margin 25% 5% increased 30bp to 18.7%. The graph 'Change in gross margin' shows the change in gross margin in 2015. Note 5 to the Gross margin/Conversion ratio financial statements includes an overview of the actual reported gross profit per geography. 20% 4% EBITA margin Change in gross margin 19.0% 15% 3% 0.1% 18.7% 0.2% 18.5% 18.4% 0.0% 10% 2% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 18.0% Gross margin Conversion ratio¹ EBITA margin 1 EBITA as percentage of gross profit. 17.5% Productivity 2014 Temp margin Perm fees HRS/other 2015 As explained in the sections 'Value proposition & strategy' and 'How we measure performance', productivity improvements are key to achieving our profitability targets. We measure productivity in three ways: Gross profit per staff member (GP/FTE); Our temp margin was stable compared to last year as mix Gross profit in relation to personnel expenses (GP/PE); effects offset a more competitive market. Permanent Number of candidates per staff member (Temps/FTE). placements and HR Solutions fees had a positive impact of 30bp. At Group level, the contribution from permanent Productivity (GP/FTE) increased by 4.0% in 2015 (2014: up 3%). placements ('perm fees') made up 10.6% (2014: 9.8%) of gross We focused on achieving greater efficiencies across the profit. organization, mainly through better execution based on field steering and the implementation of the right delivery models Gross profit for our clients. The lack of material growth over the past years in millions of € made it difficult to significantly improve our productivity. 4,000.0 Productivity, indexed 745.9 100 = 2007 3,000.0 615.3 130 573.5 2,000.0 120 2,848.6 2,438.1 2,564.7 110 1,000.0 100 0.0 Total: 3,011.6 Total: 3.180,0 Total: 3,594.5 90 2013 2014 2015 Temp Perm/fees 80 The trend in gross margin is monitored closely. An Q1 2012 Q2 2012 Q3 2012 Q4 2012 Q1 2013 Q2 2013 Q3 2013 Q4 2013 Q1 2014 Q2 2014 Q3 2014 Q4 2014 Q1 2015 Q2 2015 Q3 2015 Q4 2015 improvement indicates that we are succeeding in improving our business mix towards higher-value-added segments in the GP/FTE GP/PE Temps/FTE HR outsourcing space. In order to realize our EBITA margin annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 61 Operating expenses Personnel expenses increased by 5% organically. We invested A breakdown of operating expenses is shown in the table in areas where growth continued, such as in the US (Staffing), 'Operating expenses'. These expenses reflect the costs related Spain and Italy. Personnel expenses per FTE were higher to our sales and delivery organization, as well as our head compared to 2014, due to growth in our more developed offices. markets. An overview of corporate staff by region is given in the section 'Country performance'. Further details on actual personnel expenses can be found in note 9 to the financial Operating expenses statements. in millions of €, unless otherwise indicated 2015 2014 Operating expenses 11% Personnel expenses 2,077.0 1,854.7 2% Advertising and marketing 109.4 102.2 7% Accommodation costs 184.2 184.7 4% Other operating expenses 298.2 268.2 Depreciation, amortization and impairment PPE and software 63.8 64.2 Operating expenses, underlying 2,732.6 2,474.0 76% Average number of corporate staff 29,750 28,720 Personnel Accommodation Other (IT, 3rd party, etc) Number of branches, year-end 2,750 2,816 Marketing Depreciation Number of inhouse locations, year-end 1,723 1,595 Marketing costs were 0.6% of revenue (in line with 2014). Further information about our marketing strategy is included In 2015, underlying operating expenses amounted to € 2,732.6 in the section 'Value for our clients and candidates'. million, up 4% organically. Foreign exchange effects increased our cost base by € 142.7 million. As a result of a benchmarking Accommodation costs fell by 3% organically. Across the study, we are implementing a restructuring aimed at reducing board, we continued to consolidate branches, without leaving overhead by reorganizing management, head-office and markets. As we continued to see strong demand for Inhouse back-office functions. Actual operating expenses in 2015 Services, we opened 128 new Inhouse locations in 2015 (2014: included € 29.9 million one-offs, which are mainly 169), most notably in North America, France, Belgium, and restructuring charges (2014: € 37.1 million), for which we aim Spain. At the end of 2015, we were operating a network of to achieve a payback period of twelve months. 2,750 branches (down 2%) and 1,723 Inhouse locations (up 8%). The graph 'Change in operating expenses' shows the most important changes in our underlying cost base in 2015. Change in operating expenses in millions of € 3,000.0 45.4 15.4 1.2 2,732.6 53.5 142.7 2,474.0 0.4 2,500.0 2,000.0 1,500.0 2014 Disposals Fx North America Europe Rest of world Corporate 2015 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 62 financial performance Other operating expenses − mainly IT and general costs − EBITA decreased by 3%. IT costs generally contract and expand with in millions of € our capacity. General costs, which mainly consist of postage, 2015 2014 ∆% office supplies, and consultancy costs, decreased in line with our focus on cost control. EBITA, underlying 861.9 706.0 22 Integration costs 5.8 Depreciation and amortization charges were lower than in One-offs 29.9 39.5 2014. Because of our reduced office network, investments in EBITA, actual 832.0 660.7 26 branches and IT have been relatively low over the past few Amortization of intangible assets 127.3 145.4 years. On average, we depreciate assets over three to five Operating profit 704.7 515.3 37 years. Net finance costs (29.1) (30.5) Share in profit of associates 0.7 0.3 Result on disposal of associates (oneBranches and Inhouse locations, year-end off) 6.1 Income before taxes 682.4 485.1 2015 2014 Taxes on income (163.6) (145.0) inhouse inhouse Net income 518.8 340.1 53 branches locations branches locations North America 696 423 704 380 As explained in the section 'How we measure performance', Netherlands 311 333 321 368 we measure the conversion of gross profit into EBITA. If we France 521 207 564 177 grow, our target is to convert at least 50% of incremental Germany 274 276 285 270 gross profit into EBITA (incremental conversion ratio). If our Belgium & Luxembourg 150 153 172 138 gross profit declines, our target is to achieve cost savings of at Iberia 207 99 216 76 least 50% of lost gross profit (recovery ratio). For the Group as United Kingdom 75 64 89 51 a whole, the incremental conversion ratio was 52%, in line Other European countries 288 118 278 113 with our ambition. Rest of the world 228 50 187 22 2,750 1,723 2,816 1,595 Incremental conversion ratio 100% EBITA 50% Underlying EBITA increased to € 861.9 million, with the EBITA margin improving to 4.5%, compared to 4.1% in 2014. 0% Currency effects had a positive impact on EBITA of € 36.7 million. -50% EBITA development -100% in millions of € 1,000 5% -150% -200% 2012 2013 2014 2015 750 4.5% Europe North America Group Target: 500 4% Incremental conversion ratio: 50% Recovery ratio: -50% 250 3.5% 0 3% 2013 2014 2015 EBITA EBITA margin annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 63 Amortization of intangible assets, impairment of Net income, earnings per share and dividend goodwill, and badwill Adjusted net income for holders of ordinary shares amounted Intangible assets are capitalized in the balance sheet upon to € 608.3 million (2014: € 459.9 million). acquisition of companies and reflect the value that is allocated to assets, such as brand names, customer relationships, and Diluted EPS increased by 31% to € 3.32 (2014: € 2.54). The candidate databases. These intangible assets are amortized number of outstanding ordinary shares increased by 2% (to over a period of one to eight years. During the year, the 183 million shares), due to stock dividend and the exercise of amortization charge decreased, mainly due to the phasing out stock options. of intangibles related to the Vedior acquisition. For more information, see note 4.1 and note 15 to the financial In line with our dividend policy, we will propose the payment statements. of a cash dividend of € 1.68 per ordinary share (2014: € 1.29). This means a payout ratio of 50% (in line with 2014). Our Operating profit dividend proposal is further elaborated on in the 'Investor Operating profit is EBITA including the non-cash amortization relations' section. and impairment charges on acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill. As a result of the change in the aforementioned charges, operating profit increased by 37% Net income, earnings per share and dividend compared to 2014 to € 704.7 million. in millions of €, unless otherwise indicated 2015 2014 Net finance costs For the full year, net finance costs amounted to € 29.1 million, Net income 518.8 340.1 compared to € 30.5 million in 2014. Net finance costs include Net income for non-controlling interests 0.0 0.0 net interest expenses on our net debt position, as well as Net income for holders of preference foreign currency effects and adjustments in the valuation of shares 12.6 12.6 certain assets and liabilities. Interest expenses on our net debt Net income for holders of ordinary shares 506.2 327.5 position amounted to € 13.3 million (2014: € 16.7 million). Amortization of intangible assets 1 127.3 145.4 Interest expenses decreased, following the strong cash flow Integration costs 5.8 generation during the year and low interest rates. We have a One-offs 2 23.8 39.5 policy of using floating rates as a natural hedge against the Tax effect on amortization, integration development in operational results, which continued to pay costs and one-offs (49.0) (58.3) off significantly. Foreign currency effects had a negative effect Net income for holders of ordinary shares, of € 17.5 million (2014: € 13.8 million negative). Further details adjusted 608.3 459.9 on net finance costs are included in note 10 to the financial statements. Basic EPS (€) 2.79 1.83 Underlying basic EPS (€) 3.35 2.57 Taxes on income Underlying diluted EPS (€) 3.32 2.54 The effective tax rate before amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill, badwill, Proposed dividend (€) 1.68 1.29 integration costs, and one-offs amounted to 25.5% in 2015 Payout ratio (% of underlying basic EPS) 50 50 (2014: 30.1%). More information on the actual effective tax 1 Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and impairment of goodwill. 2 Including € 6.1 million gain on disposal of associates. rate is given in note 4.3 to the financial statements. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 64 financial performance Invested capital capital as % of revenue was impacted by the timing of the acquisition of SFN Group. Our invested capital amounted to € 4.0 billion (2014: € 3.7 billion). The primary components of our invested capital, Our exposure to bad debt remained limited, and only 0.2% of as shown in the overview below, are goodwill and acquisitionrevenue (2014: 0.2%) was written off, as these receivables related intangible assets, working capital, and net tax assets. were considered to be uncollectible. Our trade receivables Return on invested capital further improved to 18.8% (2014: portfolio is very diversified geographically, in terms of both 15.8%). segmentation and client base, which mitigates credit risk. Current liabilities mainly comprise liabilities such as wage tax, social security charges, and pensions, for which payment terms Invested capital are determined by law and therefore difficult to change. in millions of €, unless otherwise indicated note 1 2015 2014 We experience that some clients are challenging the EU directive on payment terms. Randstad has no flexibility in Goodwill and intangible assets 4.1,14,15 2,649.1 2,597.5 terms of its own payments (as these are to candidates and tax and social security authorities). That is why we continue to Trade and other receivables 2 21.2 3,428.9 3,073.9 make an appeal to our clients for payment terms that are in Trade and other payables 3 21.3 2,807.5 2,586.2 line with EU guidelines, respecting a sustainable way of doing Operating working capital 621.4 487.7 business. Net tax assets 4 4.3 516.8 527.1 Working capital management Other assets/(liabilities) 5 13,16,21 247.6 122.8 5% 56 Invested capital 4,034.9 3,735.1 54 4% Financed by Equity 19 3,861.7 3,313.1 52 Net debt 3.2 173.2 422.0 3% Invested capital 4,034.9 3,735.1 50 2% Ratios 48 DSO (Days Sales Outstanding, 1% moving average) 50.7 51.7 46 Working capital as % of revenue 3.2% 2.8% Leverage ratio (net debt/EBITDA) 0.2 0.5 0% 44 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Return on invested capital 6 18.8% 15.8% 1 Note refers to the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Working capital as % of revenue DSO (moving average) 2 Trade and other receivables minus the current part of financial fixed assets, deferred receipts from disposed Group companies, and interest receivable. 3 Trade and other payables minus interest payable. 4 Net tax assets: deferred income tax assets and income tax receivables less deferred Other assets and liabilities income tax liabilities and income tax liabilities. For the purpose of analyzing our invested capital, we have 5 Other assets/liabilities: property, plant and equipment plus financial assets and associates, less provisions and employee benefit obligations and other liabilities. grouped various other assets and liabilities. Please refer to 6 Return on invested capital: underlying EBITA less income tax paid as a percentage footnote 5 of the invested capital table for a description of of invested capital. the constituents. The largest part of the year-on-year change in this section was caused by a € 101.9 million increase of the Operating working capital CICE receivable (arising from tax credits under the French During the year, we continued our focus on working capital Competitive Employment Act). These tax credits can be offset management, paying special attention to the collection of against the income tax liability with respect to the calendar trade receivables and the reduction of overdues. As growth year to which the wages (based on which the tax credit is returned towards the end of the year, trade receivables grew calculated) relate. Any excess credit can be carried forward accordingly. As a percentage of revenue, working capital was and offset against the tax liability during the next three years. 3.2% (2014: 2.8%). Within working capital, the component Any excess after three years will be refunded. we most need to be able to influence is trade receivables. Our DSO was 50.7 days (2014: 51.7). We aim to realize further improvements by focusing on the aging of trade receivables, including payment terms and overdues. The graph 'Working capital management' shows the development of working capital and DSO over the past few years. In 2011, working annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 65 Net debt maximum of € 275 million. On December 31, 2014, the Our net debt position decreased to € 173.2 million, mainly as a remaining facilities, with a maximum of € 150 million, were result of a solid free cash flow of € 498.8 million. As a result, not activated or extended. These facilities lapsed on February the leverage ratio (net debt divided by 12-month EBITDA) was 13, 2015. 0.2 at year-end, well within our targeted range of between 0 and 2. The section 'How we measure performance' contains an overview of the development of net debt and the leverage Cash flow analysis ratio. Free cash flow Free cash flow amounted to € 498.8 million (2014: € 487.7 Net debt million). Working capital requirements increased to support in millions of €, unless otherwise indicated the accelerated growth we have seen this year (€ 121.9 million 2015 2014 outflow). Please refer to the Consolidated statement of cash flows on page 113 for more details on this topic. Cash and cash equivalents 133.5 117.1 Less: Non-current borrowings 124.6 315.0 Less: Current borrowings 182.1 224.1 Consolidated cash flow statement Net debt 173.2 422.0 in millions of € 2015 2014 Leverage ratio 0.2 0.5 EBITA, actual 832.0 660.7 Depreciation, amortization and Since December 31, 2014, Randstad has had a revolving impairment of property, plant and multicurrency credit facility of € 1,800 million, which will equipment and software 64.7 65.2 mature mid-2020. The maturity can potentially be extended to EBITDA 896.7 725.9 a maximum of 7 years (e.g., to mid-2021) through the exercise Working capital (121.9) 8.9 of two extension options, which are at the banks' discretion. Provisions and other items (103.8) (60.6) In addition to this credit facility, Randstad can avail of Income taxes paid (105.4) (116.7) uncommitted and guaranteed credit lines of roughly € 1.1 Net cash flow from operating activities 565.6 557.5 billion. Randstad has agreed on financial covenants, which requires us to have a maximum leverage ratio of 3.5x EBITDA. Net capital expenditures 1 (63.0) (63.3) In some specific scenarios, Randstad is permitted to report a Financial receivables (3.8) (6.5) maximum leverage ratio of 4.25x EBITDA for a limited amount Free cash flow 498.8 487.7 of time. Net acquisitions and disposals 2 (83.9) (5.7) Net debt and leverage ratio development Issue of ordinary shares 4.2 1.5 in millions of € Purchase of own shares (58.3) (25.7) Dividend paid on ordinary shares (81.5) (56.0) 1,000.0 2.0 Dividend paid on preference shares (12.6) (12.1) 900.0 Net finance costs (9.1) (30.4) 800.0 Translation and other effects (8.8) (20.3) 1.5 700.0 Net decrease of net debt 248.8 339.0 Leverage ratio 600.0 1 Net additions in property, plant and equipment and software. Net debt 2 Net acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries/activities, associates and equity 500.0 1.0 investments. 400.0 300.0 0.5 200.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 2013 2014 2015 Net debt Leverage ratio In February 2013, Randstad launched standby facilities with a small group of banks, which ran up to 24 months from the start. These facilities offer Randstad the opportunity to sell trade receivables of selected European activities up to a annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 66 country performance Introduction Main market positions, 2015 in billions of local currency Randstad operates in 39 countries, representing more than market market market market 90% of the global HR services market. This is not likely to regions size 1 growth % share in % position1 change, as we believe our current network covers the most attractive geographies. In this section, we provide an overview United States 120 4 4 2 of our underlying performance in these countries in 2015. Netherlands 19 12 18 1 France 22 4 13 3 Germany 24 5 8 1 North America Belgium & Luxembourg 7 9 20 1 Spain 4 18 23 1 in millions of € 2015 2014 organic ∆% United Kingdom 34 8 2 4 Revenue 4,653.4 3,765.9 5 1 Based on country data, 2014 figures, and estimated growth rates. EBITA 249.1 180.0 17 EBITA margin 5.4% 4.8% traction, investment in field staff, and positive market developments in manufacturing and logistics staffing and Randstad is the third-largest provider of HR services in North permanent placements. With full-year growth of 7% in America. We hold market leading positions in key verticals, revenue and 13% in gross profit, we outperformed the including IT, accounting and finance, office/clerical, and market. Inhouse Services performed particularly well, driven permanent placements. We also lead the market in providing by record new account growth and strong customer innovative solutions, with offerings including MSP, RPO, retention. Overall permanent placements within our Staffing Inhouse Services, and, as of 2015, outplacement. business grew 17% compared to 2014, accounting for 7.5% of gross profit. During 2015, sales in North America increased 4.8%, while gross profit was up 9.3%. Overall profitability in North Revenue growth in our Professionals group was 1%, and gross America reached a new record level for the third year in a profit growth was 5%, as a result of further advancements in row. This was a result of pricing discipline, increased share of field steering, strong perm revenue growth, and continued permanent placements, and ongoing improvements in the focus on pricing. EBITA margin in our combined Professionals efficiency of our cost base. EBITA margin increased to 5.4%, business also improved. In our Finance & Accounting business, compared to 4.8% in 2014 and 4.5% in 2013. perm revenue grew at 12%, outpacing growth in temporary staffing, and overall gross profit grew by 6%. IT experienced US revenue grew by 5.5%, while gross profit grew by 10.2%. strong demand within our large-account segment (21% With our continued advancements in field steering and revenue growth) and solutions offering (11% gross profit improvements in back-office efficiency, EBITA margin for our growth), but experienced weaker growth in the SME staffing combined US business improved again. segment. Our relatively small Healthcare business outperformed a strong market, growing revenue per day by The US Staffing and Inhouse businesses benefited from the 39.4%. Our Engineering business grew gross profit by 9%, combined impact of rigorous field steering, significant sales despite challenging market conditions in the energy sector, Development in the main geographic markets in millions of €, unless otherwise indicated revenue organic average candidates average corporate staff 2015 2014 growth % 2015 2014 2015 2014 North America 4,653.4 3,765.9 5 108,800 106,400 6,430 6,220 Netherlands 3,076.9 2,794.7 11 76,600 75,600 4,150 4,350 France 2,845.1 2,726.2 4 74,600 70,400 3,460 3,390 Germany 1,969.6 1,949.3 0 45,800 46,600 2,570 2,610 Belgium & Luxembourg 1,350.3 1,283.3 5 41,400 40,000 1,890 1,750 Iberia 1,193.5 1,086.1 10 61,000 58,100 1,750 1,560 United Kingdom 909.5 821.7 0 16,000 17,200 1,560 1,530 Other European countries 1,576.6 1,371.3 12 60,100 55,800 2,820 2,450 Rest of the world 1,644.3 1,451.3 11 113,100 110,200 4,930 4,660 Corporate n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 190 200 19,219.2 17,249.8 6 597,400 580,300 29,750 28,720 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 67 with a solid performance in permanent placements and main verticals of IT, Engineering, and Finance, supplemented disciplined pricing. by even stronger growth in particularly Supply Chain & Procurement, Legal, and the Social Domain. Early in 2015, the formation of our Talent Solutions Group (TSG) brought together all of our strategic solutions and Perspective Statement enterprise sales teams into a single organization dedicated to Together with Obvion and 'Vereniging Eigen Huis', Randstad providing integrated talent management solutions that developed the Perspective Statement in 2013. In 2015, the elevate and maximize the strategic value delivered within our successful pilot of this declaration was expanded, with highest-potential client relationships. Within the TSG, the participation of almost all large banks and mortgage lenders North American Randstad Sourceright MSP business increased in the Netherlands. The declaration makes it easier for people spend under management by 35% in 2015, as a result of with a flexible employment contract to get a mortgage. substantial new client wins and expansion of existing Rather than focusing on an individual's employment contract, programs. In 2015, our Randstad Sourceright RPO business the prospects of employment are decisive. Education, work achieved record growth (21%) and record profitability. We experience, competences, the level of the job, flexibility, and continue to reap the benefits of our centers of excellence, the future situation on the labor market are all taken into combining process standardization with technology platforms, account. which yield continued efficiencies. Finger scan Randstad Canada performed well despite very challenging Another innovation rolled out by Tempo-Team was the finger market conditions and saw revenue contract by 1.8%. A scan. Under the name of T-Point Touch, this innovation not strong performance in perm, which grew by 7%, resulted in a only helps to reduce companies' administrative costs, but also gross profit performance and profitability in line with prior results in significant time savings. This means there is more year. time left for the personal guidance of employees. TempoTeam expects an explosive growth of this form of identification in the next few years. The Netherlands in millions of € 2015 2014 organic ∆% France Revenue 3,076.9 2,794.7 11 EBITA 194.4 170.6 14 in millions of € 2015 2014 organic ∆% EBITA margin 6.3% 6.1% Revenue 2,845.1 2,726.2 4 EBITA 148.7 145.5 2 EBITA margin 5.2% 5.3% In the Netherlands, where Randstad is the market leader, revenue grew 11% organically and our EBITA margin increased 20bp to 6.3%. Perm fees increased 17%. Randstad is the third-largest provider of HR services in France, with a 13% market share. Revenue grew 4%, while EBITA Our combined Staffing and Inhouse revenues (represented by margin came out at 5.2% (down 10bp compared to 2014). In the Randstad and Tempo-Team brands) increased 10%. In the France, we have leading positions in Inhouse Services, SME market, we continued the strong growth rates (>15%) Healthcare, and permanent placements. The French market that had already started in 2014. In both segments, the returned to a growth of 4% in 2015, which is an improvement market remained competitive. Having the right delivery compared to 2014 (flat). This growth was mainly driven by models in place with both our Inhouse concept and central strong growth in tertiary services (up 8.8%) and industry (up delivery, we were able to offset this with higher productivity. 4.1%), partially offset by a continued decline in construction (down 6.6%). Significant progress was made in the Professionals segment, whose revenues grew 17% (above the market). The Yacht, Regaining market share while consolidating higher Randstad Professionals, Tempo-Team Professionals, and profitability levels was Randstad's primary goal in France MartinWardAnderson businesses have been combined to throughout 2015. Our focus remains strongly on profitable create a stronger and more focused Professionals business market segments. This is of paramount importance, as we under the Yacht brand. The internationally proven vertical operate in a mature market with pressure on prices. Our approach has been introduced to be more aligned with client combined Staffing and Inhouse revenues grew 4%, and we wishes, while also catering to the needs of our professionals, achieved 4% growth in Professionals. Overall revenue from who want to be connected with peers in communities. The permanent placements grew by 17% in 2015 across all introduction of a split model (with separated sales and business lines, with Professionals placements increasing more recruitment functions) has helped to create more focus. than 20%. The growth in Professionals was driven by another Within this year of multiple transitions, commercial activity strong year for our Healthcare businesses l'Appel Médical and remained at a high level. Yacht booked solid growth in the JBM (up 11%). annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 68 country performance Big Data solution from 276 locations across Germany. Our continued efforts to In 2015, Randstad France rolled out its Big Data project. improve our business mix resulted in another strong Combining its own data with external data from partners and performance in permanent placements, with revenue open data sources, Randstad France developed a solution that increasing by 28% compared to last year. improves decision-making by providing better insight into the labor market. Focusing on skills rather than jobs, the new tool Revenue in Professionals declined by 2%. Our IT freelancer displays the qualities recruiters are looking for, as well as the business (GULP) grew by 3%, remaining the most important skills that are available in a particular employment area. This source of IT project candidates among external specialists in new approach to employment-related data will help Germany. GULP is also the leading internet-based project companies, job seekers, and even public organizations to gain intermediary, offering clients a comprehensive online portal a detailed picture of available skills and skills shortages in that provides information and services for IT-related project every local labor market across France. Consultants can also business. It contains profiles of 90% of all German IT use this mobile application during client visits, thereby freelancers. Randstad Professionals provides high-end HR improving productivity. solutions in the engineering and IT services segments. Its revenue and profitability remained under pressure, with developments easing slightly towards the end of the year. Germany in millions of € 2015 2014 organic ∆% Belgium & Luxembourg Revenue 1,969.6 1,949.3 0 EBITA 95.7 85.6 12 in millions of € 2015 2014 organic ∆% EBITA margin 4.9% 4.4% Revenue 1,350.3 1,283.3 5 EBITA 79.6 66.5 20 EBITA margin 5.9% 5.2% In 2015, we retained our market leadership position in Germany, and our overall revenue remained stable compared to the previous year. Underlying EBITA margin reached 4.9%, Randstad remains the clear market leader in Belgium and compared to 4.4% in 2014. The German staffing market saw a Luxembourg. The market recorded 9% growth in the year, recovery in 2015, after a decline that had been visible since despite a brief slowdown in Q3. Overall, revenue grew by 5% 2013. We were able to stabilize our gross margin in 2015, after in 2015, with growth in both Randstad and Tempo-Team, some pressure in previous years driven by adverse regulatory while gross profit increased by 7%. Our EBITA increased by issues. 70bp to 5.9%. In Staffing and Inhouse Services, our combined Staffing and The ongoing implementation of activity-based field steering Inhouse businesses (where we operate as Randstad and (ABFS) led to higher activity levels and strong productivity Tempo-Team) grew by 1%. Randstad Inhouse Services gains in 2015. The combined Staffing and Inhouse businesses continued to do well, but grew at a lower level compared to (where we operate as Randstad and Tempo-Team) reported last year, due to fewer transfers and less business from some 5% topline growth. Throughout the year, the focus was on dominant clients. Our Inhouse business is currently operating profitability. Revenue split by geography EBITA split by geography 2015: revenue € 19,219.2 2014: revenue € 17,249.8 2015: EBITA € 861.9 2014: EBITA € 706.0 9% 8% 7% 2% 7% 1% 22% 2% 2% 8% 24% 8% 6% 23% 6% 27% 5% 5% 9% 9% 6% 6% 8% 16% 10% 11% 7% 16% 22% 21% 10% 11% 15% 16% 16% 19% North America Germany United Kingdom North America Germany United Kingdom Netherlands Belgium & Luxembourg Other European countries Netherlands Belgium & Luxembourg Other European countries France Iberia Rest of the world France Iberia Rest of the world annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 69 Iberia We also refocused our Business Support and Technologies business lines to be more closely aligned to their markets. in millions of € 2015 2014 organic ∆% Revenue 1,193.5 1,086.1 10 We continue to improve our speed to productivity for new EBITA 51.4 42.9 20 hires by improving our induction and onboarding programs. EBITA margin 4.3% 3.9% We achieve this by investing significantly in our Learning & Development team. We further enhanced growth in our CPE business by holding a series of targeted marketing campaigns Revenue growth in our Iberia division was 10%, with EBITA to improve candidate sourcing in specific skills-short markets. margin reaching 4.3%, compared to 3.9% in 2014. We are We also invested in digital marketing, as a result of which market leader in both Spain and Portugal. traffic to our website rose and online applications were up significantly. Spain Spain enjoyed a very strong year in 2015 (revenue up 14%). This was thanks to the underlying improvement in the Other European countries economy and labor market, as well as our relentless focus on client profitability, internal productivity, and risk control. Our in millions of € 2015 2014 organic ∆% Staffing business once again reached double-digit growth, Revenue 1,576.6 1,371.3 12 broadly in line with the market, and with a clear positive EBITA 61.9 54.0 13 trend throughout the year. Our decision to continue to invest EBITA margin 3.9% 3.9% in the Professionals business has paid off, as we are now clearly one of the Top 3 Professionals players in Spain. Innovation also played an important role in 2015. Applying an Revenue growth for 'Other European Countries' was 12% in integrated approach, we developed a range of new tools for 2015, while EBITA margin remained stable at 3.9%. consultants, clients, and candidates, leading to seamless interactions and greater satisfaction levels all round. Poland In Poland, we had again a good year, growing 8%. Randstad Portugal Poland was particularly successful in the Inhouse business, as Overall revenue was stable compared to last year. Solid well as in Professionals. However, we do see that market growth was achieved in the Contact Center business, and our conditions are becoming tougher, due to a scarcity of Professionals business also had a good year, with strong candidates. The bigger cities in Poland already have almost no growth in permanent placements. This was offset by lower unemployment. revenue in Staffing, where we focused on client profitability and delivery models. The implementation of field steering and Italy the ongoing optimization of administrative processes were In Italy, where we are the fourth-largest in the market, important achievements in 2015. As we continue to benefit revenue grew by 17%. Growth accelerated in the second half from these initiatives, our strategic focus remains on enriching of the year, with a positive effect on market share. This was our business mix, better delivery models for our clients and led by good growth in both Staffing and Inhouse, supported candidates, and risk management. by significant investments in consultants. In addition, we achieved very good results in permanent placements and Professionals, with 48% year-on-year growth. Operational United Kingdom expenditure remained under control, with dedicated investments to maintain growth. in millions of € 2015 2014 organic ∆% Revenue 909.5 821.7 0 Nordics EBITA 22.0 14.2 40 In Sweden, our business continued to do well, and we saw EBITA margin 2.4% 1.7% overall revenue grow by 11%. Our Inhouse Services led the way, while we saw improving performance in Staffing, on the back of better execution through our ABFS principles. In A year of two halves, the UK market in the first half-year was Denmark, we outperformed the market, with revenue growth strong, whereas the second half-year was much more difficult. reaching 11%. In 2015, the market in Norway faced the most Overall for the year, revenue was flat on an organic basis and severe downturn since 2009. Although our business struggled, our EBITA margin improved 70bp to 2.4%. we managed to perform in line with the market. By the end of the year, we announced an offer to shareholders to Our growth can be attributed to our investment in new hires, combine forces with Proffice (a large Nordic competitor). The as we have added some 100 consultants in our front-office. combination would create the third-largest HR services Growth was led by three businesses: CPE, Care, and Education. provider in the Nordic region and the No. 2 in Sweden. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 70 country performance Switzerland In March 2015, Randstad was certified as an Excellent Staffing In 2015, the Swiss market was challenging due to the Swiss Agency, which shows that both candidates and client franc revaluation. With 3% sales growth, we outperformed companies clearly recognize Randstad as a reliable service the Swiss market (for the fifth consecutive year). Our provider. The online career support tool My Career Note was Professionals business accelerated, reaching a growth rate of strengthened in 2015. Currently, 9,000 candidates actively use more than 40%. the tool, enabling them to input, review, and plan their career information, while receiving constructive feedback. Austria Despite a challenging market, Randstad Austria was able to Australia and New Zealand improve its profitability in 2015. Our client base was further Our operations in Australia and New Zealand continued to extended, and we diversified our portfolio by investing in grow (up 15% in 2015) across both temporary and permanent Inhouse and Professionals. recruitment. Our performance in Staffing was particularly driven by solid growth in the blue-collar industrial business, Hungary with positive developments in the transport and logistics Our Hungarian operations had a record year in 2015. Sales segments. Business Support again had an excellent year, doubled, combined with excellent profitability. Randstad mainly as a result of momentum in our Contact Center reinforced its market leadership in permanent placements in business, where we saw strong growth in permanent Hungary. Our holistic approach to ABFS resulted in the highest placement fees. Within Professionals, construction, property ever number of placed candidates at an increasing number of and engineering delivered a solid performance. Our Sales & clients. Besides permanent placements, new business lines Marketing division had a strong finish to the year. We were profitably developed, such as the added-value staffing restructured the New Zealand business and left lower-margin business, RPO, and outplacement. accounts. To create a more focused and more profitable business, we will primarily target white-collar staffing and Turkey, Czech Republic, and Greece permanent placement of professionals. Our Education In Turkey, we concentrated on improving our business mix business continues to deliver well. and profitability. As a result, our HR Solutions business line grew by 17%. In the Czech Republic, we had a very successful India year, again showing high double-digit growth (31%). In 2015, we continued on the path of further right-sizing our Randstad also had an excellent year in Greece, given the business model in India. We are reshaping our various service turbulent political situation in the country. We grew 19%, lines to ensure solid returns for the future. In temporary which was ahead of the market. We also improved our staffing we terminated our relationship with low-margin profitability by 80 bp, and were able to collect all our invoices. clients, while adding new clients at a higher margin. We focus on specialties, which is why we developed a Professionals contracting offering aimed specifically at the Technologies Rest of the world market. We split our Search & Selection offering between roles filled by our consultants and roles filled by a centralized in millions of € 2015 2014 organic ∆% sourcing team. Finally, we accelerated our RPO presence and Revenue 1,644.3 1,451.3 11 sales efforts in 2015, as RPO is a very attractive market EBITA 20.8 7.5 183 segment for Randstad in India. EBITA margin 1.3% 0.5% China and other Asian countries The double-digit revenue growth of our Chinese business Revenue in the 'Rest of the world' region grew by 11% continued into 2015, driven by both our Search & Selection organically. EBITA margin improved from 0.5% to 1.3%. and our temporary staffing business. To take advantage of the growing demand for high-volume recruitment project Japan services, we will continue to invest in Randstad Sourceright in Japan represents 31% of the 'Rest of the world' region, and China. The revenue growth in our temporary staffing business Randstad holds the sixth position in the market. In 2015, we was particularly strong in project-based staffing, where we continued to invest in expanding our position in Professionals added new clients, mainly in IT. and permanent placements, as well as in our own IT platform. Overall, revenue grew by 4% year on year, with solid Outside mainland China, our business in Hong Kong delivered performance in Staffing and Outsourcing. Permanent good revenue growth. In our permanent placements market, placements for entry-level jobs grew by more than 30%, with the best performing teams were Banking and Luxury/Retail. strong demand from clients due to talent shortages resulting We changed our Technologies business and split the sales and from the lowest unemployment rate in 20 years in Japan sourcing part of the classic 360-degree consultant role. (below 3.5%). Inhouse successfully expanded the number of locations to 52. Professionals showed rapid growth, exceeding In Malaysia, we continued our repositioning strategy towards 70%. the Professionals segment. Our staff currently consist of annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 71 around 70 people, operating mostly from Kuala Lumpur. In addition to our regular business, we operate a sourcing center from Kuala Lumpur to service RPO clients in the region. Our operations in Singapore saw another year of strong performance with full-year gross-profit growth above 40%, and with solid returns. In this highly competitive market, we maintained market leading positions in 2015 in Banking, Technologies, and Business Support. Latin America In Latin America, both our Argentinean and Chilean businesses continued to show good progress and delivered profitable growth. Our Brazilian business performed solidly in a very challenging environment, and was particularly successful in introducing a range of new value propositions. In Mexico, we faced a few challenges during the year, but focused on improving our productivity and client profitability mix. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 72 performance by revenue category Introduction In HR Solutions, revenue continued to see solid growth. RPO showed a solid performance, while revenue in MSP saw strong In this section, we provide an overview of the underlying growth throughout the year. Payroll Services also improved, performance per revenue category in 2015. More detailed following new client wins. With the transformation of our information on these service concepts can be found in the European RPO/MSP business, we continue to see benefits, section 'Value for our clients and candidates'. In our financial notably in the cross-border/multi-country growth of RPO and reporting, we have merged these service concepts into three MSP. revenue categories: Staffing (including HR Solutions), Inhouse Services, and Professionals (including Search & Selection). Underlying EBITA margin improved from 4.1% to 4.6%. Operating leverage improved thoughout the year. Split by revenue category Revenue 2015: € 19,219.2 million EBITA 2015: € 861.9 million Inhouse Services 20% 21% in millions of € 2015 2014 organic ∆% Revenue 4,216.4 3,622.5 11 EBITA 212.7 189.6 11 EBITA margin 5.0% 5.2% 58% 56% 22% 23% Revenue from Inhouse Services 6,000.0 25.0 Staffing Inhouse Services Professionals 22.0 21.0 19.5 Staffing (including HR Solutions) 17.9 4,216.4 20.0 4,000.0 3,622.5 in millions of € in millions of € 2015 2014 organic ∆% 15.0 3,223.5 3,051.9 Revenue 11,186.4 10,202.8 6 15.0 in % 2,585.3 EBITA 514.9 421.1 17 EBITA margin 4.6% 4.1% 2,000.0 10.0 In the revenue category of Staffing, we include the service concepts of Staffing and HR Solutions. Within Staffing, we serve clients in the industrial segment (blue-collar) and 0.0 5.0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 administrative segment (white-collar). In our revenue mix, this is about 50:50. HR Solutions includes a wide range of services, Revenue from Inhouse Services Percentage of total revenue of which Payroll Services, RPO, MSP, and Outsourcing are the largest. HR Solutions is well-established in the Netherlands Inhouse Services continued to see good growth in 2015. and North America, while we have implemented a number of Revenue grew by 11% to € 4.2 billion as we continued to initiatives to further diversify our service portfolio in Europe align clients to the most appropriate delivery model. and Asia. One of our priorities has been to achieve a greater share of permanent placements in our Staffing businesses. In The concept has grown significantly in recent years, and 2015, we continued our progress in this regard, with continues to perform well within the traditional large-client, permanent placements increasing proportionately, with large-volume, blue-collar manufacturing space. Growth growth of 19% in the year (excluding RPO). continues to be supported by transfers from Staffing. However, we also see growth from clients entering directly Staffing revenue was € 11.2 billion. On an organic basis, this into an Inhouse relationship. was an increase of 6%. The growth rate is impacted by the transfer of business from Staffing to Inhouse as we continued In addition to the strong position we retain in the blue-collar to optimize our service delivery to our clients. However, we manufacturing segment, we also see opportunities for further also saw an increase in the amount of business through growth in white-collar staffing, and indeed within those central delivery. In the Netherlands, where central delivery is Professionals segments where volume recruitment is evident. more established, we already see that close to 60% of our business is no longer serviced through branches. This allows our branches to focus on SMEs. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 73 EBITA margin remained at a good level moving to 5.0% (from Our Professionals business strengthened its operations based 5.2%), still at the top end of our targeted range of between on industry sectors (verticals). The use of verticals strengthens 4% and 5% for this revenue category. our position in the Professionals segment, with strong verticals apparent in IT, Finance & Accounting, Healthcare, and Construction/Engineering. New management has been Professionals brought in to strengthen the Professionals organization, where there were opportunities to enhance operational in millions of € 2015 2014 organic ∆% performance (e.g., in the US). Revenue 3,816.4 3,424.5 3 EBITA 196.0 156.1 15 Profitability continued to improve across many geographies, EBITA margin 5.1% 4.6% with EBITA margin reaching 5.1%, compared to 4.6% in 2014. We continue to see opportunities for profitable growth in the Professionals segment, both organically and through Revenue in Professionals was 3% higher year-on-year. Perm acquisitions. fees were 12% ahead of last year. Geographic revenue spread Staffing revenue (including HRS): € 11,186.4 million Inhouse Services revenue: € 4,216.4 million Professionals revenue: € 3,816.4 million 9% 6% 8% 19% 2% 10% 22% 10% 4% 16% 1% 42% 5% 9% 1% 17% 7% 3% 19% 8% 10% 15% 9% 18% 12% 10% 8% North America Germany United Kingdom Netherlands Belgium & Luxembourg Other European countries France Iberia Rest of the world annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 74 investor relations & share performance Investor Relations Dividend: € 1.68 per share, 50% Randstad Investor Relations' main goal is to safeguard our payout ratio 'financial brand'. Whereas clients and candidates recognize the Randstad brand for its reliability and service quality, Dividend yield: 2.9% investors and analysts should recognize our brand for its open Diluted earnings per share, and transparent communication. Our aim is to be best in class in terms of disclosure and to provide insight into the strategic underlying: € 3.32 direction of the business. These efforts should enable an Market capitalization at year-end: accurate valuation of Randstad shares over time. € 10,529.1 billion Investor relations policy We maintain an active, open and transparent dialogue with existing and potential shareholders, as well as with analysts a large number of investor meetings were held at our head and banks. We organize road shows, attend investor office in the Netherlands. Over the year, we met more than conferences, and accommodate meeting requests wherever 650 investors. feasible, and we adhere to all legal obligations relating to confidentiality. On April 2, 2015, we held our Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Shareholders. More information on the AGM, including key We are committed to providing high-quality and timely decisions and attendance, can be found in the section 'Report information to all stakeholders, while at the same time of the Supervisory Board'. ensuring that the entire market has access to such information (including price-sensitive data). Our policy is that, whenever Financial strategy possible, we make a member of the Executive Board and/or a In 2015, we continued to focus on strong cash flow representative of the Investor Relations department available generation. As a result, the free cash flow rose 2% to € 498.8 to meet with investors. From time to time, we also involve million. We used our free cash flow to reduce our debt, country management and facilitate field trips. acquire the RiseSmart business, and pay a dividend. Our net debt position decreased from € 422.0 million to € 173.2 Bilateral meetings and conference calls with analysts and million, and our leverage ratio was 0.2, well within our actual or potential shareholders will not be held during targeted range of between 0 and 2. 'closed periods', which normally run from the end of a quarter until publication date. Our policy of holding bilateral More information on our debt can be found in the 'Capital meetings with shareholders is set out in the corporate structure' section. governance section on our corporate website. Dialogue with investors, analysts, and other stakeholders Capital structure Each quarter, Randstad organizes conference calls to discuss Invested capital amounted to € 4.0 billion, and we achieved the latest results. These events are broadcast on the web. In return on invested capital of 18.8%, up from 15.8% last year. addition, we hold additional events to inform the markets on More information on and an analysis of invested capital can our business. In May 2015, we hosted an analyst day in be found in the section 'Financial performance'. Barcelona. The focus of the day was to provide insight into our Southern European operations. In November 2015, we hosted a full Capital Markets Day in London for analysts and Invested capital investors. During the day, we provided an update on our in millions of € strategy and targets, and an overview of our change 2015 2014 programs and cost savings. We also provided an update on the impact of technology on Randstad, including the Net debt 173.2 422.0 continued development of our Randstad Innovation Fund and Equity 3,861.7 3,313.1 some internal innovations that we are implementing. 4,034.9 3,735.1 Return on invested capital 18.8% 15.8% In 2015, we expanded the geographic coverage of our road shows and investor conferences. We participated in conferences in the Netherlands, Belgium, France, the UK, and the US. Road shows for institutional investors were organized in Austria, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Ireland, Japan, the Nordics, Poland, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland, the Netherlands, the UK, and the US. In addition, annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 75 Debt share. Shareholders had a choice between cash and shares. As Our financing policy aims to secure financing that matches the a result, we issued 2.73 million ordinary shares in April 2015. midto long-term financing requirements of the Group. During the year, we took the opportunity to extend our debt On December 31, 2015, there were 50.1 million preference facility on favorable terms with another year. In addition, our shares C in issue. The dividend yield on these shares is 5.8%. balance sheet continues to strengthen, with our debt coming For preference shares B, there were 25.2 million shares in down by € 248.8 million over the year, which in turn helped issue, with a dividend yield of 2.7%. We consider preference bring our leverage ratio (net debt/12-month EBITDA) down shares to be an attractive part of equity. It provides fully toward the lower end of our targeted range of between 0 committed long-term capital at relatively low cost. and 2. We consider being within this range important for continuity. We have maintained our policy of using floating Voting rights on shares interest rates as a natural hedge against the development of The ordinary shares have equal voting rights (one share, one operational results, which continued to pay off significantly in vote). The voting rights on the preference shares B and C are 2015. aligned with the historical capital contribution. This means that there are 3.6 million voting rights on preference shares B and 5.6 million voting rights on preference shares C. Debt in millions of € Listing and indices 2015 2014 Randstad Holding is publicly listed on the Euronext Amsterdam (ticker symbol RAND.AS), where Randstad shares Total debt facility 1,800.0 1,950.0 1 and options can be traded. Randstad shares are also included Net debt 173.2 422.0 in a number of other indices, such as Euronext 100, Dow Jones Leverage ratio 0.2 0.5 Stoxx TMI, Dow Jones Stoxx Europe Sustainability, Dow Jones 1 Amount includes a € 150 million facility that lapsed on February 13, 2015. Sustainability World Index, Euronext Vigeo Benelux 20, Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120, and the MSCI Europe Index. Inclusion in major indices is important, because it improves Equity visibility and liquidity. During 2015, the number of issued and outstanding ordinary shares increased by 2.9 million, of which the majority was Indicative free float issued for stock dividend, and the remainder for stock option Randstad's free float amounts to approximately 60%. The plans and performance share plans for Executive Board majority of the free float of ordinary shares is held outside the members and senior management. Netherlands. We actively pursue an international spread. We estimate that approximately 5% of our ordinary shares are We aim to offset the dilutive effect of the performance share held by private investors. plans through share repurchase programs. This policy will be pursued as long as the value of shares to be issued is below Indicative geographic spread of ordinary shares € 25 million, and if higher, when our financial position allows (free float) for it. In January 2015, we repurchased around 525,000 shares. 5% Between October 29, 2015 and February 17, 2016, we started 14% a share repurchase program to buy back around 920,000 32% shares. These will be used for the allocation of shares under the performance share plans on February 18, 2016. 10% Equity 20% 19% numbers year-end (in nominal value millions) per share North America United Kingdom Other European countries 2015 2014 Netherlands France Rest of the world Ordinary shares 183.0 180.1 € 0.10 Preference shares B 25.2 25.2 € 0.10 Major shareholders Preference shares C 50.1 50.1 € 0.10 A list of our major shareholders can be found in the report of Total number of shares 258.3 255.4 the Supervisory Board under 'Legal transparency obligations'. On April 2, 2015, the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders approved a proposal to pay a dividend of € 1.29 per ordinary annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 76 investor relations & share performance Liquidity Per share data The number of shares traded has risen substantially, from 86 million in 2005 (mainly on Euronext) to about 315 million in 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2015 on various trading platforms, but mainly Euronext. The mixed offer for Vedior in 2008 helped to improve liquidity, as Dividend (€) 1.68 1.29 0.95 1.25 1.25 the number of shares increased by 45%. Velocity (measured as Dividend yield (%) 2.9 3.2 2.0 4.5 5.5 the total number of shares traded divided by the average Payout (%) 50 50 45 59 53 number of shares outstanding) also played a role. Velocity increased significantly in the year, reflecting the increased Diluted EPS (€) 1 3.32 2.54 2.07 2.11 2.32 volatility in the markets. Our velocity level implies that the EBITA (€) 2 4.74 3.92 3.26 3.25 3.49 average holding period is around six to nine months for the Free cash flow (€) 2.75 2.66 1.65 2.69 2.53 total number of outstanding shares, or approximately three to Equity (€) 21.25 18.28 16.40 15.74 16.83 six months for the free float. 1 Before amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill, badwill (2013 only), integration costs and one-offs. 2 Underlying. Share volume traded and velocity 400 200% Share performance 350 Volume traded (in millions) Share price development 300 150% The share price ended the year 2015 at € 57.53, which was Velocity (%) 250 44% higher than the 2014 closing price of € 40.06. In April, a dividend of € 1.29 per ordinary share was paid out. As a result, 200 the total shareholder return (TSR) for 2015 was 47%. 100% 150 In the first half of the year, the share price increased from 100 € 39.82 to € 58.41, as macroeconomic expectations improved, in addition to the improved business performance. The second 50 50% half of the year saw the share price fluctuate across a wide 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 range, reaching a high of € 64.92, but ultimately ending the Volume traded Velocity year at € 57.53, being 2% below the half-year price, as the macroeconomic expectations were lowered. Dividend policy on ordinary shares We continue to aim at a flexible payout ratio of 40% to 50% of net profit adjusted for amortization and impairment of Share price development acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill, integration in millions of €, unless otherwise indicated costs, and one-offs, provided our financial position allows for 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 it. Closing price (€) 57.53 40.06 47.15 27.81 22.86 In 2015, we further enhanced our financial position. In TSR (%) 47 (12) 74 27 (39) addition, our business sustained growth throughout the year, High (€) 64.92 49.54 47.15 30.09 43.10 and we improved profitability. As a result, and in line with our Low (€) 38.37 31.40 27.81 20.52 19.59 dividend policy, we will propose to our shareholders a dividend payment of € 1.68 per ordinary share, based on a P/E ratio 17.3 15.8 22.8 13.2 9.9 payout of 50% (2014: 50%). Shareholders will receive a full EV/Sales 0.56 0.44 0.55 0.34 0.32 cash dividend. The ex-dividend date will be April 4, 2016. The number of shares entitled to dividend will be determined on Market capitalization 10,529.1 7,215.2 8,366.0 4,785.3 3,907.9 April 5, 2016 (record date). The payment of cash dividend will Enterprise value 10,702.3 7,637.2 9,127.0 5,881.0 5,210.5 take place on April 7, 2016. We will also propose a dividend payment on preference Market capitalization of ordinary Randstad shares amounted shares B and C of € 12.6 million. to € 10,529.1 million on December 31, 2015, compared to € 7,215.2 million on December 31, 2014. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 77 Analyst recommendations Some 21 financial analysts regularly publish reports on Share price development of Randstad ordinary shares Randstad. At the end of 2015, around 52% had a 'buy' rating, while 33% of analysts recommended holding on to our Volume Share price (x 1,000) movements (€) shares, and 14% (three analysts) had a 'sell' rating. On 4 65 December 31, 2015, the average target share price – according to analyst consensus – was around € 61. The highest target 2 60 6 price was € 85, and the lowest was € 33. 7,000 1 3 5 55 6,000 50 Earnings per share reporting 45 Randstad reports earnings per share on a fully diluted basis. 5,000 40 We focus on earnings per share before amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and 4,000 35 goodwill, badwill, integration costs, and one-offs. In our view, 3,000 this gives the best reflection of underlying business performance. 2,000 1,000 Diluted earnings per share before amortization, impairment, badwill, integration costs, and one-offs 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 1 February 19, 2015 Q4 and full year 2014 Q1 € 0.50 € 0.45 € 0.33 € 0.39 € 0.38 2 April 8, 2015 Ex-dividend Q2 € 0.83 € 0.64 € 0.51 € 0.51 € 0.59 3 April 30, 2015 Q1 results 4 July 30, 2015 Q2 results Q3 € 0.93 € 0.77 € 0.65 € 0.62 € 0.66 5 October 29, 2015 Q3 results Q4 € 1.05 € 0.68 € 0.58 € 0.60 € 0.69 6 November 17, 2015 Capital Markets Day Full year € 3.32 € 2.54 € 2.07 € 2.11 € 2.32 Share price development of Randstad ordinary shares compared to Euronext AEX Index and peers 120 110 100 90 80 70 60 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec AEX Adecco Randstad Manpower annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 78 risk & opportunity management Introduction Missing out on opportunities can also result in a loss. We therefore focus on 'copying and pasting' successful concepts Risk and opportunity management is embedded in our and best practices across the Group. We concentrate strategy and is essential for achieving our targets. innovation in those parts of our organization where success is Entrepreneurship is actively stimulated throughout the most likely. In addition, we have a dedicated entity, the organization, and we encourage people to identify and seize Randstad Innovation Fund, to secure access to outside opportunities. At the same time, we counterbalance this with innovation. clear risk boundaries, which are set for the operating companies in the various policies and agreed in the budgets. Risk & Control management This section provides a high-level description of our Risk & Control framework and its effectiveness, substantiating our approach Risk & Control statement. We discuss in turn the various Risk & Control management approach elements that together make up our Risk & Control framework, and describe how we manage our company in this regard. Risk profile Locally tailored approach Our risk profile is closely determined by our geographic coverage. We have wide geographic coverage. This means our exposure is spread across both mature and emerging markets, which are experiencing a variety of economic conditions. Global risk & These conditions are very relevant to development in our control framework markets. Since it remains extremely difficult to predict future economic developments successfully, we focus on responding to actual performance in all of our local markets. Our business model, our processes, and our weekly indicators help to Risk appetite ensure that we are flexible enough to quickly respond to growth or decline in our markets. To protect our working capital positions, we keep cash levels in our countries to a minimum. We continuously and closely monitor key risks and opportunities, both locally and centrally, and respond We manage our risks and opportunities following local appropriately to any emerging risks. circumstances. We operate in many markets around the Sensitivity analysis change impact on assumption FY 2015 Revenue +/-1% +/€ 36 million EBITA Flat gross margin and no change to cost base Revenue +1% + € 18 million EBITA Flat gross margin and target 50% conversion (ICR) Revenue (1%) € 18 million EBITA Flat gross margin and target 50% recovery (RR) Gross margin +/-0,1% +/€ 19 million EBITA Flat revenue and no change to cost base Gross margin +0.1% + € 10 million EBITA Flat revenue and target 50% conversion (ICR) Gross margin -0.1% € 10 million EBITA Flat revenue and target 50% recovery (RR) Operating expenses +/-1% +/€ 28 million EBITA USD +/-10% +/€ 22 million EBITA Stable revenue and margin in US GBP +/-10% +/€ 2 million EBITA Stable revenue and margin in UK JPY +/-10% +/€ 2 million EBITA Stable revenue and margin in Japan Interest rate +100 bp +/€ 4 million Financial charges Average net debt 2015 Net debt +/€ 200 million +/€ 1 million Financial charges Stable interest rates annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 79 globe. This requires a flexible approach to opportunity and the culture of our company. We therefore take a strict risk management. Our global Risk & Control structure is approach to breaches of our core values and business flexible and customized to local circumstances. Factors that we principles. consider in our Risk & Control framework include the size, the service offering, and the local regulatory and market The table entitled 'Sensitivity analysis' illustrates the impact of environment of the individual operating company. the various changes and trends on our revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, and currency and interest rates on our EBITA. Typically, a trend will include several of these elements. Risk appetite Overall, we aim to achieve an incremental conversion ratio of 50% (see 'Activity-based field steering' for more details). Our risk appetite is derived from our strategy and priorities, and is broken down into four risk areas: Strategic: We allow strategic risks in the pursuit of Risk & Control framework profitable growth and changes in our business mix in both mature and emerging markets. Given the volatility of the Our global Risk & Control framework is designed to secure the markets and economic climates in which we operate, the Group's in-control position. The components provide Groupadaptability of our people, service offering, and wide comfort in terms of control, while giving the flexibility to infrastructure plays a key part in enabling us to identify adapt to the local business environment and enabling and seize opportunities. entrepreneurship. The components of the framework are Operational: We take a balanced approach to operational shown in the Risk & Control framework diagram. Our Risk & risk, mainly related to increased productivity in the field, Control framework is based on the COSO internal control meaning that we consider both the risk and the reward of framework, complemented with elements from various key business decisions. management and control models. Finance & Reporting: We maintain a prudent financing strategy, even when undertaking major acquisitions, and To avoid surprises, operating companies and Holding therefore take calculated risks in this area. Only minimal departments assess, on at least a semi-annual basis, the risk is accepted in relation to errors in our reporting. components of the Risk & Control framework. The results of Compliance: We consider adherence to laws, regulations, this assessment are reported to the Group's Business Risk & and agreements to be fundamental in enabling us to Audit department, and possible improvements are discussed provide our clients, our candidates, and our employees with local management and the responsible Executive Board with quality services. Compliance is strongly embedded in member. Every six months, the department reports to the Risk & Control framework The tone at the top is derived from our core values, which are embedded in our leadership style Performance management steers our organization Client service concepts and Candidate service concepts and best practices determine our Match best practices determine our way of working way of working Risk & control activities secure our in-control position Review and audit give us comfort that our risk & control objectives are realized annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 80 risk & opportunity management Executive Board and the Audit Committee on the state of the ratio monitoring are used to enable us to make rapid in-control situation in the Group. The Executive Board and adjustments to our cost base. Audit Committee set priorities and provide guidance to further enhance control throughout the Group. Our operating companies report various performance indicators on financial results, underlying process activities, Tone at the top and people. By setting reporting dates, performance The tone at the top is derived from our core values, which are indicators, and formats, we provide clarity that enables us to embedded in our leadership style. plan ahead, without disrupting our focus on day-to-day activities. By further combining this planning and control cycle Randstad benefits from strong leadership, built during 55 with our focus on activity-based field steering (ABFS), our years of experience. We have been able to extensively develop monitoring systems have improved, providing more in-depth management by example, based on our core values and insights that form the basis of our business review meetings. business principles. See the section 'How we measure performance' for more details. Our core values are embodied in 16 business principles, which form the basis for the behavior we expect from all our Our Group Corporate Sustainability Reporting guidelines employees. The Executive Board secures alignment of the tone prescribe detailed non-financial performance indicators. at the top among senior management, while senior management ensures alignment among staff in our operating These regular performance discussions at all levels help us companies. This alignment exercise is a continuous effort and adapt our Risk & Control framework to dynamic local drives our company's culture. circumstances. Upon joining our company, our employees receive a copy of Concepts and best practices and training in the business principles and acknowledge that Our client and candidate services concepts and best practices they will comply with them. Periodic refresher courses have determine our way of working. also been implemented. These courses also form a crucial part of our strategy for integrating acquired companies. Our strong concepts, as described in the section 'Value for our clients and candidates', provide best practices for our core A misconduct reporting procedure is in place, which enables commercial operations. Our concepts are tailored to local people to report any suspicion they have of wrongdoing via a practices and market conditions. Concept audits are carried secure phone line or website. In 2015, we received 113 out to identify, understand, and remediate deviations to complaints, 35 of which were anonymous. These complaints ensure our objectives are realized. were assessed and investigated where necessary by the local integrity officers and/or the central Integrity Officer, together Blueprints describe our operational best practices. They are with the Group Business Risk & Audit department. When used to govern our key processes and to enable our local deemed necessary, disciplinary actions and mitigating controls operations to adapt and tailor best practices to their needs. All were put in place. our country organizations have implemented a contract-tocash and a procurement-to-payment blueprint. These include Each year, our Great People Survey is carried out by an an authorization procedure for sales pricing and client external provider. This allows us to monitor the engagement contracting, as well as a purchasing and tender procedure. In of our employees, and provides indicators of the tone at the addition, a financial close process blueprint has been top in each of the operating companies and at the head implemented in all operating companies. This blueprint is office. Based on the results, action plans are initiated. The relevant for all historical financial and non-financial Great People Survey is reviewed by Group HR and the information, including the income statement, balance sheet, Executive Board. The results are taken into account in cash flow statement, and disclosures. appraisal discussions, as well as in setting our managers' bonus targets. We have an extensive framework of Group policies, which cover compliance across multiple areas. These include Performance management our finance manual; discrimination, intimidation and Performance management steers our organization. harassment policy; bribery, gifts and hospitality policy; and data protection policy. Our policies are derived from best The two-year plans and rolling forecasts of our operating practices identified. Group policies are assessed and updated companies are set in accordance with strategic priorities and annually as required, and are then communicated throughout market trends. While setting their budgets for the year ahead the Group in various ways. The Approval and Information in relation to their plan, the operating companies also Requirements policy specifies events that either need to be describe their main risks and opportunities. By constructing approved by, or reported to, the Executive Board. various scenarios, we are able to prepare for and react to market volatility. Monthly rolling forecasts and conversion annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 81 Risk & Control activities We regularly review insurable risks and our insurance policy Risk & Control activities secure our in-control position. coverage, as well as the credit ratings of our insurers. Our operating companies compile risk registers semi-annually. Reviews and audits These show the local business risks they may be exposed to, Reviews and audits reassure us that our Risk & Control together with action plans and deadlines to address them. objectives are being realized. The risk registers are drawn up using input from Risk & Control round tables that are held at least twice a year in most The semi-annual Risk & Control framework assessments on operating companies. The aggregated data enables us to get operating company level lead to a Group-wide in-control insight into the most important risks impacting the Group. benchmark discussion in meetings of both the Executive Board These are discussed twice a year by the Executive Board and and the Audit Committee. In these discussions, Risk & Control by the Audit Committee. priorities are set, and the Group Business Risk & Audit plan is updated and agreed. The annual Group Business Risk & Audit Our key control framework contains a concise list of key risks plan is risk-based. The Executive Board identified four focus and practical control activities to guide all operating areas for 2015: candidate screening, client contract companies. The structure of the key control framework is management and liabilities, payroll, and data privacy and organized around Randstad's core process: the 'funnel'. Every protection. six months, operating companies perform a self-assessment with regard to the relevant controls. The results of these selfThe Group Business Risk & Audit department leads the assessments are subsequently challenged by the Group's internal audits and collaborates closely with other corporate Business Risk & Audit department and tested on a risk basis. departments (most commonly IT, Legal, and Tax) and the local Where necessary, Business Risk & Audit staff help local Risk & Audit managers to cover the key risks. Findings and operating companies to improve their processes and controls. recommendations from the audits are discussed with the operating companies. Local management is responsible for The key control framework is updated annually, using control setting action plans and deadlines. The progress of the action experiences and best practices from around 10 different plans is monitored by management and through the Business operating companies. In 2015, a fraud risk assessment was Risk & Audit network. The internal audit reports are performed to further upgrade the key control framework. submitted to the responsible Executive Board member and These updates have led to a renewed management focus on the Group CFO. internal control and an improved control situation throughout the Group, as well as a more focused and adapted In 2015, Group Business Risk & Audit rolled out the internal set of controls. By implementing web-based tooling for audit manual, which is aligned with global professional opportunities, risk, control, and audit, we are able to standards. In addition, standard audit programs were systematically and closely monitor the adequacy of our Risk & introduced. For example, the standard candidate screening Control framework. In 2015, the tool was rolled out globally and client contract management and liability audit programs to all our operating companies. were implemented in several countries. Our insurance risk program follows the same principles as our The global Business Risk & Audit staff network provides a global Risk & Control framework. Insurable risks are platform for sharing best practices, and is a sounding board periodically assessed, and Group-wide risks are transferred to for emerging opportunities, risks, and possible internal control the insurance market under our global insurance program. gaps. The network consists of a cross-disciplinary team with Putting the framework into practice Framework component Practical applications to our business Tone at the top Core values and business Onboarding training Great People Survey Misconduct reporting principles procedure Performance management Strategic plan and rolling Scenarios and conversion Planning, reporting and Business review meetings forecast ratio monitoring review cycles and activitybased field steering (ABFS) Concepts and best practices Strong concepts Corporate policies and Blueprints (operational Authorization levels (commercial best practices) procedures best practices) Risk & Control activities Risk register Key control framework Risk & Control round tables Global insurance program Reviews and audits Semi-annual Risk & Control In-control benchmarks Internal audits In-control statement for framework assessments each operating company annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 82 risk & opportunity management Risk & Audit staff from the operating companies, and the The Audit Committee is informed about the results of both Group's Business Risk & Audit department. external and internal audits. The role of the Audit Committee includes monitoring the risk management and control In 2015, we detected a few cases of fraud, involving, for systems, the quality of the financial information, and the example, the recording of non-existent permanent follow-up of recommendations made as a result of the audits. placements, and the payment of fictitious candidates. These More information can be found in the Report of the fraud cases were investigated, and in cooperation with local Supervisory Board and in the section 'Corporate governance'. management, corrective action was taken. These cases involved small amounts of money, and as such had no material impact on the results of the Group. Our main risks Operating companies submit their in-control statement semiOur main risks are those that threaten the achievement of the annually. This statement certifies that the corporate policies Group’s objectives, as well as the in-control position of the have been complied with, and explains any exceptions or Group over the next three years. The general risk profile has deviations that have occurred. The statement therefore forms not changed significantly since last year. Continuous effort is a cascaded certification, which assists the Executive Board in required to address evolving strategic and compliance risks. making the conclusions required by the Dutch Financial The table below depicts the main risks identified Supervision Act. (categorized into four areas: Strategic, Operational, Financial & Reporting, and Compliance) that Deloitte has been appointed to act as our external auditor could prevent us from realizing our financial and non-financial from 2015 onwards. In its audit plan, Deloitte covers all strategic targets, as well as how we address these risks financially significant operations. As such, these audits are an through the six building blocks of our strategic road map. important supplement to our own review and audit activities. Our risks related to our strategic targets Strategic Operational Financial & Reporting Compliance Adapting to economic Data protection and Increased complexity Strategic roadmap Business continuity Talent attraction Other financial Competition Tax and labor Protecting our system development of laws and and market conditions 2 Candidate building blocks 1 and data recovery Credit risk Contract reputation and integration2 and retention liability2 reporting risks regulations2 law compliance law compliance2 screening ABFS V V V V V V V V Org V V V V V V V V V V TTA V V V V V V V TM V V HRT V V V V V V M&A V V V V 1 Activity-based field steering, organizational, total talent architecture, talent management, HR technology, and mergers & acquisitions. 2 Main risk in both 2015 and 2014. The following table provides an overview of the main risks in mitigate these risks and related opportunities. 2015, with key risks in bold, including the actions taken to This list should not be considered exhaustive. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 83 Strategic risks Risk-mitigating actions Related opportunities Adapting to economic conditions The geographical diversity and the spread of the Group's With our strong concepts and varied service offering, Our operations are highly susceptible to revenues across mature and emerging markets has we can respond appropriately to different market macroeconomic volatility. Although we see helped us to mitigate the impact of volatile economic conditions, and thus address changing economic improvement in some of the conditions worldwide. macroeconomic conditions. territories, we continue to focus on the flexibility of our cost base. Not being flexible enough to By 'managing through the cycle', we provide operating Our operations respond differently to economic respond timely to economic conditions could companies with guidelines on how to react to changes in uncertainties in the market. For example, in an have a negative impact on the profitability of the economic conditions. These guidelines are described in uncertain market, our clients tend to use more Group. Conversely, cutting costs too much the section ‘Performance’. temporary workers rather than hire permanent staff. could limit our ability to take advantage of a Staffing and HR Solutions tend to be more resilient in market upturn. Our Randstad Innovation Fund invests in HR technology a weaker market, while Professionals tends to companies to increase our agility. In 2015, we invested in perform better in a stronger market. In addition, the business landscape is changing, outplacement innovator RiseSmart, talent quality with new technologies being developed that platform Checkster, and real-time messaging platform With the timely investment in our organization and over time may displace traditional business Brazen. Our organizational strategic building block HR technologies, there will be opportunities for services. contains various actions to further prepare Randstad for innovative solutions to make HR services more market dynamics, as explained in our strategic priorities. efficient and bring fresh answers to future HR challenges. Protecting our reputation We protect the strong reputation of our brands by Our brands are managed centrally, which ensures Randstad and Tempo-Team are valuable ensuring that all our people adhere to our core values consistency across the world, and increases cost international brands, and the Randstad brand is and business principles, and comply with our policies and efficiency. The operating companies apply locally used in all countries in which we operate. guidelines. When necessary, we react competently, using targeted marketing. This will continue to strengthen Damage to the Randstad or Tempo-Team brand internal and external communications to mitigate the global recognition of our brands in a cost-effective in one country could have a serious impact on potential damage. We use our Net Promoter Score as a manner. our global reputation. metric to measure our image. We also have a misconduct reporting procedure in place, so that our people and stakeholders can report any complaints or breaches of compliance. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 84 risk & opportunity management Operational risks Risk-mitigating actions Related opportunities Contract liability Whenever possible, we work with standard contracts. In the case of nonImprovement in contract For contract liability, especially in Anglo-Saxon standard terms, a cost-benefit analysis is carried out to determine whether management and quality of countries, clients ask us to take a greater share projected profit levels are high enough to absorb the costs associated with services will add value to our of the liability for our flexworkers while on their the additional risks. The local legal department reviews the contract and the clients by improving our service premises and under their supervision. This seems risk and reward assessment, after which operating company management delivery models and practices. to become a market trend. Accepting decides whether to accept the contract. In certain cases, additional approvals inappropriately high contractual liability could from the Executive Board are required, as set out in the contract liability result in a client making a claim that would policy. This risk mitigation is coupled with a Group liability insurance, which materially affect the Group's results. provides us with cost-effective coverage of many potential risks. Client requirements may vary, resulting in unique contract clauses. Deviation from In 2015, our experts were engaged to further mitigate contractual liability standard contract clauses increase the likelihood risks in the US. On a global basis, we focused on further improvement of our of contract liability. contract delivery models and contract management to ensure proper services delivery. In addition, periodic compliance reviews are conducted by Group Business Risk & Audit and Group Legal. Data protection and system development and Our Group data protection policy has been localized for all operating Improvement in system security integration companies. We perform continuous rotating IT audits to ensure our IT gives us the opportunity to ensure Increased integration of business with controls are up to date and effective in all countries. For example, we perform data protection for all our technology in both front office and back office periodical security penetration tests, have implemented two-step verification candidates and clients and thus has increased our exposure to security, data and for e-mail accounts, and regularly review information security policies and increase the value of our services system availability risks. Leakages of candidate or processes for operating companies. In addition, awareness activities have offering to them. employee personal data and company-sensitive been rolled out to increase employees' awareness of personal data protection information pose significant financial and and IT security risks. Furthermore, periodic compliance audits are conducted. reputational risks. In addition, with the recent In 2015, a Data Protection Officer was appointed and a global program and upcoming legislative focus on personal data started to prepare our operations for the upcoming EU data protection protection (particularly in Europe), the risk legislation and continuous cyber threats. exposure deriving from data security and availability has escalated, along with greater integration of technology within our business. Business continuity and data recovery We have local frontand back-office IT systems in each country. This spreads In several countries, we now have Serious long-term business disruption of IT our risks of an IT failure, which will be limited to one country or operating a shared service center, and we systems could result in financial losses, fines, and company. are initiating cloud infrastructure damage to our reputation. For example, our usage. This has increased business entails paying flexworkers on a weekly On a country level, disaster recovery plans are in place or are being developed efficiency and further improved or monthly basis, and then billing these amounts to address possible IT failures and are tested at least once a year. Group IT the quality of business continuity to our clients. A problem with one of our IT performs regular audits on the disaster recovery plans. These audits result in planning by concentrating systems for payrolling and billing could cause a best-practice sharing and continuous improvement. Integration of IT expertise. major business disruption in a country. operations in 2016 will help mitigate this risk further. Attraction and retention of talent Retention rates are analyzed and reported by every operating company on a It is our rule to fill 80% of People are our most important asset, and it is monthly basis. Our Great People Survey is carried out annually to monitor management positions through challenging to retain them in a competitive engagement levels at each operating company and each department. Swift internal promotions. This increases market. If we cannot attract and retain the right action is taken by local and Group HR departments to investigate and reverse the loyalty of our people. As a people, we could fail to achieve our objectives. any negative trends. result, we will continue to have a pipeline of talent who understand We provide training for the purposes of coaching and developing our people. our people, our clients, and our In addition, we identify our future leaders and provide management operations. development programs for those with high potential. Our reward systems, which are tailored to local market conditions, include bonuses and employee share purchase plans, among other things. We monitor our employer branding and initiate local programs to attract talent. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 85 Financial & Reporting risks Risk-mitigating activities Related opportunities Credit risk Invoicing and credit control policies and best practices are included in our As more best practices are implemented In the current economic climate, some blueprints. Operating companies have an operating working capital charge across our operating companies in the clients try to delay payment of invoices. included in their results, which highlights awareness throughout the Group of contract-to-cash cycle, our approach to An increase of just one day in the time the cost of capital. DSO is a component of the budgets and performance credit risk is becoming more rigorous taken to collect the receivable (days sales targets of operating company management. In addition, a provision is made across the Group, resulting in a relatively outstanding, or DSO) leads to greater for all receivables older than 182 days. low DSO and a correspondingly lower usage of operating working capital and operating working capital need. increased interest costs. Compliance with the contract-to-cash blueprint is monitored by Group Business Risk & Audit. Further details on credit risk are provided in note 3 to the financial statements: 'Capital and financial risk management'. An improving economy generally reduces credit risk. Other financial reporting risks Further details on these risks and risk-mitigation actions are included in note 4 Other financial reporting risks mainly to the financial statements: 'Critical accounting policies, judgments, estimates relate to the valuation of deferred tax and assumptions'. assets and goodwill, to the provisions for claims by third parties, and to revenue recognition. Compliance risks Risk-mitigating actions Related opportunities Increased complexity of laws and In all our major operations worldwide, we have in-house legal teams who New laws bring administrative burden regulations help management comply with local laws and legislation. On an annual basis, and risk to our customers, which for us The complexity and quantity of laws and the in-house legal counsels of the largest operating companies get together, creates opportunities for new service regulations have increased over the years, and once a year, a legal conference is organized for all in-house legal offerings. The new regulations require a especially with respect to data protection, counsels, with the aim of sharing knowledge and creating operating critical review of existing training, competition, staffing (e.g., equal pay), standards. Topics discussed at these conferences include updates on new systems, policies, and procedures in outsourcing, and payrolling services. laws and regulations, and legal risk management. order to keep these processes and Consequently, we are exposed to greater documents up to date and topical. risk of non-compliance, which could If we are affected by new laws and regulations (e.g., EU data protection result in class actions, claims, and fines or regulation), project teams are formed with Legal, Risk & Audit, and IT staff, We can share our knowledge regarding reputational damage. and other experts to anticipate the effects, provide training, and ensure that new legislation (e.g., Staffing laws, EU proper processes and controls are embedded in our local organizations. data protection regulation) with our clients, thus strengthening our relationship with our clients. Competition law compliance Training with regard to competition law compliance, our core values, and our Our staff may breach competition law by business principles forms an integral part of our onboarding program. intentionally or accidentally sharing Management needs to make sure that written acknowledgement is obtained information. This could result in material that such training has been understood and compliance is observed. We fines or penalties and could harm our encourage our employees to report any breaches they find through the brand. misconduct reporting procedure. When developing new business models or concepts, our Legal department (and if necessary competition law experts) is On July 10, 2013, the French consulted to ensure legal compliance. Competition Law Authorities started an investigation into Randstad France and a Randstad France is cooperating closely with the French Competition Law number of competitors. The investigation, Authorities in relation to their investigation. Consistent with Randstad's core which is still ongoing, relates to certain values and business principles, we seek to conduct our business in French operations and, in particular, accordance with all applicable laws, and have invested considerable time and activities concerning vendor-neutral resources in improving competition controls and awareness in our French platforms relating to HR outsourcing operation and in abiding by the commitments given to the authorities, management. following a previous investigation in France (which concluded in 2009). We are confident that the outcome of the present investigation will be positive. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 86 risk & opportunity management Compliance risks Risk-mitigating actions Related opportunities Tax and labor law compliance The payroll calculation process and actual calculation is subject to an In our payroll compliance audits, we also Complex and changing labor, tax and independent periodic review. Where labor legislation is unclear, we monitor focus on identifying best practices to social security regulations could lead to a market developments regarding similar cases, as well as reviewing our increase efficiencies in administering lack of clarity and errors in wage, social existing policies and procedures. Group Tax, together with GBR&A, perform payroll taxes and social securities. security and payroll tax compliance, regular payroll and payroll system audits in selected countries in order to leading to possible disputes, claims and review compliance with local laws and regulations. fines. Candidate screening In the past, deficiencies in the screening of candidates were noted in various We are continuously developing and Our candidates may be working with situations. In response, we tightened control in this area. Risk-based audits sharing our best practices for candidate patients, children or the elderly or in the are carried out annually, and candidate screening has become a permanent screening across the Group. Through finance services industry, for example. In priority on the agenda of our operating companies. our increasingly rigorous approach to such cases, criminal record checks are such matters, we will be able to often required. Failure to carry out this demonstrate to clients the consistently type of screening could lead to, for high quality of our candidates across the example, patients receiving wrong globe. medical treatment, or fraud being committed. Conclusions the financial statements 2015 do not contain any material misstatements. The Executive Board is responsible for Randstad's Risk & Control framework and for reviewing its effectiveness. The In accordance with the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, framework, as described in this report, is designed to manage section 5.25c, the Executive Board declares that, to the best of the risks that may prevent us from achieving our business its knowledge: objectives. However, the framework cannot provide full The financial statements for 2015 provide, in accordance assurance that all material misstatements, cases of fraud, or with IFRS as endorsed by the EU, a true and fair view of the violations of laws and regulations will be prevented. Future consolidated assets, liabilities and financial position as at effectiveness of the framework is subject to the risk that the December 31, 2015, and of the 2015 consolidated income controls in place or the degree of compliance with the Group's statement of Randstad Holding nv; policies and procedures may deteriorate. The annual report provides a true and fair view of the situation as at December 31, 2015, and the state of affairs In 2015, the Executive Board reviewed and analyzed the during the financial year 2015, together with a description Strategic, Operational, Financial & Reporting, and Compliance of the principal risks faced by the Group. risks to which the Group is exposed, and it regularly reviewed the design and operational effectiveness of the Randstad Risk Diemen, the Netherlands, February 16, 2016 & Control framework. The outcome of these reviews was shared with the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board, The Executive Board, and was discussed with our external auditor. Jacques van den Broek Linda Galipeau The Risk & Control framework should ensure consistent and Robert Jan van de Kraats Chris Heutink reliable financial reporting, both internally and externally. The François Béharel operating companies develop annual business plans and budgets, which are subject to amendment and approval by the Executive Board. Subsequently, the actual performance of the operating companies is measured against these business plans and budgets, and the results are discussed in regular review meetings between the operating company management and the responsible Executive Board member. In accordance with best-practice provision II.1.4 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, we have assessed the design and operational effectiveness of our Risk & Control framework. Based on the activities performed during 2015, and in accordance with best-practice provision II.1.5, the Executive Board considers that, during 2015, the Risk & Control framework regarding the Financial & Reporting risks worked effectively, and that this provides reasonable assurance that annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 87 governance 88 Executive Board 90 Supervisory Board 92 Report of the Supervisory Board 99 Remuneration report 103 Corporate governance 88 Executive Board Chris Heutink Jacques van den Broek François Béharel (1962, Dutch) (1960, Dutch) (1970, French) CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board Joined Randstad in 1991 Joined Randstad in 1988 Joined Randstad in 2008 Appointed to the Executive Board in 2014 Appointed to the Executive Board in 2004 Appointed to the Executive Board in 2013 Appointed as CEO and Chairman of the Background Executive Board in 2014 Background Chris Heutink obtained a Master's degree in With a Bachelor's degree in distribution history. He started his career at Randstad as a Background management and commercialization consultant in the Netherlands. Various After graduating in law, Jacques van den techniques, François Béharel joined Vedior management positions followed until 2004, Broek held a management position with an in 1999 as a regional manager. Following when he was promoted to become Managing international trading company until he various promotions, he became CEO of Director of Randstad Poland. After moving joined Randstad as a branch manager. Vedior France in May 2007. Following the back to the Netherlands in 2007, he became Appointments followed as Regional acquisition by Randstad, he was appointed Director of Operations. In 2009, he was Director in the Netherlands and, President and CEO of the new combined appointed Managing Director of Randstad subsequently, as Marketing Director Randstad Groupe France and played a key Netherlands. Randstad Europe. role in the integration of its businesses. In 2002, he moved to Capac Inhouse Responsibilities Services as Managing Director, also taking Responsibilities Chris Heutink is responsible for all operations on responsibility for Randstad in Denmark François Béharel is responsible for France, in the Netherlands (Randstad, Tempo-Team, and Switzerland. Spain, Portugal, Belgium & Luxembourg, and Yacht), Austria, Italy, Switzerland, and Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Chile, and Eastern Europe (Poland, Turkey, Greece, Responsibilities Uruguay. Slovakia, Czech Republic, and Hungary), as Jacques van den Broek is responsible for well as for Global Client Solutions. Germany, Australia, New Zealand, China, Hong Kong, and Singapore & Malaysia. In addition, he is responsible for Group Business Concept Development, HR, Marketing & Communications, and Public Affairs. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 89 Linda Galipeau Robert Jan van de Kraats (1963, Canadian) (1960, Dutch) CFO and Vice-Chairman of the Executive Board Joined Randstad in 1995 Joined Randstad in 2001 Appointed to the Executive Board in 2012 Appointed to the Executive Board in 2001 Appointed as Vice-Chairman of the Background Executive Board in 2006 After receiving an MBA degree in marketing and managerial economics and several years Background in the staffing industry, Linda Galipeau joined A certified auditor, Robert Jan van de Kraats Randstad in 1995 as district manager in the began his career with one of the big four US. In 1997, she started the Canadian accountancy firms. In 1989, he joined an operations, and in 2008 she was appointed international technology group as Finance President of Randstad Staffing in the US. and IT Director for the Netherlands. He held various senior positions with an international Responsibilities credit insurance group from 1994, and in 1999 Linda Galipeau is responsible for the US, he was appointed CFO and member of its Canada, the UK, Professionals coordination, managing board. He joined Randstad in 2001 and innovation. as CFO. He is also a member of the Board of Directors of OCI NV, a member of the Supervisory Board of Schiphol Group, and a member of the monitoring committee of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. Responsibilities Robert Jan van de Kraats is responsible for Japan, India, Denmark, Sweden, and Norway. In addition, he is responsible for Group Finance & Accounting, Tax, Treasury, Business Risk & Audit, Legal, IT, and Investor Relations annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 90 Supervisory Board Henri M.E.V. Giscard Frank Dorjee Giovanna Kampouri d’Estaing (1960, Dutch) Monnas (1956, French) (1955, Greek) Member of the Supervisory Board since 2008 Member of the Supervisory Board since Member of the Supervisory Board since Current term of office 2012−2016 2014 2006 Current term of office 2014−2018 Current and final term of office 2014−2018 Background Background Henri Giscard d’Estaing has been Chairman of Frank Dorjee was Chief Strategic Officer the Board and CEO of Club Méditerranée SA and member of the Board of Directors of Background since December 2002. Before joining Club Prysmian Spa from March 2011 until Giovanna Kampouri Monnas is the former Méditerranée in 1997, he held various January 2014. Until its takeover by Prysmian President of the international division and management positions at Groupe Danone Spa, he was CEO and Chairman of the member of the Executive Committee of Joh. and Cofremca. He was formerly a member of Executive Board of Draka Holding NV from A. Benckiser GmbH. She is a Non-Executive the Supervisory Board of Vedior N.V. He is 2010 to 2011 and its CFO from 2004 until Director of Puig S.L, Aptar Group Inc, currently also a member of the Board of 2009. Fondation Air France and Imerys SA. She is Directors of Groupe Casino GuichardPresident of the Estia Agios Nikolaos Perrachon SA. He privately holds 450 ordinary Responsibilities Foundation in Germany and Greece. shares in Randstad Holding nv. Frank Dorjee is Chair of the Audit Committee. Responsibilities Responsibilities Giovanna Kampouri Monnas is Chair of the Henri Giscard d’Estaing is a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee Strategy Committee. (Remuneration only) and a member of the Strategy Committee. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 91 Wout Dekker Barbara Borra Rudy Provoost Jaap Winter (1956, Dutch) (1960, Italian) (1959, Belgian) (1963, Dutch) Chair of the Supervisory Board Vice-Chair of the Supervisory Board Member of the Supervisory Board since 2012 Member of the Supervisory Board since 2015 Member of the Supervisory Board since Member of the Supervisory Board since Current term of office 2012−2016 Current term of office 2015−2019 2015 2011 Current term of office 2015−2019 Current term of office 2015−2019 Background Background Background Wout Dekker is the former Chairman of the Barbara Borra has been Senior Advisor Rudy Provoost is CEO and Chairman of the Background Executive Board and CEO of Nutreco N.V. He Integration at Pirelli China since June 2015. Board of Directors of the Rexel Group. Jaap Winter is President of the Executive is Chairman of the Supervisory Boards of Before joining Pirelli, she was with Whirlpool Before joining the Rexel Group, he held Board of Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam. Rabobank and the Princess Maxima Centre for for 10 years, serving in different senior various senior leadership and executive Until December 2012, he was partner at Child Oncology. management positions and more recently as management positions at Royal Philips. He law firm De Brauw Blackstone Westbroek. Vice-President of its Chinese operations. is a member of the Board of Directors of He is a Professor of International Before joining Whirlpool, she held a number the Vlerick Leuven Gent Management Company Law at the University of Responsibilities of international roles in various countries at School. Amsterdam. He was a member of the Wout Dekker is Chair of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee (Nomination Rhodia, GE and Lev-O-Cal Company. Dutch Corporate Governance Committee only) and a member of the Audit Committee. Responsibilities and the European Corporate Governance Responsibilities Rudy Provoost is a member of the Forum. He is a member of the Supervisory Barbara Borra is a member of the Strategy Committee. Board of Het Koninklijk Concertgebouw Remuneration and Nomination Committee. N.V. and Stichting Het Van Gogh Museum. Responsibilities Jaap Winter is Chair of the Strategy Committee and a member of the Audit Committee. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 92 report of the Supervisory Board Introduction Monnas, and Rudy Provoost (see the section Supervisory Board for their biographies). They have a diverse mix of knowledge, Randstad has a two-tier board structure, requiring a wellskills, and expertise, in line with the required profiles. The managed relationship between the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board aims to ensure that its members represent a Supervisory Board. The two Boards have specific good balance in terms of diversity (including nationality, responsibilities. The Supervisory Board oversees and advises gender, and area of expertise). The Supervisory Board also the Executive Board in performing its management tasks and aims for at least one-third of its membership to meet the guides its general development, including the financial gender criteria, which are currently met and are taken into policies and corporate structure. The Supervisory Board has consideration for each vacancy. the employer role for the members of the Executive Board. In performing their duties, the members of the Supervisory Effective April 2015, Wout Dekker succeeded Fritz Fröhlich as Board are guided by the interests of Randstad and all its Chair of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board is stakeholders. Although set by the company’s articles of extremely grateful to Fritz Fröhlich for his important association and by-laws, the role of the Supervisory Board has contribution to Randstad during the 12 years he has served grown in recent years, and now requires Board members to the company in key roles, notably as its Chair. Jaap Winter was play a more prominent and active role, thinking along with appointed Vice-Chair, and Barbara Borra and Rudy Provoost and advising the Executive Board on key matters, such as were appointed to the Supervisory Board. At the next Annual strategic processes, important operational decisions, General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on March 31, organizational structure, and senior management 2016, the first term of Wout Dekker and the second term of development. In this report, the Supervisory Board explains Henri Giscard d'Estaing will expire. The Supervisory Board how it fulfilled these duties and responsibilities in 2015. proposes to reappoint Wout Dekker for a second term of four years and Henri Giscard d'Estaing for a third and final term of four years, taking into account their valuable contribution to Composition, diversity and the Supervisory Board during the past years. independence The Supervisory Board attaches great importance to the independence of its members. As a rule, all members, with the The Supervisory Board currently comprises seven members: exception of no more than one, should be independent in the Wout Dekker (Chair), Jaap Winter (Vice-Chair), Barbara Borra, sense of Article 1 of the Supervisory Board's by-laws. With the Frank Dorjee, Henri Giscard d'Estaing, Giovanna Kampouri exception of Jaap Winter, who was appointed upon Diversity profile of the Supervisory Board International Financial Name Year of birth Nationality experience expertise Specific experience Gender Wout Dekker 1956 Dutch yes (CEO) Nutrition male Barbara Borra 1960 Italian yes Home appliances female Frank Dorjee 1960 Dutch yes CFO Cables male Henri Giscard d'Estaing 1956 French yes (CEO) Tourism male Giovanna Kampouri Monnas 1955 Greek yes Consumer goods female Rudy Provoost 1959 Belgian yes (CEO) Distribution male Jaap Winter 1963 Dutch yes Legal/Governance male Retirement and reappointment schedule Current number of SB positions Name Year appointed Year of possible reappointment Final term expires including Randstad Wout Dekker 2012 2016 2024 3 (2 Chair) Barbara Borra 2015 2019 2027 1 Frank Dorjee 2014 2018 2026 1 Henri Giscard d'Estaing 2008 2016 2020 2 Giovanna Kampouri Monnas 2006 2018 4 Rudy Provoost 2015 2019 2027 1 Jaap Winter 2015 2019 2023 1 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 93 nomination by Randstad Beheer (the private shareholding Strategy Committee) for a strategic retreat of the two Boards. company of Frits Goldschmeding, Randstad's founder and All participants are very positive about the results of this leading shareholder), all members are independent. They strategic retreat in terms of openness and depth of discussion. were not granted, nor do they possess, any Randstad options Both Boards want to develop this process further in order to or shares, with the exception of Henri Giscard d'Estaing, who create professional and effective cooperation. The personally holds 450 shares in the company. In 2015, there was effectiveness of the Committees is good, although there is no actual or potential conflict of interest between Randstad some scope for optimization. The new Chair and the quality and any Board member. of support are highly valued. Some of the key findings and points for follow-up are: The Supervisory Board is growing in its advisory role, but Induction, training and further improvement could be realized through in-depth discussion and exchange of ideas about specific topics, performance assessment strategic subjects, and dilemmas faced by the Executive Board. Ongoing education is an important part of good governance. In both Boards, there is a need to ensure diversity in terms New members of the Supervisory Board attend induction of international influence and expertise. sessions at which they are informed on the financial, The Supervisory Board aims to develop its knowledge reporting, risk & audit, HR, marketing, legal, and governance agenda on external developments, further encouraging a related affairs of the Company. Members of the Supervisory learning mindset for the organization. Board regularly visit Randstad's operations to gain familiarity The Supervisory Board will design a more structured with senior operational and functional management and to performance evaluation and feedback process for the develop deeper knowledge of operations, opportunities, and individual members of the Executive Board and will pay challenges. more attention to leadership development and succession planning. At a separate meeting held in December 2015, the Supervisory Board discussed at length its composition, its own This year's self-assessment process was highly valued by the performance, and that of its three committees. For the first members of the Supervisory Board. time, this self-assessment was facilitated by an external advisor, Aberkyn. In preparation, each member completed an online questionnaire. In addition, Aberkyn's facilitators also conducted one-on-one meetings with each member of the Supervisory and advisory activities Supervisory Board, as well as with each member of the in 2015 Executive Board and some corporate staff, in order to include their individual anonymous observations in regard to the The Supervisory Board met eleven times face-to-face during functioning of the Supervisory Board and its relationship with 2015 (2014: nine times). Seven of these meetings were held the Executive Board and other stakeholders of the Company. jointly with the full Executive Board. The other four meetings Items assessed and subsequently discussed by the Supervisory were held without the Executive Board, but some were in part Board during the meeting held in December 2015 included (1) attended by the CEO. The latter four meetings were held to team effectiveness, (2) interaction and dialogue, (3) contentdiscuss Executive Board remuneration, the composition and related effectiveness, (4) relationship with the Executive assessment of the Executive Board, and the composition and Board, (5) effectiveness of the Committees, (6) effectiveness of assessment of the Supervisory Board. One of the eleven the individual members, and (7) effectiveness of and meetings was attended by the external auditor to discuss the engagement with the organization. 2014 annual report and accounts. The Supervisory Board concluded that the large majority of Between meetings, the Chair of the Supervisory Board these items were assessed positively. Team spirit is considered maintained informal contact with the CEO and CFO. He also strong, encouraging mutual trust, open discussion, and clear regularly meets with Randstad's leading shareholder. The understanding of each board member's role. The functioning Chair of the Audit Committee had regular contact with the of the Supervisory Board during the past two years has been CFO and some of his senior staff, particularly in preparing the influenced by the changes in the leadership during this period, Audit Committee meetings. with the CEO transition in 2014 and the appointment of Wout Dekker as Chair of the Supervisory Board in April 2015. At the The Supervisory Board does not disclose rates of attendance at same time, two new members, Barbara Borra and Rudy meetings in abstract numbers, because this is perceived as a Provoost, joined the Supervisory Board. For the two Boards, box-ticking exercise. In 2015, none of the members of the this period can be defined as one of finding a new balance, Supervisory Board were absent during any of the meetings, both with regard to the functioning of each Board and with except Rudy Provoost, who was unable to join on three days regard to the Boards' mutual relationship. In 2015, the new that conflicted with the financial agenda at Rexel, where he is Chair continued his initiative of 2014 (then as Chair of the Chairman of the Board and CEO. This was already known annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 94 report of the Supervisory Board when he was appointed to the Supervisory Board in April Compliance with relevant rules and legislation, as well as 2015. All members have sufficient time, including between developments in corporate governance; meetings, to devote to the affairs of Randstad. The assessment of strategic, operational, financial, and compliance risks, including Randstad's approach to risk & One of the Supervisory Board's main priorities is strategy. opportunity management; Accordingly, and following up on last year's strategic retreat, The preparation, evaluation, and follow-up of the Annual even more time was spent on in-depth discussions with the General Meeting of Shareholders; Executive Board about the overall strategy and the realization Topics related to sustainability relevant to Randstad, of the strategic targets. The Strategy Committee prepared and including the corporate sustainability framework and set the framework for these discussions. A two-day strategic related key drivers and key performance indicators; retreat was organized in October 2015, during which the The views of analysts and investors, as well as changes in Supervisory Board and the Executive Board discussed a the shareholder structure and base; and significant number of relevant strategic topics, including: The external auditor's management letter. The strategic roadmap and the progress made on strategic initiatives for improving the business mix, including The Supervisory Board is frequently updated on developments Professionals, permanent placements, and SME targeting; in operating countries and markets. Senior management of The outcome of the 2-year growth plan, which is based on the operations in Germany and Italy joined some meetings in the input from the operating countries; 2015 to give an update on their markets in person. Every year, The strategy for the Professionals segment, which requires the Supervisory Board, jointly with the Executive Board, pays a more focus on talent engagement, organizational two-day visit to the operations in a different country. Their alignment, and further acceleration to enable the joint visit to clients, branches, and Randstad's head office in company to become a truly global player in this field; Germany in June 2015 provided additional insight into the The importance of purpose, culture, and core values within quality of local operations and management. Individual the company; members of the Supervisory Board also paid personal visits to The framework and strategic objectives of acquisitions, various businesses within Randstad on an ad-hoc basis. including an assessment of possible targets; Innovation initiatives, mostly in relation to Randstad's To underline the importance of Randstad's business principles Innovation Fund, which aims to drive external innovation and the procedure for reporting misconduct, the Supervisory within Randstad by investing in HR technology start-ups; Board shares responsibility for these matters with the The acquisition of RiseSmart, which creates a disruptive Executive Board. An assessment of the complaints reported entry in the outplacement/career-transition market, under the misconduct reporting procedure is shared with the building a foundation in terms of technology and delivery Audit Committee annually. through online platforms; Technology developments that impact the core business, the optimization of global IT spend on administrative and Supervisory Board Committee business systems, and generic IT infrastructure; and Organizational development, Randstad's people strategy, activities in 2015 including the competencies required for current and future The Supervisory Board has three Committees: the Audit leaders within the company, and the role of corporate Committee, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee, functions. and the Strategy Committee. Their roles are described in more detail in the section corporate governance. They generate The Supervisory Board meets in any case each quarter shortly detailed information and prepare recommendations relating before the publication of the quarterly results, when it to their specific areas, while the full Supervisory Board retains discusses these results with the Executive Board, as well as overall responsibility. In each case, the Committee Chair related documents, such as the auditor's quarterly report on reports the Committee's main considerations and findings to procedures performed and the draft press release. These the full Supervisory Board, usually immediately after the results and related documents are first discussed by the Audit relevant Committee meeting. Committee prior to the Supervisory Board meeting. Effective April 2015, following the changes in the Supervisory In addition to the standard agenda items for meetings, such as Board, the composition of these Committees is as follows: the development of the financials and the business performance, throughout the year, the Supervisory Board Audit Committee regularly discusses with the Executive Board the following Frank Dorjee (Chair), Wout Dekker, and Jaap Winter. The first topics: two members in particular have relevant expertise in the field Corporate planning projects, including actual or potential of financial management. acquisitions and divestments; Organizational changes and senior management appointments; annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 95 Remuneration & Nomination Committee In 2015, the CFO of Randstad Belgium was invited for this Giovanna Monnas (Chair regarding remuneration), Wout purpose. Dekker (Chair regarding nomination), and Barbara Borra. In 2015, the Audit Committee gave special attention to: Strategy Committee The Group's current IT state of affairs and strategy going Jaap Winter (Chair), Henri Giscard d'Estaing, Giovanna forward, aimed at optimizing the distribution of IT spend Kampouri Monnas, and Rudy Provoost. and longer-term savings; The change to the dividend policy, as outlined below; All Supervisory Board members have a standing invitation to The bi-annual review of Group tax performed by EY, which attend meetings of Committees of which they are not a indicated that the tax function is well embedded and the member, which they do attend on an ad-hoc basis. tax strategy is solid, both on tax planning and tax compliance; Report of the Audit Committee The framework for data protection, indicating a need for The Audit Committee assists the Supervisory Board in its further development of related policies and procedures. responsibility to oversee Randstad's financing, financial statements, financial reporting process, and system of internal The Audit Committee discussed various items relating to the business controls, risk management and audit. risk profile and in-control situation, such as the risk profile of the Group, the annual internal audit plan and priorities for Five meetings were held in 2015 (2014: five). All meetings 2015, and the quarterly reports prepared by Group Business were attended by the CEO, the CFO, and the managing Risk & Audit. These reports contain audit results, fraud directors for Control, Accounting and Group Business Risk & investigations, and reviews of control situations and Audit. The external auditor was also present. Generally, at the improvements in particular countries and processes. end of each meeting, the Audit Committee discusses with the external auditor, without management being present, their At year-end, the overall company's in-control situation was assessment of Randstad's performance, as well as the discussed by the Audit Committee, using the control collaboration with the Executive Board and the finance assessment of management and Group Business Risk & Audit, departments, including their functioning. as well as the external auditor's reflections on the in-control situation. This quarterly discussion on the various risk and In addition to the standard agenda items (e.g., the financial control topics allows management and Group Business Risk & performance, which is discussed in more detail), the following Audit to focus on the right priorities throughout the year. topics are discussed during the year: Based on these discussions, control themes are defined. These Randstad's financing strategy, possible alternative longthemes get extra attention to enhance control efficiency and term funding sources, and the floating interest policy; effectiveness in those specific areas, resulting in tailored local The external auditor's reports on procedures performed improvement plans. for each quarter and their annual management letter; The impact of possible changes in legislation; In the second and fourth quarters, the Group's in-control The procedure for reporting misconduct, including the situation was discussed in detail, using the results of the report of the central integrity officer; renewed key control framework. It addresses key risks, looks A review of fiscal, treasury, legal, and pension-related at the controls to mitigate these risks, and requires a developments, mostly provided by the responsible management assessment of these controls. Priorities for corporate managing director; internal audits of local audit teams are set by the Managing A report from the Managing Director Group Legal on Director Group Business Risk & Audit and discussed and operating companies' compliance with key policies, agreed with the Executive Board and the Audit Committee. including the business principles, insider dealing, This framework allows all Group companies to further competition law, bribery, gifts & hospitality, data develop their controls using a maturity model. Further protection, discrimination, intimidation and harassment, information can be found in the section risk & opportunity contract liability, and e-communications; management. The Business Risk & Audit department is The annual legal letter, listing material litigation (where adequately embedded within the organization by way of the potential liability exceeds € 1 million). Any cases with a Global Risk & Audit network, consisting of local internal potential liability exceeding € 2.5 million are promptly auditors at operating company level. In 2015, the Audit reported to the Audit Committee; and Committee approved the updated Business Risk & Audit The annual talent and performance review of the finance Charter, which confirms the direct access of the department's function and its key people, including the World League managing director to the Chair of the Audit Committee, and Finance Program, whose aim is to develop the finance as such ensures objectivity, authority, and responsibility function, all finance staff and the finance organization setting. throughout Randstad. In the course of each year, the CFOs of some of the larger operating companies are invited to With regard to the external audit, the Audit Committee report on their approach to this program in their country. reviewed the proposed audit plan relating to the audit scope, annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 96 report of the Supervisory Board approach, transition plan, and fees (see note 28 to the Proposals regarding variable pay of the Executive Board: financial statements). This was the first year that Deloitte the realization of the annual bonus targets, the targets for acted as external auditor, replacing PricewaterhouseCoopers. next year's annual bonus, the realization of the targets of Therefore, a more thorough and in-depth assessment of the long-term incentive plan, and the annual allocation of Randstad's procedures and controls was performed by the shares and options; external auditor to make itself familiar with the company. The annual assessment of the Executive Board and its individual members; The Audit Committee assured itself of the independence of The proposals to reappoint Linda Galipeau and François the external auditor and the non-audit services provided by Béharel as members of the Executive Board; the external auditor, in line with the relevant policy. The Audit The proposals to reappoint Wout Dekker and Henri Committee assessed the performance of the external auditor, Giscard d'Estaing as members of the Supervisory Board; based on a satisfaction survey conducted among all CFOs of The self-assessment of the Supervisory Board; the operating companies and key corporate finance people. Randstad's HR strategy and focus for the coming years, key As part of this annual evaluation process, the following items actions, its function and organization, are taken into consideration: (1) the quality of the audit work, The outcomes and conclusions of the annual talent review (2) the sufficiency and fulfillment of the audit engagement, and succession planning; and (3) the quality of the auditor's reports, (4) the independence The annual assessment of the senior country and of the auditors, (5) the expertise and composition of the audit functional managing directors (all of whom are scheduled team, (6) the audit fee, and (7) quality control within the audit to meet and present to the Supervisory Board, if feasible), firm. as well as high potentials and possible successors to the Executive Board. Report of the Strategy Committee The Strategy Committee acts as a sparring partner for the The Committee also discussed diversity-related topics. The Executive Board and contributes in depth to the preparation Supervisory Board aims to ensure that both its own of the semi-annual discussion of Randstad's strategy with the composition as well as the composition of the Executive Board full Supervisory Board. Each member has his own specific and represents a good balance in terms of diversity (including extensive experience in strategy development and related experience, gender, and nationality). The aim is that at least processes. All meetings are attended by the full Executive one-third of its members meet the criteria regarding gender. Board. These gender criteria are currently being met for the Supervisory Board, but not yet for the Executive Board. In 2015, the Committee fully focused on the follow-up of the Randstad's policy regarding diversity is described in the strategic retreat held in September 2014 and the preparation diversity and inclusion section of this annual report. A key of the strategic retreat in October 2015 as elaborated on in factor in diversity is providing equal opportunities for women. detail above. The percentage of women in senior management positions amounted to 46.4% (2014: 45.2%) in 2015, which is close to Report of the Remuneration and Nomination our target of 50% in 2017. The Executive Board welcomed its Committee first female member in 2012. Diversity will continue to be an The Remuneration and Nomination Committee primarily important consideration for all future nominations to the makes recommendations regarding the remuneration (and Boards. the remuneration policy) of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board. It is also tasked with advising on candidates to fill vacancies in both Boards. Each Committee member has Supervisory Board remuneration specific expertise in the area of remuneration and HR-related issues. The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders determines the remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board. Their The Committee met three times in the course of 2015 (2014: remuneration is a fixed annual allowance paid in monthly four). The CEO and the Managing Director HR participated in installments. It is not linked to the financial results of the part of the meetings. The Committee regularly makes use of company. Members of the Supervisory Board do not receive external advice, notably from Focus Orange and Towers any performance-related compensation or shares, and do not Watson. accrue any pension rights with the company. The following list provides an overview of the items discussed Members of the Supervisory Board who hold shares in the during the year: company are only allowed to do so as long-term investments. Proposals regarding the base salary of the Executive Board, They adhere to the company's insider-dealing rules. Randstad based on a benchmark against the international labor does not grant loans or guarantees to Supervisory Board market peer group and against a peer group of companies members. listed on the AEX index (consisting of large companies listed on Euronext Amsterdam); annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 97 The annual allowances were last determined by the Annual of 10% of the ordinary issued share capital for a period of 18 General Meeting of Shareholders held in 2012, while the months. Stépan Breedveld was appointed as Board member annual Committee fees were last determined by the Annual of Stichting Administratiekantoor Preferente Aandelen General Meeting of Shareholders held in 2011. The annual Randstad Holding. Deloitte Accountants B.V. in the allowances and Committee fees for the Chair and members of Netherlands was appointed as external auditor for the the Supervisory Board are shown in the table below. financial year 2016. Similar to prior year, the Chair of the Audit Committee Allowances of Supervisory Board members proactively elaborated on the work of the Audit Committee in in € 2014, the company's collaboration with the external auditor, 2015 2014 and some specific items that were relevant in the past year: Supervisory Board Goodwill valuation, partly as a result of the annual Chair 110,000 110,000 goodwill impairment test. Based on current insights and Vice-Chair 90,000 90,000 estimates, this did not lead to an impairment; Members 75,000 75,000 The valuation of the position regarding deferred taxes, as described in detail in the financial statements; Audit Committee The CICE subsidies on low wages in France, which Randstad Chair 12,000 12,000 continued to receive in 2014; Members 8,000 8,000 Some fraud-related matters that were entirely immaterial to Randstad; Remuneration & Nomination Committee Estimates by the management in regard to important Chair 9,000 9,000 items in the financial statements, which were judged to be Members 7,000 7,000 consistently conservative; and Processing the USG acquisitions, pensions, and provisions, Strategy Committee as well as reconciliation of 'hours paid/hours billed', which Chair 8,000 8,000 was important for Randstad. Members 6,000 6,000 The lead partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers, then the external auditor, was given the floor to elaborate on the In addition, Supervisory Board members receive a fixed annual auditor's opinion. For the second year, in content and design, expense allowance of € 2,000 net for members and € 3,000 this was more company-specific, describing the responsibilities net for the Chair. Taking into consideration their significant of the Executive Board and the external audit, the scope of effort and travel time, Supervisory Board members receive an the audit and the definition of materiality. The most attendance fee of € 1,500 per meeting when cross-border important matters concern valuation of goodwill, the travel is required in order to attend a Supervisory Board deferred tax position, and the audit environment. He also meeting. stated that the description of the risk management and audit system included in the 2014 annual report does not conflict with the findings arising from the audit of the financial Report of the Annual General statements. Meeting of Shareholders At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, held on April 2, 2015, the CEO and the CFO gave an account of the general state of affairs at Randstad and its financial performance in 2014. The meeting adopted the 2014 financial statements and the dividend proposal. The members of the Executive Board were granted discharge of liability for their management, and the members of the Supervisory Board for their supervision thereof. Barbara Borra, Rudy Provoost, and Jaap Winter were (re)appointed as members of the Supervisory Board. Fritz Fröhlich stepped down as member and Chair of the Supervisory Board, as his final term had expired. Beverley Hodson stepped down as member of the Supervisory Board for personal reasons. The meeting authorized the Executive Board to issue ordinary shares, limited to a maximum of 3% of the ordinary issued share capital for a period of 18 months, as well as to repurchase ordinary shares, limited to a maximum annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 98 report of the Supervisory Board Financial statements for 2015 The financial statements for 2015 have been audited and provided with an unqualified opinion by Deloitte Accountants BV (see the auditor's report) and were extensively discussed with the auditors by the Audit Committee in the presence of the CEO and the CFO in February 2016. The full Supervisory Board then discussed them with the full Executive Board in the presence of the auditors. The Supervisory Board is of the opinion that the financial statements 2015 meet all requirements for correctness and transparency. During the year, the Audit Committee extensively discussed the risk management framework that supports this. As such, the Supervisory Board recommends that the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on March 31, 2016, adopt the financial statements and the appropriation of net income proposed by the Executive Board. The Supervisory Board endorses the Executive Board's proposal to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to pay a full cash dividend per ordinary share of € 1.68 for 2015 (€ 1.29 for 2014) and a cash dividend on preference shares B and C of € 12.6 million (€ 12.6 million for 2014). The Supervisory Board requests that the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders grant discharge to the members of the Executive Board for their management and to the members of the Supervisory Board for their supervision in 2015. The Supervisory Board would like to thank all Randstad employees, under the strong leadership of the Executive Board, for their contribution and continuing dedication in 2015. Diemen, the Netherlands, February 16, 2016 The Supervisory Board, Wout Dekker, Chair Jaap Winter, Vice-Chair Barbara Borra Frank Dorjee Henri Giscard d'Estaing Giovanna Kampouri Monnas Rudy Provoost annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 99 remuneration report Remuneration policy Executive Board remuneration The main objective of the remuneration policy is to attract, 2015 motivate, and retain qualified senior executives of the highest The remuneration of the Executive Board consists of three caliber, who have an international mindset and the components: background required for the successful leadership and 1. Short-term compensation, consisting of a base salary effective management of a large global company. The and an annual cash bonus opportunity; members of the Executive Board are rewarded accordingly, 2. Long-term compensation, consisting of performance and most of their remuneration is based on Randstad's shares; performance. The remuneration structure for the Executive 3. Pension and other benefits. Board is therefore designed to balance short-term operational performance with the long-term objectives of the company The variable portion of the total remuneration package is and value creation for its stakeholders. performance-related. It consists of shortand long-term components. For on-target performance, approximately half Remuneration levels are determined on the basis of a number of the total compensation of a member of the Executive of clear, transparent criteria, and reflect general as well as Board is performance-related. The Supervisory Board, on the specific individual responsibilities in an international context. recommendation of its Remuneration and Nomination They are benchmarked against an international labor market Committee, sets the targets prior to each performance period. peer group regarding fixed salary levels, and against an Performance targets and conditions are derived from international performance peer group to establish relative Randstad's strategy, annual budget plan, and market analysis. performance: An overview of the 2015 and comparable 2014 remuneration amounts is included in note 24 to the financial statements. The international labor market peer group represents the market in which Randstad competes for senior Short-term compensation management talent, and is used to benchmark fixed salary levels. It is composed of international staffing and business Base salary services companies, reflecting Randstad's international In line with the relevant size and profile of Randstad, scope. They are Adecco SA, Rentokil Initial Plc, Capgemini compared to the other companies included in the SA, Atos Origin SA, Robert Half International Inc, international labor market peer group, base salaries of the LogicaCMG Plc, Manpower Inc, Kelly Services Inc, Michael Executive Board members are set at between the median and Page International Plc, Hays Plc, TUI AG, G4S Plc, and 75% percentile level. Sodexo Group SA; The international performance peer group is used as a In line with the company's remuneration policy and confirmed benchmark to establish relative performance in terms of by benchmarking carried out by Focus Orange, it was decided Total Shareholder Return (TSR) for the payout of the longto increase the base salaries of the Executive Board members term incentive plan. It reflects the market in which the by 2.5% as from January 1, 2015. The general pay differentials company competes for shareholder preference. This group within the company, and specifically within senior is composed solely of staffing companies, and can management, were taken into account when taking this therefore be characterized as 'sector-specific'. It consists of decision. Adecco SA, Kelly Services Inc, Trueblue Inc, Manpower Inc, Robert Half International Inc, USG People NV, Michael Effective January 1, 2015, the base salary of Jacques van den Page International Plc, Hays Plc, and Groupe Synergie SA. Broek, CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board, was In addition, as an extra check, total compensation levels increased to € 900,000, which is still below the relevant are benchmarked annually against a peer group of median to 75% percentile level of the international labor companies listed on the AEX index (consisting of large market peer group and group of companies listed on the AEX companies listed on Euronext Amsterdam). index. This was the second step in a three-step salary increase, following his appointment as CEO. The last update of the remuneration policy was approved by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on March Annual cash bonus opportunity 28, 2013. The total annual cash bonus opportunity amounts to 70% of base salary for on-target performance, and the maximum bonus level is 100% of base salary. If performance is below a pre-defined minimum level, no bonus will be paid out. In calculating the pro-rata bonus, a sliding scale between the minimum level and the maximum level is used. The Supervisory Board sets the targets at the beginning of each financial year. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 100 remuneration report The framework for the annual cash bonus relates to: Due to their long-term nature, performance shares are Gross profit, revenue or market share, with the bonus inherently and significantly more open to market opportunity ranging from 10% for minimum performance, uncertainties than short-term compensation elements. Shares 15% for on-target performance, and 25% for maximum can become unconditional (i.e., may vest) depending solely on performance; Randstad's TSR performance compared to the performance EBITA or EPS realization, with the bonus opportunity peer group, measured over a three-year period starting from ranging from 10% for minimum performance, 15% for onJanuary 1 of the year in which they are granted. As from 2013, target performance, and 25% for maximum performance; the related payout range was amended as follows: Leverage ratio, or efficiency of working capital (e.g., DSO or net debt), with the bonus opportunity ranging from 10% for minimum performance, 15% for on-target TSR payout range performance, and 25% for maximum performance; Individual targets; with a maximum of 15%; as from 2013 until 2013 Additional bonus at the discretion of the Supervisory Position 1 250% 250% Board, with a maximum of 10%. Position 2 200% 200% Position 3 150% 150% The actual targets for these and the individual targets are not Position 4 100% 125% disclosed, as they qualify as information that is confidential Position 5 50% 100% and/or commercially and potentially share-price sensitive. Position 6 0% 75% Position 7 0% 50% If a variable remuneration component conditionally awarded Position 8 0% 25% in a previous year would, in the opinion of the Supervisory Position 9 0% 0% Board, produce an unfair result due to extraordinary Position 10 0% 0% circumstances during the performance period, the Supervisory Board has the power to adjust the value upwards or downwards. The Supervisory Board may also recover from the The grant is divided into TSR-dependent (80%) and Executive Board any variable remuneration awarded on the sustainability-related (20%). TSR reflects the return received by basis of incorrect financial or other data. These provisions are a shareholder and captures both the change in the company's included in the annual bonus and grant letter. This power was share price and the value of dividend income, assuming not used in 2015, nor was any remuneration recovered from dividends are reinvested in the company. TSR is an present or former Executive Board members. appropriate measure, as it objectively measures the company's financial performance and assesses its long-term value Based on the achievement of the shared and individual creation as compared to other companies in the sector. TSR targets for 2015, and using the discretionary space available to performance for the companies of the international the Supervisory Board, the bonus entitlement with regard to performance peer group is calculated based on their 'home/ the performance in 2015 as percentage of annual base salary primary listing'. TSR data are compiled and reported by is specified as follows: external data provider Towers Watson. Given the relevance of sustainability for Randstad's business, ambition, and long-term viability, performance targets within Randstad's sustainability Annual bonus payout, 2015 KPI framework are added at the discretion of the Supervisory Board. These targets are also set at the start of the three-year possible payout as % of annual base vesting period. 2015 performance target maximum salary Performance shares are granted in the open period following Group revenue performance 25% 25% the publication of the Group's fourth-quarter financial results Group EBITA margin 25% 20% in February. The number of shares will be calculated based on Net debt at year-end 25% 25% the fair value of the Randstad share as at January 1. At the Individual targets 15% Varies from 5.5% 14.5% moment the performance shares are granted, their fair value Discretionary 10% 10% assuming on-target performance is equal to an amount of 100% Varies from 85.5% 94.5% 100% of the base salary for all Executive Board members alike. If a member of the Executive Board resigns before the vesting date, conditional grants of performance shares will in Long-term compensation principle lapse or, for example, in case of retirement due to In order to align their own objectives with the value creation reaching pension age, will vest pro rata related to the objectives of shareholders, performance shares are granted to performance period in service. The company offers no the members of the Executive Board on an annual basis. financing arrangements at grant or exercise of the options. Performance shares need to be retained for at least two years annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 101 after vesting, except to the extent necessary to settle any January 1, 2012, to December 31, 2014. Performance resulted related tax liabilities. in 50% vesting. Prior to the grant, and following the advice of the Pension and other benefits Remuneration and Nomination Committee, the Supervisory Board analyzes the possible outcomes of the allocation. Pension contribution The pension arrangements for members of the Executive On February 19, 2015 (the grant date under the relevant Board are based on defined contribution. Randstad provides plan), a conditional grant of performance shares for on-target an annual contribution of 27% of base salary to the schemes performance was made, based on 100% of the annual base of Executive Board members. For Netherlands based salary per Executive Board member as at January 1, 2014, and members, this contribution includes compensation for on the fair value of the performance shares as at the same limitations of accrual of pension rights as of 2015. The date of € 28.47 per share (TSR-dependent grant) and € 37.43 company has no specific early retirement arrangements in per share (sustainability-related grant). place for Board members. The conditional on-target awards for 2015 are as follows: Other benefits Additional arrangements include expense and relocation allowances, a company car or car allowance, and health and Conditional on-target awards, 2015 accident insurance. Number of Loans shares The company has issued no loans or guarantees to Executive Board members. Jacques van den Broek 30,099 Robert Jan van de Kraats 23,060 Severance François Béharel 20,258 In the event of severance, a maximum of one year's annual Linda Galipeau 20,258 base salary, in addition to the 12-month notice period, applies Chris Heutink 20,258 to all Executive Board members. 113,933 Executive service agreements In line with the relevant regulation, Executive Board members The sustainability-related performance targets for this grant have a four-year executive service agreement with the are the following five targets from Randstad's sustainability company, which supersedes any previous employment KPI framework: agreements. Net Promoter Score (NPS): a Top 3 position or at least position improvement in the Top 12 countries over the Appointment terms performance period; The members of the Executive Board appointed before 2005 Increased focus on health and safety within the Group and were appointed for an indefinite period. The members of the relative reduction of fatalities and injuries; Executive Board, including the CEO, appointed since 2005 Proportion of females in senior management positions: have been appointed for a period of four years. 50% in 2017 (45.2% in 2014); Staffing penetration rates in Top 8 markets, where measurable; Executive Board remuneration Return to/inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. 2016 At the end of the performance period 2015−2017, the In line with the company's remuneration policy and confirmed Supervisory Board will have the discretion to determine the by benchmarking carried out by Focus Orange, it was decided actual vesting based on progress made over the performance to increase the base salaries of the Executive Board members period as reported by the Executive Board in relation to each by 3.0% as of January 1, 2016. The general pay differentials of these targets. Each target accounts for 50% vesting, the within the company, and specifically within senior minimum vesting equals 0%, and the maximum vesting management, were taken into account when taking this equals 250%, in line with the minimum and maximum decision. opportunity for the TSR-dependent grant. Effective January 1, 2016, the base salary of Jacques van den Early 2015, the performance shares and performance options Broek, CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board, was that had been conditionally granted in February 2012 vested increased to € 1,000,000. This is the last step in a three-step based on the relative TSR performance over the period salary increase following his appointment as CEO and brought annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 102 remuneration report his salary at the median level of the international labor market peer group and group of companies listed on the AEX index. Supervisory Board remuneration 2015 and 2016 Information with regard to the remuneration of the Supervisory Board in 2015 is included in the section Report of the Supervisory Board. An overview of the 2015 and comparable 2014 remuneration amounts is included in note 24 to the financial statements. The remuneration of the Supervisory Board, including its Committees, will remain unchanged in 2016. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 103 corporate governance Principles The Supervisory Board is empowered to recommend to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders candidates to be Sound corporate governance is a key component of appointed to the Executive Board. The Supervisory Board Randstad's culture and is consistent with its core values. determines the remuneration of the members of the Randstad's corporate governance is supported by a strong Executive Board, in accordance with the remuneration policy focus on integrity, transparency, and clear and timely adopted by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. communication. Good governance and proper supervision are important prerequisites for generating and maintaining trust Since 2005, new board members have been appointed for a in Randstad and its management. maximum term of four years. The division of tasks between the members of the Executive Board requires the approval of Randstad is incorporated and based in the Netherlands. As a the Supervisory Board. Members need the prior approval of result, Randstad's governance structure is based on the the Supervisory Board before they can take up a board requirements of Dutch legislation, the company's articles of position at another company. A member of the Executive association, complemented by internal policies and Board may not be a member of the Supervisory Board of procedures. Given the worldwide exposure of its businesses, more than two listed companies or serve as Chair of the the international context is of vital importance, and Supervisory Board of another listed company. international developments are closely monitored. Randstad has always sought to enhance its governance in line Supervisory Board with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code ('the Code', which can be found at The Supervisory Board supervises and advises the Executive www.commissiecorporategovernance.nl) and international Board in performing its management tasks, sets the direction best practices. Any substantial changes in Randstad's of the Randstad business and guides its general development, corporate governance structure will be submitted to the including the financial policies and corporate structure. It Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. evaluates the strategy, development of results, operating model, and sustainability framework established under the Corporate governance declaration Executive Board's management. Major management The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, which are decisions, including those involving strategy, require the jointly responsible for the corporate governance structure of approval of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board Randstad, are of the opinion that almost all of the principles further supervises the structure and management of systems and best-practice provisions of the Code are being applied. of internal business controls and the financial reporting We strongly believe that these principles and provisions are process. consistent with our core values. This means that we do not merely take a 'box ticking' approach to compliance. As the The Supervisory Board is empowered to recommend to the Code is based on the 'apply or explain' principle, a very limited Annual General Meeting of Shareholders candidates to be number of exceptions to the Code, which are deemed appointed to the Supervisory Board. Such appointments are necessary in the interests of Randstad, have been explained to considered on the basis of a profile, taking into account the shareholders and are described in this report. This report also nature of Randstad's activities and the desired background includes the information that needs to be disclosed in and expertise of candidates. Diversity is an important criterion accordance with the corporate governance declaration as in order to establish a balance in nationality, gender, age, referred to in the relevant Dutch governmental decree. experience, and background of the individual members. The Supervisory Board aims for at least one-third of its membership to meet the diversity criteria. Members of the Executive Board Supervisory Board should limit the number of Supervisory Board memberships and other positions they may hold at Tasked with the overall management of Randstad, the listed and non-listed companies in such a way as to guarantee Executive Board is accountable for developing and executing the proper performance of his or her duties, and may not hold the strategy. The Executive Board is also responsible for the more than five Supervisory Board memberships in Dutch associated risk profile, financial controls, the development of companies or other large organizations, whereby a Chair results, and the resolution of corporate responsibility issues, counts as two memberships. Supervisory Board remuneration while simultaneously respecting policies that have been set. is determined by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders The responsibility for the management of Randstad is vested and not linked to the company's results. collectively in the Executive Board. Each member has duties related to the specific area of responsibilities and expertise. Randstad ensures that there are structured reporting lines to The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Executive the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board meets regularly Board. throughout the year, according to a pre-arranged schedule, both with and without the Executive Board and senior management. Through frequent informal consultation with annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 104 corporate governance and updates from the members of the Executive Board in Board compliance between the meetings, the Supervisory Board remains well Both Boards, including the Committees of the Supervisory informed about the general state of affairs within Randstad. Board, have their own by-laws, which set rules regarding At the end of each year, the Supervisory Board extensively objectives, composition, responsibilities, and working assesses the composition, performance, and functioning of the methods. These by-laws are available on our corporate Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, as well as their website. individual members. Any conflict of interest between Randstad and a Board The Chair of the Supervisory Board ensures the proper member should be avoided. Any actual or potential conflict of functioning of the Board and its Committees, and acts as the interest must be reported immediately to the other Board main contact for the Executive Board. The Vice-Chair replaces members and/or the Chair of the Supervisory Board. Any the Chair when required, and acts as the contact for the other shareholding in the company must be for the purpose of Board members on matters relating to the functioning of the long-term investment. Board members must at all times Chair. The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the comply with the provisions contained in the Randstad insider Supervisory Board. dealing rules. These rules include, among other items, a policy that stipulates that dealings in Randstad shares and options by Supervisory Board Committees Board members should normally be restricted to the four While the Supervisory Board retains overall responsibility for weeks following the publication of quarterly financial results, its functions, it assigns some of its tasks to three Committees: provided that the person involved is not in possession of any the Audit Committee, the Strategy Committee, and the inside information at that time. Remuneration and Nomination Committee. Their advice and recommendations assist the Supervisory Board in its decisionmaking. All Supervisory Board members are, in principle, also Annual General Meeting of members of at least one but no more than two Committees. Shareholders The Audit Committee assists the Supervisory Board in fulfilling Important matters that require the approval of the (Annual) its supervisory responsibilities for the integrity of the financial General Meeting of Shareholders are: reporting process, the system of internal business controls and Adoption of the annual accounts; risk management, and the external audit process. The Adoption of profit appropriation and additions to reserves; Committee assesses the audit plan and the scope and Dividends; approach of the external auditor, and monitors progress and Significant changes to the company's corporate performance. The relationship with the external auditors is governance; evaluated annually. Together with the Executive Board, the Remuneration policy of the Executive Board; Audit Committee reviews quarterly and full-year financial Remuneration of the Supervisory Board; statements, auditors' reports and the management letter. The Discharge from liability of the Executive Board for its internal risk and control framework and taxand treasurymanagement; related activities are recurring topics. The Audit Committee Discharge from liability of the Supervisory Board for its may opt to meet separately with the external auditors to supervision of the management; discuss the quality of financial reporting and cooperation with Appointment of the external auditor; the finance departments. Appointment, suspension, or dismissal of the members of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board; The Strategy Committee acts as a sparring partner for the Authorization to purchase, issue, or sell shares in the Executive Board and contributes in depth to the preparation Group's capital; of the annual discussion of Randstad's strategy with the full Adoption of amendments to the Articles of Association. Supervisory Board. Further details about the proposals that the Executive Board The Remuneration and Nomination Committee makes or the Supervisory Board can submit to the meeting and the recommendations regarding the remuneration policy for the procedure according to which shareholders themselves can Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, for adoption by submit matters for consideration by the meeting are specified the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The approved in the company's Articles of Association. policy then forms the basis for the fixed and variable remuneration of the Executive Board. The Committee is also The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, which is tasked with advising on candidates to fill vacancies in the normally held at the end of March or in early April, is Executive Board and Supervisory Board, evaluating the broadcast live by audio webcast via our corporate website. As performance of both Boards and their members, reviewing specified in the notice for the meeting, voting instructions the company's HR strategy and development of senior (anonymous if desired) can be given to an independent third management, and ensuring long-term succession planning. party in advance of the meeting. Within three months of the annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 105 meeting, the draft minutes of the meeting are made available Exceptions to the Code for three months for comments. The definitive minutes are published on our corporate website. Randstad applies all relevant provisions of the (updated) Dutch Corporate Governance Code, with the following Voting rights exceptions. The issued share capital of Randstad currently consists of 183.0 million ordinary shares, 25.2 million preference shares B, 14.6 II.1.1 A Management Board member is appointed for a million preference shares C1, and 35.6 million preference maximum period of four years. shares C2. The ordinary shares have equal voting rights ('1 The members of the Executive Board appointed before 2005 share, 1 vote'). The voting rights on the preference shares are were appointed for an indefinite period. Those since 2005, aligned with the capital contribution upon issuance. Effective including the CEO, have been appointed for a period of four at a Shareholders' meeting, the voting rights on the years. preference shares B are 3.6 million, and the voting rights on the preference shares C are 5.6 million. II.2.5 Shares granted to Management Board members without financial consideration shall be retained for a period of at The foundation Stichting Administratiekantoor Preferente least five years. Aandelen Randstad Holding holds the preference shares B The long-term incentive for the Executive Board is paid in and C. The foundation's Board consists of Bas Kortmann performance shares, which vest after three years. Performance (Chair), Stépan Breedveld and Sjoerd van Keulen. The Board shares need to be retained for at least two more years. We members are fully independent. The foundation's Articles of believe this five-year term sufficiently enhances shareholder Association were compiled in accordance with Annex X, alignment and is in line with the long-term nature of the Euronext Amsterdam Rule Book, Book II. Depository receipts incentive. However, Randstad also believes that share sales issued by the foundation are held by, among others, should be allowed earlier to the extent necessary to settle any Nationale Nederlanden NV, ASR NV, Richmond, and Randstad related tax liabilities. Beheer BV. Although the voting rights attached to the preference shares are vested in the foundation, each III.5 If the Supervisory Board comprises more than four depositary receipt holder can ask for a proxy to exercise the members, it should designate a Remuneration Committee and voting rights underlying his or her depositary receipts during a a Selection and Appointment Committee. Shareholders' Meeting. As it felt that issues related to selection, appointment, and remuneration are interlinked, the Supervisory Board decided Randstad may issue preference shares A to a legal entity that all these activities should be dealt with by one charged with safeguarding the company's interests and Committee: the Remuneration and Nomination Committee. preventing influences that may threaten its continuity, independence, or identity. To date, no such shares have been issued. Resolutions for such an issue would require the cooperation of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Legal transparency obligations As at December 31, 2015, the holders of approximately 95.8% The information that needs to be disclosed under Article 10, of ordinary shares have been able to make unrestricted use of Takeover Directive Decree, and section 391, sub-section 5, their voting rights. The other 4.2% of ordinary shares have book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code is available in various sections been converted into depository receipts. A foundation, of this annual report. In this section, we provide additional Stichting Administratiekantoor Randstad Optiefonds, holds information or indicate where the information can be found. those shares, in which the attached voting rights are vested. The depository receipts issued by Stichting a. Capital structure and attached rights and duties Administratiekantoor Randstad Optiefonds are fully An overview of the company's capital structure, voting rights exchangeable into ordinary shares, and are held by Stichting and dividend policy is provided in the section 'Investor Randstad Optiefonds. Frits Goldschmeding, the company's relations & share performance' of this annual report. founder, is the sole Board member of Stichting Administratiekantoor Randstad Optiefonds. b. Statutory or contractual restrictions on share transfers Internal risk management and control systems Approximately 32.2% of the total share capital (3.0% ordinary A detailed description of Randstad's Risk & Control shares, 9.8% preference shares B, and 19.4% of preference framework, including a description of the most important risk shares C) has been converted into depository receipts (see management and control systems, is given in the section 'Risk section Voting rights). The transfer of depositary receipts of & opportunity management'. preference shares requires the approval of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 106 corporate governance c. Major shareholders previous agreement from 2007. The new agreement relates to Shareholders are obliged to give notice of interests exceeding the creation of a future-proof structure, independent on the certain thresholds to the Netherlands Authority for the life and involvement of individuals. This means Randstad Financial Markets (AFM). Almost all the holdings listed below Beheer is committed to Randstad for the long-term, are a combination of (depositary receipts of) ordinary shares safeguarding the heritage and spirit of Frits Goldschmeding and (depositary receipts of) preference shares. All transactions and the values bestowed on the company, now and in the between Randstad and holders of at least 10% of the total future. number of shares are agreed on terms that are customary in the sector concerned. (See the section on Related-party As a result of an amendment of its articles of association, the transactions in the financial statements). This means that bestpurpose of Randstad Beheer will be to safeguard the practice provision III.6.4 of the Dutch Corporate Governance continuity of its shareholding for the longer term, its strategic Code has been observed. position and to promote the sustainable success and development of Randstad. This is in line with the current modus operandi. The long-term involvement of Randstad Major shareholders Beheer is reflected by its right to one seat on Randstad’s Supervisory Board, provided Randstad Beheer holds a stake in 2015 2014 Randstad Holding of at least 25% (which is currently the case). F.J.D. Goldschmeding 30%-40% 30%-40% As the 2007 agreement included a notice period for possible Stichting Administratiekantoor Preferente changes, the new continuity agreement also holds an Aandelen Randstad Holding 1 25%-30% 25%-30% arrangement that ensures a careful consultation process in NN Group1 10%-15% 10%-15% case Randstad Beheer at some point considers to amend the ASR1 5%-10% 5%-10% purpose of its articles of association and if Randstad Beheer's Richmond1 5%-10% 5%-10% voting rights in Randstad Holding are at that point at least Stichting Randstad Optiefonds 3%-5% 3%-5% 25%. In the event Randstad Beheer decides to amend its Stichting Administratiekantoor Randstad purpose at the end of that process, Randstad Beheer and Optiefonds 3%-5% 3%-5% Randstad Holding will reasonably consult on the new Blackrock Inc 3%-5% 0% situation and the potential reduction of Randstad Beheer's Capital 3%-5% 0% shareholding in Randstad, and Randstad Holding will assist in MFS Investments 0% 3%-5% such reduction if and when it occurs. 1 Mainly based on preference shares. In line with the intent of the previous agreement, the new agreement ensures that, if Randstad Beheer's voting rights fall d. Special rights of control below 25% or it has the intention to do so, Randstad Holding The company has not issued special rights of control to specific and Randstad Beheer will discuss potential consequences for shares or shareholders. Preference shares A can be issued, but Randstad Holding's governance aimed at safeguarding only with the approval of the Annual General Meeting of Randstad's development, continuity and strategic position in Shareholders. the new share ownership structure. e. Control mechanisms relating to option plans, share h. Regulations concerning the appointment and plans, and share purchase plans dismissal of Board members and changes to the The following share-based payment arrangements are in Articles of Association effect: a performance stock option plan for the Executive Members of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board are Board, two performance share plans (one for the Executive appointed by, and may at any time be suspended or dismissed Board members and one for senior management), and a share by, the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. A purchase plan for all corporate employees. The relevant Supervisory Board member is eligible for reappointment characteristics of these plans can be found in the notes to twice. Resolutions with respect to appointment and dismissal share-based payments. are passed by an absolute majority of the votes cast. When a proposal for the amendment of the Articles of Association is f. Voting limitations made to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, this is Holders of depository receipts of ordinary shares have no always stated in the convening notice for that meeting. A voting rights. copy of the proposal, containing the verbatim text of the proposed amendment, is simultaneously deposited at the g. Agreements with shareholders that can limit the company's head office, for perusal by every shareholder, as transfer of shares or voting rights well as by every holder of depository receipts, until the end of Randstad Holding nv announces that it has signed a continuity the meeting. Copies are made available free of charge. agreement with its founder Frits Goldschmeding through his Amendments to the Articles of Association involving changes private holding company Randstad Beheer, replacing the to the special rights accruing to the holders of preference annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 107 shares require the approval of the holders of preference shares concerned at the meeting. i. Authority of the Executive Board, especially to issue and repurchase shares in the company Subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, the Executive Board is authorized to issue shares, grant subscription rights, and restrict or exclude pre-emptive rights for holders of ordinary shares until October 2, 2016, for an annual maximum of 3% of the issued share capital of the company. This issuance will mainly be for the purposes of the performance stock option and share plans pertaining to the Executive Board and senior management. The Executive Board is also authorized, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, to repurchase shares until October 2, 2016, for an annual maximum of 10% of the issued share capital of the company. The repurchase will mainly be for the purposes of the performance share plans pertaining to the Executive Board and senior management . j. Change of control arrangements Change of control provisions have been included in the company's revolving syndicated credit facility, as well as the company's performance share and option plans for the Executive Board and senior management, and the share purchase plan for corporate employees. k. Agreements with Board members or employees The severance payment for all members of the Executive Board has been set at maximum one annual base salary in addition to the notice period of twelve months. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 108 corporate governance annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 109 financial statements 110 financial statements contents consolidated financial statements other notes to the consolidated financial statements Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 111 22. Subsidiaries 145 Consolidated balance sheet at December 31 112 23. Share-based compensations 146 Consolidated statement of cash flows 113 24. Related-party transactions 148 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 114 25. Employee benefit obligations 152 26. Number of employees (average) 154 main notes to the consolidated financial statements 27. Commitments 154 1. General information 115 28. Auditors' fees 154 2. Summary of significant accounting policies 115 29. Events after balance sheet date 154 3. Capital and financial risk management 116 4. Critical accounting policies, judgments, estimates and assumptions company financial statements 120 Income statement 155 4.1 Impairments 120 Balance sheet at December 31 155 4.2 Provisions and employee benefit obligations 123 4.3 Corporate taxes 125 notes to the company financial statements 4.4 Revenue recognition 128 1 Accounting policies for the company financial statements 156 5. Segment reporting 129 2. Software 156 6. Business combinations 131 3. Subsidiaries 156 7. Earnings per ordinary share 132 4. Long-term loans receivable from subsidiaries 156 5. Receivables 156 notes to the consolidated income statement 6. Shareholders' equity 156 8. Cost of services and total operating expenses 133 7. Borrowings 157 9. Total wages and salaries, social security and pension charges 134 8. Trade and other payables 157 10. Net finance costs 134 9. Number of employees (average) 157 11. Net income 135 10. Remuneration 157 12. Total other comprehensive income 135 11. Related parties 157 12. Guarantees and commitments 157 notes to the consolidated balance sheet 13. Auditors' fees 158 13. Property, plant and equipment 136 14. Software 137 other information 15. Acquisition-related intangible assets 137 Events after balance sheet date 159 16. Financial assets 138 Provisions in the Articles of Association 17. Associates 140 concerning profit appropriation 159 18. Trade and other payables 140 Proposed profit appropriation 161 19. Total equity and dividends per share 140 Independent auditor's report 162 20. Other liabilities 142 notes to the consolidated statement of cash flows 21. Statement of cash flows 143 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 111 consolidated statement of comprehensive income The notes on pages 115 to 154 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. in millions of € Note Page 2015 2014 Revenue 4.4 128 19,219.2 17,249.8 Cost of services 8.1 133 15,624.7 14,072.2 Gross profit 5.1 129 3,594.5 3,177.6 Selling expenses 8.2 133 1,922.4 1,715.0 Amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill 8.4 134 127.3 145.4 Other general and administrative expenses 8.2 133 840.1 801.9 General and administrative expenses 967.4 947.3 Total operating expenses 8.2 133 2,889.8 2,662.3 Operating profit 5.1 129 704.7 515.3 Finance income 10 134 8.5 9.0 Finance expenses 10 134 (37.6) (39.5) Net finance costs 10 134 (29.1) (30.5) Share in profit and result on disposal of associates 17 140 6.8 0.3 Income before taxes 682.4 485.1 Taxes on income 4.3 125 (163.6) (145.0) Net income 11 135 518.8 340.1 Translation differences 12 135 149.5 145.8 Other comprehensive income 12 135 0.0 (16.1) Total other comprehensive income 149.5 129.7 Total comprehensive income 668.3 469.8 Net income attributable to: Holders of ordinary shares of Randstad Holding nv 506.2 327.5 Holders of preference shares of Randstad Holding nv 12.6 12.6 Equity holders 518.8 340.1 Non-controlling interests 0.0 0.0 Net income 518.8 340.1 Earnings per share attributable to the holders of ordinary shares of Randstad Holding nv (expressed in € per ordinary share) Basic earnings per ordinary share (€) 7 132 2.79 1.83 Diluted earnings per ordinary share (€) 7 132 2.76 1.81 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Holders of ordinary shares of Randstad Holding nv 655.7 457.2 Holders of preference shares of Randstad Holding nv 12.6 12.6 Equity holders 668.3 469.8 Non-controlling interests 0.0 0.0 Total comprehensive income 668.3 469.8 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 112 consolidated balance sheet at December 31 The notes on pages 115 to 154 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. in millions of € Note Page 2015 2014 ASSETS Property, plant and equipment 13 136 124.9 128.8 Software 14 137 45.8 38.6 Goodwill 4.1 120 2,494.8 2,375.1 Acquisition-related intangible assets 15 137 108.5 183.8 Intangible assets 2,649.1 2,597.5 Deferred income tax assets 4.3 125 531.5 534.7 Financial assets 16 138 376.1 263.9 Associates 17 140 1.6 Non-current assets 3,681.6 3,526.5 Trade and other receivables 3.2 116 3,435.7 3,077.9 Income tax receivables 4.3 125 58.0 56.4 Cash and cash equivalents 3.2 116 133.5 117.1 Current assets 3,627.2 3,251.4 TOTAL ASSETS 5.2 130 7,308.8 6,777.9 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Issued capital 25.8 25.5 Share premium 2,270.5 2,261.1 Reserves 1,046.6 686.4 Net income for the year 518.8 340.1 Shareholders' equity 19.1 140 3,861.7 3,313.1 Non-controlling interests 19.3 142 0.0 0.0 Total equity 3,861.7 3,313.1 Borrowings 3.2 116 124.6 315.0 Deferred income tax liabilities 4.3 125 35.9 34.8 Provisions 4.2 123 71.6 73.6 Employee benefit obligations 4.2 123 94.9 91.0 Other liabilities 20 142 14.5 12.5 Non-current liabilities 341.5 526.9 Borrowings 3.2 116 182.1 224.1 Trade and other payables 18 140 2,811.9 2,589.9 Income tax liabilities 4.3 125 36.8 29.2 Provisions 4.2 123 55.4 69.9 Employee benefit obligations 4.2 123 12.4 17.8 Other liabilities 20 142 7.0 7.0 Current liabilities 3,105.6 2,937.9 Liabilities 3,447.1 3,464.8 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 7,308.8 6,777.9 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 113 consolidated statement of cash flows The notes on pages 115 to 154 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. in millions of € Note Page 2015 2014 Operating profit 704.7 515.3 Amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets 8.4 134 127.3 145.4 Operating profit before amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill (EBITA) 5.1 129 832.0 660.7 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 8.3 133 45.5 45.6 Amortization and impairment of software 8.3 133 19.2 19.6 Operating profit before depreciation, amortization and impairment (EBITDA) 5.1 129 896.7 725.9 Provisions 4.2 123 (27.8) 3.6 Employee benefit obligations 25 152 (4.6) 3.0 Share-based compensations 9 134 29.1 27.4 Loss on disposals of property, plant and equipment 13 136 0.3 0.4 Gain on disposal of activities 8.2 133 (1.6) Other non-cash items 21.4 144 (99.2) (95.0) Cash flow from operations before operating working capital and income taxes 792.9 665.3 Trade and other receivables 21.2 143 (270.6) (61.3) Trade and other payables 21.3 144 148.7 70.2 Operating working capital (121.9) 8.9 Income taxes 21.5 144 (105.4) (116.7) Net cash flow from operating activities 565.6 557.5 Additions to property, plant and equipment 13 136 (42.0) (41.7) Additions to software 14 137 (25.2) (24.0) Acquisition of subsidiaries/activities 6.1 131 (89.0) (0.6) Acquisition of equity investments 16.3 139 (7.4) (5.3) Held-to-maturity investments 16.1 138 (3.8) (6.5) Disposals of property, plant and equipment 13 136 4.2 2.4 Disposal of subsidiaries/activities 6.2 131 4.1 0.2 Disposal of associates 17 140 8.4 Net cash flow from investing activities (150.7) (75.5) Issue of new ordinary shares 19.1 140 4.2 1.5 Purchase of own ordinary shares 19.1 140 (58.3) (25.7) Repayments of non-current borrowings 3.2 116 (212.1) (455.7) Net financing (266.2) (479.9) Finance income 10 134 3.9 1.4 Finance expenses 10 134 (13.0) (31.8) Dividend on ordinary shares 19.2 141 (81.5) (56.0) Dividend on preference shares 19.2 141 (12.6) ( 12.1) Net reimbursement to financiers (103.2) (98.5) Net cash flow from financing activities (369.4) (578.4) Net increase/ (net decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and current borrowings 45.5 (96.4) Cash, cash equivalents and current borrowings at January 1 21.1 143 (107.0) (17.6) Net movement in cash, cash equivalents and current borrowings 45.5 (96.4) Translation and currency gains 12.9 7.0 Cash, cash equivalents and current borrowings at December 31 21.1 143 (48.6) (107.0) Free cash flow 21.6 144 498.8 487.7 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 114 consolidated statement of changes in equity The notes on pages 115 to 154 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Issued Share Reserves 1 Net ShareNonTotal capital premium Shareincome holders' controlling equity based Employee equity interests Treasury compensati benefits Retained in millions of € shares Translation ons and other 2 earnings Balance at January 1, 2015 25.5 2,261.1 (13.0) 55.0 56.9 (40.0) 627.5 340.1 3,313.1 0.0 3,313.1 Net income 2015 0.0 518.8 518.8 0.0 518.8 Translation differences 149.5 149.5 0.0 149.5 Other comprehensive income 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total other comprehensive income 149.5 0.0 149.5 0.0 149.5 Total comprehensive income 2015 149.5 0.0 518.8 668.3 0.0 668.3 Transactions with owners: Dividend 2014 on ordinary shares 0.3 (0.4) 246.1 (327.5) (81.5) (81.5) Dividend 2014 on preference shares 0.0 (12.6) (12.6) (12.6) Purchase of own ordinary shares (58.3) (58.3) (58.3) Share-based compensations: fair value of vesting rights 29.1 29.1 29.1 stock options exercised (on newly issued shares) 0.0 9.8 (2.7) (2.9) 4.2 4.2 performance shares issued 23.8 (32.9) 9.1 taxes on share-based compensations (0.6) (0.6) (0.6) Total transactions with owners 0.3 9.4 (34.5) (6.5) 251.7 (340.1) (119.7) (119.7) Balance at December 31, 2015 25.8 2,270.5 (47.5) 204.5 50.4 (40.0) 879.2 518.8 3,861.7 0.0 3,861.7 Balance at January 1, 2014 25.3 2,258.7 (8.7) (90.8) 58.4 (23.9) 458.1 230.7 2,907.8 0.0 2,907.8 Net income 2014 340.1 340.1 0.0 340.1 Translation differences 145.8 145.8 0.0 145.8 Other comprehensive income (16.1) (16.1) (16.1) Total other comprehensive income 145.8 (16.1) 129.7 0.0 129.7 Total comprehensive income 2014 145.8 (16.1) 340.1 469.8 0.0 469.8 Transactions with owners: Dividend 2013 on ordinary shares 0.2 (0.2) 162.6 (218.6) (56.0) (56.0) Dividend 2013 on preference shares (12.1) (12.1) (12.1) Purchase of own ordinary shares (25.7) (25.7) (25.7) Share-based compensations: fair value of vesting rights 27.4 27.4 27.4 stock options exercised (on newly issued shares) 0.0 2.6 (7.1) 6.0 1.5 1.5 performance shares issued 21.4 (21.8) 0.4 taxes on share-based compensations 0.4 0.4 0.4 Total transactions with owners 0.2 2.4 (4.3) (1.5) 169.4 (230.7) (64.5) (64.5) Balance at December 31, 2014 25.5 2,261.1 (13.0) 55.0 56.9 (40.0) 627.5 340.1 3,313.1 0.0 3,313.1 1 The total of the various items included under ’reserves’ within shareholders’ equity as at December 31, 2015 is € 1,046.6 million (December 31, 2014: € 686.4 million). Additional information with respect to equity is given in note 19. 2 As at December 31, 2015, this reserve includes € 0.6 million (December 31, 2014: zero) in respect of 'fair-value through other comprehensive income'-investments. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 115 main notes to the consolidated financial statements (in millions of €, unless otherwise indicated) 1. General information In 2015, various other new standards (including IFRS 9 'Financial instruments'), as well as amendments to and Randstad Holding nv is a public limited liability company interpretations of existing IFRS standards were published for incorporated and domiciled in the Netherlands and listed on application in accounting periods beginning on or after Euronext Amsterdam. The registered office of the company is January 1, 2016. As far as these standards, amendments and in Amsterdam. The address of the company is Diemermere interpretations are applicable to the Group, the Group has 25, 1112 TC Diemen, The Netherlands. decided not to opt for early adoption. These new standards, amendments and interpretations, including IFRS 15 'Revenue The consolidated financial statements of Randstad Holding from contracts with customers', are expected to have no nv include the company and its subsidiaries (together called material impact on the valuation and classification of the the ‘Group’). assets and liabilities of the Group, nor on its income statement or cash flows. See note 22 for an overview of the major subsidiaries and consolidation policies. Early 2016, IFRS 16 'Leases' was issued. The Group is currently in the process of assessing the impact of the valuation of 1.1 Activities assets and liabilities and on its income statement. Based on Randstad specializes in solutions in the field of flexible work current lease commitments, the impact on the valuation of and human resources services. Our services comprise assets and liabilities is expected to be material. The new temporary staffing and permanent placements. We also offer standard is effective as of January 1, 2019. on-site workforce management, as well as other HR services, such as payroll services and outplacement. Unless otherwise stated, the financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and on a going 1.2 Date of authorization of issue concern basis. The financial statements were signed and authorized for issue by the Executive Board and Supervisory Board on For both current assets and liabilities (expected to be February 16, 2016. The adoption of the financial statements recovered or settled within 1 year) and non-current assets and the adoption of the dividend are reserved for the and liabilities (expected to be recovered or settled after 1 shareholders in the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders year), the corresponding presentation is used on the face of (AGM) on March 31, 2016. the balance sheet. The Group operates in countries with different currencies. All 2. Summary of significant subsidiaries have as their functional currency the local currency of the country in which they operate. The Group accounting policies and its parent company use the euro as their functional and presentation currency. The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out All amounts in tables are presented in millions of euros. separately below or explained in the respective notes to these financial statements. These policies have been consistently With respect to the company income statement of Randstad applied to the periods presented. Holding nv, the company makes use of the exception provided for in Article 402, Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil 2.1 Basis of preparation Code. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 2.2 Fair value estimation and IFRS IC interpretations (IFRIC), as adopted by the Fair value estimations are mainly used with respect to European Union (hereinafter IFRS) and in accordance with financial assets and financial liabilities. the legal requirements of Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. As no financial assets and liabilities of the Group are traded in active markets, the fair value of financial assets and liabilities In 2015, a number of new standards as well as amendments is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows to and interpretations of existing IFRS standards became at current market interest rates that are available to the effective. These new standards, amendments and Group for similar financial assets and liabilities. The fair value interpretations, as far as they are relevant to the Group, have is only calculated for disclosure purposes. no impact on the valuation and classification of assets and liabilities of the Group, nor on its income statement or cash Because of this valuation method that uses observable flows. market data for the interest rates, the resulting fair value estimates reflect 'Level 2 Financial Instruments' for 2015 and 2014. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 116 main notes to the consolidated financial statements 3. Capital and financial risk Trade and other receivables management 2015 2014 3.1 Capital management Trade receivables 2,993.3 2,642.7 Randstad Holding’s policy is to maintain a sound financial Less: provision for impairment 38.4 36.5 position through a leverage ratio (net debt/EBITDA) of Trade receivables, net of provision for between 0 and 2. We believe this is important in order to impairment 2,954.9 2,606.2 maintain candidate, client, creditor and investor confidence Other receivables 393.7 394.1 and to sustain the future development of our business. Prepayments 80.4 73.9 Held-to-maturity investments 6.7 3.7 Our financing policy aims to secure financing which matches 3,435.7 3,077.9 the Group's midto long-term financing requirements. 3.1.1 Dividend policy The carrying amount of these receivables reflects the fair Our target is to achieve a flexible payout ratio of 40% to 50% value. of net profit adjusted for amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill, badwill, The Group does not hold any collateral as security. integration costs and one-offs, provided that the financial position allows for it. Accounting policy Trade and other receivables are initially stated at fair value. Dividend is paid in cash, unless shareholders are given the Subsequent measurement is at amortized cost using the choice between a cash or stock dividend and opt for a stock effective interest method less provision for impairment. dividend. A provision for impairment of trade and other receivables is 3.2 Financial risk management established when it is more likely than not that the Group The Group is exposed to a variety of financial risks, including will not be able to collect the amounts receivable. The credit risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency exchange risk and provision for impairment of trade receivables is based on the interest rate risk. One of the objectives of the Group’s risk trade receivable portfolio experience of subsidiaries, as well and control framework is to minimize potential adverse as on individual assessments of expected non-recoverable effects on the financial performance of the Group. receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, the probability that the debtor will enter into bankruptcy or Our risk and control framework is in place to ensure that risks financial reorganization, and serious default or delinquency are detected, measured and reported properly. Risk in payments, are considered indicators that the trade management procedures are carried out under policies that receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is equal have been approved by the Executive Board. to the difference between the carrying amount of the asset and the present value of estimated future cash flows. 3.2.1 Credit risk Credit risk within the Group arises from the possibility that clients and other counterparties may not be able to settle Movements in the provision for impairment of trade their obligations towards the Group. receivables Credit control policies are included in a blueprint, which is a 2015 2014 global document including prescribed work procedures and guidelines. To manage credit risk, credit checks are Balance at January 1 36.5 41.8 performed up front for new customers. For high-risk clients, credit limits are put in place based on internal and/or external Charged to selling expenses 9.4 9.1 ratings. Credit risk is monitored by the credit control Receivables written off as uncollectable (7.8) (15.1) departments of our operating companies on a daily basis. Translation differences 0.3 0.7 Balance at December 31 38.4 36.5 The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk, as the Group has very many clients in a large number of industries and countries. In the provision for impairment of trade receivables, an amount of € 24.6 million (2014: € 24.1 million) is included for individually impaired receivables. The provision for impaired trade receivables is excluding recoverable value-added taxes. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 117 Amounts charged to the provision for impairment of trade on the results of the Group on a 12-month basis. In certain receivables are generally written off when there is no cases, Randstad is allowed to report a leverage ratio of 4.25 x expectation of recovering additional cash. EBITA for a limited period of time. The actual net debt to EBITDA ratio as at December 31, 2015, Aging of trade receivables, based on invoice date is 0.2, and is safely within the limits of the facility agreement. 2015 2014 The credit facility has an interest rate that is based each time Amount % Amount % on the term of the drawings, increased by a margin above the applicable Euribor or Libor rates. The margin is variable 0-4 weeks 1,756.6 58.7 1,483.3 56.1 and depends on the leverage ratio. The interest rates at year5-16 weeks 1,148.4 38.4 1,079.7 40.9 end are 0.87% for drawings in US dollars, 0.96% for drawings 17-26 weeks 43.4 1.4 37.9 1.4 in UK pounds sterling and 0.50% for drawings in Japanese Not impaired 2,948.4 98.5 2,600.9 98.4 Yens, for a term shorter than one month. These are also the effective interest rates. Impaired 44.9 1.5 41.8 1.6 2,993.3 100.0 2,642.7 100.0 On February 13, 2015, the remaining € 150 million of the standby facility to sell trade receivables of selected European entities (up to a maximum of originally € 275 million) lapsed. The information with regard to aging categories is based on invoice date, as the risk of non-payment starts from this date. Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognized at fair value less Trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial amount to € 2.452 million (2014: € 2,144 million); an amount recognition, borrowings are stated at amortized cost. of € 496 million (2014: € 457 million) is past due, but not impaired. Any difference between the proceeds and the amount to be repaid is recognized in net finance costs during the term of Excess cash positions are invested with preferred financial the borrowings using the effective interest method. partners, which are considered to be high-quality financial institutions with sound credit ratings, or in highly rated liquidity funds. Policies are in place that limit the amount of Total borrowings credit exposure to any one financial institution. 2015 2014 For other financial assets − which mainly comprise receivables on governmental or semi-governmental bodies − see note 16. Non-current borrowings comprising drawings on the multi currency syndicated 3.2.2 Liquidity risk revolving credit facility 124.6 315.0 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to Non-current borrowings 124.6 315.0 meet its financial obligations. The Group’s approach to liquidity risk is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always Current borrowings 182.1 224.1 have sufficient funds available to meet its liabilities when 306.7 539.1 due, under both normal and stressed conditions. This risk is managed by having sufficient availability of cash, as well as committed and uncommitted credit lines, both at Group and Transaction costs included in the drawings amount to € 7.6 subsidiary level. million (2014: € 9.8 million). Credit facilities The existing drawings on the multi-currency syndicated At December 31, 2015 and 2014 , the Group has a € 1.800 revolving credit facility are denominated in US dollars million committed multi-currency syndicated revolving credit (€ 57 million), UK pounds sterling (€ 37 million) and Japanese facility at its disposal, which matures July 2020. The maturity Yens (€ 38 million). All amounts denominated in currencies term may potentially be extended to a maximum of 7 years other than the euro are designated as hedges of the net (i.e., mid-2022) through the exercise of two extension investment in subsidiaries in the US, the UK and Japan. These options, which are at the banks' discretion. During the year a net-investment hedges are all considered effective. first extension option has been exercised (from mid-2019 to July 2020).The facility agreement contains a covenant with respect to the net debt to EBITDA ratio (leverage ratio), as well as a paragraph on material adverse changes. The net debt to EBITDA ratio has a limit of 3.5 and is calculated based annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 118 main notes to the consolidated financial statements Current borrowings are denominated in various currencies. Movements in non-current borrowings At December 31, 2015, the major amounts denominated in foreign currencies are for an amount of € 13.4 million in US 2015 2014 dollars, € 7.9 million in Argentine pesos, € 6.9 million in Indian rupees, and € 6.5 million in Chinese renminbi. Balance at January 1 315.0 643.8 Since the interest rates on the current borrowings fluctuate Repayments of syndicated loan (212.1) (298.7) with the market, the effective interest rates are considered Repayments on other non-current equal to the actual rates. borrowings, net (57.0) Amortization of transaction costs 2.2 2.3 Negative pledges have been issued for purposes of bank Translation differences 19.5 24.6 overdraft facilities and ‘pari passu’ clauses apply. Balance at December 31 124.6 315.0 At year-ends 2015 and 2014, the Group has no outstanding In the 2014 statement of cash flows under cash flow from interest rate or currency derivatives. financing activities (non-current borrowings) was presented the short-term part of non-current borrowings as of December 31, 2013 (€ 100 million). Total amortization of transaction costs amounted to € 2.7 million in 2014 which included € 0.4 million for that part of non-current borrowings presented as short-term as at December 31, 2013. Maturities of financial liabilities are expected to be: Expected maturities of financial liabilities including interest payments December 31, 2015 Carrying amount 0 90 days 91 365 days 2 5 years More than 5 years Non-current borrowings 1 124.6 132.3 Current borrowings 2 182.1 182.1 Trade and other payables 3 2,768.6 2,307.3 461.3 Other liabilities 4 21.5 0.4 1.8 25.1 3,096.8 2,621.7 461.7 1.8 25.1 December 31, 2014 carrying amount 0 90 days 91 365 days 2 5 years more than 5 years Non-current borrowings1 315.0 325.0 Current borrowings2 224.1 224.1 Trade and other payables3 2,549.7 2,120.3 429.4 Other liabilities4 19.5 1.2 0.9 22.5 3,108.3 2,669.4 430.6 0.9 22.5 1 Drawings on the syndicated loan contractually mature in January of the subsequent year; most likely to be extended by new drawings. All amounts are undiscounted. 2 No interest is included, since current borrowings are considered repayable upon demand. All amounts are undiscounted. 3 Excluding deferred income. All amounts are undiscounted. 4 Other liabilities are based upon the estimated maturities, due to the nature of put options. Carrying amount is discounted, whereas other amounts are undiscounted. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 119 Cash and cash equivalents Non-monetary balance sheet items (such as property, plant Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and at and equipment) that are measured in terms of historical cost bank, as well as time deposits and other short-term highly in currencies other than the functional currency of the related liquid investments with original maturities of three months or company are converted at the foreign exchange rates on the less. date of transaction. Exposures to foreign currency exchange risk Cash and cash equivalents The Group uses the euro as its reporting currency. Currencies other than the euro that are of primary importance to the 2015 2014 Group are the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar, the Japanese yen, the UK pound sterling and the US dollar. Time deposits 5.6 5.8 Cash on hand and at bank 127.9 111.3 133.5 117.1 Main exchange rates to the euro averages on annual basis 2015 2014 Time deposits fall due, on average, within a month. The At yearAt yearaverage interest rate for time deposits is 5.9% (2014: 4.5%). Average end Average end An amount of € 130.4 million out of € 133.5 million (2014: Australian dollar 0.68 0.67 0.68 0.68 € 111.1 million out of € 117.1 million) is available upon Canadian dollar 0.71 0.66 0.68 0.71 demand. Japanese yen 0.00745 0.00762 0.00713 0.00689 UK pound sterling 1.38 1.36 1.24 1.28 Net debt US dollar 0.90 0.92 0.75 0.82 The net debt includes the balance of cash, cash equivalents and borrowings (both current and non-current). The foreign currency exchange risk of the Group with respect to transactions is limited, because subsidiaries usually Net debt generate both revenues and expenses in the same local currency. 2015 2014 All other foreign exchange transactions, which mostly consist Non-current borrowings (124.6) (315.0) of intercompany financing (equity increases, dividends, Current borrowings (182.1) (224.1) intercompany loans and interests), are executed, in principle, Total borrowings (306.7) (539.1) on a spot basis. The Group has a policy to match, within Cash and cash equivalents 133.5 117.1 certain preset boundaries, the currencies in the net debt Net debt (173.2) (422.0) positions with the currencies in the cash flow generation. The currency mix of the debt can easily be adjusted, as the € 1,800 million syndicated revolving credit facility is a multi-currency 3.2.3 Foreign currency exchange risk facility. In principle, the use of derivatives is therefore unnecessary. Transactions and balances in currencies other than the functional currency Currency fluctuations can, however, affect the consolidated Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency results, due to the translation of local results into the Group's of the related subsidiary are converted at the foreign reporting currency. exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Translation effects from consolidation may also impact Monetary balance sheet items (such as cash and borrowings) shareholders’ equity. The Group has a number of net in currencies other than the functional currency of the related investments in foreign subsidiaries whose assets and liabilities subsidiary are converted at year-end exchange rates. are exposed to currency translation risk that is accounted for, through total other comprehensive income, in equity. Exchange differences resulting from the settlement of Currency exposures arising from the net assets of the Group’s transactions on cash, cash equivalents and borrowings, as foreign operations are monitored and, when considered well as from the conversion of these monetary balance sheet necessary, hedged against borrowings in the relevant items are included in net finance costs. Exchange differences currencies through a net investment hedge; translation resulting from the settlement of other transactions and differences on borrowings classified as such are included, conversion of other monetary balance sheet items are through comprehensive income, in equity. included in operating expenses. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 120 main notes to the consolidated financial statements Sensitivity The Group considers the following accounting policies, If the euro had weakened or strengthened 10% on average judgments, estimates and assumptions as critical: during 2015 against the currencies mentioned above, with all impairment of non-financial assets in general and other variables held constant, EBITA for the year 2015 would impairment of goodwill specifically; have been higher or lower respectively in the range of provisions; € 2 million − € 22 million per currency. The effect on corporate taxes; shareholders’ equity would have been the same (before tax revenue recognition. effects) (2014: range of € 1 million − € 16 million per currency). 4.1 Impairments 3.2.4 Interest rate risk 4.1.1 Impairment of non-financial assets As we believe the staffing industry has a natural hedge to The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, interest rate changes (EBITDA levels usually move up and with the exception of deferred tax assets and the plan assets down more or less in line with interest rate levels), and since in relation to defined benefit pension plans, are reviewed for the Group is cash-generating, the general policy is to keep impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances interest rates on net debt floating as much as possible. We indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. also believe this adds value for shareholders in the long term, For goodwill, testing for impairment is performed at least as over time the floating interest rates are on average annually. significantly lower than the fixed interest rates. If there are such indications, the recoverable amount of the Sensitivity asset is estimated. If this is not possible, the recoverable If the interest rate had been 1 percentage point higher on amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset average during 2015, with all other variables held constant, belongs is estimated. For purposes of impairment testing, net interest expenses for the year would have been € 4 assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are million higher (2014: € 7 million effect). separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). Goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units, being operating segments, for purposes of impairment 4. Critical accounting policies, testing. judgments, estimates If the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash-generating and assumptions unit (or operating segment) is estimated to be lower than its carrying amount, the related carrying amount is reduced to In preparing the financial statements, management has to its recoverable amount. make certain judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported The resulting impairment loss is immediately recognized in amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. The total operating expenses. actual outcome may differ from these judgments, estimates and assumptions, and therefore could have a material effect The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value on the carrying amount of the asset or liability involved. The less costs to dispose and its value in use. timing of outflow of resources to settle provisions is subject to the same uncertain factors. Judgments, estimates and The value in use is determined by using the present value of assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are based estimated cash flow projections. The discount rates are based on historical experience and various other factors, including on interest rates that align with the terms of the projections expectations about future events, which are believed to be and the specific risks of the asset or business respectively. reasonable under the circumstances and for the item involved. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized in In determining the fair value less costs to dispose, the period in which the estimates are revised and in any information such as recent market transactions is taken into future periods affected. account; if no such transactions (or comparable transactions) can be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used. This valuation model is supplemented by valuation multiples, quoted share prices, or other available fair-value indicators. Impairment losses relating to a cash-generating unit (or operating segment) are first allocated to reduce the carrying amount of the goodwill of the related cash-generating unit (or operating segment) and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets of that cash-generating unit (or operating segment) on a pro rata basis. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 121 An impairment loss with respect to goodwill is not reversed. carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity that is sold. Where goodwill has been allocated to an operating With respect to other assets, an impairment loss recognized segment and part of the operation within that operating in a prior period is assessed at each reporting date for any segment is disposed of, the goodwill related to that part is indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An included in the carrying amount of the disposed operation impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the when determining the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. disposed is calculated based on the relative value of the disposed operation of the total value of the operating For the impairment-testing method of property, plant and segment to which the disposed operation belongs. If disposal equipment, software and acquisition-related intangible of an entity results in a loss, the goodwill part in the loss is assets, see notes 13, 14 and 15 respectively. presented in the statement of comprehensive income as an impairment of goodwill, up to a maximum amount of the 4.1.2 Goodwill and impairment of goodwill loss on disposal. Goodwill is allocated to operating segments for the purpose Goodwill of impairment testing. The allocation is made to those operating segments that are expected to benefit from the 2015 2014 business combination in which the goodwill arose. Cost 3,193.7 3,096.0 Impairment testing Accumulated impairment 818.6 785.6 In the case of triggering events and at least annually, the Balance at January 1 2,375.1 2,310.4 Group tests whether intangible assets, being goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets, have suffered any Acquisition of subsidiaries 58.2 impairment. The recoverable amounts of cash-generating Disposal of subsidiaries (1.5) units have been determined using, among other instruments, Impairment value-in-use calculations. These calculations require the use of Translation differences 63.0 64.7 estimates. Based on these impairment tests, impairment Balance at December 31 2,494.8 2,375.1 losses, if any, are identified. Cost 3,334.8 3,193.7 Determination of recoverable amount Accumulated impairment 840.0 818.6 The recoverable amount for all operating segments is based Balance at December 31 2,494.8 2,375.1 on the higher of value in use and fair value less cost to dispose. The value in use is determined by means of cash flow projections based on the actual operating results adjusted for In 2015, the Group acquired the US based company RiseSmart non-cash items (mainly depreciation and amortization) and Inc. This acquisition resulted in an amount of goodwill of 58.2 the expected future performance, which in turn is based on million, based on a provisional purchase price allocation (see historical performance, management’s estimates and note 6.1). assumptions of revenue growth, and of developments of operating margins, assessed using external data, covering a In 2015, the Group disposed of activities in Australia. The period of, in principle, nine years (2014: nine years). Cash flow related carrying amount of goodwill amounting to € 1.5 projections after this period are extrapolated by means of a million has been derecognized. growth percentage of 0.25% (2014: 0.5%) throughout the Group. The nine-year period of the projections reflects an Accounting policies estimated full business cycle of the industry. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets; goodwill on acquisitions of associates is Yearly impairment test included in investments in associates. For the measurement of Key assumptions in the cash flow projections are: goodwill at initial recognition, see note 6.1. annual revenue growth of the Group: on average between 3.7% and 7.6% for the first three years and Goodwill upon acquisitions represents payments made by the 3.7% 3.8% for the following six years (Netherlands: 2.0% Group in anticipation of future economic benefits from assets to 8.1% and 2.0% respectively; USA: 4.0% to 8.0% and that cannot be identified individually and cannot be 4.0% respectively); recognized separately. These relate, for example, to synergies EBITA of the Group in the range of 4.7% to 5.1% of expected from integrating the acquired companies and the revenue (Netherlands: 6.0% to 6.8%; USA: 6.0% to 6.1%); workforces of the acquired companies. growth rate in revenue and EBITA percentages vary between segments in relatively limited terms and are Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses. dependent on the mix in revenue. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 122 main notes to the consolidated financial statements The cash flow projections are prepared in local currencies, and discounted with pre-tax discount rates for each currency involved. The pre-tax discount rates vary from 8.9% to 30.8%. The weighted average is 13.0% (2014: average 14.4%). Netherlands: 10.6% (2014: 12.0%); USA: 13.8% (2014: 15.7%). Results of annual impairment test The annual impairment tests carried out by the Group for 2015 and 2014 did not indicate that any of the operating segments that contain goodwill may be impaired. Sensitivity relating to annual impairment test The outcome of impairment testing is sensitive to variations in estimates and assumptions. Variations in estimates and assumptions have the following effect on the recoverable amount calculations: revenue growth: a 1 %-point lower growth rate would result in an impairment charge of € 1 million for India (2014: no impairment charge); EBITA: a 0.5 %-point lower EBITA in percentage of revenue would imply a € 13 million impairment charge for the operating segments India (€ 9 million), Latin America (€ 3 million) and Sourceright Asiapac (€ 1 million) (2014: € 9 million related to operating segment in Australia). A 1.0 %-point lower EBITA percentage of revenue would imply a € 13 million impairment charge mainly related to India and Latin America (2014: € 50 million, mainly related to Australia); discount rate: a 1.0 %-point higher discount rate would result in a € 4 million impairment charge for the operating segment India (2014: Australia € 3 million). For the carrying amount of goodwill by reporting segment, see note 5.2. In 2015, the operating segments Latin America, India and Sourceright Asiapac are most sensitive to variations in assumptions (2014: Australia). The recoverable amount of € 91 million exceeds the carrying amount (including € 13 million of goodwill) by € 5 million. The operating segments UK, Australia and France have sufficient headroom to cover the previously mentioned variations in assumptions. The operating segments the Netherlands, Belgium & Luxembourg, Germany, USA, Canada, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Switzerland, Eastern Europe, Scandinavia, Poland, Japan, China, Sourceright North America and Sourceright Emea have substantial headroom available. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 123 4.2 Provisions and employee benefit obligations 4.2.1 Provisions Movements in provisions Workers' Restructuring compensation Other Total Balance at January 1, 2015 41.5 46.3 55.7 143.5 Movements in 2015 Acquisition of subsidiaries 4.5 4.5 Charged to income statement 29.7 24.8 19.6 74.1 Released to income statement (2.9) (10.3) (13.2) Withdrawals (45.7) (29.3) (13.7) (88.7) Total amount in statement of cash flows (18.9) (4.5) (4.4) (27.8) Interest due to passage of time 1.5 0.2 1.7 Translation differences 0.2 5.0 (0.1) 5.1 Balance at December 31, 2015 22.8 48.3 55.9 127.0 Non-current 4.4 31.0 36.2 71.6 Current 18.4 17.3 19.7 55.4 Balance at December 31, 2015 22.8 48.3 55.9 127.0 Balance at January 1, 2014 Non-current 1.0 28.3 47.4 76.7 Current 15.7 17.3 26.8 59.8 16.7 45.6 74.2 136.5 Movements in 2014 Acquisition of subsidiaries (4.4) (4.4) Charged to income statement 40.6 23.1 10.3 74.0 Released to income statement (1.8) (8.2) (10.0) Withdrawals (14.2) (29.3) (16.9) (60.4) Total amount in statement of cash flows 24.6 (6.2) (14.8) 3.6 Interest due to passage of time 0.0 1.4 0.3 1.7 Translation differences 0.2 5.5 0.4 6.1 Balance at December 31, 2014 41.5 46.3 55.7 143.5 Non-current 2.5 27.9 43.2 73.6 Current 39.0 18.4 12.5 69.9 Balance at December 31, 2014 41.5 46.3 55.7 143.5 Provisions for restructuring are recognized when a detailed Provisions for workers’ compensation are based on claims for and formal restructuring plan is approved, and the compensation and medical expenses (of both staffing and restructuring has either commenced or has been announced corporate employees) in relation to accidents during working publicly. These restructuring provisions mainly comprise hours, for which the Group is liable under applicable local severance payments for personnel and lease termination laws. These provisions relate to our activities in North penalties for branches. America and in part of Australia, where we are responsible for payment of workers’ compensation claims up to a maximum amount per claim, beyond which the costs are annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 124 main notes to the consolidated financial statements insured. Independent actuaries calculate the amount of the 4.2.2 Employee benefit obligations provision. The effective interest rate used in the calculation of the Employee benefit obligations provision for workers’ compensation lies in the range of 2.00 % to 3.00 % (2014: range of 2.25% to 3.00%). 2015 2014 Other provisions mainly relate to: Defined benefit pension plans 72.0 46.0 Onerous contracts, where the expected benefits to be Other post-employment benefits 4.8 3.9 derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the Other long-term employee benefits 32.0 31.2 unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the Balance at January 1 108.8 81.1 contract; and Estimated amounts of claims from third parties. These Movements during the year generally consist of a large number of individual claims. Reclassification balance sheet (3.4) These claims are provided for at the lowest amount at Charged to comprehensive income 49.3 84.3 which the Group expects the claim to be reasonably Withdrawals/benefits paid (41.1) (45.6) settled. Due to the highly uncertain timing of the Contributions, employers (10.7) (7.9) expected future cash outflow, provided amounts for Translation differences 1.0 0.3 claims from third parties are categorized to be settled Total movements (1.5) 27.7 within 1 year after the balance sheet date, unless these are explicitly expected to be settled differently. Defined benefit pension plans 77.8 72.0 Other post-employment benefits 4.2 4.8 The majority of the non-current part of these provisions is Other long-term employee benefits 25.3 32.0 expected to be settled within three years of the balance sheet Balance at December 31 107.3 108.8 date. Sensitivity The current part of the balance at December 31, 2015 With respect to provisions, the provision for workers’ amounts to € 12.4 million (2014: € 17.8 million). compensation is sensitive to changes in the interest rate. Should the interest rate deviate by 1 percentage point, with all other variables held constant, the provision would deviate Employee benefit obligations charged to in the range of € 1 million € 2 million (2014: range of comprehensive income € 1 million € 2 million). 2015 2014 Accounting policy Provisions are recognized for legally enforceable or Current service cost, total 54.3 61.6 constructive obligations as a result of a past event for which Contributions, employees (7.1) (5.1) the settlement is likely to require an outflow of resources and Current service cost net, charged to to the extent these can be reliably estimated. If the effect is operating profit 47.2 56.5 material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at an interest rate that reflects the Interest expense due to passage of time 3.2 4.3 current market assessments of the time value of money and, Interest income due to passage of time (1.7) (2.4) where appropriate, the risks specific to the obligation. Charged to net finance costs 1.5 1.9 Actuarial losses, net 0.6 25.9 Charged to comprehensive income 49.3 84.3 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 125 The discount rates used in the calculation of the obligations to the then net defined benefit liability. Net interest expense for employee benefits are in the following ranges: is recognized in net finance costs. Other post-employment benefits Discount rates employee benefits Other post-employment benefit plans are defined benefit plans and follow the same accounting treatment as defined 2015 2014 benefit pension plans. Independent actuaries calculate the defined benefit obligations based on factors such as age, Defined benefit pension plans 0.7% 2.5% 0.7% 1.9% years of service and compensation (projected unit credit Other post-employment benefits 2.0% 7.6% 1.8% 8.4% method). These plans mainly consist of state driven plans in Other long-term employee benefits 0.1% 4.7% 0.2% 2.3% Italy and India. Remeasurements of the liability − comprising actuarial gains The obligations regarding other post-employment benefits and losses − are recognized immediately in other and other long-term employee benefits are unfunded. comprehensive income. Pensions Other long-term employee benefits The Group has various pension schemes, in accordance with In accordance with applicable legal requirements, the Group local conditions and practices in the countries in which it recognizes liabilities for several other long-term employee operates. In some countries, such pension schemes are benefit plans, such as sickness-related schemes and longoperated through a company pension fund. Most of the service leave plans. These liabilities are based on calculations pension schemes are defined contribution plans, which are made by independent actuaries based on factors such as age, funded through payments to independent entities. For these years of service, expected sickness duration, and schemes the Group's obligation is limited to the payment of compensation (the 'projected unit credit method'). these annual contributions. The contributions constitute net periodic costs for the year in which they are due and are Actuarial gains and losses related to these plans are included in personnel expenses and/or costs of services. recognized in personnel expenses and/or cost of services in the year in which they occur. A few pension schemes are defined benefit plans. The liability recognized in the balance sheet is the present value of the For more information on pensions and employee benefit defined benefit obligation less the fair value of plan assets. obligations, see note 25. Independent actuaries calculate the defined benefit obligations based on factors such as age, years of service and 4.3 Corporate taxes compensation (projected unit credit method). The Group is subject to corporate income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining The present value of the defined benefit obligation is the worldwide deferred tax asset on, among other items, tax determined by discounting the estimated future cash losses carry-forward. There are many uncertain factors that outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds influence the amount of the tax losses carry-forward. The denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be Group recognizes deferred tax assets on tax losses carrypaid, and with terms to maturity that approximate the term forward based on its best estimates. The recoverability of when the related pension liability is due. deferred income tax assets is reviewed and assessed frequently, using forecasts that are based on the actual Current service costs are recognized in personnel expenses operating results and expected future performance. External and/or cost of services and reflect the increase in the defined data are used for reference if considered necessary. When the benefit obligation resulting from employee service in the actual results are different from the amounts that were current year. initially estimated, such differences will impact the income tax in the income statement (effective tax rate) and the Past service costs are recognized immediately in personnel deferred tax assets and/or deferred tax liabilities in the period expenses and/or cost of services. in which these deviations occur. The Group has also identified a number of uncertain tax positions, which could lead to Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability positive and/or negative differences. comprising actuarial gains and losses from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptionsare 4.3.1 Deferred and current income taxes recognized immediately in other comprehensive income. Using the balance sheet liability method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized to provide for temporary The net interest expense on the net defined benefit liability is differences between the value of the assets and liabilities for determined by applying the discount rate used to measure financial reporting purposes and for tax purposes. Deferred the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the year tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 126 main notes to the consolidated financial statements enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current Deferred income tax assets tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same tax authority. Composition of deferred income tax assets Deferred tax assets, including those resulting from tax losses carry-forward, are recognized to the extent that it is probable 2015 2014 that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences, including tax losses carry-forward, can Tax losses carry-forward 453.2 589.3 be utilized. Property, plant, equipment, and Deferred tax assets and liabilities are valued at tax rates intangible assets 66.7 71.9 enacted or substantially enacted at year-end and which are Provisions 69.2 60.7 expected to apply in the coming years when the assets and Other receivables/other payables 158.8 145.0 liabilities are expected to be realized or settled. Temporary differences 294.7 277.6 Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on Deferred income tax assets (before investments in subsidiaries and associates, except for deferred netting) 747.9 866.9 income tax liabilities arising from undistributed profits from Amount netted with deferred income tax investments where the entity is able to control the timing of liabilities (216.4) (332.2) the reversal of the difference and it is probable that the Deferred income tax assets (after netting) 531.5 534.7 reversal will not occur in the foreseeable future. Deferred income tax assets in relation to tax losses carryMovements in total position of corporate taxes forward comprise an amount of € 81 million (2014: € 110 million), originating from subsidiaries that showed tax losses 2015 2014 in the current or preceding year. Assets/(liabilities) Certain deferred income tax assets, whose recoverability is Deferred income tax assets 534.7 521.9 considered not probable, are valued at nil. These comprise Current income tax receivables 56.4 65.2 deferred tax assets in relation to tax losses carry-forward of Deferred income tax liabilities (34.8) (36.6) € 307 million (2014: € 307 million), and deferred tax assets Current income tax liabilities (29.2) (53.4) relating to other temporary differences of € 2 million (2014: Balance at January 1 527.1 497.1 € 2 million). Movements during the year The part of deferred tax assets that is expected to be Charged to income statement (163.6) (145.0) recovered within one year is estimated at € 99 million (2014: Net payments 105.4 116.7 € 77 million). Acquisition of subsidiaries' deferred taxes (6.3) (2.8) Acquisition of subsidiaries' current taxes 1.8 Sensitivity Recognized in other comprehensive The deferred tax assets are only recognized to the extent that income 16.2 13.8 it is considered probable that future taxable profits will be Recognized in equity on share-based available, against which these deferred tax assets can be compensations (0.6) 0.4 utilized. The scenarios used are in agreement with the Translation differences 38.6 45.1 estimates and assumptions used in the goodwill impairment Total movements (10.3) 30.0 testing (see note 4.1.2). The various scenarios yield potential outcomes that do not materially deviate from the carrying Assets/(liabilities) amount. Deferred income tax assets 531.5 534.7 Current income tax receivables 58.0 56.4 Deferred income tax liabilities (35.9) (34.8) Current income tax liabilities (36.8) (29.2) Balance at December 31 516.8 527.1 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 127 Deferred income tax liabilities The part of deferred income tax liabilities that is expected to be settled within one year is estimated at € 27 million (2014: € 33 million). Composition of income tax liabilities Movements in deferred income taxes 2015 2014 In the table below, the balances of deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities have been included gross Acquisition-related intangible assets 26.0 46.5 at the beginning and end of the year. The netting of Temporary differences subsidiaries 117.2 220.0 deferred income tax assets and liabilities is shown in the Other temporary differences 109.1 100.5 tables for deferred income tax assets and liabilities. Deferred income tax liabilities (before netting) 252.3 367.0 Amount netted with deferred income tax assets (216.4) (332.2) Deferred income tax liabilities (after netting) 35.9 34.8 Movements in deferred income taxes Tax losses carryTemporary forward differences Total 2015 Total 2014 Deferred income tax assets 589.3 277.6 866.9 819.5 Deferred income tax liabilities (367.0) (367.0) (334.2) Balance at January 1 589.3 (89.4) 499.9 485.3 Movements during the year Acquisition of subsidiaries 8.8 (15.1) (6.3) (2.8) Income statement (111.5) 136.2 24.7 (22.0) Other movements (62.7) (62.7) (5.1) Translation differences 29.3 10.7 40.0 44.5 Total movements (136.1) 131.8 (4.3) 14.6 Deferred income tax assets 453.2 294.7 747.9 866.9 Deferred income tax liabilities (252.3) (252.3) (367.0) Balance at December 31 453.2 42.4 495.6 499.9 4.3.2 Corporate taxes on income Details of corporate taxes on income Corporate taxes on income for the year comprise current taxes and deferred taxes. Income taxes are recognized in the 2015 2014 income statement, except for taxes that relate to items recognized in other comprehensive income; these taxes are Current tax expense 188.3 123.0 then also directly recognized in other comprehensive income. Deferred tax (income) / expense (24.7) 22.0 Tax expense 163.6 145.0 Current taxes on income are the sum of taxes levied on the results before taxes, in the countries where those results were generated, based on local tax regulations and at tax rates of the applicable year. Tax-exempt income and expenses not deductible for tax purposes are taken into account in calculating current taxes on income. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 128 main notes to the consolidated financial statements In 2015, the average effective tax rate on income before the outcome of the contract cannot be measured reliably, taxes was 24.0% (2014: 29.9%). The reconciliation between revenue is recognized only to the extent that expenses the applicable income tax rate of the company’s country of incurred are eligible to be recovered. No revenue is domicile and the average effective tax rate is as follows: recognized if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration. Reconciliation from applicable to effective tax rate Revenue from temporary placements includes the amounts received or receivable for the services of candidates, including 2015 2014 the salary and salary-related employment costs of those employees (gross basis). These revenues are generally based Income tax rate of the company's country of on the number of hours worked by these candidates. domicile 25.0% 25.0% Effect of income tax rates in other (non-domestic) Revenue from permanent placements includes the fee jurisdictions 4.8% 4.2% received or receivable for the services provided. This fee is Weighted average applicable tax rate 29.8% 29.2% generally a percentage of the candidate’s remuneration Tax-exempt income/non-tax-deductible items (5.2%) (6.7%) package (net basis). The revenue of these permanent Changes in statutory applicable tax rates and placements is recognized on completion of the service, being, effects of prior years (0.4%) 4.1% in principle, the start date of the candidate. For 'retained Change in valuation of deferred tax assets and assignments', revenue is recognized on the completion of other (0.2%) 3.3% certain pre-agreed stages of the service and for which the fee is non-refundable. Allowances are established to estimate Average effective tax rate 24.0% 29.9% losses due to placed candidates not remaining employed during the agreed guarantee period. The change in the weighted average applicable tax rate in In situations where the Group is the principal in the 2015 compared to 2014 is due to a changed relative mix in transaction and has risks and rewards of ownership, the the results of subsidiaries in countries with different tax rates. transactions are recorded gross in the statement of comprehensive income. When the Group acts as an agent, The tax-exempt income related to French CICE tax credits has such as in cases where the Group acts as a managed services an impact of 5.5%-points on the effective tax rate (2014: provider, revenues are reported on a net basis. 7.4%), whereas the effect of the non-tax deductible French business tax (CVAE) was only 3.6%-points in 2015 (2014: 4.4.1 Revenue categories 4.9%-points), which is due to the increase in profit before Revenue categories are our service concepts. Three different taxes. The other tax-exempt income and non-tax deductible revenue categories are reported: ‘Staffing’ (including HR expenses had a positive impact of 3.3%-points (2014: 4.2%Solutions), ‘Professionals’, and ‘Inhouse Services’ (including points). Search & Selection). All service concepts have activities in all parts of the world. For a more detailed description of these 'Changes in statutory applicable tax rates and effects of prior service concepts, see the section 'value for our clients and years' were relatively small in 2015, whereas in 2014 negative candidates'. effects of tax rate changes and tax audits in certain countries, had a significant impact on the Group's average effective tax rate. Revenue by revenue category 'Change in valuation of deferred tax assets and other' is 2015 2014 impacted by the assessment of recoverability of the tax assets in various countries. In 2015 these assessments resulted in a Staffing 11,186.4 10,202.8 small release of provisions recorded on the fiscal position in Professionals 3,816.4 3,424.5 certain countries. Inhouse Services 4,216.4 3,622.5 19,219.2 17,249.8 4.4 Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for services rendered during the year to third parties. Revenue from services rendered is recognized in the income statement in proportion to the progress in execution of the contract as of the balance sheet date. Progress in execution of the contract is measured by reference to costs (mainly hours) incurred to date as a percentage of total estimated costs for each contract. When annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 129 5. Segment reporting Segments are geographical areas and are reported in a manner consistent with internal management reporting provided to the Executive Board. There are no material sales or other transactions between the geographical areas. ‘Corporate’ is also included in the disclosures on segments, and represents the unallocated part of assets and liabilities of holding activities, as well as the income and expenses of holding activities; the latter net after management charges to geographical areas. 5.1 Income statement Segmentation income statement Revenue Gross profit Operating profit 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 North America 4,653.4 3,765.9 1,049.4 813.1 212.4 150.0 Netherlands 3,076.9 2,794.7 603.0 577.0 167.7 124.8 France 2,845.1 2,726.2 468.4 452.9 115.7 110.6 Germany 1,969.6 1,949.3 346.6 336.3 85.4 73.6 Belgium & Luxembourg 1,350.3 1,283.3 271.5 245.4 70.7 58.6 Iberia 1,193.5 1,086.1 150.4 134.8 40.8 31.4 United Kingdom 909.5 821.7 170.8 149.8 14.0 (5.0) Other European countries 1,576.6 1,371.3 244.3 214.4 56.0 45.0 Rest of the world 1,644.3 1,451.3 290.1 253.9 4.9 (12.9) Corporate (62.9) (60.8) Total 19,219.2 17,249.8 3,594.5 3,177.6 704.7 515.3 Amortization and impairment Depreciation and impairment of of acquisition-related property, plant and equipment, intangibles and goodwill EBITA and software EBITDA 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 North America 26.7 30.0 239.1 180.0 14.5 13.0 253.6 193.0 Netherlands 17.5 17.7 185.2 142.5 11.0 11.9 196.2 154.4 France 33.0 33.0 148.7 143.6 13.5 12.4 162.2 156.0 Germany 3.4 4.1 88.8 77.7 4.1 5.9 92.9 83.6 Belgium & Luxembourg 7.9 7.9 78.6 66.5 5.3 5.3 83.9 71.8 Iberia 9.1 9.1 49.9 40.5 1.9 1.8 51.8 42.3 United Kingdom 7.4 17.9 21.4 12.9 3.1 3.8 24.5 16.7 Other European countries 5.7 5.6 61.7 50.6 3.1 2.8 64.8 53.4 Rest of the world 16.6 20.1 21.5 7.2 7.8 7.9 29.3 15.1 Corporate (62.9) (60.8) 0.4 0.4 (62.5) (60.4) Total 127.3 145.4 832.0 660.7 64.7 65.2 896.7 725.9 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 130 main notes to the consolidated financial statements 5.2 Balance sheet Segmentation balance sheet Property, plant & Acquisition-related Operating working equipment Software Goodwill intangible assets capital Total assets 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 North America 28.4 30.8 12.7 7.9 604.0 507.1 69.2 46.6 391.7 304.5 1,518.3 1,251.8 Netherlands 35.5 36.7 2.0 2.1 796.8 795.9 6.3 23.8 (96.5) (110.3) 1,366.7 1,306.5 France 19.6 22.1 10.2 10.6 399.6 398.7 10.8 43.8 (52.7) (52.2) 1,369.5 1,251.5 Germany 3.9 4.9 5.3 4.5 205.4 204.5 0.5 3.9 (12.3) (20.6) 491.8 472.8 Belgium & Luxembourg 8.5 7.4 3.0 3.6 126.8 125.9 3.2 11.0 42.6 20.4 363.9 358.5 Iberia 4.3 3.3 0.2 0.4 0.9 3.5 12.6 96.3 133.0 283.4 284.7 United Kingdom 4.4 4.0 1.9 2.0 136.0 127.3 6.9 130.0 84.0 315.2 309.2 Other European countries 6.0 4.9 2.2 1.8 102.9 96.9 2.0 7.4 77.9 50.3 440.0 386.2 Rest of the world 14.3 14.7 7.2 4.2 122.4 118.8 13.0 27.8 59.0 61.8 430.3 440.7 Corporate 1.1 1.5 (14.6) 16.8 35.4 36.3 Eliminations (28.7) (28.5) Total 124.9 128.8 45.8 38.6 2,494.8 2,375.1 108.5 183.8 621.4 487.7 6,585.8 6,069.7 5.2.1 Operating working capital Operating working capital includes current assets, excluding Operating working capital cash and cash equivalents, current income tax receivables, and the current part of held-to-maturity investments, minus 2015 2014 current liabilities, excluding current borrowings, current income tax liabilities, and the current part of provisions, of Current assets 3,627.2 3,251.4 employee benefit obligations and of other liabilities. Current liabilities (3,105.6) (2,937.9) Deferred receipts from disposal of subsidiaries, as well as the Working capital 521.6 313.5 net interest payable, are also excluded in order to align the presentation of the movements in these latter two items, Current assets 3,627.2 3,251.4 which are presented under net cash flow from investing activities and financing activities respectively. Adjusted for: Cash and cash equivalents (133.5) (117.1) 5.2.2 Total assets Current income tax receivables (58.0) (56.4) Assets by segment include total assets excluding deferred Current part of held-to-maturity investments (6.7) (3.7) income tax assets, current income tax receivables and cash Deferred receipts disposed Group companies 0.0 (0.2) and cash equivalents. Interest receivable (0.1) (0.1) Operating working capital assets 3,428.9 3,073.9 Total assets Current liabilities (3,105.6) (2,937.9) 2015 2014 Adjusted for: Current borrowings 182.1 224.1 Total assets 7,308.8 6,777.9 Current income tax liabilities 36.8 29.2 Current provisions 55.4 69.9 Less: Current employee benefit obligations 12.4 17.8 Deferred income tax assets 531.5 534.7 Current other liabilities 7.0 7.0 Current income tax receivables 58.0 56.4 Interest payable 4.4 3.7 Cash and cash equivalents 133.5 117.1 Operating working capital liabilities (2,807.5) (2,586.2) Assets by segment 6,585.8 6,069.7 Operating working capital assets 3,428.9 3,073.9 Operating working capital liabilities (2,807.5) (2,586.2) Operating working capital 621.4 487.7 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 131 6. Business combinations The fair value of the consideration transferred, being the fair value of the assets given and liabilities incurred or 6.1 Information about acquisitions assumed; plus In 2015, the Group acquired the US based company RiseSmart The recognized amount of any non-controlling interests in Inc. This acquisition resulted in an amount of goodwill of the acquiree; plus € 58.2 million, based on a provisional purchase price The fair value of any previous equity interests in the allocation. acquiree (if the business combination is achieved in stages); less During 2014, the Group did not acquire any activities as a The fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and result of business combinations. liabilities assumed (including contingent liabilities). When this difference is negative (‘negative goodwill’ or Summary of assets and liabilities arising from badwill) , this amount is recognized directly in total operating acquisitions in 2015 expenses. Provisional purchase price All considerations transferred to acquire a business are allocation recorded at fair value at the acquisition date; subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent considerations Property, plant and equipment 0.6 classified as debt are recognized as expenses or income. Intangibles 44.0 Deferred tax assets 10.9 The Group recognizes any non-controlling interest in the Total non-current assets 55.5 acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share Working capital 4.4 of the recognized amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Provisions 4.5 Deferred tax liabilities 17.2 All acquisition-related costs are expensed and included in Total non-current liabilities 21.7 other general and administrative expenses. Net assets acquired 38.2 6.2 Information about disposals In 2015, the Group disposed of certain activities in Australia. Goodwill 58.2 The related carrying amount of goodwill amounting to Total consideration 96.4 € 1.5 million has been derecognized. In 2014, the Group did not dispose of any activities; an Reconciliation of cash flow acquisitions amount of € 0.2 million was received from disposals made in previous years. 2015 2014 Total consideration 96.4 Net cash of subsidiaries acquired (7.1) Deferred compensation on acquisitions (0.6) Consideration paid, adjusted for net cash acquired 88.7 Consideration paid in respect of acquisitions in preceding years 0.3 0.6 Acquisition of subsidiaries/activities, statement of cash flows 89.0 0.6 Accounting policy The Group uses the acquisition method to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries. Goodwill at acquisition date is measured as: annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 132 main notes to the consolidated financial statements Reconciliation of cash flow disposals 7. Earnings per ordinary share 2015 2014 2015 2014 Goodwill 1.5 Net income 518.8 340.1 Working capital 0.8 Net income attributable to holders of Other liabilities ordinary shares 506.2 327.5 Net assets and liabilities 2.3 Amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and Gain on disposal 1.6 goodwill (after taxes) 86.0 99.1 Total consideration 3.9 Net income attributable to holders of ordinary shares before amortization and Deferred receipts, net 0.2 0.2 impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill 592.2 426.6 Consideration received in respect of the disposal of subsidiaries and activities 4.1 0.2 Numbers of ordinary shares (in millions) Net cash of disposed subsidiaries and Weighted average number of ordinary activities shares outstanding 181.7 178.9 Disposal of subsidiaries and activities, Dilutive effect of share-based statement of cash flows 4.1 0.2 compensation arrangements 1.6 2.3 Weighted average number of diluted ordinary shares outstanding 183.3 181.2 Accounting policy Upon disposal of a subsidiary, the gain or loss upon disposal is Earnings per ordinary share (in €) included in other general and administrative expenses. If Basic earnings per ordinary share 2.79 1.83 disposal of an operation results in a loss, the goodwill part in Diluted earnings per ordinary share 2.76 1.81 the loss is presented in the statement of comprehensive Diluted earnings per ordinary share income as an impairment of goodwill, up to a maximum before amortization and impairment of amount of the loss on disposal. acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill 3.23 2.35 Basic earnings per ordinary share are calculated by dividing net income attributable to the holders of ordinary shares by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. The issued number of ordinary shares is adjusted for ordinary shares purchased by Randstad Holding nv, which are held as treasury shares. Diluted earnings per ordinary share are calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, assuming conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. The dilutive potential ordinary shares arise from various share-based compensation arrangements. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 133 notes to the consolidated income statement 8. Cost of services and total 8.2.3 Total operating expenses by nature operating expenses Total operating expenses by nature 8.1 Cost of services Cost of services comprises expenses directly attributable to 2015 2014 revenue. These costs mainly include expenses related to candidates, such as wages, salaries and social charges. Wages and salaries 1,562.6 1,411.5 Social security charges 262.5 244.0 Pension charges defined contribution plans 33.3 32.0 Cost of services Pension charges defined benefit plans 8.5 6.1 Share-based compensations 29.1 27.4 2015 2014 Wages, salaries, social security and pension charges 1,896.0 1,721.0 Wages and salaries 12,603.7 11,313.6 Social security charges 2,315.3 2,121.7 Other personnel expenses 204.3 173.6 Pension charges defined contribution Personnel expenses 2,100.3 1,894.6 plans 107.8 87.8 Pension charges defined benefit plans 6.2 5.3 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant Wages, salaries, social security and and equipment 44.6 44.9 pension charges 15,033.0 13,528.4 Amortization of software 19.2 19.6 Advertising and marketing 109.4 103.0 Depreciation of property, plant and Accommodation 190.0 185.2 equipment 0.9 0.7 Other 299.0 269.6 Other cost of services 590.8 543.1 Operating expenses 2,762.5 2,516.9 15,624.7 14,072.2 Amortization and impairment of acquisitionrelated intangible assets and goodwill 127.3 145.4 8.2 Operating expenses Total operating expenses 2,889.8 2,662.3 Operating expenses are classified based on the functional model and are recognized in the year to which they relate. 8.3 Depreciation, amortization and impairment of 8.2.1 Selling expenses property, plant, equipment, and software Selling expenses comprise personnel and accommodation expenses in relation to operational activities at the outlets, advertising and marketing, and other selling expenses. Depreciation, amortization and impairment of property, plant and equipment, and software Selling expenses include an amount of € 11.1 million (2014: € 12.2 million) related to impairment losses on trade 2015 2014 receivables as well as debt collection costs. Depreciation of buildings 1.5 1.1 8.2.2 General and administrative expenses Depreciation of computer hardware 18.2 17.6 General and administrative expenses comprise personnel and Depreciation of leasehold improvements accommodation expenses of head offices, IT expenses, other and furniture and fixtures 25.8 26.9 general and administrative expenses, as well as the Impairment of property, plant and amortization and impairment of acquisition-related equipment intangible assets and goodwill. Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 45.5 45.6 Other general and administrative expenses include: Foreign exchange gains of € 1.1 million (2014: Amortization of software 19.2 19.6 € 0.7 million); 64.7 65.2 A loss on the sale of property, plant and equipment of € 0.3 million (2014: € 0.4 million); Included in: Cost of services 0.9 0.7 During 2015 the Group acquired and disposed of companies/ Selling expenses 19.9 21.1 activities. The disposals resulted in a gain of € 1.6 million; General and administrative expenses 43.9 43.4 acquisition related expenses amount to € 2.2 million. In 2014 64.7 65.2 the Group had no business combinations. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 134 notes to the consolidated income statement 8.4 Amortization and impairment of acquisitionTotal amounts of wages and salaries, social security related intangible assets and goodwill and pension charges 2015 2014 Amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill Wages and salaries 14,166.3 12,725.1 Social security charges 2,577.8 2,365.7 2015 2014 Pension charges defined contribution plans 141.1 119.8 Amortization of acquisition-related Pension charges defined benefit plans 14.7 11.4 intangible assets 127.3 145.4 Share-based compensations 29.1 27.4 Impairment of goodwill 16,929.0 15,249.4 127.3 145.4 10. Net finance costs For impairment of goodwill, see note 4.1.2. Net finance costs 8.5 Operating leases For operating leases, an amount of € 230 million (2014: 2015 2014 € 229 million) is included in operating profit. Finance income Lease contracts of which the majority of risks and rewards inherent to ownership do not lie with the Group are classified Interest and similar income 3.9 1.5 as operating leases. Expenses related to operating leases are Changes in value of other liabilities 0.4 3.5 included in operating expenses and/or cost of services on a Interest due to passage of time 4.2 4.0 straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Finance income 8.5 9.0 8.6 Grants Finance expenses Grants are recognized when there is reasonable assurance that they will be received and that the Group will comply Interest and similar expenses 7.6 8.7 with the conditions attached to them. Foreign exchange losses, net 17.5 13.8 Interest and commitment fees on nonGrants that compensate for expenses incurred are credited to current borrowings 5.4 9.2 operating expenses and/or cost of services on a systematic Dividend on non-controlling interests basis in the same period in which the expenses are incurred. classified as other liabilities 0.7 0.5 Amortization of transaction cost nonGrants included in operating profit amount to € 27.8 million current borrowings 2.2 2.7 (2014: € 26.2 million), of which € 25.0 million (2014: Interest due to passage of time 4.2 4.6 € 25.2 million) is reported under cost of services. Grants Finance expenses 37.6 39.5 mainly relate to the compensation (in whole or in part) of the costs of education of candidates and of the costs to employ Net finance costs 29.1 30.5 selected categories of employees. Net finance costs comprise interest expenses and interest 9. Total wages and salaries, social income, as well as items similar to interest and exchange differences on cash, cash equivalents and borrowings. Interest security and pension charges expenses and income are recognized in the income statement on a time-proportion basis, using the effective interest Wages, salaries, social security charges and pension charges method. Interest due to the passage of time of held-toare included in cost of services for candidates and in maturity investments, loans and receivables, and deferred personnel expenses for corporate employees. considerations, as well as in relation to the valuation of certain provisions and employee benefit obligations, are also included in net finance costs. Changes in the value of deferred considerations and differences upon settlement of these deferred considerations (see note 20), as well as dividend paid to non-controlling interests classified as other liabilities, are also reported under net finance costs. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 135 Finance income expenses , statement of cashflows 2015 2014 Finance income 8.5 9.0 Non-cash items 4.6 7.5 Cash items 3.9 1.5 Change in interest receivable 0.0 (0.1) Finance income, statement of cashflows 3.9 1.4 Finance expenses 37.6 39.5 Non-cash items 23.9 7.3 Cash items 13.7 32.2 Change in interest payable (0.7) (0.4) Finance expenses, statement of cashflows 13.0 31.8 11. Net income Net income includes foreign exchange losses of € 16.4 million (2014: € 13.1 million). For other items included in net income, see note 8.2. 12. Total other comprehensive income Items that may subsequently be reclassified to the income statement are translation differences to the amount of € 149.5 million, being € 133.3 million translation differences and € 16.2 million tax effect (2014: € 145.8 million, being € 141.8 million translation differences and € 4.0 million tax effect). Another item that may subsequently be reclassified is the fair value adjustment of equity investments to the amount of € 0.6 million, with no tax effect (2014: zero). Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement are remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations of € 0.6 million negative remeasurements and € 0.0 million taxeffect (2014: € 16.1 million, being € 25.9 million remeasurements and € 9.8 million tax effect). annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 136 notes to the consolidated balance sheet 13. Property, plant and equipment Leasehold improvements, Buildings and land Computer hardware furnitures and fixtures Total Balance at January 1, 2015 27.0 35.1 66.7 128.8 Movements in 2015 Acquisitions of subsidiaries 0.1 0.5 0.6 Additions 17.1 24.9 42.0 Disposals (1.6) (2.9) (4.5) Depreciation (1.5) (18.2) (25.8) (45.5) Translation differences 1.2 0.9 1.4 3.5 Balance at December 31, 2015 26.7 33.4 64.8 124.9 Cost 62.0 179.2 359.8 601.0 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 35.3 145.8 295.0 476.1 Balance at December 31, 2015 26.7 33.4 64.8 124.9 Balance at January 1, 2014 Cost 62.3 183.6 441.4 687.3 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 34.4 148.8 372.7 555.9 27.9 34.8 68.7 131.4 Movements in 2014 Additions 16.7 25.0 41.7 Disposals (0.7) (0.2) (1.9) (2.8) Depreciation (1.1) (17.6) (26.9) (45.6) Translation differences 0.9 1.4 1.8 4.1 Balance at December 31, 2014 27.0 35.1 66.7 128.8 Cost 59.6 186.4 404.9 650.9 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 32.6 151.3 338.2 522.1 Balance at December 31, 2014 27.0 35.1 66.7 128.8 Based on appraisals made by independent and expert Historical cost includes expenditures that are directly appraisers, the estimated fair value of buildings and land is attributable to the acquisition of the assets. € 10 to € 15 million higher than the carrying amount. The fair value represents the market value, taking into account the Land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other property, rental of the property. plant and equipment is charged to operating expenses and/or cost of services on a straight-line basis over their In the consolidated statement of cash flows, proceeds from estimated useful lives, from the date they are available for the sale of property, plant and equipment comprise: use. The residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each Proceeds from disposals balance sheet date and adjusted, if appropriate. 2015 2014 Gains and losses arising on disposal are included in the income statement under other general and administrative Net book value of disposals 4.5 2.8 expenses. Loss on disposals (0.3) (0.4) Disposals of property, plant and equipment, statement of cash flows 4.2 2.4 Accounting policy Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 137 Estimated useful lives of property, plant and Amortization of software applications is charged to equipment operating expenses and/or cost of services on a straight-line on average basis over their estimated useful lives, from the date they are Term available for use. Buildings 33 years The residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each Computer hardware 4 years balance sheet date and adjusted, if appropriate. Leasehold improvements 5 years Furniture and fixtures 4-5 years The estimated useful life for software is 3 to 5 years. Acquired computer software licenses are amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives of 3 to 5 years or, if the license Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the term of period is shorter than 3 years, over this shorter period. the initial lease, in the event that this term is shorter than five years. Impairments -if anyare mainly caused by the discontinuation of software applications, which in the Group generally relate Impairments -if anyare mainly caused by the discontinuation to frontand/or back-office applications. The net book value of outlets. The net book value of leasehold improvements of software is impaired to its recoverable amount, which and other furniture and fixtures is impaired to the tends to be zero, based on each individual case. recoverable amount, based on each individual case. The recoverable amount tends to be zero. 15. Acquisition-related intangible 14. Software assets Customer 2015 2014 relationships/ Developed brandnames technology Total Cost 263.7 244.7 Accumulated amortization and Balance at January 1, 2015 183.8 183.8 impairment 225.1 211.5 Balance at January 1 38.6 33.2 Movements in 2015 Acquisition of subsidiaries 28.4 15.6 44.0 Additions 25.2 24.0 Amortization (126.7) (0.6) (127.3) Amortization (19.2) (19.6) Translation differences 7.7 0.3 8.0 Translation differences 1.2 1.0 Balance at December 31, 2015 93.2 15.3 108.5 Balance at December 31 45.8 38.6 Cost 785.3 15.9 801.2 Cost 295.3 263.7 Accumulated amortization and Accumulated amortization and impairment 692.1 0.6 692.7 impairment 249.5 225.1 Balance at December 31, 2015 93.2 15.3 108.5 Balance at December 31 45.8 38.6 Balance at January 1, 2014 Cost 1,050.7 1,050.7 Accounting policy Accumulated amortization and Acquired software (licenses) and developed software are impairment 729.7 729.7 stated at cost less accumulated amortization and impairment 321.0 321.0 losses. Movements in 2014 Expenditures in relation to the development of identifiable Amortization (145.4) (145.4) and unique software products used by the Group, and which Translation differences 8.2 8.2 will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs Balance at December 31, 2014 183.8 183.8 beyond one year, are recognized as intangible assets and amortized over their estimated useful lives. Capitalized costs Cost 1,083.5 1,083.5 include employee costs of software development and an Accumulated amortization and appropriate portion of relevant overhead. impairment 899.7 899.7 Balance at December 31, 2014 183.8 183.8 Expenditures associated with maintaining computer software programs are recognized as an expense when incurred. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 138 notes to the consolidated balance sheet Accounting policy Financial assets Acquisition-related intangible assets (customer relationships – including franchise agreements –, brand names, candidate 2015 2014 databases and developed technology) that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortization Held-to-maturity investments 90.7 88.4 and impairment losses. CICE receivables 272.1 170.2 Equity investments 13.3 5.3 When an intangible asset is acquired in a business 376.1 263.9 combination, its cost is the fair value at the date of its acquisition. This cost is determined on a basis that reflects an amount that the entity would have paid for the asset in an The held-to-maturity investments and the CICE receivables arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable and willing are neither past due nor impaired. These financial assets have parties, based on the best information available. If the fair counterparties such as governmental or semi-governmental value cannot be measured reliably, the asset is not bodies. recognized as a separate intangible asset, but is included in goodwill. The Group does not hold any collateral as security. Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets is 16.1 Held-to-maturity investments charged to total operating expenses on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, from the date they are available for use. If the asset is fully amortized, the at cost Held-to-maturity investments value is reversed against accumulated amortization. 2015 2014 The residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted, if appropriate. Balance at January 1 92.1 84.2 The estimated useful life of customer relationships is 4 8 Additions at fair value 5.4 5.8 years, of brandnames 1-5 years and of developed technology Redemptions (3.9) (1.5) 6 years. Interest due to passage of time 3.8 3.6 Balance at December 31 97.4 92.1 Developed technology relates to the software platform acquired in the acquisition of RiseSmart Inc.; this platform Non-current portion 90.7 88.4 offers automated web-based services to assist in finding a job Current portion 6.7 3.7 that is the right fit with the candidate's skills, expertise and 97.4 92.1 preferences, by listing job opportunities according to these criteria. Held-to-maturity investments are financial assets with fixed Impairments, if any, can be a result of either the evidence or determinable payments and fixed maturities for which an that the assumptions for determining the estimated useful entity has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity. lives are incorrect or the annual impairment test of the cashHeld-to-maturity investments are initially recognized at fair generating unit (or operating segment) to which the value and subsequently measured at amortized cost, using acquisition-related intangible assets are related. the effective interest method. Held-to-maturity investments represent loans that are 16. Financial assets granted interest-free by the French subsidiaries annually in relation to legal arrangements for payment of certain social Investments in financial assets are divided into various security charges. These annual loans have a repayment term categories. Classification of these investments depends on the of 20 years each. These investments have an average purposes for which the investments have been acquired. remaining term of 12 years (2014: 12 years) and an effective Management determines the classification at the time of the interest rate of 4.1% (2014: 4.2%). The nominal value of purchase and re-evaluates such designation at each held-to-maturity investments amounts to € 143 million (2014: subsequent balance sheet date. € 139 million) and best represents the maximum exposure to credit risk. As at December 31, 2015, the fair value was Purchase and sale of financial assets are recognized on the approximately € 26 million higher than the carrying amount settlement date, which is the date an asset is delivered to or (2014: € 31 million). by the Group. The cost of financial assets includes transaction costs. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 139 The difference between additions at nominal value 16.3 Equity investments (€ 7.7 million) and at fair value is recognized in cost of services, and amounts to € 2.3 million (2014: € 8.0 million and € 2.2 million respectively). Equity investments 16.2 CICE receivable 2015 2014 Balance at January 1 5.3 CICE receivable Additions at fair value 8.0 5.3 2015 2014 Balance at December 31 13.3 5.3 Balance at January 1 170.2 72.6 Equity investments are minority participations with venture Additions at fair value 101.5 97.2 capital firms or other investors. Investments are made in Interest due to passage of time 0.4 0.4 early-stage to expansion-stage companies that are considered Balance at December 31 272.1 170.2 strategically relevant to Randstad. The typical investment amounts range between € 0.5 million and € 5 million. The Group has no significant influence over these investments. CICE receivables are initially recognized at fair value and These investments are qualified as 'fair-value through other subsequently measured at amortized cost, using the effective comprehensive income'-investments, and if no reliable fairinterest method. value measurements are available, valued at cost. All investments are considered non-current. This financial asset arises from tax credits under the French Competitive Employment Act (CICE). This act is aimed at The fair value of one of the investments was increased by improving the competitiveness of the French economy and at € 0.6 million. This was based on a share transaction and other reducing unemployment. The tax credit is calculated as a market information. The remaining movement in carrying percentage of wages and salaries paid to employees having a amount from 2014 to 2015 is related to additional salary that is less than 2.5 times the French minimum wage. investments (€ 7.4 million). The tax credit can be offset against the income tax liability payable with respect to the calendar year to which the wages 16.4 Impairment of financial assets relate. Any excess credit can be carried forward and offset The carrying amounts of all financial assets in this note are against the tax liability during the next three years. Any reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in excess after three years will be refunded as well. circumstances indicate that the carrying amount is impaired. If objective evidence exists that a financial asset or group of This receivable is presented under non-current assets, since financial assets is impaired, the amount of the impairment the amount is expected to have a maturity of longer than loss is calculated as the difference between the carrying one year, due to the combined effect of the legal regulations amount of the financial asset and the present value of of the CICE arrangements and the income tax situation of our estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original French operations. The total receivable of € 272.1 million as effective interest rate (i.e., the effective interest rate at December 31, 2015, is ultimately due in 2017 computed at initial recognition of these financial assets). The (€ 73.4 million), in 2018 (€ 97.2 million) and in 2019 (€ 101.5 resulting impairment loss is immediately recognized in net million). In the statement of cash flows, this amount is finance costs. presented in 'other non-cash items' under cash flow from operating activities, since the CICE arrangements are An impairment loss on financial assets is reversed if, in a considered to be related to the operating activities. The subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss nominal value of the receivable amounts to € 273 million decreases and this decrease can be related objectively to an (2014: € 171.0 million), which best represents the maximum event occurring after the impairment loss was recognized. exposure to credit risk. As at December 31, 2015, the carrying Such reversal is immediately recognized in net finance costs. amount approximates the fair value. The effective interest rate is 0.2% (2014: 0.3%). annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 140 notes to the consolidated balance sheet 17. Associates Trade and other payables are initially stated at fair value. Subsequent measurement is at amortized cost, using the 2015 2014 effective interest method. Balance at January 1 1.6 1.3 19. Total equity and dividends per Share in profit Disposals 0.7 (2.3) 0.3 share Balance at December 31 1.6 19.1 Shareholders' equity 19.1.1 Authorized and issued capital At December 31, 2015, the Group has no investments in Authorized capital is € 106 million (2014: € 106 million) and associates (2014: € 1.6 million). During 2015 the Group consists of 350,000,000 (2014: 350,000,000) ordinary shares disposed of its associates. This resulted in a gain on disposal with a nominal value of € 0.10, a further 106,000 (2014: of € 6.1 million, and a cash in flow of € 8.4 million. The total 106,000) type-A preference shares with a nominal value of assets and liabilities of associates amounted to approximately € 500, 30,000,000 (2014: 30,000,000) type-B preference shares € 18 million and € 9 million respectively at December 31, with a nominal value of € 0.10, and 150,000,000 (2014: 2014. Total revenue in 2014 amounted to € 17 million. Our 150,000,000) type-C preference shares with a nominal value share in net income of all associates was € 0.7 million (2014: of € 0.10. € 0.3 million). At year-end, issued share capital consists of 183,019,235 The gain on disposal is included in the statement of ordinary shares (2014: 180,109,671), 25,200,000 type-B comprehensive income in 'share in profit and result on preference shares (2014: 25,200,000), and 50,130,352 (2014: disposal of associates', which then totals € 6.8 million. 50,130,352) type-C preference shares. Accounting policy Associates are companies over which the Group has For information regarding the rights, preferences and significant influence, but not control, generally restrictions on each type of share, see 'Voting rights', in the accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of corporate governance section on page 105. the voting rights. The current conditions of the preference shares are such that Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity the holders of these shares receive a dividend at the method and are initially recognized at cost. The Group’s company’s discretion, that dividend is preferred and investment in associates includes goodwill on acquisition, net cumulative, and that the voting rights are one vote per 7 of any accumulated impairment losses. type-B preference shares, and one vote for each € 25 capital payment for type-C preference shares, resulting in 0.1171 The Group’s share of the post-acquisition profits and losses of vote per share on average. the associates is recognized as share in results of associates, and its share of post-acquisition movements in other The dividend on preference shares is reviewed every seven comprehensive income is recognized in other comprehensive years. The last review on type-B preference shares took place income, with a corresponding effect to the carrying amount in November 2012, and the dividend was set at € 0.177 per of the associate. preference share. The dividend on type-C preference shares was set at 5.8% of the capital contribution. The next review of the dividend will take place in November 2019. Only the 18. Trade and other payables Executive Board can propose to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to decide that preference shares be repaid. 2015 2014 Trade payables 306.1 270.3 Other taxes and social security premiums 1,028.4 935.8 Pension contributions 13.0 9.0 Wages, salaries and other personnel costs 1,036.5 953.3 Other accruals 384.6 381.3 Deferred income 43.3 40.2 2,811.9 2,589.9 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 141 Number of outstanding ordinary and preference disposed, these translation differences are recognized in the shares statement of comprehensive income. The translation reserve (x 1,000) also includes the tax effect on translation differences. 2015 2014 Ordinary Preference Ordinary Preference 19.1.4 Share-based compensations reserve shares shares shares shares The share-based compensations reserve comprises the value of vested rights in respect of share-based compensation January 1 180,110 75,330 177,434 75,330 arrangements as far as stock options have not been exercised or performance shares have not been allocated. Stock dividend 2,728 2,621 From share-based The company has various share-based compensation compensation arrangements. Additional information about these arrangements 181 55 arrangements is given in note 23. The income statement December 31 183,019 75,330 180,110 75,330 includes an amount of € 29.1 million (2014: € 27.4 million) for share-based compensations. At December 31, 2015, the company holds 896,335 treasury At year-end 2015, 2.3 million performance options and shares (2014: 277,489). performance shares (2014: 3.3 million) are outstanding. Upon exercise of stock options or allocation of performance shares, Accounting policy this will lead to the issuance of the same number of new Ordinary and preference shares are classified as equity. The ordinary shares or re-issue of treasury shares. distribution of the dividend on ordinary and preference shares is recognized as a liability in the period in which these 19.1.5 Employee benefits reserve dividends are adopted by the company’s shareholders. The employee benefits reserve comprises the cumulative remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations as On the issue of new shares or on the extension of the term of from January 1, 2013 (implementation of amended IFRS preference shares outstanding, the proceeds less directly standard IAS 19 'Employee benefits'). The amounts are net of attributable costs are recognized in shareholders’ equity corporate taxes. within issued capital and, if applicable, within share premium. 19.1.6 Other reserve The other reserve comprises remeasurements in respect of On the purchase of ordinary shares that are included in investments relating to 'fair value through other shareholders’ equity, the consideration paid, including comprehensive income'. directly attributable costs, is recorded as a change in shareholders’ equity. Purchased ordinary shares are classified 19.1.7 Other information as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from See note 6 to the company financial statements for the shareholders’ equity under reserves. restrictions on the distribution of dividends and the repayment of capital. On the sale (or re-issue) of treasury shares, the proceeds less directly attributable costs are recognized under treasury Additional information about shareholders’ equity is included shares for the original consideration paid; the remainder is in the consolidated statement of changes in equity. recognized as a change in retained earnings. 19.2 Dividends on ordinary and preference shares 19.1.2 Share premium At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, to be held At year-end, share premium consists of € 1,972.2 million share on March 31, 2016, it will be proposed by the Executive premium on ordinary shares (2014: € 1,962.8 million) and Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, that a € 298.3 million share premium on preference shares (2014: dividend of € 1.68 per ordinary share be paid for the year € 298.3 million). 2015; for preference shares B and C it will be proposed by the Executive Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, 19.1.3 Translation reserve that a dividend of € 12.6 million be paid. The translation reserve comprises all translation differences arising from the translation of the net investment in activities The 2014 dividend on ordinary shares, paid in 2015, had been in currencies other than the euro, as well as translation determined at € 1.29 per share. differences of financial liabilities designated as hedges of such investments, to the extent that the hedge is effective. Shareholders were given a choice between cash and shares. Such translation differences are recognized initially in other This choice resulted in a cash dividend of € 81.5 million and a comprehensive income and presented in this separate stock dividend of € 150.6 million, based on the volumecomponent of shareholders’ equity. If the net investment is weighted average share price of approximately € 42.79 . annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 142 notes to the consolidated balance sheet The amount of dividend proposed for ordinary shares related 20. Other liabilities to 2015 assumes that the dividend will be paid out fully in 2015 2014 cash. Balance at January 1 19.5 21.4 Dividends on ordinary and preference shares Acquisition of non-controlling interests 0.3 (0.6) Changes in value (0.4) (3.5) Dividend related to Interest due to passage of time 1.0 1.0 2015 2014 2013 Translation differences 1.1 1.2 Balance at December 31 21.5 19.5 Ordinary shares Non-current portion 14.5 12.5 Dividend paid during 2014 56.0 Current portion 7.0 7.0 Stock dividend during 2014 112.3 21.5 19.5 Dividend paid during 2015 81.5 Stock dividend during 2015 150.6 Dividend 2015 proposed 307.5 The effective interest rate amounts to 5.0% (2014: 5.0%). Preference shares The line acquisition of non-controlling interest amounting to Dividend paid during 2014 12.1 an amount of € 0.3 million positive includes a payment of Dividend paid during 2015 12.6 € 0.3 million relating to the acquisitions in preceding years Dividend 2015 proposed 12.6 and relates for an amount of € 0.6 million to deferred compensation on 2015 acquisitions. 19.3 Non-controlling interests Accounting policy In 2015 and 2014, no transactions took place with regard to Other liabilities mainly include liabilities arising from non-controlling interests, resulting in changes of shareholder arrangements with the previous owners of acquired percentages. companies who still hold a non-controlling interest ('deferred considerations') and deferred payments from other business Accounting policy combinations. Non-controlling interests represent the net assets not held by the Group and are presented within total equity in the With respect to these arrangements, the Group has entered consolidated balance sheet as a separate category. Profit or into put and call options with the holders of these nonloss and each component of other comprehensive income are controlling interests. The put option gives the minority attributed to the equity holders and to the non-controlling shareholder the right to sell its non-controlling interest to the interests. Group. The call option gives the Group the right to purchase the non-controlling interest. The option exercise price is The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests determined by a contractually agreed formula that is based as transactions with equity owners of the Group. For mainly on the future results of the company involved. acquisitions of non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share The liability is initially stated at fair value. Subsequent acquired of the carrying value of the net assets is recorded in measurement is at amortized cost, using the effective interest equity. Gains or losses on disposals of non-controlling method. The value is determined by means of the present interests are also recorded in equity as long as control of the value of the expected cash outflows to settle the liability, subsidiary is maintained. based on projected results. The discount rate used in discounting the expected cash outflows is based on an interest rate that reflects the current market assessment of the time value of money, taking into account the expected settlement of these liabilities. In line with the nature of the put option, the liability is classified as short term, except for the part that can only be exercised after one year. Changes in the value of these liabilities (also including interest due to passage of time), as well as differences upon settlement between the actual cash outflow and the expected cash outflow, are accounted for in net finance costs. The companies acquired under these arrangements are fully consolidated, with no recognition of a non-controlling interest. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 143 notes to the consolidated statement of cash flows 21. Statement of cash flows 21.2 Trade and other receivables The statement of cash flows has been prepared applying the indirect method. Cash in the statement of cash flows Trade and other receivables comprises cash and cash equivalents, as well as current borrowings, because current borrowings form an integral 2015 2014 part of the Group’s cash management. Trade and other receivables as at January 1 3,077.9 2,931.9 Cash flows in foreign currencies have been translated, in principle, at average exchange rates; certain material (mainly Adjusted for: financing) transactions are translated at the exchange rate at Current part of held-to-maturity investments (3.7) (1.4) the day of translation. Exchange differences concerning cash Deferred receipts disposed Group companies (0.2) (0.4) items are shown separately in the statement of cash flows. Interest receivable (0.1) 0.0 Income taxes paid/received are included in the cash flow from operating activities. Finance income received, finance Operating working capital assets as at expenses paid, and dividends paid are included in the cash January 1 3,073.9 2,930.1 flow from financing activities. Acquisition of subsidiaries 4.4 (4.7) The purchase price of acquisitions paid, as well as the selling Disposal of subsidiaries (0.2) price of disposed subsidiaries received, is included in cash flow Transfer to employee benefit obligations (3.4) from investing activities. This purchase price paid, as well as Translation gains 80.2 90.6 the selling price received, is included in the statement of cash Statement of cash flows 270.6 61.3 flows net of net cash acquired or disposed of respectively. Changes in assets and liabilities resulting from the acquisition Operating working capital assets as at and disposal of subsidiaries are taken into account in the December 31 3,428.9 3,073.9 calculation of the consolidated cash flows. Adjusted for: The majority of the items in the consolidated statement of Current part of held-to-maturity investments 6.7 3.7 cash flows are individually cross-referenced to the relevant Deferred receipts disposed Group companies 0.0 0.2 notes to the consolidated statement of comprehensive Interest receivable 0.1 0.1 income and balance sheet. For the remainder of the material items, the reconciliation between amounts as included in the Balance at December 31 3,435.7 3,077.9 consolidated statement of cash flows and related amounts in the statement of comprehensive income and balance sheet is shown in this note. In 2015 currency differences on cash-items are presented in the line 'translation and currency gains'. In 2014 these are presented under finance expenses paid. 21.1 Cash Cash 2015 2014 Cash and cash equivalents 133.5 117.1 Current borrowings (182.1) (224.1) (48.6) (107.0) annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 144 notes to the consolidated statement of cash flows 21.3 Trade and other payables 21.5 Income taxes paid Trade and other payables Income taxes paid 2015 2014 2015 2014 Trade and other payables as at January 1 2,589.9 2,473.9 North America 8.4 6.9 Netherlands 25.9 31.5 Adjusted for: France 35.1 35.3 Interest payable (3.7) (3.3) Germany 5.2 11.6 Belgium & Luxembourg 15.9 7.1 Operating working capital liabilities as at Iberia 6.6 8.7 January 1 2,586.2 2,470.6 United Kingdom 0.9 0.4 Other European countries 9.9 4.7 Acquisition of subsidiaries 7.1 (1.3) Rest of the world 19.5 8.3 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.6 Corporate (22.0) 2.2 Translation losses 64.9 46.7 Total 105.4 116.7 Statement of cash flows 148.7 70.2 Operating working capital liabilities as at Income taxes paid in North America are relatively low as a December 31 2,807.5 2,586.2 result of accumulated net operating losses that are offset against taxable income. Adjusted for: Interest payable 4.4 3.7 Randstad Holding nv (included in Corporate) and the Dutch operating companies are part of a fiscal unity for corporate Trade and other payables as at December 31 2,811.9 2,589.9 income taxes. The payments included under the Netherlands represent the payments to Randstad Holding nv by the Dutch operating companies, based on the results before taxes of 21.4 Other non-cash items these companies. 21.6 Free cash flow Other non-cash items Free cash flow comprises net cash from operating and investing activities, excluding the acquisition and disposal of 2015 2014 subsidiaries/activities, of equity investments and of associates: CICE receivable (101.5) (97.2) Held-to-maturity investments 2.3 2.2 Free cash flow Statement of cash flows (99.2) (95.0) 2015 2014 For the CICE receivable, see note 16.2. Net cash from operating activities 565.6 557.5 Net cash from investing activities (150.7) (75.5) 414.9 482.0 Acquisition of subsidiaries/activities and equity investments 96.4 5.9 Disposal of subsidiaries/activities and associates (12.5) (0.2) Free cash flow 498.8 487.7 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 145 other notes to the consolidated financial statements 22. Subsidiaries 22.1 Overview of major subsidiaries, as per December 31, 2015 North America Other European countries Randstad North America Inc, United States Randstad Austria GmbH Randstad Professionals US LP, United States Randstad sro, Czech Republic RiseSmart Inc., United States Randstad A/S, Denmark Randstad Intérim Inc., Canada Randstad AE, Greece Randstad Hungary Kft, Hungary France Randstad Italia SPA, Italy Randstad SAS Randstad Norway AS, Norway Atoll SAS Randstad Polska Sp. z.o.o., Poland Randstad sro, Slovakia The Netherlands Randstad AB, Sweden Randstad Nederland bv Randstad Schweiz AG, Switzerland Tempo-Team Group bv Randstad Work Solutions Istihdam ve İnsan Kaynakları Yacht Group Nederland bv Ltd. Şti., Turkey Randstad Sourceright International bv Randstad Sourceright EMEA bv Rest of the world Sesa Internacional S.A., Argentina Germany Randstad Pty Ltd, Australia Randstad Deutschland GmbH & Co KG 1 Randstad Brasil Recursos Humanos Ltda, Brazil Randstad Professionals GmbH & Co KG1 Randstad Chile S.A., Chile Tempo-Team Personaldienstleistungen GmbH Talent Shanghai Co. Ltd, China GULP Information Services GmbH Randstad Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong Randstad India Private Ltd, India Belgium & Luxembourg Randstad KK, Japan Randstad Belgium nv Randstad Sourceright Sdn. Bhd., Malaysia Tempo-Team nv, Belgium Randstad Mexico S. de R.L. de CV, Mexico Randstad Interim sa, Luxembourg Randstad Limited, New Zealand Randstad (PTE) Limited, Singapore United Kingdom Randstad Lanka (Private) Limited, Sri Lanka Randstad CPE Limited Sesa Select Uruguay, Uruguay Randstad Financial & Professional Limited Randstad Technologies Limited Other subsidiaries Randstad Sourceright Limited Randstad Holding Nederland bv, the Netherlands Randstad Employment Bureau Limited Randstad Finance GmbH, Switzerland Iberia Randstad Empleo, Empresa De Trabajo Temporal S.A. Sociedad Unipersonal, Spain Randstad Recursos Humanos, Empresa de Trabalho Temporario S.A., Portugal A list of all subsidiaries has been filed at the Chamber of Commerce in Amsterdam (‘Kamer van Koophandel’, Amsterdam). Randstad Holding nv has, directly or indirectly, a 100% interest in all subsidiaries (by way of legal ownership of the shares or by way of economic ownership of the shares (put-call option arrangements) for a limited number of companies), unless stated otherwise. 1 The fully-consolidated German subsidiaries mentioned above exercise simplification options in accordance with Article 264.b of the German Commercial Code (‘HGB’). annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 146 other notes to the consolidated financial statements 22.2 Subsidiaries 23. Share-based compensations Subsidiaries are companies controlled by Randstad Holding nv. Control exists when Randstad is exposed to or has rights The company has various share-based compensation to variable returns from its involvement with subsidiary arrangements that are settled in ordinary shares. The fair companies and has the ability to influence those returns value of these share-based compensations, calculated on through its power over the subsidiary, generally grant date, is based on valuation models, taking into account accompanying a shareholding of more than 50% of the relevant market conditions and non-vesting conditions. The voting rights. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date fair value is included in personnel expenses in the vesting that such control commences until the date that it ceases. period during which the expected employee services are received. The same amount is credited to shareholders’ Intragroup balances and intragroup transactions are equity. eliminated, as well as any unrealized gains from these transactions. Unrealized losses from intragroup transactions At each balance sheet date, the company re-assesses its are also eliminated, unless there is evidence of impairment of estimates of the non-market vesting conditions under these the assets transferred. Intercompany transactions take place share-based compensation arrangements. The impact of the on an arm’s length basis. revision on original estimates with respect to the past vesting period, if any, is recognized in personnel expenses 22.3 Financial statements of Group companies immediately, with a corresponding adjustment to Upon translation of foreign activities, the assets and liabilities shareholders’ equity. of operations in currencies other than the euro, including goodwill and fair-value adjustments arising on consolidation, Within the Group, a number of share-based compensation are translated into euros at the foreign exchange rates at the arrangements are in effect: stock option plans and balance sheet date. The income statements of these performance share plans for Executive Board members and operations in currencies other than the euro are translated senior management, and a share purchase plan for all into euros at average exchange rates. corporate employees. Upon the acquisition of a subsidiary that has a currency other The actual annual grant of performance shares and options than the euro, balance sheet items are translated into euros will, in principle, not exceed 1% of the ordinary issued at the foreign exchange rates at the acquisition date. capital. However, depending on the realization of related performance targets and the company’s actual share price, 22.4 Net investment in subsidiaries that have a the number of shares to be issued in relation to vesting of the currency other than the euro performance shares and options might in a certain year The net investment in subsidiaries that have a currency other exceed the 1% limit. than the euro includes the participation in the net assets of these subsidiaries, and, if applicable, loans to these 23.1 Performance stock option plans subsidiaries, settlement of which is neither planned nor From 2007 to 2012, Executive Board members were granted expected to occur in the foreseeable future. stock options annually conditional on performance; as from 2008 up to 2012, the options had an exercise price equal to Translation differences that occur upon consolidation, the average trading price of the Randstad shares during relating to the translation of the net investment in three business days before grant date. The options have a subsidiaries that have a currency other than the euro, are term of seven years, and are only exercisable after a period of recognized in other comprehensive income and presented in three years from the date of grant. the (foreign currency) translation reserve, a separate component within equity, as are translation differences of All stock option plans are equity-settled. The fair value was financial liabilities designated as hedges of such investments determined as at the date of each grant, based on a (net investment hedge), to the extent that the hedge is combination of a Monte Carlo simulation model and a Black effective. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is & Scholes valuation model. recognized immediately in net finance costs. The fair value is charged to the income statement during the If the operation is a non-wholly-owned subsidiary, then the vesting period based on the on-target awards of each plan. relevant proportionate share of the translation differences is At each balance sheet date, the assumed attrition is allocated to the non-controlling interests. reassessed; any adjustment is charged to the income statement. On exercise of options, the company issues new Whenever a foreign operation is disposed of, these shares. translation differences are released or charged to the statement of comprehensive income as part of the gain or The expenses charged to the income statement 2015 amount loss on disposal. to zero (2014: € 0.6 million). annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 147 In 2015, the performance stock options 2012 vested, based on 89,657 options being vested (share price at allocation date: relative TSR performance over the period January 1, 2012 € 49.99), compared to an on-target award of 179,315. December 31, 2014. The performance resulted in 50% or Details of performance stock option plans Number of options (x 1,000) Performance Average fair value Year of January 1, adjustment December Average share price Average exercise at grant date per grant 2015 Granted expired at vesting Exercised 31, 2015 Exercisable at exercise (in €) price (in €) option (in €) Performance stock option plans 2009 73 (73) 0 0 50.96 9.88 9.00 2010 34 (19) 15 15 57.28 31.39 21.04 2011 60 (33) 27 27 57.28 39.16 21.00 2012 179 (90) (56) 33 33 55.48 28.11 11.31 Total 346 (90) (181) 75 75 23.2 Performance share plans Volatility of the shares of the peer companies, as well as the pair-wise correlation between all 10 shares, is estimated on 23.2.1 Executive Board performance share plan the basis of historical daily prices over three years. Estimated As from 2007, conditional performance shares have been dividends of the peer companies are based on historical granted annually to the members of the Executive Board. The dividends. plan has a term of three years. The number of shares to vest depends on the company’s TSR performance compared to a The fair value is charged to the income statement during the peer group of nine companies measured over a three-year vesting period, based on the on-target awards of each plan. period starting on January 1 of the year of grant. As of 2013, the number of shares to vest also depends on achieving At each balance sheet date, the non-market conditions certain sustainability performance targets. (attrition and sustainability performance) are reassessed; any adjustment is charged to the income statement. Up to 2013, The shares yet to be vested of a Board member who resigns on final allocation of vested shares, the company used to from the Group within the three-year vesting period will, in issue new shares. As of 2013, the company has been using principle, be forfeited. treasury shares for this purpose. 23.2.2 Senior management performance share plan The expenses charged to the 2015 income statement amount As from 2007, conditional performance shares have also been to € 24.0 million (2014: € 24.5 million). granted to a limited group of senior management on terms and conditions that are identical to those of the Executive The performance shares 2012 vested in early 2015, based on Board, except for the fact that, for the years 2013 and 2014, relative TSR performance of the company, resulting in the number of shares to vest solely depended on the 529,049 shares being vested (share price at allocation date of company's TSR performance. € 49,99), compared to an on-target award of 1,045,425 shares. Parameters used for fair-value determination 2015 2014 2013 Average share price at grant date € 52.88 € 45.05 € 30.40 Expected volatility, based on historical prices over the three-year period to the valuation date 26% 32% 34% Expected dividends 2.3% 2.2% 3.8% Risk-free interest rate (yield on Dutch government bonds) 0.1% 0.6% 0.6% annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 148 other notes to the consolidated financial statements Details of all performance share plans Number of shares (x 1,000) on target Average fair value at grant date Year of grant January 1, 2015 Granted Forfeitures Vested in 2015 December 31, 2015 per share (in €) 2012 1,049 (4) (1,045) 0 27.00 2013 995 (93) 902 24.15 2014 883 (101) 782 29.83 2015 514 (11) 503 61.07 Total 2,927 514 (209) (1,045) 2,187 23.3 Share purchase plan for corporate employees Chris Heutink was appointed on April 3, 2014 for a period of Under the share purchase plan, participating corporate 4 years and received his remuneration as a Board member as employees may purchase shares from a separate foundation, from the date of appointment. Ben Noteboom's Stichting Randstad Optiefonds, twice a year. The maximum remuneration has been included up to the end of February amount to be spent within the plan is set annually at 5% of 2014. the participant’s fixed annual salary. Employees receive a number of bonus shares equal to a fixed percentage of the Leo Lindelauf resigned as a board member on April 2, 2015. number of shares purchased; these bonus shares vest over a His remuneration has been included up to this date. After period of six months, only if employees hold on to the resigning from the Board, Leo Lindelauf continued purchased shares for the same period of six months (on performing services to the company. The associated costs condition that they are still employed by the Group). The amounted to € 448,000. bonus is expensed by the company over the vesting period (2015: € 5.1 million; 2014: € 2.3 million). In 2015, a total of The expenses for performance shares and stock options refer 88,202 (2014: 60,076) bonus shares were allocated to to the fair value of share-based payments charged to the employees. income statement for the years 2015 and 2014 respectively. Included in the column 'termination and other benefits/ 24. Related-party transactions expenses' for François Béharel are special taxes on salary of € 119,000 (2014: € 237,000). 24.1 Key management The members of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board The company has not issued any loans, commitments to are considered the key management of the Group. provide loans, or guarantees to Executive Board members. The company incurred additional cost related to former 24.2 Remuneration of the members of the Board member Greg Netland of € 52,000 (2014: € 75,000) and Executive Board related to former Board member Ben Noteboom of € 14,000 The totals of the remuneration of the members of the (2014: € 293,000). Pension changes related to Dutch based Executive Board are included in the income statement. Board members include compensation for limitation of accrual of pension rights in 2015. Executive Board remuneration x € 1,000 Fixed compensation Variable compensation Termination and other Base salary Pension charge Short-term cash bonus Share-based payments benefits/ expenses Total 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 J.W. van den Broek 900 765 243 207 810 507 1,027 719 57 37 3,037 2,235 R.J. van de Kraats 690 673 186 182 590 463 909 739 29 34 2,404 2,091 F. Béharel 606 591 164 160 542 392 798 581 340 394 2,450 2,118 L. Galipeau 694 566 187 153 611 392 798 649 62 77 2,352 1,837 C. Heutink 606 439 164 118 572 324 598 307 27 21 1,967 1,209 L.J.M.V. Lindelauf 151 591 41 160 136 410 387 649 15 62 730 1,872 Total 3,647 3,625 985 980 3,261 2,488 4,517 3,644 530 625 12,940 11,362 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 149 Number of performance stock options outstanding in 2015 Performance Year of January 1, Transfer in Expired in adjustment at Exercised Share price at December granting 2015 2015 2015 vesting 2015 in 2015 exercise 31, 2015 J.W. van den Broek 2009 40,552 (40,552) 51.56 2010 7,083 7,083 2011 12,614 12,614 2012 30,764 (15,382) 15,382 R.J. van de Kraats 2009 32,252 (32,252) 50.20 2010 8,063 8,063 2011 14,359 14,359 2012 35,021 (17,510) 17,511 L. Galipeau 2012 30,764 (15,382) (15,382) 50.57 Total 211,472 (48,274) (88,186) 75,012 Number of performance stock options of former Board members outstanding in 2015 Performance Year of January 1, Transfer in Expired in adjustment at Exercised Share price at December granting 2015 2015 2015 vesting 2015 in 2015 exercise 31, 2015 B.J. Noteboom 2010 11,356 (11,356) 58.19 2011 20,223 (20,223) 58.19 2012 52,002 (26,001) (26,001) 58.19 L.J.M.V. Lindelauf 2010 7,083 (7,083) 55.83 2011 12,614 (12,614) 55.83 2012 30,764 (15,382) (15,382) 55.83 Total 134,042 (41,383) (92,659) Exercise price and expiration date per plan The performance stock options 2012 vested in early 2015, based on relative TSR performance of the company over the Year of granting Exercise price End of exercise period period January 1, 2012 – December 31, 2014. The performance resulted in 50% of the options being vested 2009 € 9.88 February 2016 (share price at allocation date: € 49,99), compared to an on2010 € 31.39 February 2017 target award of 179.315 options. 2011 € 39.16 February 2018 2012 € 28.11 February 2019 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 150 other notes to the consolidated financial statements Number of performance shares outstanding in 2015 Number of Performance January 1, shares on Forfeitures in adjustment at Vested in December 31, Year of award 2015 target 2015 2015 vesting 2015 February 2015 2015 Performance shares J.W. van den Broek 2012 11,885 (5,942) (5,943) 2013 31,234 31,234 2014 25,537 25,537 2015 30,099 30,099 R.J. van de Kraats 2012 13,530 (6,765) (6,765) 2013 35,555 35,555 2014 21,475 21,475 2015 23,060 23,060 F. Béharel 2012 19,553 (8,253) (11,300) 2013 31,234 31,234 2014 18,864 18,864 2015 20,258 20,258 L. Galipeau 2012 11,885 (5,942) (5,943) 2013 31,234 31,234 2014 18,864 18,864 2015 20,258 20,258 C. Heutink 2012 9,700 (3,798) (5,902) 2013 7,711 7,711 2014 18,864 18,864 2015 20,258 20,258 Total 307,125 113,933 (30,700) (35,853) 354,505 Performance shares former Board members B.J. Noteboom 2012 20,090 (10,045) (10,045) 2013 17,598 17,598 L.J.M.V. Lindelauf 2012 11,885 (5,942) (5,943) 2013 31,234 31,234 2014 18,864 (9,431) 9,433 Total 99,671 (9,431) (15,987) (15,988) 58,265 The performance shares 2012 vested in early 2015, based on The performance shares 2012 of François Béharel, and the relative TSR performance of the company over the period performance shares 2012 and 2013 of Chris Heutink relate to January 1, 2012 – December 31, 2014, resulting in vesting of the performance share plan of senior management. 50 % of the on-target award (share price at allocation date of € 49,99). For the conditions and criteria governing the granting and exercise of stock options and performance shares, see note Final allocation after vesting of conditional shares awarded in 23.2. 2013, 2014 and 2015 will take place in February 2016, 2017 and 2018 respectively. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 151 Number of ordinary shares in Randstad Holding nv held by Executive Board members as at December 31, 2015 Locked up Total Unrestricted shares Number Until J.W. van den Broek 68,115 61,924 3,182 February 2016 3,009 February 2017 R.J. van de Kraats 23,144 16,093 3,626 February 2016 3,425 February 2017 F. Béharel 30,468 30,468 L. Galipeau 10,051 7,401 2,650 February 2017 C. Heutink 118 118 24.3 Remuneration of the members of the The company has not issued any loans, commitments to Supervisory Board provide loans or guarantees to members of the Supervisory Remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board is Board. included in the income statement. 24.4 Other related-party transactions The founder of the Randstad Group has an interest in a legal Supervisory Board remuneration entity, which, based on the ‘Wet financieel toezicht’ (Act on Financial Supervision), is registered as a shareholder in 2015 2014 Randstad Holding nv in the 30% − 40% category. There were Current board members no transactions with this related party, other than the rental W.Dekker, Chairman 124,500 100,250 of a ship, Clipper Stad Amsterdam, for promotional activities, J. Winter, Vice Chairman 101,000 89,750 at an annual rent of approximately € 1.9 million (2014: B. Borra 71,797 € 1.9 million). F. Dorjee 90,000 65,250 H.M.E.V. Giscard d'Estaing 88,500 86,550 G. Kampouri Monnas 92,000 86,500 R. Provoost 62,250 630,047 428,300 Former board members F.W. Fröhlich 34,750 134,500 B.C. Hodson 20,500 83,800 L.M. van Wijk 27,250 Total 55,250 245,550 Frank Dorjee was appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board as of April 3, 2014. Rudi Provoost and Barbara Borra were appointed on April 2, 2015. Frits Fröhlich and Beverly Hodson stepped down on April 2, 2015. Jan Hovers and Willem Vermeend, both former members of the Supervisory Board, received as members of the Supervisory Board of the Dutch sub-holding Randstad Holding Nederland bv an annual allowance of € 12,500 in 2015 and 2014. Henri Giscard d’Estaing holds 450 ordinary shares in Randstad Holding nv as at December 31, 2015 and 2014. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 152 other notes to the consolidated financial statements 25. Employee benefit obligations Defined benefit pension plans Other postOther long-term employment employee Obligation Plan assets Net benefits benefits Total Balance at January 1, 2015 171.1 (99.1) 72.0 4.8 32.0 108.8 Current service costs, total 21.8 21.8 (0.1) 32.6 54.3 Contributions, employees (7.1) (7.1) (7.1) Contributions, employers (10.7) (10.7) (10.7) Withdrawals/benefits paid (12.8) 11.7 (1.1) (0.7) (39.3) (41.1) Total amount in statement of cash flows 9.0 (6.1) 2.9 (0.8) (6.7) (4.6) Actuarial results (5.2) 5.8 0.6 0.6 Interest due to passage of time 3.0 (1.7) 1.3 0.2 1.5 Translation differences 6.7 (5.7) 1.0 1.0 Balance at December 31, 2015 184.6 (106.8) 77.8 4.2 25.3 107.3 Non-current 184.6 (106.8) 77.8 3.8 13.3 94.9 Current 0.4 12.0 12.4 Balance at December 31, 2015 184.6 (106.8) 77.8 4.2 25.3 107.3 Balance at January 1, 2014 Non-current 124.0 (78.0) 46.0 3.8 12.8 62.6 Current 0.1 18.4 18.5 124.0 (78.0) 46.0 3.9 31.2 81.1 Reclassifications (3.4) (3.4) (3.4) Movements in 2014 Current service costs, total 16.5 16.5 0.7 44.4 61.6 Contributions, employees (5.1) (5.1) (5.1) Contributions, employers (7.9) (7.9) (7.9) Withdrawals/benefits paid (8.8) 7.6 (1.2) (0.7) (43.7) (45.6) Total amount in statement of cash flows 7.7 (5.4) 2.3 0.7 3.0 Actuarial results 34.3 (9.0) 25.3 0.6 25.9 Interest due to passage of time 4.1 (2.4) 1.7 0.2 1.9 Translation differences 1.0 (0.9) 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 Balance at December 31, 2014 171.1 (99.1) 72.0 4.8 32.0 108.8 Non-current 171.1 (99.1) 72.0 4.4 14.6 91.0 Current 0.4 17.4 17.8 Balance at December 31, 2014 171.1 (99.1) 72.0 4.8 32.0 108.8 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 153 25.1 Pensions Major categories of plan assets as a % of fair value of total plan assets 2015 2014 Defined benefit pension plan schemes Cash 3.0% 5.5% 2015 2014 Bonds 34.4% 38.4% Equity instruments 48.2% 41.5% Defined benefit plan, corporate Real estate 10.1% 9.7% employees in France 35.3 36.3 Other 4.3% 4.9% Defined benefit plan, corporate 100.0% 100.0% employees in Germany 8.5 9.0 Defined benefit plan, corporate employees in Belgium 22.3 17.2 The actual return on plan assets was € 4.1 million negative Defined benefit plan, staffing and (2014: € 11.4 million). corporate employees in Switzerland 6.8 4.6 Defined benefit plan, corporate employees in Japan 4.9 4.9 Principal actuarial assumptions used for defined 77.8 72.0 benefit pension plans 2015 2014 The defined benefit pension plans in France and Belgium are final-salary pension plans, which provide benefits to (prior) Discount rate 0,7%-2,5% 0.7%-1.9% employees in the form of a guaranteed level of pension Expected salary increases 0,0%-3,5% 0.0%-3.6% payable for life or lump sums upon retirement. Expected pension increases 0,0%-1,8% 0.0%-1.8% In France, the plan is in addition to State plans. The company is legally required to pay lump sums to employees upon Average life expectancy 1 retirement. The amounts are based on the number of years in years of service in the company and on the base salary according to 2015 2014 the collective bargaining agreement in force. The scheme covers all corporate employees within the company. Male 18.4 22.5 18.1 22.5 Female 22.6 26.3 22.3 26.3 In Belgium, the pension entitlement of corporate employees 1 Average life expectancy of an individual retiring at the age of 65 on the balance is based on the average pensionable salary in the last three sheet date. years before retirement and is a pension payable for life upon retirement. The employer's contribution is capped at a maximum of 5% of salaries. The plan is organized through a The assumptions regarding future mortality are based on fund that is legally separated from the company. The board published statistics and mortality tables in each territory. of this pension fund is required to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the scheme; the The Group expects the 2016 contributions to be paid for investment policy with regard to the assets of the fund is also defined benefit plans to be approximately € 11.4 million the responsibility of the board. (expectation 2015: € 11.5 million), excluding the impact of acquisitions and disposals. Breakdown of obligations for defined benefit Risks pension plans The most significant risks related to defined benefit plans are related to: 2015 2014 Asset volatility: if the plan assets underperform, the yield on (high-quality) corporate bonds, which is the base for setting the discount rate in calculating the plan liabilities, Present value of funded obligations 184.6 171.1 will create a deficit; Present value of unfunded obligations Interest/yield volatility: a decrease will result in an increase Total present value of obligations 184.6 171.1 in the net plan liabilities; Fair value of plan assets (106.8) (99.1) Salary volatility: future (expected) salaries are being used in the calculation of the plan liabilities; higher-thanLiability in the balance sheet 77.8 72.0 expected salary increases will result in higher liabilities; Life expectancy: in the calculation of the plan liabilities, mortality tables are being used, indicating the life annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 154 other notes to the consolidated financial statements expectancy of the participants. If life expectancy is No guarantees have been issued other than those relating to increased, the plan liabilities will also increase. commitments regarding rent and leases, and those relating to liabilities that are included in the balance sheet. Sensitivity With respect to the provision for pensions, a change in the interest rate of 1 percentage point, with all other variables 28. Auditors' fees held constant, would result in a deviation in the range of € 9 to € 11 million (2014: € 10 to € 15 million). The following auditors’ fees were expensed in the income statement in the reporting period: 25.2 Employee benefit obligations For more information on pensions and employee benefit obligations, see note 4.2.2. 2015 2014 Audit of the financial statements 1 3.0 4.9 26. Number of employees Audit of the financial statements of (average) subsidiaries by other audit firms Subtotal for audit of the financial 0.7 0.2 statements 2 3.7 5.1 2015 2014 Other audit procedures 3 0.1 0.2 Candidates 597,400 580,300 Tax and other services3 0.1 1.1 Corporate employees 29,750 28,720 Total 3.9 6.4 627,150 609,020 1 The fees listed above relate to the procedures applied to the company and its consolidated Group entities by Deloitte Accountants B.V. (for 2014: PriceWaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V.) as the external auditor referred to in Section 1 (1) of the Dutch Accounting Firms Oversight Act (Wta) as well as by the Number of employees by segment Deloitte network (for 2014: PWC network). 2 Including the audit fees with respect to the local statutory financial statements. 3 The fees listed above relate to the procedures applied to the company and its Candidates Corporate employees consolidated Group entities by Deloitte Accountants B.V. (for 2014: PriceWaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V.) as the external auditor referred to in 2015 2014 2015 2014 Section 1(1) of the Dutch Accounting Firms Oversight Act (Wta) (€ 1.2 million), as well as by the Deloitte network (for 2014: PWC network). North America 108,800 106,400 6,430 6,220 Netherlands 76,600 75,600 4,150 4,350 France 74,600 70,400 3,460 3,390 29. Events after balance sheet date Germany 45,800 46,600 2,570 2,610 Belgium & Luxembourg 41,400 40,000 1,890 1,750 For information regarding events after balance sheet date, Iberia 61,000 58,100 1,750 1,560 see other information on page 159. United Kingdom 16,000 17,200 1,560 1,530 Other European countries 60,100 55,800 2,820 2,450 Rest of the world 113,100 110,200 4,930 4,660 Corporate 190 200 597,400 580,300 29,750 28,720 27. Commitments 2015 2014 Commitments less than 1 year 197.6 219.0 Commitments more than 1 year, less than 5 years 332.7 275.0 Commitments more than 5 years 42.1 38.0 572.4 532.0 Commitments comprise, almost exclusively, lease contracts for branches and lease contracts for IT equipment and automobiles. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 155 company financial statements (before profit appropriation for ordinary shares) Income statement in millions of € Note 2015 2014 Income from subsidiaries after taxes 3 600.5 370.8 Other income after taxes (81.7) (30.7) Net income 518.8 340.1 Balance sheet at December 31 in millions of € Note 2015 2014 ASSETS Software 2 1.1 1.5 Intangible assets 1.1 1.5 Subsidiaries 3 6,415.9 5,743.9 Long-term loans receivable from subsidiaries 4 600.0 600.0 Financial fixed assets 7,015.9 6,343.9 Non-current assets 7,017.0 6,345.4 Receivables 5 51.2 277.1 Income tax receivable 15.8 14.1 Cash and cash equivalents 0.4 Current assets 67.4 291.2 TOTAL ASSETS 7,084.4 6,636.6 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Issued capital 25.8 25.5 Share premium 2,270.5 2,261.1 Legal reserves 222.7 65.0 Other reserves 823.9 621.4 Net income for the year 518.8 340.1 Shareholders' equity 6 3,861.7 3,313.1 Non-current liabilities/borrowings 7 1,405.6 915.0 Borrowings 7 118.9 124.5 Trade and other payables 8 1,698.2 2,284.0 Current liabilities 1,817.1 2,408.5 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 7,084.4 6,636.6 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 156 notes to the company financial statements (amounts in millions of €, unless stated otherwise) 1 Accounting policies for the 3. Subsidiaries company financial statements 2015 2014 The company financial statements of Randstad Holding nv Balance at January 1 5,743.9 5,544.6 are prepared in accordance with the legal requirements of Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The company has Capital (reductions)/contributions 453.7 (316.7) made use of the possibility based on Article 362, paragraph 8, Transfer subsidiaries 2.4 Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code to prepare company Dividend (545.0) financial statements based on the accounting policies used Net income 600.5 370.8 for the consolidated financial statements. Share-based compensations, subsidiaries (3.9) (1.7) IAS 19 effects, subsidiaries (0.6) (16.1) The subsidiaries are presented in accordance with the equity Fair value adj. equity investment 0.6 method. Translation differences 164.3 163.0 Balance at December 31 6,415.9 5,743.9 Receivables are mainly receivables on subsidiaries. The accounting policy on trade and other receivables is included in note 3.2.1 of the notes to the consolidated financial See note 22.1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. statements for an overview of the major subsidiaries. A summary of the significant accounting policies and a summary of the critical accounting estimates, assumptions and judgments are given in note 2 and note 4 respectively of 4. Long-term loans receivable from the notes to the consolidated financial statements. subsidiaries With respect to the company income statement of Randstad A loan to a subsidiary was issued during the year 2014. The Holding nv, the company makes use of the exception maturity date of this loan is July 2018. The interest rate is provided for in Article 402, Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil 6,26% per year. Code. 5. Receivables 2. Software 2015 2014 Software Receivables from subsidiaries 46.2 274.2 2015 2014 Other receivables 5.0 2.9 51.2 277.1 Balance at January 1 1.5 Additions 0.1 1.9 6. Shareholders' equity Amortization (0.5) (0.4) Balance at December 31 1.1 1.5 Additional information is given in the consolidated statement of changes in equity and in note 19 of the notes to the Cost 2.0 1.9 consolidated financial statements. Accumulated amortization and impairment (0.9) (0.4) Balance at December 31 1.1 1.5 6.1 Legal reserves Based on Dutch law, a legal reserve needs to be established for currency translations, fair value adjustments and Additional information with respect to software is given in capitalized costs of development of software. The legal note 14 of the notes to the consolidated balance sheet. reserve cannot be used for dividend distribution and is therefore restricted in usage. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 157 Legal reserves 8. Trade and other payables 2015 2014 2015 2014 Translation reserve 204.5 55.0 Trade payables 1.2 2.5 Developed software 17.6 10.0 Payables to subsidiaries 1,679.4 2,253.8 Fair value reserve 0.6 Other taxes and social security premiums 1.2 1.2 222.7 65.0 Pension contributions 0.0 Wages, salaries and other personnel costs 7.8 7.6 Accruals and deferred income 8.6 18.9 Movements during 2015 relate to translation gains and to the Balance at December 31 1,698.2 2,284.0 net balance of capitalization and amortization of software developed in-house. 9. Number of employees (average) 6.2 Other reserves 'Other reserves' includes a reserve with respect to share-based In 2015, the company employed an average of 172 compensations to the amount of € 50.4 million (2014: employees (2014: 179). € 56.9 million). 10. Remuneration 7. Borrowings See note 24 of the notes to the consolidated financial 2015 2014 statements. Non-current borrowings comprising drawings on the multi-currency syndicated 11. Related parties revolving credit facility 124.6 315.0 Non-current borrowings to subsidiaries 1,281.0 600.0 All companies within the Group are considered to be related Non-current borrowings 1,405.6 915.0 parties. Current borrowings 118.9 124.5 See also notes 22, 23 and 24 of the notes to the consolidated 1,524.5 1,039.5 financial statements. The non-current borrowings from subsidiaries consist of 12. Guarantees and commitments various loans amounting to € 1.281 million, maturing from December 31, 2018 to April 29, 2025. The average interest The company bears joint and several liability for drawings by rate on all loans is 5.9% (2014: 6.1%). subsidiaries under the multi-currency syndicated revolving credit facility and under bank overdraft and guarantee facilities, to the amount of € 484 million (2014: € 463 million). Movements in non-current borrowings from third parties As at December 31, 2015, guarantees issued by the company on behalf of subsidiaries amounted to € 8.9 million (2014: 2015 2014 € 6.5 million). Balance at January 1 315.0 588.7 The company’s commitments for the period shorter than one year amount to € 0.9 million (2014: € 0.9 million) and for the Repayments of syndicated loan (212.1) (298.7) period between one and five years to € 1.4 million (2014: Amortization of transaction costs 2.2 2.0 € 0.5 million) with respect to lease contracts for automobiles. Translation differences 19.5 23.0 Balance at December 31 124.6 315.0 The company is part of fiscal unities for corporate income taxes, as well as for value-added taxes. As a consequence, the company bears joint and several liability for the debts with Additional information with respect to borrowings is given in respect to corporate income taxes and value-added taxes of note 3.2 of the notes to the consolidated balance sheet. the fiscal unities. The company settles corporate income taxes, in principle, based on the results before taxes of the subsidiaries belonging to the fiscal unity. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 158 notes to the company financial statements The company has issued joint and several liability statements in accordance with Section 403, Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code for a limited number of its Dutch subsidiary companies, mainly serving as sub-holding companies. 13. Auditors' fees Information with respect to auditors' fees is given in note 28 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Diemen, the Netherlands, February 16, 2016 The Executive Board Jacques van den Broek (Chairman) Robert Jan van de Kraats (Vice-Chairman) François Béharel Linda Galipeau Chris Heutink The Supervisory Board Wout Dekker (Chairman) Jaap Winter (Vice-Chairman) Barbara Borra Frank Dorjee Henri Giscard d'Estaing Giovanna Kampouri Monnas Rudy Provoost annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 159 other information Events after balance sheet date or remaining term of six to seven years. For the first time on the date that the preference B shares (of a series) have been Subsequent to the date of the balance sheet, the Group outstanding for seven years, and subsequently each period of acquired 97.3% of the shares of Proffice AB, Stockholm, seven years after this, the basic percentage of the preference Sweden, effectively February 4, 2016. The cash outlay was B shares (of the series concerned) will be adjusted to the yield approximately € 172 million. then effective of the state loans referred to in the abovementioned provisions. Proffice AB has operations in Sweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark and is active in general staffing and professionals. A b.3 A dividend will be distributed per series of preference C preliminary purchase price allocation will take place in Q1 shares to holders thereof equal to the basic percentage 2016. mentioned under b.4 increased with the increment mentioned under b.4 calculated over the sum of the nominal amount increased by the daily time weighted average over Provisions in the Articles of the relevant financial year of the sum of the share premium amount and the preference C shares dividend reserve of said Association concerning profit series. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence the dividend appropriation on the preference C shares for the period until the eighteenth day of November two thousand and nineteen will The following is a summary of the most important be five hundred eighty (580) basis points. stipulations of Article 28 of the Articles of Association concerning profit appropriation. b.4 For the first time on the eighteenth day of November two thousand nineteen and subsequently each period of seven Subsection 1. years after this, the basic percentage of the preference C Any such amounts from the profits as will be fixed by the shares (of the series concerned) will be adjusted to the Executive Board with the approval of the Supervisory Board average effective return on Dutch government bonds with a will be allocated to reserves. As far as possible, from the (remaining) life of seven years. remaining profits (hereinafter also called the total profits): The increment is to be determined by the Executive Board a. A dividend will first be distributed to the holders of with the approval of the Supervisory Board with a minimum preference A shares on the amount paid on said shares, of of fifty (50) basis points and a maximum of six hundred and which the percentage will be equal to the average of the fifty (650) basis points, depending on the market statutory interest – in the event of a change in the meantime circumstances (as a function of, among other things, to the respective percentages – during the financial year for illiquidity, perpetuality, creditworthiness, subordination and which the distribution is made. This percentage will be tax treatment) at that time and is subject to the approval of increased by a surcharge fixed by the Executive Board, subject the meeting of shareholders of the preference C shares or to the approval of the Supervisory Board, amounting to a series concerned, which approval requires unanimous votes maximum of three percent (3%). If, in any year, the profit of the holders of the preference C shares present or distribution on preference A shares cannot be made or can represented at such meeting. only be made partially, the overdue dividend on the shares will be distributed in the subsequent years before any other b.5 The Executive Board is authorized, subject to the approval dividend distribution is made. of the Supervisory Board, to resolve that dividend on the preference B shares or on the preference C shares of any b.1 A dividend will subsequently be distributed per series to series shall not be distributed but reserved instead in order to holders of preference B shares (equal to the basic percentage be distributed at a later date following a resolution to this to be mentioned under b.2) of the sum of the nominal effect by the Executive Board, subject to the approval of the amount and the amount in share premium which was paid Supervisory Board. When it is resolved that dividend on the upon the first issue of the shares of said series, which preference B shares shall not be distributed but reserved then percentage will be increased upon said issue by a surcharge, it shall also be resolved that dividend on the preference C fixed by the Executive Board, subject to approval of the shares shall not be distributed but reserved and vice versa. Supervisory Board, of a maximum of one hundred and seventy-five (175) base points. If the share premium reserve b.6 If and insofar as the profit is not sufficient to fully make has not shown the same balance for the whole financial year, the distribution referred to hereinbefore on preference B the dividend shall be calculated on the time-weighted shares and on preference C shares, the Executive Board may average balance for that financial year. resolve, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, to make these distributions from the freely distributable b.2 The basic percentage referred to under b.1 will be the reserves, with the exception of the share premium reserves arithmetic average of the effective yield on the government referred to in Article 4, paragraph 4 under b and c, bonds issued by the Kingdom of the Netherlands with a term annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 160 other information preference A shares dividend reserves, preference B shares interim dividend, to be deducted from the dividend expected dividend reserves and preference C shares dividend reserves. for the financial year concerned, if the requirement of the preceding paragraph has been fulfilled, as will be evident b.7 If and insofar as in any financial year no distribution can from an interim specification of equity and all the be made, or it is resolved not to make a distribution on distributions on preference B shares and preference C shares preference B shares, from the profit realized in the have been made. Said specification of equity will relate to the subsequent years after allocation to reserves and reduction of position of the equity at the earliest on the first day of the the amounts accruing to holders of preference A shares in third month prior to the month in which the resolution for accordance with the provisions in paragraph 1 subparagraph distribution will be announced. It will be drawn up with due a of Article 28, following a resolution to that effect by the observance of the valuation methods deemed acceptable in Executive Board, subject to the approval of the Supervisory society. The specification of equity will include the amounts Board, such distribution will be made to the holders of said to be allocated to the reserves by virtue of the law. It will be preference shares or reserved that the deficit will have been signed by the members of the Executive Board. In the event fully made good before the provisions laid down that the signature(s) of one or more of them should be hereinbefore can be applied. lacking, the reason thereof will be stated. The company will deposit the specification of equity at the office of the Trade b.8 If and insofar as in any financial year no distribution can Register within eight days after the date on which the be made, or it is resolved not to make a distribution on resolution for distribution will be announced. A resolution for preference C shares, from the profit realized in the distribution of an interim dividend may be limited to a subsequent years after allocation to reserves and reduction of distribution of an interim dividend exclusively to shareholders the amounts accruing to holders of preference A shares in of a particular class, without prejudice to the rights of accordance with the provisions in paragraph 1 subparagraph shareholders of other classes. a of Article 28, following a resolution to that effect by the Executive Board subject to the approval of the Supervisory Subsection 5. Board, such distribution will be made to the holders of said Resolutions for the complete or partial cancellation of preference shares or reserved as such that the deficit will reserves as stated in paragraph 1 of this Article may only be have been fully made good before the provisions laid down passed by the General Meeting on a proposal of the hereinbefore can be applied. Such deficit will be increased Executive Board approved by the Supervisory Board, with the with the percentage referred to in paragraph 1 under b.3 or exception of resolutions in respect of: (i) distributions from under b.4 of this Article 28 calculated over the period the reserved dividend on preference B shares and on preference deficit occurred and the moment the deficit has been made C shares, which shall be resolved upon by the Executive Board good. subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board; and (ii) annual distributions of twenty per cent (20%) of the b.9 If preference B shares or preference C shares have been preference C shares share premium reserve on preference C issued in the course of any financial year, the dividend on the shares, which may be increased with an additional amount at shares concerned for said financial year will be reduced the expense of the general reserves, such amount as to be proportionately until the first day of issue. determined at the time of issuance, which distributions may be resolved upon by the Executive Board, subject to the Subsection 2. approval of the Supervisory Board, once the preference C The balance then remaining will be available to the General shares (of a series) have been outstanding for four years. If in Meeting, subject to the proviso that (i) no distribution will be any financial year a distribution as referred to under (ii) does made as long as not all the profit distributions on the not occur or does not wholly occur, such distribution may preference shares have been made and the reserves are take place in a subsequent year, provided that in any distributed on the preference shares as referred to in this financial year not more than thirty percent (30%) may be Article 28 and (ii) no further distribution will be made on distributed. When it is resolved that distributions shall be preference shares, nor will any amounts be reserved for this made from the preference B shares dividend reserve then it purpose. shall also be resolved that distributions shall be made from the preference C shares dividend reserve and vice versa. Subsection 3. The company may only make distributions to shareholders Resolutions of the General Meeting for the complete or from the profit susceptible to distribution insofar as its partial cancellation of a share premium reserve will require common equity exceeds the amount of the paid and claimed the prior approval of the meeting of holders of shares of the part of the capital increased by the reserves to be kept by class and series concerned, without prejudice to the virtue of the law. provisions in Article 4, paragraph 5, under b.1. Only holders of ordinary shares will be entitled to distributions deducted Subsection 4. from allocations to reserves other than those mentioned in Subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, the the preceding sentence. However, without prejudice to the Executive Board may pass a resolution for distribution of an amounts that would accrue to holders of preference B shares annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 161 or holders of preference C shares, in accordance with the Proposed profit appropriation provisions in Article 28, paragraph 1b.4. and Article 34, paragraph 4.6., resolutions for the complete or partial It is proposed that a dividend of € 4.5 million and of € 8.1 cancellation of reserves as stated in paragraph 1 of this Article million be paid on the type-B and type-C preference shares, may only be passed by the General Meeting on a proposal of respectively, and that a dividend of € 307.5 million be paid on the Executive Board approved by the Supervisory Board, with the ordinary shares. It is proposed that € 198.7 million be the exception of distributions from reserved dividend on added to retained earnings. preference B shares, which shall be resolved upon by the Executive Board subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board. Resolutions of the General Meeting for the complete or partial cancellation of a share premium reserve as stated in Article 4, paragraph 4.b. will require the prior approval of the meeting of holders of shares of the class and series concerned, without prejudice to the provisions in Article 4, paragraph 5, under b.1. Only holders of ordinary shares will be entitled to distributions deducted from allocations to reserves other than those mentioned in the preceding sentence. However, without prejudice to the amounts that would accrue to holders of preference B shares in accordance with the provisions in Article 28, paragraph 1b.4. and Article 34, paragraph 4. Article 29 of the Articles of Association concerning payment in shares or from the reserves states: 1. The General Meeting may, at the proposal of the Executive Board and with the approval of the Supervisory Board, decide to distribute a dividend on ordinary shares in whole or in part in shares of the company and not in cash. 2. The General Meeting may decide to make a distribution on ordinary shares, in whole or in part, in shares of the company and not in cash. 3. The General Meeting may, at the proposal of the Executive Board and with the approval of the Supervisory Board, decide to make a distribution to holders of ordinary shares from the distributable part of the shareholders’ equity. The provisions in paragraph 1 of this article will apply mutatis mutandis. Distribution as meant in the present paragraph 3 will only apply if all the amounts owed by virtue of Article 28, paragraph 1 have been paid. 4. In the event of a merger of a Subsidiary of the company, the General Meeting will have the authority to issue shares from one or more of the company’s reserves, which do not need to be retained pursuant to the law or these Articles of Association. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 162 other information Independent auditor's report Our audit approach As part of our audit we have determined materiality and To the shareholders and Supervisory Board of Randstad used it to assess the risks of material misstatement. We have Holding nv specifically assessed accounts where subjectivity is high because of estimates regarding uncertain future Report on the audit of the financial statements 2015 developments. We have likewise specifically focused on the risk related to management override of controls and the risk Our opinion of material misstatement due to fraud. In addition, our audit We have audited the financial statements 2015 of Randstad expressly included the continuity and reliability of the Holding nv (“Company”), based in Diemen. The financial automated information systems. statements include the consolidated financial statements and the Company financial statements. Executive Board report Materiality In our opinion: • Prepared in Materiality for the the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair accordance financial statements view of the financial position of Randstad Holding nv as at with Part 9 as a whole EUR 30 Company and December 31, 2015, and of its result and its cash flows for Book 2 Dutch million (2014 EUR Civil Code consolidated 31.5 million) 2015 in accordance with International Financial Reporting • Consistent with financial Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) financial statements statements and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; and the company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Randstad Holding nv as at Key audit matters Scope December 31, 2015, and of its result for 2015 in • Valuation of goodwill Deloitte audited accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. • Valuation of deferred tax assets the company and • First year audit consolidated reporting units What we have audited The consolidated financial statements comprise: the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2015; Materiality the following statements for 2015: the consolidated Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they statement of changes in equity and the consolidated could reasonably be expected to influence the economic statement of cash flows; and decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial the notes comprising a summary of the significant statements. The materiality affects the nature, timing and accounting policies and other explanatory information. extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. The company financial statements comprise: the company balance sheet at December 31, 2015; Based on our professional judgement we determined the the company income statement for 2015; and materiality for the financial statements as a whole at EUR 30 the notes comprising a summary of the significant million. The materiality is based on 5% of profit before accounting policies and other explanatory information. income tax. We have also taken into account misstatements and/or possible misstatements that in our opinion are Basis for our opinion material for the users of the financial statements for We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, qualitative reasons. including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in We agreed with the supervisory board that misstatements in the section “Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial excess of EUR 1.5 million, which are identified during the statements” of our report. audit, would be reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that in our view must be reported on We are independent of Randstad Holding nv in accordance qualitative grounds. with the Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten (ViO) and other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. Materiality overview Furthermore we have complied with the Verordening Group materiality level EUR 30 million gedragsen beroepsregels accountants (VGBA). Basis for Group materiality level 5% of profit before tax Threshold for reporting EUR 1.5 million We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient misstatements and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 163 Scope of the Group audit Audit coverage Randstad Holding nv is at the head of a group of entities. The Audit coverage of consolidated 89% financial information of this Group is included in the financial revenues statements of Randstad Holding nv Audit coverage of total assets 87% Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the In addition, we performed other procedures with respect to Group audit. In this respect we have determined the nature the remaining Group entities. and extent of the audit procedures to be carried out for Group entities. Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and of the Group entities or operations. On this basis, we selected a number of complex items were audited by the Group Group entities for which an audit or review had to be carried engagement team at the head office. These include the out on the complete set of financial information or specific annual goodwill impairment test, valuation of deferred tax items. assets and share-based payments. In establishing the overall Group audit strategy and plan, we By performing the procedures mentioned above at Group determined the type of work that needed to be performed at entities, together with additional procedures at Group level, the Group entities by the Group engagement team and by we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit component auditors from other Deloitte network firms. evidence about the Group’s financial information to provide an opinion about the financial statements. Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in Our key audit matters the audit work at those Group entities so as to be able to Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements. We have communicated the key audit financial statements as a whole. For each Group entity we matters to the supervisory board. The key audit matters are determined whether we required an audit of their complete not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed. financial information or whether other procedures would be sufficient. Those where a complete audit was required These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of included the following Group entities: North America, the financial statements as a whole and in forming our Netherlands, France, Germany, Belgium, United Kingdom, opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion Spain, Italy, Australia, Japan and India. These were selected on these matters. because of their financial significance to the Group’s revenue or underlying profits. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 164 other information Key audit matter How the key audit matter was addressed in the audit First year audit Prior to becoming the Company's auditors in 2015, we developed a comprehensive transition plan Initial audit engagements involve a number starting in January 2014 to understand the connection between the Company's strategy, the related of considerations not associated with business risks and the way this impacts the Company's financial reporting and internal controls recurring audits. Additional planning framework. Our transition plan included amongst others: activities and considerations necessary to Close interaction with the previous auditor, including a process of file reviews and formal hand establish an appropriate audit strategy and over procedures as prescribed by our professional standards; Active knowledge sharing with the members of the Executive Board, Group Accounting, Group audit plan include: Control, Group Business Risk & Audit and legal departments to understand their perspectives on Gaining an initial understanding of the the business, identified risks and key observations from their work; Group and its business including its Attendance of clearance meetings with senior management and the Audit Committee during the control environment and information Q3 2014 and Q4 2014 quarterly and year-end financial closing and reporting process; systems sufficient to make audit risk Evaluation of key accounting positions and audit matters from prior years; assessments and develop the audit Assessment of the overall control environment of the Group including meetings with members of strategy and plan; the Executive Board, the legal department and the Group Business Risk & Audit department as well Obtaining sufficient appropriate audit as through meetings with management of Group entities around the world, to obtain their evidence regarding the opening feedback on the tone at the top set by management of the Group; balances including the selection and We evaluated Randstad’s key control framework which is implemented across all Group entities. application of accounting principles; We performed internal controls testing including testing of IT general controls, automated controls and and the effectiveness of the ‘hours paid versus hours billed’ control, which given the industry in Communicating with the previous which the Company operates, are important controls we rely upon in our audit; and auditors. We discussed and agreed our audit plan with the Company's Audit Committee in April 2015 and we reported status, progress and key findings from our audit process on a quarterly basis. Valuation of goodwill Our audit procedures included, amongst others an assessment of the mathematical accuracy of the At December 31, 2015 the Group’s goodwill calculations and a reconciliation to the long term forecast as approved by the Executive Board. We balance is valued at EUR 2,494.8 million. used our valuation experts to assist us in evaluating the assumptions and methodologies used in the Under EU-IFRS, the company is required to annual impairment test prepared by the company. We have challenged management, primarily on annually test for impairment of goodwill. their assumptions applied where upon which the outcome of the impairment test is most sensitive, This annual impairment test was significant including, for example, projected revenue growth, EBITA margin, discount rate and terminal growth. to our audit because the assessment process Further, we challenged management by comparing the assumptions to historic performance of the is complex and involves significant company, local economic development and industry outlook, taking into account the sensitivity of the management judgment and is based on goodwill balances to changes in the respective assumptions. We also focused on the adequacy of the assumptions that are affected by expected company’s disclosures concerning those key assumptions to which the outcome of the impairment test future market and economic conditions. is most sensitive. The company’s disclosures concerning impairment and goodwill are included in note Based on the annual goodwill impairment 4.1 to the consolidated financial statements. test the Executive Board concluded that no goodwill impairment was needed. The key assumptions and sensitivities are disclosed in note 4.1 to the financial statements. Valuation of deferred tax assets Our audit procedures included, amongst others an assessment of the recoverability of deferred tax The Group’s deferred income tax assets and assets in the USA and Luxembourg because of the respective value of these deferred tax assets and for deferred income tax liabilities as at France due to the level of management judgment involved. We compared the consistency of December 31, 2015 are valued at EUR 531.5 management’s profitability forecasts with those included in the annual goodwill impairment test. We million and EUR 35.9 million respectively. also assessed local fiscal developments, in particular those related to changes in the statutory income Under EU-IFRS, the company is required to tax rate and statutes of limitation since these are key assumptions underlying the valuation of the periodically determine the valuation of deferred tax assets. Further, we used our tax specialists to assist us in evaluating the assumptions and deferred tax positions. This area was methodologies used by the company. In addition we also focused on the adequacy of the company’s significant to our audit because of the disclosures on deferred income tax positions and assumptions used. The company’s disclosures related complexity of the valuation process concerning income taxes are included in note 4.3 to the consolidated financial statements. which involves significant management judgment given it is based on assumptions that are affected by expected future market, economic conditions and tax laws and regulations. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 165 Responsibilities of management and the Supervisory Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, Board for the financial statements level of assurance, which means we may not have detected Management is responsible for the preparation and fair all errors and fraud. presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and for For an overview of our responsibilities we refer to the the preparation of the Executive Board report in accordance appendix of this audit report. with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, management is responsible for such internal control as Report on other legal and regulatory requirements management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from Report on the Executive Board report and the other material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. information Pursuant to legal requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the As part of the preparation of the financial statements, Dutch Civil Code (concerning our obligation to report about management is responsible for assessing the company’s the Executive Board report and other information): ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial We have no deficiencies to report as a result of our reporting framework mentioned, management should examination whether the Executive Board report, to the prepare the financial statements using the going concern extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance basis of accounting unless management either intends to with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no whether the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 realistic alternative but to do so. Management should disclose of the Dutch Civil Code has been annexed; and events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on We report that the Executive Board report, to the extent the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the we can assess, is consistent with the financial statements. financial statements. Engagement We were engaged as of the audit for year 2015 and have The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the operated as statutory auditor ever since that date. company’s financial reporting process. Diemen, 16 February 2016 Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Deloitte Accountants B.V. Our objective is to plan and perform the audit assignment in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate Originally signed by P.J.M.A. van de Goor audit evidence for our opinion. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 166 other information Appendix to our auditor’s report on the financial statements 2015 of Randstad Holding nv In addition to what is included in our auditor’s report we have further set out in this appendix our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements and explained what an audit involves. The auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained professional skepticism throughout the audit, in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our audit included e.g.: Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designing and performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control; Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management; Concluding on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the company to cease to continue as a going concern; Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures; and Evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. We communicate with the supervisory board regarding, amongst other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we identify during our audit. We provide the supervisory board with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the supervisory board, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the matter is in the public interest. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 167 supplementary information 168 Summary quarterly income statement 2015 169 Summary quarterly statement of cash flows 2015 170 Ten years of Randstad 172 Glossary 176 Sustainability and industry memberships and partnerships 177 Certifications, rankings, and awards 179 Highest Randstad positions in industry associations 180 Financial calendar 168 summary quarterly income statement 2015 unaudited amounts in millions of €, unless stated otherwise First quarter Second quarter Third quarter Fourth quarter Year 2015 Revenue 4,431.4 4,815.8 4,976.9 4,995.1 19,219.2 Cost of services 3,616.6 3,912.9 4,043.4 4,051.8 15,624.7 Gross profit 814.8 902.9 933.5 943.3 3,594.5 Selling expenses 468.5 483.1 486.3 484.5 1,922.4 Other general and administrative expenses 202.4 206.8 206.0 224.9 840.1 Amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill 40.2 34.3 25.5 27.3 127.3 Total operating expenses 711.1 724.2 717.8 736.7 2,889.8 Operating profit 103.7 178.7 215.7 206.6 704.7 Net finance (costs) / income (22.3) (4.0) (5.8) 3.0 (29.1) Share in profit and result of disposal of associates 0.1 0.1 0.1 6.5 6.8 Income before taxes 81.5 174.8 210.0 216.1 682.4 Taxes on income (22.0) (44.6) (57.0) (40.0) (163.6) Net income 59.5 130.2 153.0 176.1 518.8 Calculation of earnings per ordinary share Net income for holders of ordinary shares 56.4 127.0 149.9 172.9 506.2 Amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill 40.2 34.3 25.5 27.3 127.3 One-offs 9.2 2.2 7.7 4.7 23.8 Tax effect on amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill, integration costs and one-offs (15.0) (11.2) (11.0) (11.8) (49.0) Net income for holders of ordinary shares before amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill, integration costs and one-offs 90.8 152.3 172.1 193.1 608.3 Basic earnings per share (€) 0.31 0.70 0.82 0.95 2.79 Diluted earnings per share (€) 0.31 0.69 0.81 0.94 2.76 Diluted earnings per share before amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill, integration costs and one-offs (€) 0.50 0.83 0.93 1.05 3.32 Average number of ordinary shares outstanding (in millions) 179.8 181.8 182.7 182.4 181.7 Average number of diluted ordinary shares outstanding (in millions) 181.2 183.4 184.3 184.0 183.3 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 169 summary quarterly statement of cash flows 2015 unaudited amounts in millions of € First quarter Second quarter Third quarter Fourth quarter Year 2015 Operating profit 103.7 178.7 215.7 206.6 704.7 Amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill 40.2 34.3 25.5 27.3 127.3 EBITA 143.9 213.0 241.2 233.9 832.0 Depreciation and amortization software 16.3 16.3 16.2 15.9 64.7 EBITDA 160.2 229.3 257.4 249.8 896.7 Provisions and employee benefit obligations 0.0 (9.4) (11.6) (11.4) (32.4) Share-based payments 7.8 7.7 6.8 6.8 29.1 Other (23.3) (28.7) (27.3) (21.2) (100.5) Cash flow from operations before operating working capital and income taxes 144.7 198.9 225.3 224.0 792.9 Operating working capital (58.9) (191.9) 30.2 98.7 (121.9) Income taxes paid (paid) / received (36.4) (52.9) (31.7) 15.6 (105.4) Net cash flow from operating activities 49.4 (45.9) 223.8 338.3 565.6 Net additions to property, plant, equipment and software (13.2) (13.5) (15.6) (20.7) (63.0) Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries/activities/ equity investments 0.1 0.4 (89.7) 5.3 (83.9) Financial assets (3.8) (3.8) Net cash flow from investing activities (13.1) (13.1) (105.3) (19.2) (150.7) Net cash flow from financing activities 19.8 80.6 (192.1) (277.7) (369.4) Net (decrease)/increase in cash, cash equivalents and current borrowings 56.1 21.6 (73.6) 41.4 45.5 Cash, cash equivalents and current borrowings at beginning of period (107.0) (49.0) (27.6) (98.9) (107.0) Net movement 56.1 21.6 (73.6) 41.4 45.5 Translation and currency gains / (losses) 1.9 (0.2) 2.3 8.9 12.9 Cash, cash equivalents and current borrowings at end of period (49.0) (27.6) (98.9) (48.6) (48.6) Free cash flow 36.2 (59.4) 208.2 313.8 498.8 annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 170 ten years of Randstad amounts in millions of €, unless stated otherwise 2015 2014 2013 Revenue 19,219.2 17,249.8 16,568.3 Growth % 11.4% 4.1% (3.0)% Gross profit 1 3,594.5 3,177.6 3,010.0 EBITDA1 896.7 725.9 597.9 EBITA1 832.0 660.7 529.7 Operating profit/(loss)1 704.7 515.3 366.3 Net income 2 518.8 340.1 230.7 Growth % 52.5% 47.4% 528.6% Net cash flow from operations 565.6 557.5 340.7 Free cash flow 498.8 487.7 292.9 Depreciation, amortization and impairment of property, plant, equipment, and software 64.7 65.2 68.2 Additions to property, plant, equipment, and software 67.2 65.7 61.5 Amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill, and badwill 127.3 145.4 163.4 Shareholders' equity 3,861.7 3,313.1 2,907.8 (Net debt) / net cash (173.2) (422.0) (761.0) Operating working capital 3 621.4 487.7 459.5 Average number of candidates 597,400 580,300 567,700 Average number of corporate employees 29,750 28,720 28,030 Number of branches, year-end 2,750 2,816 3,161 Number of inhouse locations, year-end 1,723 1,595 1,426 Market capitalization, year-end 10,529.1 7,215.2 8,366.0 Number of ordinary shares outstanding (average in millions) 181.7 178.9 175.5 Closing price (in €) 57.53 40.06 47.15 Ratios in % of revenue Gross profit1 18.7% 18.4% 18.2% EBITDA1 4.7% 4.2% 3.6% EBITA1 4.3% 3.8% 3.2% Operating profit1 3.7% 3.0% 2.2% Net income 2.7% 2.0% 1.4% Basic earnings per ordinary share (€) 2.79 1.83 1.25 Diluted earnings per ordinary share (€) 2.76 1.81 1.23 Diluted earnings per ordinary share before amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill (€) 3.23 2.35 1.87 Dividend per ordinary share (€) 1.68 1.29 0.95 Payout per ordinary share in % 4 50% 50% 45% 1 The results as presented in this overview are actual results. As such, they have not been adjusted for one-offs, integration costs or acquisition-related costs. 2 For the years 2006 and 2007, net income includes dividend on preferred shares as financial expenses under net finance costs. 3 Operating working capital (as from 2014): trade and other receivables minus the current part of financial fixed assets, deferred receipts from disposed Group companies, and interest receivable minus trade a 4 Starting 2008: on basic earnings per ordinary share, adjusted for the net effect of amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill, badwill (2013 only), integration costs an annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 171 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 17,086.8 16,224.9 14,179.3 12,399.9 14,038.4 9,197.0 8,186.1 5.3% 14.4% 14.4% (11.7)% 52.6% 12.3% 23.3% 3,107.3 2,953.9 2,669.3 2,421.3 2,972.3 2,029.7 1,730.6 547.7 633.6 598.9 346.0 744.0 605.6 484.2 463.6 553.1 513.6 252.4 644.0 554.4 436.1 127.6 249.7 341.2 93.8 (34.7) 539.6 423.6 36.7 179.0 288.5 67.6 18.4 384.9 360.3 (79.5)% (38.0)% 326.8% 267.4% (95.2)% 6.8% 48.9% 528.6 519.5 369.2 742.7 760.1 401.4 409.6 466.5 435.2 309.3 698.1 672.7 328.4 350.0 84.1 80.5 85.3 93.6 100.0 51.2 48.1 63.5 85.5 60.7 48.5 92.0 74.4 61.8 336.0 303.4 172.4 158.6 678.7 14.8 12.5 2,724.9 2,898.4 2,850.8 2,491.0 2,416.9 1,021.6 790.3 (1,095.7) (1,302.6) (899.3) (1,014.7) (1,641.0) (144.2) 250.3 527.6 631.6 525.5 395.2 711.5 409.5 354.5 581,700 576,800 521,300 465,600 555,600 369,200 312,300 29,320 28,700 25,680 27,640 28,230 17,570 15,380 3,191 3,566 3,085 3,182 4,146 1,889 1,827 1,305 1,145 1,110 947 1,087 997 843 4,785.3 3,907.9 6,716.9 5,917.6 2,466.9 3,150.7 6,083.4 171.9 170.8 169.9 169.6 148.6 116.4 115.8 27.81 22.86 39.50 34.90 14.55 27.02 52.40 18.2% 18.2% 18.8% 19.5% 21.2% 22.1% 21.1% 3.2% 3.9% 4.2% 2.8% 5.3% 6.6% 5.9% 2.7% 3.4% 3.6% 2.0% 4.6% 6.0% 5.3% 0.7% 1.5% 2.4% 0.8% (0.2)% 5.9% 5.2% 0.2% 1.1% 2.0% 0.5% 0.1% 4.2% 4.4% 0.17 1.00 1.65 0.36 0.07 3.31 3.11 0.17 1.00 1.63 0.36 0.07 3.30 3.10 1.73 2.42 2.32 0.99 4.38 3.38 3.17 1.25 1.25 1.18 1.25 1.25 59% 53% 60% 38% 40% nd other payables, excluding interest payable. Comparative figure for 2013 is adjusted; all other years are not adjusted. d one-offs. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 172 glossary Operational glossary Dividend policy Our dividend policy aims at a payout ratio of 40%−50% of Activity-based field steering adjusted earnings per share. Our activity-based field steering (ABFS) model is used to manage and direct performance across our businesses. By Employees/candidates/Staffing employees working embedding operational performance tools at every level of The number of temporary employees currently working for our organization, the input-based ABFS model helps our clients. operational managers to take the right decisions, at the right time, and translate them into action. Managers receive up-toEurociett date, accurate reports on a weekly basis, covering a range of Our European industry federation, officially known as the key performance indicators. These data enable us to manage European Confederation of Private Employment Agencies. our units and teams in the field by adapting to changing client and market demands as they occur. FTE Full-time equivalent. Agency work Agency work is a special form of temporary work, where Inhouse location generally the employer does not hire the employee directly on An Inhouse location is a branch that is located at a client's a contract with a limited duration, but through a private premises, where our consultants work on-site dedicated to employment agency. The employee is mostly hired directly by that specific client. the employment agency, mostly on a temporary basis, but sometimes on a permanent contract. During the contract Managed Services Provider (MSP) period, the employee can be assigned to different user An MSP is a company that takes on primary responsibility for companies. managing an organization's contingent workforce program. An MSP may or may not be independent of a staffing Aging population supplier. The process in which the working population is shrinking due to an increasing number of people leaving the labor market Outlets because of their age. Outlets are branches and Inhouse locations combined. Blue-collar worker Outplacement Within Staffing, we typically divide the market into blue-collar Within outplacement, we advise and support organizations in and white-collar work. The distinguishing factor is difference situations in which employment contracts need to be in skill sets. Blue collar is predominantly geared towards terminated because of a strategic decision or for other industrial and technical job profiles. reasons. We assist employees in their search for a suitable new job to make the transition as smooth as possible. Branches Branches are physical office locations from which our Outsourcing consultants operate. Outsourcing is the sustainable transfer of several client activities with output responsibility both in the production/ Candidate logistics and in the administrative environment. Another term for the people we help to find work at our clients (temporary and permanent employees). Penetration rate The penetration rate is the percentage of temporary workers Ciett in the total working population. Our worldwide industry federation, officially known as International Confederation of Private Employment Agencies. Permanent placement Apart from attracting candidates for temporary jobs, we also Concepts service clients by recruiting candidates for permanent Our concepts represent the services we offer to our clients. We positions. The process involved is referred to as permanent standardize the working processes per concept in order to placement. easily 'copy and paste' them across our operations around the world. Professionals Professionals is the service we offer to our clients where we Consultant offer a broad and deep range of candidates with an academic A consultant is a front-office employee who is located at one or equivalent degree on a temporary or interim basis, as well of our outlets, directly meeting the demands of clients and as on a permanent placement basis through Search & candidates. Selection. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 173 Recruitment Fixed-term contract The process of hiring candidates for permanent positions. An employment contract with a particular end date, meaning that the contract ends after a certain event or on the Recruitment Process Outsourcing (RPO) completion of a task. RPO is the transfer of operational responsibility for one or more recruiting functions or tasks, including recruitment Local sickness rate administration, from the client to a service provider. Number of working days lost due to sickness within Randstad, based on actual working days. Sickness rate calculation: Specialties number of workings days lost / (average FTE x available days). Specialties are the specific market segments that dedicated units in our Staffing business focus on, such as healthcare, Lost Time Injury (LTI) transport, airports, and call centers. The knowledge, Days off work due to work-related injury, based on actual experience, and expertise we gain by focusing on these working days. Injury rate calculation: number of workings specialties translate into added value for clients and days lost / (average FTE x available days). candidates. Misconduct Reporting Procedure (MRP) Staff turnover Grievance mechanism; a facility operated by an independent The percentage of employees leaving our company. external provider, where serious breaches of the Randstad business principles can be reported if the regular avenues are Staffing inappropriate. A service we offer to our clients that involves matching candidates with temporary positions at our clients. National sickness rate Sickness rate in a country as most recently quoted by local Temporary work public administration or authorities. Compared to part-time work, temporary work is an even more flexible form of labor. This includes both agency workers Permanent or open-term contract and limited-duration contract workers. An employment contract for an indefinite period of time; this metric includes employees with a permanent or open-term Two-tier board structure job but without an official contract, which is often the case in A governance structure in which the board is split between an the US, for example. Executive Board and a Supervisory Board. The Executive Board is responsible for developing, driving, executing, and Senior leadership achieving the approved strategy and strategic targets, while Refers to all levels equal to or above district/regional the Supervisory Board acts in the interest of the company by management, including account management or commercial supervising and advising the Executive Board. management reporting to a regional director or higher. Vendor Management System Sickness absence A VMS is an internet-enabled contingent worker sourcing and Includes both short-term and long-term sickness. Generally billing application that enables a company to procure and excludes absence due to work-related accidents and manage a wide range of contingent workers and services in pregnancy leave, unless local authorities use a different accordance with client business rules. definition. White-collar worker Training costs Within Staffing, we typically divide the market into blue-collar Total expenditure on training of candidates or employees. In and white-collar work. The distinguishing factor is difference addition to external costs of training, an estimate is made of in skill sets. White collar is predominantly geared towards the salary costs of internal trainers. administrative job profiles. Training hours Number of hours spent on training of candidates or Sustainability glossary employees. Training of employees excludes attendance at the Frits Goldschmeding Academy, which is reported separately. Fatality An incident causing the death of a corporate staff member or VSO volunteers candidate at work, in traffic, while working, or while Number of employees (headcount) working on an indefinite commuting. contract with an operating entity, who have provided support to VSO (e.g., HR/finance/marketing/legal or strategic advice, fundraisers) either in their home country or at a VSO office annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 174 glossary (e.g., in the UK or the Netherlands), or on an assignment in Dividend on ordinary shares Africa or Asia. Part of net income attributable to holders of ordinary shares that will be distributed to holders of ordinary shares. Volunteer hours The number of hours actually worked by the volunteer(s) or: EBITA number of months of placement x 4 weeks x 36 hours; for Earnings Before Interest, Taxes and Amortization (and short-term volunteers: number of weeks x 36 hours. impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill). It is basically the same as operating profit adjusted Work-related injuries for amortization charges on acquisition-related intangible Accidents during working hours, whether on work premises assets. This is the key performance indicator when looking at or while traveling as part of work duties, causing candidates the profitability of our business. or employees to be injured on a scheduled workday or normal work shift, resulting in days off work. EBITA margin EBITA as percentage of revenue. Financial glossary EBITDA See EBITA description; additionally, before depreciation. Amortization (and impairment) of acquisition-related intangible assets EPS (basic Earnings Per Share) Upon acquisitions, Randstad identifies intangible assets, such Net income attributable to holders of ordinary shares divided as customer relationships, brand names, and candidate by the weighted average number of ordinary shares databases. On average, these acquisition-related intangible outstanding. assets are amortized over 1 to 8 years, leading to an annual non-cash amortization charge, which is included in operating Economic value added (EVA) profit. A financial performance method to calculate the true economic profit of a corporation. EVA can be calculated as net Capital expenditures operating profit after taxes minus a charge for the Part of cash flow from investing activities. Amounts incurred opportunity cost of the capital invested. for investments in property, plant and equipment (e.g., furniture, computer hardware) and software. Enterprise value Market capitalization plus net debt. Cash flow from operating activities EBITDA adjusted for changes in working capital, taxes on Free cash flow income, movements in other balance sheet positions, such as Free cash flow is the sum of net cash flow from operating provisions, and certain other non-cash items. activities and investing activities adjusted for cash flows for acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries and associates. Closing price Share price of Randstad at the end of a given trading day on Gross margin Euronext, where an ordinary share of Randstad is listed. Gross profit as percentage of revenue. Cost of services Gross profit Expenses which are directly attributable to revenue. These Revenue minus cost of services. costs mainly include expenses related to staffing employees, such as wages, social security charges, and taxes. IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards. DSO (Days Sales Outstanding, moving average) This DSO KPI represents the number of days before we are Incremental conversion ratio able to convert sales into cash (received from our client). Additional EBITA in a year, when compared with the previous In the annual report, we use the moving average of the year, as a percentage of additional gross profit in a year, when monthly DSO. compared with the previous year, based on organic growth. We aim for an incremental conversion ratio of 50%, if gross Diluted earnings per ordinary share profit growth has been achieved. Diluted earnings per ordinary share are calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares Leverage ratio outstanding, assuming conversion of all dilutive potential Net debt divided by 12-month EBITDA. We aim at a leverage ordinary shares. The dilutive potential ordinary shares arise ratio of between 0 and 2x EBITDA, which is important for from various share-based payment arrangements. continuity. The syndicated loan documentation allows us a leverage ratio of 3.5x EBITDA. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 175 Liquidity of shares Productivity Total number of shares traded on the stock exchanges. We measure productivity in three ways: (1) number of temporary workers per staff member (EW/FTE), (2) gross profit Market capitalization per staff member (GP/FTE), and (3) gross profit in relation to Total shares outstanding multiplied by the share price of personnel expenses (GP/PE). Randstad. Recovery ratio Net debt The total year-on-year change in operating expenses as a Cash and cash equivalents minus current borrowings and nonpercentage of the decline in gross profit. We aim for a current borrowings. recovery ratio of 50% in case gross profit declines. Net finance costs Revenue Net finance costs include net interest expenses in relation to We distinguish three types of revenue: (1) revenue from our net debt position, foreign currency exchange results, net temporary billings, (2) permanent placement fees, and (3) interest expenses due to passage of time, and other items. other revenue. 'Revenue from temporary billings' includes the amounts received or receivable for the services of temporary Net income staff, including the salary and salary-related employment costs Operating profit minus net finance costs, share of profit (or of those staff. These revenues are generally based on the loss) of associates, and taxes on income. number of hours worked by the temporary staff. 'Revenue from permanent placements' includes the fee received or Net income attributable to holders of ordinary shares receivable for the services provided. The fee is generally Net income adjusted for the dividend on preferred shares, as calculated as a percentage of the candidate's remuneration well as for results of non-controlling interests. package. The category 'other revenue' includes revenue for services such as payrolling, outplacement, outsourcing, MSP Operating expenses services, consultancy, and related HR offerings. Operating expenses comprise personnel and accommodation expenses in relation to the activities at the outlets and the Share in profit/loss of associates various head offices, IT expenses, other general and Associates are companies in which Randstad Holding nv has administrative expenses, as well as the amortization and significant influence, but no control, over the financial and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and operational policies, generally accompanying a shareholding goodwill. of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. The share of profit or loss of the associate is presented in this line of the Operating expenses margin income statement. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenue. Syndicated credit facility Operating profit Randstad has a € 1,800 million multi-currency syndicated Gross profit minus operating expenses. revolving credit facility at its disposal, which will mature mid-2020. The loan documentation of all credit facilities Operating working capital allows a leverage ratio of 3.5 times EBITDA, although we aim Trade and other receivables (excluding current part of held-tofor a leverage ratio of between 0 and 2, which is important maturity investments) minus trade and other payables. The for continuity. In certain cases, we are allowed to report a level of working capital is related to the timing of the maximum leverage ratio of 4.25x EBITDA for a limited amount invoicing and payrolling processes (weekly or monthly). While of time. the payment terms negotiated with clients and the effectiveness of our collection processes are equally important. Taxes on income Liabilities, such as social security charges, wage tax, and value Taxes on income comprise current taxes and the realization of added tax are settled every month and in some countries on a deferred taxes. Current taxes on income are the sum of taxes quarterly basis. Payment terms are often determined by law levied on the results before taxes in the countries in which and therefore difficult to influence. those results were generated, based on local tax regulations and against tax rates of the applicable year. Tax-exempt Payout per ordinary share income and expenses not deductible for tax purposes are Dividend on ordinary shares divided by net income per share taken into account in calculating taxes on income. attributable to holders of ordinary shares before amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets and Velocity of shares goodwill, and one-offs after taxes. Velocity represents the average holding period of a share in Randstad. It is measured as the total number of shares traded divided by the average number of shares outstanding. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 176 sustainability and industry memberships and partnerships Ciett INSEAD Through our membership in Ciett, the International Randstad chairs and co-funds the alumni Confederation of Private Employment Agencies, we strive sustainability executive roundtables of the for well-regulated working conditions for our corporate INSEAD Social Innovation Centre, where employees and candidates. business leaders share experiences on advancing the sustainability agenda. Eurociett Through our membership in Eurociett, Global Apprenticeships Network European Confederation of Private The GAN established in 2013 aims to Employment Agencies, we strive for welladdress the urgent issue of youth regulated working conditions for our unemployment and the need for businesses to corporate employees and candidates. ensure skills for the future. The Network has been developed jointly by the International CSR Europe Organisation of Employers (IOE) and the Business and Industry Advisory CSR Europe is a leading European business network for Committee to the OECD (BIAC), with the support of the International corporate social responsibility, with more than 60 leading Labour Organization (ILO). multinational corporations as members. Randstad is involved in CSR Europe projects in the areas of skills for International Organisation of Employers employability, mainstreaming diversity and well-being in The IOE is a private sector network of 150 business and the workplace. employer federations in 143 countries. The IOE guides its members in matters of international labor standards, Global Reporting Initiative business and human rights, CSR, occupational health and Randstad is a registered organizational safety, and international industrial relations. stakeholder of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and supports its mission to make Brussels European Employee Relations Group sustainability reporting standard practice; one BEERG is an information-sharing and networking group which helps to promote and manage change of companies headquartered in the EU, the US, India, and towards a sustainable global economy. Japan, where labor and employment relations professionals discuss topics of mutual concern. VSO Our partnership with Voluntary Service Businesseurope AS Group Overseas combines the strength of two On behalf of its member federations, organizations driven by a common aim: to BUSINESSEUROPE works to ensure that the help alleviate poverty across the globe by voice of business is heard in European policysharing skills and expertise with local making, and also represents its members in communities. the international political arena. VSO focuses on sustainable development and places volunteers through partners in developing countries. Randstad supports VSO by providing VNO-NCW strategic support, expertise, funding, and most of all, through our VNO-NCW, the Confederation of Netherlands employees who can volunteer themselves. Industry and Employers, represents the common interests of Dutch business, both at FTSE4Good Index home and abroad. They cover almost all Randstad Holding is a constituent company in the sectors of the economy, including more than FTSE4Good Index Series. FTSE4Good identifies companies 80% of all medium-sized companies in the that meet globally recognized standards of responsible Netherlands and nearly all of the larger, business practice. corporate institutions. UN Global Compact OECD Forum 2015 The United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary Randstad sponsored the OECD Forum 2015. business initiative for companies committed to aligning It’s central theme was “Investing in the future: their activities with ten universally accepted principles in People, Planet, Prosperity” discussing how to the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and promote access to more and better quality anticorruption. As signatories of the Compact since 2004, jobs, but also how governments, universities, it is Randstad's firm belief that responsible business business and civil society can address growing promotes the development of markets, commerce, inequality by expanding access to education. technology, and finance for the benefit of economies and societies everywhere. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 177 certifications, rankings, and awards Certifications Rankings and awards Randstad Group Belgium and Randstad Italy hold the Randstad Holding is the only HR services provider included Social Accountability SA 8000 accreditation. as a member in the Professional Services industry of the Tempo-Team, Randstad Netherlands, Diemermere Beheer DJSI world and DJSI Europe indices 2015. BV , Randstad Sweden, Randstad Brazil, Randstad Randstad Holding received confirmation of its continued Professionals Germany and Yacht hold the ISO 14001 membership of the FTSE4Good Index. environmental management certification. According to the Euronext Vigeo index Randstad Holding Randstad Argentina holds a Sustainable Commitment is one of the 20 most advanced companies in the Benelux Certificate. region rated on environmental, social and governance Randstad Belgium is certified VCU and Randstad performances. Professionals Belgium is certified Qfor, where VCU stands Randstad Holding is included in the Dutch Transparency for ‘Health and Safety’ and Qfor for ‘Quality training and Benchmark, an annual research on the content and quality consulting organizations’. of CSR or integrated reports of Dutch companies. Randstad France, Germany including Professionals and Extel, a research vehicle from Thomson Reuters, has Tempo-Team, Randstad Belgium (inhouse) and Temporecognized Randstad Holding in its annual Investor Team Belgium (Staffing and inhouse), Spain, Portugal, Relations benchmark. Randstad was granted 3 awards in Italy, Hungary, India, Japan, Brazil, Australia, Argentina, the category business services:#1 Firm in Business Services, Poland, UK Care, UK Student and Worker Support, Chile #1 CFO in Business Services, #1 IR Professional in Business and the companies in the Netherlands are certified under Services. the ISO 9001 label for quality management. 11 executives were included in the Global Power 100 – Randstad Belgium, Randstad France, Randstad Italy and Women in Staffing List 2015. The list is compiled by Randstad Holding continue to be certified with the Gender Staffing Industry Analysts, highlighting women’s Equality European & International Standard (GEEIS) for contributions to the staffing industry. their professional gender diversity practices. Randstad has earned the 12th position on LinkedIn’s global Randstad, Tempo-Team and Yacht in the Netherlands have list of the 25 Most Socially Engaged Companies in the been certified by FIRA Rating System for sustainability Recruitment Industry for 2015. This means we have built assurance based on ISO 26000, consulted by purchasing one of the strongest social engagement strategies in the organizations. world based on interactions with LinkedIn’s 380 million Randstad Professionals Germany holds the Bildungsträger members. AZAV certificate. For the 4th year in a row, Randstad Portugal won the best Randstad Australia has the AS/NZS 4801 accreditation HR supplier recognition in the “staffing and outsourcing” The labor management system ‘AMS’ of Randstad category, and the company was also recognized in the Germany was certified for systematic and effective global ranking. industrial protection of the employer’s liability. This Randstad Canada was named one of the Best Workplaces certification includes the standards NFL/ILO-OSH 2001 and in Canada by the Great Place to Work® Institute for a OHSAS 1800:2007. ninth consecutive year. Randstad Brazil holds the OHSAS 18001 certificate Randstad Spain holds the Telefónica Ability Award seal, (Occupation Health and Safety Assessment Series for which is a recognition for businesses that contribute to the health and safety management system). integration of disabled employees in the workforce. Randstad Spain holds the Youth Employment Certificate. GULP Information Services GmbH holds the seal of Diemermere Beheer BV, our facilities company in the approval “Arbeitsund Gesundheitsschütz nach LSNetherlands, holds ISO 14001 environmental management Standard” from TÜV SÜD Life Service GmbH as one of only and ISO 50001 energy management. four enterprises in Bavaria. Randstad Argentina holds the CMMI certificate. Randstad Hungary is the No. 1 recruitment company Randstad France holds the Label Diversité. according to ‘Business Journal Book of Lists 2015’, the most In the field of data protection Randstad Germany was prestigious English periodical publication in Budapest. certified by the TÜV Rheinland Industrie Service GmbH. Randstad France is among the 2% best staffing companies Randstad France and Group Randstad France hold the in labor practices out of more than 150 staffing companies Label égalité professionnelle femmes/hommes. assessed by Ecovadis, a platform to monitor sustainability Randstad Japan is certified as Excellent Staffing Agency performance in the supply chain. by the Japan Association of Human Resource Services Several Randstad US companies are ranked in the Largest Industry, entrusted by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Firms by Staffing Industry Analysts. Staffing and Welfare. Professionals are at the third place, Technologies at the fourth and Pharma at the sixth. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 178 certifications, rankings, and awards Rankings and awards award recognizes IT and engineering staffing and solutions firms that have demonstrated outstanding performance, Randstad Italy received the “Company to watch 2015” team productivity and dedication to continuous award, appointed by Cerved Group S.p.A., the largest improvement. Information Provider in Italy and one of the main rating Randstad UK’s CPE business was listed in Recruiter.co.uk agencies in Europe. Randstad Italy was granted the award Hot100 at position #8 for its economic results and balance sheet and for its Randstad UK’s CPE business was included in the Sunday competitive positioning and strategic moves. Times 100 Best Companies to Work (position 26) In November 2015 Randstad Italy received the award “Eccellenza Lido Vanni” for its excellence in realize the perfect match by finding employees the work they are best suited for and employers those candidates who best fit within their organization. Based on customer satisfaction surveys, Randstad Sourceright was ranked number one on the top overall Enterprise RPO Providers list in HRO Today’s 2015 RPO Baker’s Dozen, out of more than 300 providers tracked by HRO Today globally. Randstad Sourceright was recognized as a Leader and Star Performer in Everest Group’s “Recruitment Process Outsourcing – Service Provider Landscape with PEAK Matrix™ Assessment 2015”. Randstad Sourceright was awarded Singapore’s Best Recruitment Process Outsourcing (RPO) Partner at the 2015 HR Vendors of the Year Awards organized by Human Resources Magazine. Randstad Germany was honored with the “Bosch Global Supplier Award 2015” from Robert Bosch GmbH in the purchasing of indirect materials category. Randstad Netherlands won the ‘Incompany 500 award’ for the most attractive service provider. Randstad France received the Diversity and Integration Prize of People Experiencing Disability granted by customer Credit Agricole. Randstad Japan received the award for ‘The Growth Company of the Year’ by the Recruitment International ASIA Awards. Randstad US Sourceright and Randstad US General Staffing were awarded the Top 10 supplier supporting Coca-Cola’s Bottler Community by Coca-Cola. Randstad North America was awarded the ASA Staffing VOICE Award Media Relations by the American Staffing Association. Randstad has been selected as the winner of a 2015 ASA Staffing VOICE Award in the “Media Relations” category for our Managing Gen Y and Z in the Workplace campaign. Several US companies (Professionals, Technologies, Healthcare) were awarded the 2015 Best of Staffing: Client and Talents Lists by Invero. Best of Staffing Award has been recognizing the best staffing agencies that provide an exceptional experience to their clients and job candidates. Randstad North America was awarded the Atlanta Journal Constitution Top Places to Work #8 by the Atlanta Journal Constitution. Top places to work nationally in the large company category. Randstad US Technologies and Engineering were awarded the TechServe Alliance Excellence Award by TechServe. This annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 179 highest Randstad positions in industry associations position country federation name president vice-president board member member FAETT x x Argentina CASEEC 1 x Austria ÖPD x Australia RCSA x Belgium Federgon x Brazil Sindeprestem (Sao Paolo) x ACSESS x Canada NACCB1 x Chile AGEST x Shanghai HR Consulting Association1 x China CAFTS (Beijing) x Czech Republic APPS x Denmark Vikarbureaernes Brancheforening x France PRISME x Germany BAP x Greece ENIDEA x Hungary SZTMSZ x India ISF x Italy Assolavoro x JASSA x Japan JSLA1 x JHR (umbrella organization)1 x Luxembourg Fedil/F.E.S. (Fedil Employment Services) x Mexico AMECH x Netherlands ABU x New Zealand RCSA x Poland Polski HR Forum x Singapore Singapore Professional Staffing Organisation x Portugal APESPE x Slovakia APAS x Spain Asempleo x Sweden Bemanningsforetagen x Switzerland Swiss Staffing x Turkey OIBD x UK REC x Uruguay CUDESP x US ASA x Europe Eurociett x International Ciett x 1 Non-Ciett member. annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 180 financial calendar March 31, 2016 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders April 4, 2016 Ex-dividend April 5, 2016 Record date April 7, 2016 Dividend available for payment April 26, 2015 Publication of Q1 2015 results (pre-market) Analyst conference call Q1 2015 results July 26, 2016 Publication of Q2 2016 results (pre-market) Press conference and analyst presentation Q2 2016 results October 25, 2016 Publication of Q3 2016 results (pre-market) Analyst conference call Q3 2016 results February 14, 2017 Publication of Q4 2016 and annual results 2016 (pre-market) Press conference and analyst presentation annual results 2016 March 30, 2017 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders annual report 2015 − Randstad Holding nv 1960 Uitzendbureau Amstelveen founded in the Netherlands The company takes a 1964 new name: Randstad Uitzendbureau 1967 Creation of the Randstad logo and visual identity 1970 Randstad now has 32 branches in four countries Introduction of the core 1977 values 1978 Company name changes to: Randstad Holding nv Staffing agency 1983 Tempo-Team acquired 1985 Randstad celebrates its silver jubilee; 257 branches in four countries Establishment of 1988 Randstad Option Fund for corporate employees 1990 Randstad shares are listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange Randstad starts activities 1993 in the US Randstad deploys 16,000 staffing employees at the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta design concept Randstad founder and Dr. Kominski 1998 president and CEO Frits 1998/1999 International network Goldschmeding retires doubled through graphs acquisitions in the US, BAS! Reclame & Vormgeving Germany and Spain photography of boards and CEO Sander Stoepker Randstad, now present other photography in 20 countries, is Randstad and Vedior Gerrit Schreurs promoted to the AEX become one. Randstad Publicis index becomes the second2007 Randstad Group photo database largest HR services 2008 provider in the world Acquisition of FujiStaff text and editing Japan 2010 Randstad Holding nv 2011 Acquisition of SFN Group Baxter Communications BV Acquisition of part of the European Staffing project management activities of USG People 2013 Report Company 2014 Jacques van den Broek Acquisition of RiseSmart 2015 appointed CEO This annual report is powered by Tangelo Randstad Holding nv address e-mail Diemermere 25 corporate.communications@randstadholding.com 1112 TC Diemen investor.relations@randstadholding.com The Netherlands phone +31 (0)20 569 59 11 If you have any comments on or questions about this annual review or about the full annual report, please mailing address do not hesitate to contact us by email. P.O. Box 12600 1100 AP Amsterdam-Zuidoost The Netherlands www.randstad.com
