HINDUSTAN ZINC LIMITED UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015-2016 P a g e |1 HINDUSTAN ZINC LIMITED – AN OVERVIEW Hindustan Zinc Limited is one of the largest integrated producers of zinc-lead in the world with a capacity of 1 million MT per annum and a leading producer of silver. The Company is headquartered in Udaipur, Rajasthan in VISION India and has zinc-lead mines at Rampura Agucha, Be the world’s largest and most Sindesar Khurd, Rajpura Dariba, Zawar and Kayad; admired Zinc-Lead & Silver primary smelter operations at Chanderiya, Dariba and Company. Debari, all in the state of Rajasthan; and finished product facilities in the state of Uttarakhand. Hindustan Zinc has a world-class resource base with total MISSION reserve & resource of 389.9 million MT and average zinc Enhance stakeholders value lead reserve grade of 11.7%. The Company has a track through exploration, record of consistently growing its reserve & resource base innovation, operational since 2003 and currently has a mine life of over 25 years. excellence and sustainability The Company is self-sufficient in power with an installed  Be a globally lowest cost base of 474 MW coal-based captive power plants. producer Additionally, it has green power capacity of 309 MW  Maintain market leadership including 274 MW of wind power and 35 MW of waste and customer delight heat power. The Company has an operating workforce of over 17,000 including contract workforce and benefits over 50,000 people indirectly. Hindustan Zinc‟s revenue UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e |2 during FY 2015-16 was Rs. 14,266 Crore. Hindustan Zinc is a subsidiary of the BSE and NSE listed Vedanta Limited (formerly known as Sesa Sterlite Limited; ADRs listed on the NYSE), a part of London listed Vedanta Resources plc (“Vedanta” or the “Group”), a global diversified natural resources company with extensive interests in aluminum, copper, zinc and lead, Hindustan Zinc is iron ore, oil and commercial energy. committed to Hindustan Zinc‟s products include refined zinc, lead and undertake social silver metal. All the operating units are accredited with and community International Organization for Standardization (ISO) based initiatives in 9001, International Organization for Standardization the vicinity of its (ISO) 14001, Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 and 5S certifications. operations, to contribute to the Hindustan Zinc is India‟s largest Zinc producer and is a socio-economic vertically integrated Mining & Smelting company, gearing up to well-being and empowerment of  Harnessing mining resources to help India communities. maintain self-sufficiency in Zinc.  Become a global leader in Zinc.  Create value for all entities whether it is Customers, Investors or Employees. The Company has made remarkable progress in the areas of production, productivity and all other parameters of performance and has made significant strides towards structured community initiatives in line with the overall CSR philosophy of the Group. The company has an exemplary track record in the areas of Health, Safety and Environment and is consistently upgrading its performance on safety indices and delivering beyond statutory norms. Our community initiatives have contributed positively to the lives of people in the areas where we operate. We are also signatories of the U.N. Global Compact. UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e |3 AWARDS & ACCOLADES Hindustan Zinc has been conferred with a number of accolades in the areas of operational excellence and sustainable development recognized by the way of awards at both National and International level. Some of these are: Sustainability  ‘CII-ITC Sustainability Award 2015’ for Corporate Excellence Outstanding Accomplishment  CII’s ‘Sustainable Platinum Plus Label’  ‘Frost & Sullivan Green Manufacturing Excellence Award 2015’ in mega large business and ‘Certificate of Merit for Safety Excellence’ to Chanderiya Lead Zinc Smelting Complex  ‘Global Water Award 2015’ (UK) for Sewage Treatment Plant at Udaipur  International Research Institute for Manufacturing’s ‘India Green Manufacturing Challenge 2014‘  India Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) 2015  Bureau of Energy Efficiency, Ministry of Power & Government of India’s ‘National Energy Conservation Award 2015’ Second Prize, for Thermal Power Stations Sector (Coal fired plants < 100 MW capacity) to Zawar Mine captive power plant Industry Excellence  ‘Platts Industry Leadership for Base Metals Award 2015’ (London), for operational and financial excellence  Dun & Bradstreet Best Corporate Award 2015’ in non-ferrous category  ICONIC IDC Insight Award for demonstrating Innovations, Transformation, Customer Experience, Supply Chain Management and Employee Engagement  Government of Rajasthan’s ‘Export Excellence Award’ in the metal category  Institution of Engineers India’s ‘Industry Excellence Award 2015’ UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e |4 Social  ‘World CSR Congress’ ‘Sustainable Business of the Year Award 2015’ to Chanderiya Lead Zinc Smelter  ABP News’ Global CSR Excellence & Leadership Awards  ‘Greentech CSR Gold Award’ 2015  NGOBOX’s CSR Impact Awards 2015 under WASH (Water, Sanitation & Hygiene) category UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e |5 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT An integral part of our business Sustainability is vital to steer operational excellence and ensure business growth. Hence, we have embedded sustainability as a strategic tool in our business model to ensure our continuity in the ever-changing world of business. We adhere to the Vedanta Sustainable Development Framework that helps us integrate sustainability throughout our business management process and operational drivers of governance, safety, and social responsibility. Our policies, procedures, and best practices are all aligned to this strategy, which is why our employees have a clear understanding of their role in driving business success. With this approach, we predict a sustainable future of our business operations by meeting our growth targets, and creating long-term value for all our stakeholders. Vedanta Sustainability Development Framework The framework is underpinned by four guiding pillars for achieving sustainability:  COMMIT Responsible Stewardship It is our responsibility to respect natural and human resources at all stages of a project.  CONNECT Building Strong Relationships Connecting with stakeholders helps us build a business fit for the future.  CARE Adding and Sharing Value We have a purpose beyond profit and make an important contribution to socioeconomic development.  COMMUNICATE Strategic Communications We are committed to complete transparency and emphasize on principles of community dialogue and mutual respect including free, prior informed consent to access natural resources. UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e |6 Health, Safety and Environment Compliance with global and local regulations and standards, and protecting our people, communities and the environment from harm are our key focus areas. We have appropriate policies and standards in place to mitigate and minimize any HSE-related occurrences. Structured monitoring & review and a system of positive compliance reporting are in place. A sustainability assurance programme continues to operate in all units. It covers environment, health, safety, community relations and human rights aspects embedding our operational commitment to HSE. There is a strong focus on safety with adequate thrust on contract employees‟ safety. We are working through a behavioral transformation program “Aarohan” to eliminate / minimize injuries & fatalities. Our leadership remains focused on a zero-harm culture across the organization. Our efforts are built around three pillars:  Safety: Provide injury free and safe workplaces.  Environment: Minimum harm to environment by conserving natural resources through optimum use and efficient operations.  Health: Minimize exposure and eliminate occupational illness. Our Sustainability Policies drives and guides all our business activities. These policies outline our business' commitment and strategy towards all areas of sustainability. We have eight Sustainability policies to ensure our commitment towards doing business in a responsible manner. Health, Safety and Environment Water Biodiversity Management Sustainability Policies Energy and Supplier and Climate Contractor Change Sustainability Management Management HIV/ AIDS Human Right UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e |7 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT HZL An Overview HZL CSR INITIATIVE – An Overview We continue to impact more than 5, 00,000 lives through our relentless Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives. For Hindustan Zinc Limited, “Corporate Social Responsibility” (CSR) is integrated with the company‟s objective of operational excellence and sustainability. We are committed to contributing to the quality of life and social well-being of communities where we operate and beyond. Our business model clearly states that “Our license to operate comes not only from the government but also from the communities surrounding our operations and people of Rajasthan. We are successful because we contribute to society and build collaborative relationships. Our growth has true meaning when it creates betterment opportunities for the people around us”. Like everything else we do, CSR at HZL is founded on ethical business practices and effective governance. HZL‟s CSR policy focuses on Education; Sustainable Livelihoods; Women‟s Empowerment; Health, Water & Sanitation; Sports & Culture; Environment; and Community Development including Community Assets Creation. HZL‟s strategy for community engagement is intensive which entails mapping the needs of community and acting upon it with long term sustainable development action plan. We have constructive partnerships with like-minded organizations including government agencies, Non-governmental organizations (NGOs), local communities and Panchayats, for operationalizing our community development initiatives. CSR Governance Hindustan Zinc Board has a separate CSR sub-committee that meets twice a year. It approves the annual CSR plan, ensures that the CSR activities being undertaken are as per the Board policy and reviews the progress of the projects. Other than the Board sub-committee, the Company also has an internal Implementation Monitoring Committee consisting of cross-functional members, which meets every month and is responsible for approvals and oversight. There is also a dedicated internal auditor who does a monthly field review of all expenditures. And above all, the CSR teams based at all the seven locations stay in constant touch with local community and stakeholders to prioritize programs and track impact. UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e |8 CSR Assessment Our CSR policy, as approved by Board, mandates a baseline and impact assessment to be done once every three years. Accordingly, Total Synergy Consulting Pvt. Ltd. was engaged in 2014-15 to undertake this exercise. They reached out to all locations, surveying nearly 18,000 households. The study pointed to the need for the Company to focus on high impact programs like child care and education, while de-emphasizing the investments on infrastructure. We are now working on taking forward these recommendations. Stakeholder Engagement Over the years we have identified the following key stakeholder groups for the Company, with neighbouring communities being paramount. All programs are carried out in close collaboration with local government and civil society organizations. We are planning to strengthen the engagement of our employees in our CSR initiatives. Industry (Suppliers, Employees Customers, Peers) Civil Society ( NonShareholders and Governmental and Lenders other organizations) Communities Stakeholder Governments Engagement UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e |9 HZL’s CSR Focus Areas – Key Initiatives during 2015-16 1. Education  Shiksha Sambal Project, providing additional teaching support to students of classes X and XII; the project reached out to over 8000 students across 60 government schools  Coaching support to students appearing for various government competitive exams (teachers, patwaris, police constables, etc.); about 400 students attended classes held across four locations  Project Utkarsh a joint initiative with the District Administration, offering a quiz based learning system for students, rolled out in 316 government schools, reaching about 30,000 students  Providing infrastructure support to government schools (construction of additional classrooms, play areas, boundary walls, furniture, etc.)  Supporting various educational institutions working for specially abled students (Viklang Kalyan Samiti, Badhir Bal Kalyan Vikas Samiti)  Scholarship support to students from economically weaker sections (through College for Technology and Agriculture Engineering, Sumedha, Vedanta PG Girls College)  Early Childhood Care MoU signed with the Government of Rajasthan for providing nutrition and learning support at 3,055 Anganwadis in five districts 2. Sustainable Livelihoods  Building capacities of farmers on improved methods of agriculture; reached 3,000 farmers till date UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 10  Providing doorstep services of artificial insemination, timely veterinary and vaccination camps; 12,000 families have benefitted till date from veterinary care to 1.8 lakh cattle on an average every year  Vocational training of 37 rural youth trained as Jumbo Drill Operators; 32 of them presently working and earning an average of Rs. 20,000 per month 3. Women’ s empowerment  Working with close to 200 women’s self-help groups (SHG), reaching more than 2500 women  Trainings provided in tailoring, candle making, masala, papad making, etc.  Several trained women are now self-employed  Models in a much acclaimed fashion show held in Jaipur, walked the ramp wearing clothes made through the SHGs 4. Health, Water & Sanitation  Over 700 health and awareness camps conducted, covering approximately 90,000 people.  Collaboration with the local PHED department to lay water pipelines in 14 villages.  MoU with the District Administration for construction of toilets in government schools; so far 318 toilets constructed in 264 schools. Another 1,142 household toilets were also constructed.  Vedanta Zinc Heart Hospital, Udaipur, treats an average of 350 patients every month, especially from economically weaker ones. UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 11 5. Sports & Culture  Various sports tournaments supported at district, block and village level benefitting over 5,000 people.  Sponsored Udaipur World Music Festival held on 13th-14th February, 2016; 100 musicians from 15 different countries held live concerts attended by over 25,000 people  Support for Maharana Kumbha Sangeet Sammelan, Pandit Chatur Lal Memorial Concert 6. Environment  Project Gulshan in joint collaboration with Urban Improvement Trust, Udaipur – towards plantation and Flower Show in Udaipur  Another 3,500 plants were planted at different locations in the operational areas 7. Community Development  Construction of community centers, culverts, drains, roads etc. UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 12  Repair and renovation of schools, construction of GLR tanks, overhead tanks, digging of bore wells  311 solar lights installed in 49 villages UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 13 UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 14 UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 15 UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 16 Alliance Building and Partnerships Alliance Building and Partnership with NGOs, Industry Associations/ Organizations: Table below illustrates some of our ongoing partnership projects in collaboration with NGO‟s, Industry Associations and National/ International advocacy organizations: S. Organizations / NGOs Area of Partnership No. 1. United Nations Global Compact To promote good corporate practices in the areas Forum of (i) Human Rights (ii) Labour (iii) Environment (iv) Anti-corruption 2. HelpAge India, District Medical and Mobile Medical Camp, Immunization, family Health Department, NRHM planning camps, Mega Health Camps, blood donation camps etc. 3. Women and Child Development Integrated Child Development Services. Department Govt, of Rajasthan 4. District Veterinary Department Cattle Camp, Cattle Immunization, Artificial Insemination 5. Partners in Development Initiatives Skill Based Vocational Training 6. District Agriculture Department Farmers Training, Drip/ Micro irrigation Systems etc. 8. BAIF-RRIDMA Agriculture and Livestock Development Project 9. TERI-BCSD Sustainable Development 10. DRDA, ZilaParishad Infrastructural Development and social mobilization 11. Centre for the Study of Values, Seva Skill Development Trainings to SHG Women, Mandir and Swami Vivekanand Seva support to distressed and widow women Nyas 12. Mohan Sinha Mehta Trust, Viklang Educational Initiatives Kalyan Samiti, Swami Vivekanand Seva Nyas, Badhir Bal Kalyan Vikas Samiti UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 17 Global Compact Principles Performance Matrix Global Compact Principles Performance Matrix Keeping in view the ten principles, we have developed a performance matrix which was incorporated in all our strategic business functions and regularly reviewed from shop floor to board room level. Our major areas of performance were in the field of employee relations and training and development, Occupational Health, Safety and Environment Management, Supply chain, investor relations and Social Initiatives. HZL is among the few companies in India to be registered with United Nations (UN), resulting in a compliance with the following Global Compact Principles actions and outcomes. UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 18 Category 1: Human Rights (UNGC Principles 1-2) Principle 1Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights. Principle 2Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. Management Systems:  HZL follows the principles of the International Declaration of Human Rights. As a model employer in the country owing allegiance to the Constitution of India, we support and respect the protection of human rights and is actively demonstrating commitment to human rights through efforts to address the human right of access to health and fair working conditions.  We have an Internal Complaint Committee which takes care of the rights of the women employees and ensures their protection at work place. All the complaints related to sexual harassment of women employees, if any are dealt by this committee.  HZL strongly adheres to UK Bribery Act 2010. Under this we ensure no employee is involved in the action of bribery. Both receiver and payer of the bribe will be prosecuted.  Ethical behavior is promoted through regular communication and commitment to the HZL Code of Conduct. HZL has a well-documented Business Code of Ethics and Principles and adheres to it with zero tolerance principle.  We have whistle blower policy under which Employees have the opportunity to submit / report „Complaints‟ pertaining to the following areas such as: a) fraud against investors, securities fraud, mail or wire fraud, bank fraud, or fraudulent statements b) violations of any rules and regulations applicable to the Company and related to accounting and auditing matters c) intentional error or fraud in the preparation, review or audit of any financial statement of the Company d) any violations to the Company‟s ethical business practices as specified in the Company‟s Code of Conduct policy. The policy explicitly mentioned the preUN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 19 requisites to ensure that the identity of whistle blower is kept confidential. All employees of the company are eligible to make Protected Disclosure under the policy.  All our units are accredited with International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001, International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001, Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 and 5S certifications Actions: HZL in keeping its commitment to codes and articulated policy incorporates the following as central to its social responsibility:  Annual Vendor Meet justifies our commitment which was also shared with all our vendors to ensure collective ownership towards the business and stakeholders relations.  Most of the units of the company have developed respective newsletters for sharing information about the business best practices and added to the learning curve by incorporating best global practices.  Trade Unions are engaged in decision making at all levels from top management to shop floor.  Audits are conducted periodically to ascertain the effect of our products/processes and services on society followed by corrective actions.  Strengthening and supporting the people in a number of ways like maintaining the local areas, providing free medical treatment to employees and at nominal cost to non-employees at HZL Dispensaries, Environment conservation, organizing eye camps, family planning, immunization and other camps, encouraging sports and youth development and participating in social programs in the villages. Performance:  Not a single case of violation of human rights abuses reported by any agency against the company.  Most of the business units are 5s Certified.  Most of the business units are certified under different management systems likes ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OSHAS 18001, and SA-8000 and retaining the certification standard after the audits.  We have always believed in maintaining cordial relationship with our employees. During the year, Long Term Settlement was signed with the Employees' Federation, for a period of five years effective from July 2012, UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 20  We continue our focus on learning and development to build an enhanced and effective knowledge base, to provide a vibrant working environment to enable employees to innovate, discover potential and realize professional dreams. It uses appropriate and modern methods for training encompassing simulator based trainings, workshops & conferences and learning clubs. The Company also encourages visits to best practice companies in India and abroad, institutional training, knowledge sharing meetings and learning implementation projects, which help to bridge the identified gaps. During the year, trainings equivalent to over 140,000 man-hours were conducted by in-house as well as external Subject Matter Experts. Additionally, over 233,000 man-hours of training on Health, Safety and Environment was imparted to contract workforce.” UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 21 Category 2: Labour (UNGC Principles 3-6) Principle3-Business should uphold the freedom of association & effective recognition of right to collective bargaining. Principle4Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle -5Business should Support the Effective abolition of Child Labour. Principle6Business should Support the Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. For addressing the issue of labor standard in comprehensive manner, HZL has adopted international standards like ISO 9001, ISO 14001, SA-8000 and OHSAS-18001. We have an explicit anti-discrimination or diversity policy in recruiting, promoting, and training. We abide by the Indian Factory Act and all other Indian Labour and mining Laws; these laws are in conformance to the ILO and international laws. Different units of the company have recognized trade union and staff union for bargainable category of workmen and supervisory staff. Company also constitutes various committees and councils having equal participation from management as well as elected workmen representatives to discuss and resolve various issues related to operations. Company has periodic dialogues and negotiations with the recognized union to discuss and settle the charter of demand amicably.  HZL has a well-documented Business Code of Ethics and Principles and adheres to it with zero tolerance principle.  Most of our units are accredited with International Organization for Standardization ISO 9001, ISO 14001, SA-8000 and OHSAS-18001 and 5S certifications  We strongly adhere to Vedanta Sustainability Framework under which cover Labour & Working Conditions and ensures prevention of unacceptable form of labour. It also ensures full respect for the human rights, dignity, aspirations, culture, and natural resource-based livelihoods of Indigenous Peoples. UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 22 Actions:  Promoting collective bargaining: In keeping with the spirit of the constitution of India wherein Right of Association is fundamental right, we respect the right for association of its employees and have constructive relationships with trade unions at all locations. Employees are encouraged to join labour union, as we believe that forum like these are effective in resolving the individual and collective grievances. Long term settlement agreement is made.  In-house forum: Canteen management committee, Joint consultative committees, Operation review meetings, Cost review meetings, BMG meetings, quality circles meetings, House allotment committee, sports, cultural committees, Welfare committee and Grievance handling committee are different forums where employees can express their concerns and suggestions. Stake-holders feedback system: Hindustan Zinc, a socially responsible company, effectively engages with all relevant stakeholders through stakeholder engagement plan developed at each unit in line with requirements of Vedanta Sustainability Framework. Stakeholders identified includes internal stakeholders mainly employees, contract employees & contractors and external stakeholders mainly regulatory bodies, communities, transporter, vendors etc. They are engaged through identified responsible managers, records are maintained and points emerged are tracked and addressed. Stakeholder engagement is supplemented with Grievance redressal mechanism developed at each units mainly driven in three verticals I.e. Employees & contract employees, supplier & contractor and external communities. Grievances are recorded in grievance registers. There are designated responsible managers who ensures effective redressal of grievances. There is a Sustainability Council which reviews and monitors its effective implementation. UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 23 Category 3: Environment (UNGC Principles 7-9) Principle -7Business should Support precautionary approach to Environmental challenges Principle -8Business should undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle -9Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technology. Management Systems: Principle -7Business should Support precautionary approach to Environmental challenges We understand that the nature of our operations has implications on the environment in different ways – through the emission of particulates & gases from mining, refining and smelting processes, water consumption and changes in land use due to wastes and process residues. We are guided by three basic principles: Responsibility towards our Resources; Sensitivity to Environmental Issues and Zero Harm to the Environment. We are committed to minimize our environmental footprint from the conceptual stage of project to closure and beyond. • Responsibility towards our Resources • Sensitivity to Environmental Issues • Zero Harm to the Environment Our business strategy is about ensuring that growth is maximized in a way that is both sustainable and responsible. Our sustainability framework provides robust structure for driving our future growth, supporting four pillars Responsible Stewardship, Building Strong Relationships, Adding & Sharing Value and Strategic Communication. Hindustan Zinc is committed to conduct all business activities in a responsible manner and to reinforce the same commitment we have reframed our HSE policy as „HSE Principles and Policy‟ to ensure the health and safety of our stakeholders and the environment. UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 24 Driven by our policies, we emphasize on “Prevention” than “Control” in every decision making process. Demonstration of Responsibility & Stewardship for all the assets we manage is our primary goal. To achieve this aim, we are constantly improving our UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 25 processes, systems and operations. Most of our operations maintain formal environment management systems aligned to the international standards & ISO 14001. Environmental risks are regularly identified and assessed through the following:  Environment & Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) studies carried out by recognized and approved third parties to identify risks and based on that mitigation plan is prepared in the form of Environmental & Social Management Plan, which is integral part of ESIA document.  Environmental risks are being identified and assessed as part of Integrated Management system ISO: 14001.  Risk register is being maintained by all units under the guidance of Risk Management policy and major risk is being reviewed periodically at corporate level.  Hazard Identification and Risk assessment are also conducted as part of safety management system to identify potential environmental hazards and risks. Also Process safety management is driven to ensure all hazards are identified and control measures in place.  Environment incidents are being captured through online module. Root cause analysis is being done and learnings are being shared to all units to avoid the recurrence. Principle-8 Business should undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility We are committed towards sustainable business and also demonstrate our responsible stewardship by reducing our environmental footprint and meeting community expectations to support sustainable development. We constantly look to improve our performance through consistent implementation of different initiatives and projects. All our mining and smelting operations are based on Environment friendly technologies resulting in conserving of natural resources in our operations. The operations are working on zero-discharge principle and company is committed for efficient utilization of waste generated at its mines and smelters. All our major operational sites have robust environment management system and are ISO: 14001 certified. We have been constantly enhancing technical capabilities for better recoveries of main products and by-products. Our sustainability policies guide us to proactively address the impact of climate change and other global environmental issues. We are exploring opportunities for gainful UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 26 utilization of waste in eco-friendly manner. We are also working on various concepts to make our waste minimized at source as well as reuse of the same. Reducing Water Footprint Our operations in Rajasthan, a water scarce region, makes it important that every drop is treated as a critical resource and its consumption is brought down to a minimum. We are continuously identifying opportunities for water access, reuse, efficient use and responsible waste water management. Our operational locations are zero discharge compliant. We proactively manage water usage and also promote sustainable use of water in agriculture practices in the nearby communities. Cloud seeding, Adiabatic Cooling tower, multiple effective evaporator, Deep cone thickener, Air Cooled Condensers, Sewage treatment and rainwater harvesting are some of the key initiatives by Hindustan Zinc towards managing precious water resources. We have been able to bring down our Specific Water Consumption ( m3/ MT) by 16 % from FY 2011 to FY 2016. 2010-11 16.23 2011-12 16.96 2012-13 15.99 2013-14 14.49 2014-15 13.90 2015-16 13.56 Energy Conservation At HZL, we believe in optimization and efficient use of energy, which is one of the most critical resources in the world today. Utilizing energy effectively has the two-fold benefit of reducing operating costs and also reducing direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. The production of Lead and Zinc are energy intensive processes and that brings a responsibility for us to use it efficiently. Reducing energy consumption in all forms is an integral part of our business strategy that focuses on reducing carbon foot print. While we focus on adopting the best available technology in terms of resource and energy utilization, we constantly focus on energy consumption reduction through various inprocess innovations and adopting best practices. We also largely focus on machine productivity and accordingly focus on improving the throughput that largely contributes to reduction in specific energy consumption. UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 27 To improve the throughput and reduce specific energy consumption, we focus on machine productivity. Major initiatives undertaken are: • Installation of variable frequency drives across operations • Use of energy-efficient motors, right capacity motors, lighting savers etc. • Replacement of Fibre Reinforced Plastic blades with aerodynamic energy efficient blades of cooling towers. • Replacement of conventional tube lights with energy efficient LED tube lights • Energy audits and implementation of their recommendations We have been able to stabilize our energy consumption despite increase in our operational depths. Climate Change Minimizing our contribution in global Climate Change is an important aspect of our sustainability program. We have 274 MW wind farms, in Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu which are registered under Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) program by United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). We also have 34.4 MW of power capacity through waste heat recovery from roasters and Steam Turbo Generator (STG) and 21 TPH LCV boilers for steam generation projects registered under CDM. Our 10 UNFCCC registered projects reduce our carbon footprint by 583,685 tonnes CO2 emission per annum while our unregistered projects reduce our carbon footprints by 116,992 tones CO2 emissions per annum. In continuation of investment in green energy this year we have commissioned two solar roof top project(100Kw each) and one solar water heater with the capacity of 1000 LPD. Wherever feasible we have introduced the solar/energy efficient lights including providing solar street lights to villagers surrounding us as a part of CSR Hindustan Zinc Limited voluntarily participates in Carbon Disclosure Project program since the year 2011. We are regularly improving our performance by achieving the set targets, taking new energy saving projects and improving our disclosure standards. This year we have scored 95 (last year 77) and also we have awarded with India Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) 2015. UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 28 Solar Roof Top Project Now the company has increased the green energy portfolio by adding the installation of the solar roof top project. Currently company has installed solar roof top ( 200 kW) at Head office Udaipur and Hydro-2 CDSS building of CLZS (100 kW each). This will reduce the overall electrical consumption from Grid and self-generated Captive power in CLZS. Solid Waste Management All our major units are certified for ISO: 14001 Environment Management Standard. Through this management system approach we undertake continual improvement projects to optimize our waste efficiency by reducing the waste generation and maximizing waste recycling/ reuse. All our plants have defined waste segregation practices for hazardous and non-hazardous waste. Our adoption of the „4R‟ waste strategy Reduce, Recycle, Reuse and Reclaim and 'ecofriendly' disposal of process residues has been fairly effective. We have clearly defined waste segregation practices for recycling hazardous and non-hazardous waste. We do have a system of recycling of our waste resulting from our operations. Our waste such as bottom ash, Anode mud, ETP Sludge, HGP dust and cobalt cake are recycled back into the process. We have been constantly enhancing technical capabilities for better recoveries of main products and by-products. We are also working to introduce a Fumer technology in our existing leaching circuit of Hydrometallurgical process which will eliminate generation of Jarosite and help us to minimize waste generation in our process. Successful commissioning of Paste fill Plant (unique in India) at Sindesar Khurd Mine and Rampura Agucha mine has multifold benefits ranging from improvement of ground stability and safety to environmental protection and higher mine extraction, water recovery. This system replaces the earlier practice of low density hydraulic filling, ensuring wider sustenance of mining operations. Air Quality Management We are committed to measuring, controlling and reducing air emissions at each of our site and are implementing systems & procedures to address the concerns of local communities as well as to comply with the environmental license conditions. Through advanced mitigation, measurement and management strategies, we continue to identify, reduce and wherever possible, eliminate any potential impacts to air quality caused by our operational activities. During the reporting year as per regulatory guidelines, we have installed online monitoring systems for emissions and effluents to transmit data directly to central and state pollution control boards. UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 29 Biodiversity Management The Company has separate policy on Biodiversity and stays committed to prevent risk on biodiversity throughout its business by conserving rare and endangered species and high priority conservation areas. In order to promote a best practice management approach to biodiversity, we have reviewed all operations through the mapping tool –Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool (IBAT) to identify which of our sites are operating within close proximity of protected International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) areas, important bird areas and key biodiversity hot spots. The results of the biodiversity risk screening programme have led us to prioritise the subsequent biodiversity management processes. All our Sites have biodiversity management plans (BMP) in place. Intensive plantation has been carried out in last five years across all HZL operations and as on date total plantation is more than 1.4 million. Few major initiatives undertaken during the reporting year are: Butterfly Park at Pantnagar: Butterfly being responsible for pollination of more than 3% of the world‟s plants, play very important role in the ecosystem. However record of 117 species of butterfly during Biodiversity study at PMP showed the high species richness but the numbers of most of the species was very low, thus clearly apparent that there is need to improve the habitats for attracting this ecologically important insect group. Butterfly Park in core zone near admin block at PMP prepared. The total area of the park is 225 sq. meter. In this planted 660 different seasonal and permanent flower varieties to attract butterflies. An Oasis (water Pond) for birds inside the plant premises was also prepared. HZL Signatory to Indian Biodiversity Business Initiative (IBBI): To promote Biodiversity at our sites HZL has become signatory IBBI, which is a national platform of business and its stakeholders for dialogue sharing and learning, ultimately UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 30 leading to main streaming sustainable management of biodiversity into business. It is hosted by CII with the support of German Development Corporation through GIZ. HZL also participated in Indian Biodiversity Business Initiative (IBBI) Workshop on “IBBI Base line Assessment” held at Mumbai on, organized by M/s CII, Delhi. Natural Capital Action Plan for RAM -as pilot project, finalized with IBBI. Coffee Table Book: To showcase out best environmental practices HZL prepared a coffee table book named as “Journey towards greener Zinc”, which helps us in communicating our positive steps towards natural resources use and their conservation to our stakeholders. Herbal Nursery Development The role of medicinal plants is very vital in daily life activity. So preservation of them is very important. Hence, we have taken an initiative to develop a park for the conservation of these plants. One Herbal Nursery has been developed at Debari Zinc Smelter Colony area having around 1000 medicinal plants of 22 medicinal species like Tulsi, Lemon grass, Marwa, Alloy, Gwar patta, Aloe Vera, Amla, Sitaphal etc for enriching the nature and conservation of the herbal species. “ Rashi van” prepared at Head Office Colony Rashi Van is a systematic arrangement of such trees according to the constellation of Zodiac. In Astrology there are 12 Zodiac signs and some trees represents these 12 Zodiac signs. Other than this we have also planted 18 more varieties of plant with medicinal value. Endangered Plant Species Distribution: To conserve the endangered local plant species a nursery was set up at RA Mine in the year 2013 on the occasion of Environment Day. This year we have started distribution of these species at our different locations and till date we have distributed around 5000 saplings of various endangered species. Due to increasing pressure on the local land and water resources, several local plant species (fodder, fruit trees, fuel-wood, herbs, medicinal plants, etc.) are becoming endangered and threatened. The objective of this is to conserve biodiversity unique to the state through preservation of ecosystem. UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 31 Principle-9Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technology. HZL R&D center serves as a core technical arm providing solutions in the areas of mineral processing and metal smelting. It aims to provide cost effective environment friendly ready to implement alternatives that are well tested at fully operational pilot plants. Specific areas in which R&D has been carried out by the company in FY 2016 1. In-house development of ammonical leaching process for recovery of Copper cement generated in hydroplants. CLZS Copper cement is being treated successfully in Copper recovery plant of Unit-I, CLZS. This has enhanced Copper realization by 30-40%. 2. Plant scale commissioning of production of Potassium Antimony Tartarte from Silver refinery Antimony dust. 3. Process development for the bleeding of Cadmium from ESP dust produced in DSP Lead. This will not only reduce impurity recirculation but also improve secondary availability to Lead furnace. 4. Zinc recovery process from Raw Zinc Oxide, produced in MCTP plant. The material will be treated via hydrometallurgy route for higher Zinc recoveries and reduced COP. The Pb-Ag cake will be fed to Lead furnace for metal recovery. 5. Circuit surveys for Mineral beneficiation plants to ascertain suitable mesh of grind and mineral liberation for optimized grade and recoveries in concentrators. 6. Alternate reagent testing as silver promotes, pyrite depressant, graphite depressant etc to improve recoveries and grades for concentrates. 7. Studies to reduce cement consumption in paste fill plant of SK Mine. UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 32 Category 4: Anti-Corruption (UNGC Principles 10) Principle 10-Business should Work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery: Management Systems: HZL has „Business Ethics and Code of Conduct” under which we are committed for elimination of corruption of any form, bribery, extortion, and fraud. HZL has an elaborate system and processes on the management of business ethics and all employees sign the „Code of Conduct‟. Actions: In case of any complains under this policy should be reported to the Group HeadManagement Assurance who is independent of operating management and business. Complains can also be sent to designate E-mail ID: hzlwhistle.blower@vedanta.co.in. Group Head Management Assurance reviews the complaints, conduct enquiry and initiate appropriate actions. UN Global Compact COP 2015-16 P a g e | 33 Our Commitment Hindustan Zinc Limited is committed towards advocating and implementing the UNGC Principles and we are always looking for new ways of using our opinion to influence policy decisions on social, environmental and quality front at national and state level. We have incorporated the triple bottom line principle of doing business in our over-all business strategy and regularly we are communicating it with our stakeholders and feedback is incorporated. More details about company‟s performance on social, economic and environmental front may be accessed from our Annual Report which is available on our website i.e. www.hzlindia.com . UN Global Compact COP 2015-16
