UN Global Compact 2015 Communication on Progress Contents 01 Statement of continued support 02 Key targets for 2015 03 Activities cutting across the principles 04 Human rights 05 Labour 06 Environment 07 Anti-corruption 01 Statement of continued support ExCeL London is ExCeL London is one of the UK’s leading international committed to tackling exhibition and conference centres, having hosted all types the challenges of of events with organisers and visitors from across the sustainable development globe. We are committed to being thought leaders in our and operating as a market and to provide world-class facilities and services responsible corporate that are in accordance with our own health and safety business. policies, this sustainability policy, and ExCeL London’s mission statement and core values. ExCeL London is committed to tackling the challenges of sustainable development and operating as a responsible corporate business. We will implement practices that promote economic security, social and environmental responsibility, and we will continuously seek to improve performance in these areas. We are committed to working with our suppliers and customers to improve sustainability performance David Pegler throughout all of our activities and are committed to maintain and CEO, ExCeL London operate our sustainability management systems in compliance with both ISO20121 and ISO14001 requirements. This United Nations Global Compact communication on progress is supported by both our Executive Team and owners ADNEC, and will ensure that our set objectives in the areas of sustainability are monitored and measured regularly against our maturity matrix to enable us to continue to improve against our set targets. All ExCeL London staff are responsible for implementing this policy to ensure that all requirements are being met and for the co-ordination and evaluation of ongoing performance against our sustainability principles, inclusivity, transparency, integrity and stewardship. To deliver this, ExCeL London aims to: – Ensure the full implementation of this policy throughout all departments, business operations and services, and wherever possible throughout the supply chain. – Ensure the policy and related sustainability issues are discussed with all employees and ensure all staff are aware of this policy and our 100% commitment to continue measuring and improving our performance. – Be an industry leader in sustainable development in areas relevant to its business in the events industry; and where appropriate, exceed the basic legislation levels required. – Work with its clients to pursue, promote and develop sustainable events throughout the entire lifecycle. – Continue to limit the use of office consumables and waste whilst increasing recycling and the use of more sustainable materials wherever possible. – Continue a proactive management approach towards the use of energy throughout our venue, management office and other business operations. Statement of continued support | 3/19 02 Key targets for 2015 At ExCeL London, we take every event to heart. Whatever the ambition, we genuinely care about what our clients do and are committed to helping them achieve great things. We work closely to find the right opportunities for growth and encourage our clients to push themselves in new and different ways. This is the standard we set and constantly strive towards, so that every experience we create together is truly impactful. In August 2007, ExCeL chose to join the UN Global ExCeL undertakes annual audits – both internally Compact. The ten principles serve as a foundation and independently – and we are certified to for the company’s CSR plan and are intertwined both the ISO14001 environmental standard as with a number of company policies and principles. well as the ISO20121, which sets sustainability management standards in the events industry. From our people to our space, we know what it takes to stay ahead, which is why we’re always Below outlines all of our CSR targets and investing in where it matters most so that every achievements for 2015. event has what it needs to succeed, each and every time. We work with our suppliers and customers to improve sustainability performance throughout all of our activities. Page Target 2015 Status 6 Support 2x charities as part of our CSR programme Achieved 6 Provide event space free of charge to local and community groups Achieved 10 Maintain target of 8 accidents or under per 100,000 visitors at ExCeL Achieved 10 Provide training to staff on how to react in the event of an emergency Achieved 13 All hazardous waste to be treated separately and correctly Achieved 13 Correct disposal of CDs, calculators, and batteries Achieved 16 Reduction in the use of unsustainable suppliers Not achieved 17 Increase awareness to event organisers of ExCeL’s sustainability activities Achieved 17 Reduction in waste left on-site after events throughout 2015 Achieved 17 Reduce amount of printed collateral and seek to host digitally where possible Achieved 17 To achieve a 10% reduction in electricity and gas consumption Achieved Key targets for 2015 | 4/19 03 Activities cutting across the principles In 2013, ExCeL redefined a set of core values designed to support our promise to take every event to heart. These values are integrated into the appraisal process and our hiring processes, and they represent our underlying behaviours and the way we do business. They are core to what we fundamentally believe are crucial to our longterm sustainable business success. The four key values are outlined below. Collaborate Provide world class facilities We will share our experience, knowledge, We will continue to invest in our venue and expertise to tailor and bespoke our and infrastructure to ensure it remains a solutions to give every event the best world-class facility. possible outcome. Innovate Provide the best people We will be open-minded and flexible to We will provide the best people with the enable our teams to find the best possible experience and knowledge to add value solutions to achieve success. and help our clients deliver successful events. Activities cutting across the principles | 5/19 We aim to win and retain customers by developing from six in the previous 12 months. and providing products and exceptional service CFE’s mission is to work in partnership with delivery. To enable us to do this we aim to: the diverse communities of East London to safeguard and sustain their rights to the right – Ensure that all products and services food as a fundamental condition for individual associated with our business are of a strict and community health and well-being. The core quality that is in accordance with and aims to foundations of the project include: enhance our market position and business. – Develop and maximise the best customer – Nurseries and schools (Breakfast Clubs and services practices, which set a benchmark for Tuck Shops): CFE supports healthy eating in the industry. primary schools throughout East London by – Strive to constantly innovate and enhance our providing them with a weekly delivery service product offering for the benefit of our guests. of fresh fruit for their tuck shops. They also – Ensure that our services meet the requirements supply grocery provisions for breakfast clubs stipulated by the appropriate regulatory bodies in infant, primary and secondary schools as as well as legal requirements. well as vegetables for lunches for toddlers in – Compete fairly and ethically and within the nurseries. framework of applicable competition laws. – Community Support Service (CSS): Using their unique infrastructure, CFE supports In addition to our brand promise to customers Community Food Projects (CFPs) throughout and visitors, ExCeL is committed to operating East London by providing them with a range of as a responsible corporate entity and having a services which includes buying, delivering and positive impact on the area that surrounds us. This sharing resources (e.g. equipment). Without means building long-term relationships with local this valuable service, many CFPs would not partners in order to deliver long-lasting benefits be in a financial position to provide valuable for our communities. Maintaining an open dialogue service to their communities. with the community is important in shaping the – Social Food Outlets (Mobile Food Store): future of ExCeL London and the community in To facilitate and promote healthy eating in which we operate. areas classified as ‘Food Deserts’, CFE have developed a Mobile Food Store (MFS). Two major projects which have helped the – Food Waste: CFE uses its infrastructure company forge stronger links in the community (vehicles, warehouse space and distribution are our sponsorship of NASSA (the Newham All network) to support the work of the Gleaning Star Sports Academy) and Community Food Network UK (www.feeding5k.org) by Enterprise (CFE). collecting, storing and redistributing produce harvested by them from farms throughout The Newham All Star Sports Academy (NASSA) England. works with children every week to provide sports coaching, training and after-school activities to In addition to the above programmes, ExCeL help keep them off the streets. The mentoring provides complimentary event spaces to selected talks delivered by NASSA under their ‘Carry a charities, runs venue tours for schools and basketball not a blade’ initiative have educated colleges and, once a year, runs a week long ‘ExCeL thousands of young people about the dangers in the Arts’ camp for around 100 children based in of knife crime and gang culture. With the funding Newham, aged from 11-18. Other notable projects that ExCeL provides, NASSA is able to lay on ExCeL continues to support in 2015 are the primary and secondary school basketball taster Ascension Eagles, a local cheerleading squad, and sessions across the borough and subsequently working with two local schools to provide cooking reaches up to 2,000 young people every week. and kitchen space for Newham children. These sessions include mentoring talks from the NASSA coaches about the dangers of knife crime and gang culture. In the 12 months to August 2015, not one young person in Newham has lost his or her life as a result of knife-related violence – a drop Activities cutting across the principles | 6/19 04 Human rights Principle 1 Principle 2 Businesses should support and respect Businesses should make sure that the protection of internationally they are not complicit in human proclaimed human rights. rights abuses. Human rights | 7/19 ExCeL London agrees that businesses have a all of our employees are legally hired and paid. responsibility to respect human rights and act To ensure ExCeL is not complicit in any human in accordance with internationally applicable rights abuses, a sustainable procurement policy standards, such as the UN Declaration of Human is in place (discussed further under Environment) Rights. We aim to increase our social responsibility when purchasing goods or services with new by ensuring that our business processes suppliers. are sustainable and consider human rights implications. In addition to stringent checks on our partners and suppliers, ExCeL offers a number of company We ensure that all staff, clients, and visitors are benefits such as a comprehensive management not deprived of their human rights in any way. development programme that will be delivered ExCeL upholds a code of conduct, core values, over the course of 2016 to all Managers and and a dignity at work policy as part of its overall Supervisors. This development programme is employee handbook which outlines the steps intended to support and enhance leadership skills which all employees must follow to ensure this throughout the business, focusing on subjects principle is upheld. such as: We seek to create an environment which attracts – Supporting and motivating employees and retains employees of high calibre, and in which – Dealing with and resolving workplace conflict employees will feel valued for their contribution to – Building resilience and stress management the company’s performance. Each team must: – Effectively managing change – Coaching individuals in the team – Implement and observe codes of conduct which are designed to protect employees from ExCeL benchmarks in the top 10% of employers in harassment or discrimination in any form, and the UK for our benefits package, which includes to provide equality of opportunity. life assurance at four times the employee’s – Ensure that all employees are fully aware of salary, permanent health insurance, biennial such codes and that they comply with them. health assessments, childcare voucher schemes, – Operate a remuneration policy that is and other perks designed to improve employee competitive and rewards good performance. wellbeing, both at work and in their personal lives. – Ensure that all employees know what is expected of them in their job, and are able to measure their performance. – Provide a framework which will assist employees to develop their capabilities. – Provide a safe work environment for its employees and ensure that employees fully understand their own responsibilities in regards to health and safety matters. – Aim to develop policies that will support employees in balancing their work and domestic responsibilities. Although we are owned by international venue development and business management company ADNEC, ExCeL is a UK-based venue and we manage a team of around 197 employees. Almost all hiring opportunities are managed by our HR department, or outsourced to three agencies that assist with indirect hire, chiefly in our Cleaning, Traffic, and Security departments. Each member of staff is subject to right to work checks and we operate PAYE as part of our payroll, to ensure that Human rights | 8/19 05 Labour Principle 3 Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective abolition of child labour. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the Principle 4 elimination of discrimination Businesses should uphold the in respect of employment and elimination of all forms of forced occupation. and compulsory labour. Labour | 9/19 People are our most important asset and we without fear of detrimental implications on their recognise that their health, safety, and welfare, employment. These values are upheld in our equal and that of others affected by our activities, is opportunities policy. paramount. ExCeL is committed to eliminating direct and ExCeL London is committed to providing safe indirect forms of discrimination in relation to and healthy working conditions. We respect employment and occupation. The company internationally recognised labour rights standards upholds an equal opportunities policy which as set forward by the International Labour applies to all aspects of employment including: Organisation (ILO) and we follow national recruitment and selection, employment requirements for labour practices. Our health and opportunity, and promotion decisions. Our equal safety policy aims to promote a culture where opportunities policy highlights the expectation every employee and manager takes responsibility that all job applicants and employees are to be to ensure safe and healthy working conditions treated in the same way, regardless of sex, sexual via preventative measures and carrying out preference, race, ethnic origin, colour, religion, systematic risk assessments. disability, marital status, or union membership status. To facilitate this claim, all interviews and As a result, health and safety for both our performance assessments are completed using employees and our visitors forms a crucial part an integrated competency based framework. of our sustainable approach. In 2015, we pledged This process ensures an objective perspective is to reduce accidents in the venue to 8 incidents taken in relation to all recruitment decisions and or under per 100,000 visitors and we achieved places emphasis on the individual’s level of skill, this. At our last sustainability audit, the number of qualification, experience, and knowledge. incidents per 100,000 visitors was 3.7. In addition, to keep our visitors and clients safe Due to the nature of our business structure, job during their time at ExCeL, we hold annual vacancies tend to be ad hoc. As such, there are no emergency procedure briefings which are formal diversity quotas in place when it comes to compulsory for all staff to attend. The emergency hiring new employees at ExCeL. We do however procedure briefing enables staff to act efficiently have a robust recruitment process, as outlined and confidently in the unlikely event of an above, for job vacancies as and when they appear. emergency at the venue, and ensures we commit to our promise of taking every event, and indeed Demographics related to our current workforce visitor, to heart. are detailed below. As shown by our statistics, 40% of our workforce lives in the East London We do not support any form of forced or area where ExCeL is based, and in terms of compulsory labour. All employees have individual age ExCeL hires quite broadly across several contracts detailing their terms and conditions generations. of employment. These are issued prior to commencement of employment. Employees It’s also worth noting that ExCeL has a high staff are also issued with job descriptions outlining retention rate, as of January 2016 46% of staff the details of the work they are being employed have over five years’ service, 27% have over ten to conduct. The company upholds a grievance years, and 11% have been with ExCeL for over procedure which can be initiated by the employee fifteen years. Long service is acknowledged with with their line manager or human resources. annual company meetings which celebrate these Employees are free to leave the organisation and milestones. The high levels of retention strongly our leavers’ policy outlines clear steps required to suggest ExCeL is a rewarding company to work resign from employment. for. We do not condone any forms of child labour. ExCeL upholds a dignity at work policy which The company is ISO20121 compliant; part of this aims to foster an atmosphere of mutual respect in process includes ensuring our suppliers are also which staff can feel accepted, able to work with sustainable, upholding ExCeL’s values in relation dignity and to their full potential, thus embracing to social commitment. Additionally, employees of the benefits which diversity can bring. ExCeL are able to enjoy freedom of association Labour | 10/19 All of these policies are clearly communicated the work, we recognise that from time to time, in our employee handbook and distributed to all grievances relating to employment may arise. staff. The handbook clearly outlines employees’ Our policy is to encourage free communication ability to raise breaches of our policies either between employees and their managers to ensure informally or formally with their line manager or that questions and problems arising can be aired human resources. A formal process is followed and resolved quickly, to the satisfaction of all if discrimination is suspected or identified; any concerned. We have a comprehensive threebreach of the policy will result in disciplinary action stage process for grievances: informal complaints, and may include dismissal. formal written complaint, and formal grievance hearing. We also allow an appeals process for Whilst we do our best to ensure our managers individuals that may be dissatisfied with the are well trained and our employees are happy in outcome. Location Count of London area Percentage Battersea (London) 5 2.54% East London 80 40.61% Home Counties 24 12.18% North London 6 3.05% North West London 8 4.06% Paddington (London) 3 1.52% South East London 24 12.18% South London 4 2.03% South West London 6 3.05% Out of London 37 18.78% Grand total 197 100.00% Gender Count of gender Percentage Female 80 40.61% Male 117 59.39% Grand total 197 100.00% Age range Count of age Percentage 20-29 38 19.29% 30-39 65 32.99% 40-49 53 26.90% 50-59 33 16.75% 60-69 6 3.05% 70-79 1 0.51% 80-89 1 0.51% Grand total 197 100.00% Labour | 11/19 06 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environment | 12/19 8 ExCeL London is 100% committed to tackling Reduced waste the challenges of sustainable development and operating as a responsible corporate entity. It is In 2015 we continued with our commitment our policy to continuously evolve and implement to reduce waste. To achieve and measure this, practices that deliver economic security, social, we complete monthly reviews of our waste and environmental benefits. metrics and set annual targets to ensure we are continuously reducing waste. Between January As one of the UK’s leading exhibition and and December 2015, we recycled 2,524.39 tonnes conference centres, we work with our suppliers of waste and created 1,651.90 tonnes of refuseand customers to improve sustainability derived fuels (RDF) from waste. Overall this performance throughout all of our activities. Over represents almost 60% of waste recycled at ExCeL, the last two years, we have taken significant steps a target which we hope to improve on next year. to deliver and execute a sustainable business strategy for our direct operations, working In order to increase positive impacts on reducing alongside our clients to pursue, promote, and our waste, we focused our efforts on continuous develop sustainable events. training of our staff, particularly our cleaning staff, on waste sorting and correct disposal. Recycling ExCeL undertakes annual audits – both internally and general waste bins are located throughout and independently – and we are certified to both the venue and the ExCeL Management Office. the ISO14001 environmental standard and the All cardboard, plastic, and paper are segregated ISO20121, which sets sustainability management on-site, with any residual mixed recyclables standards in the event industry. segregated off-site. At ExCeL, we provide disposal service for our suppliers and retailers on-site by ExCeL’s internal Sustainability Committee, which providing the following bins: meets quarterly to discuss and monitor CSR objectives, is made up of ten employees from – Mixed recyclables across the company and chaired by an Executive – General waste Director. The purpose of this committee is to – Cardboard and plastic cages – these go to a gain feedback on the status of conformance of recycling area where they are baled the Sustainability Management System to plan – Food bins – for the wormery arrangements including the requirements of the – IBC containers – to dispose of vegetable oils aforementioned standards. and fats The checks are designed to ensure that ExCeL’s We continue to recycle our waste through our onSustainability System Procedures are being site materials recycling facility and the wormery. understood, implemented and maintained and The wormery is the UK’s largest commercial that the organisation continues to comply with wormery, holding over 300,000 worms. applicable legislation. The Committee champions Earthworms are the ultimate recycling machine. and has delivered a number of projects that have The key benefits of our food waste policy include: significantly reduced the environmental impact of the management office. This has included – Reduction of carbon emitted by transporting removing all personal bins and replacing them waste from ExCeL with separated recycling bins, as well as seeking to – Reduction in the number of lorries travelling on reduce printing outputs. already congested roads – Reduction in landfill – volumes have been After being successfully re-certified for ISO14001 reduced by approximately 90% and ISO20121 at the end of 2014, ExCeL London – Production of valuable soil additive, which is has continued in our efforts to improve our then used for landscaping across the ExCeL sustainability performance. In 2015 efforts focused campus on three key areas: reduced waste, increased – Minimal power usage energy efficiency and ensuring that organisers – Worms can eat almost anything – certain participate in our objectives. amounts of green waste and paper can also be incorporated Environment | 13/19 In addition to the food recycling policy, all used We’ve taken further steps to increase energy vegetable oil is collected from site and turned into efficiency in 2015 with the following actions: bio fuel. – Heating/cooling not in use during the build/ Increased energy efficiency break of events. – Lighting set to 50% during build/break of In 2014, we took steps to improve energy events. efficiency at ExCeL which included a lighting – Staff training and reminders in the office to upgrade throughout our venue and car parks, switch off lights and shut down computers at swapping our 14-year old lighting which was the end of each day. consuming significant amounts of energy for – Building Services teams being trained and LED eco-friendly lighting provided by Philips. We empowered to make decisions on energy use. anticipate that the energy consumption saving per fitting is 70% and we are continuously monitoring Below are the electricity consumption figures for effectiveness. 2015: Consumption KWhrs Forecast KWhrs Variance KWhrs Variance £ Electricity 18,031,811 17,031,946 999,865 99,986 Below is the complete year’s electricity consumption summation graph in kwh for 2015 (target) and 2015 (actual). 900,000 800,000 700,000 600,000 500,000 400,000 300,000 200,000 100,000 0 Target 1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35 37 39 41 43 45 47 49 51 Actual Environment | 14/19 Below are the consumption figures for hot and chilled water for 2015: Consumption KWhrs Forecast KWhrs Variance KWhrs Variance £ Hot Water 8,482,889 9,234,006 -751,117 -£30,795.81 Chilled Water 708,249 2,898,900 -2,190,651 -£135,820.36 Hot Water Usage Summation year to date (KWh) 900,000 800,000 700,000 600,000 500,000 400,000 300,000 200,000 100,000 Target 0 1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35 37 39 41 43 45 47 49 51 Actual Chilled Water Usage Summation year to date (KWh) 300000 250000 200000 150000 100000 50000 Target 0 1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35 37 39 41 43 45 47 49 51 Actual Environment | 15/19 Looking holistically at energy and gas usage at ExCeL, please find below year-on-year comparisons. Electricity consumption year-on-year 25,000,000 20,000,000 15,000,000 10,000,000 2012 5,000,000 2013 2014 0 2015 wk1 wk4 wk7 wk10 wk13 wk16 wk19 wk22 wk25 wk28 wk31 wk34 wk37 wk40 wk43 wk46 wk49 wk52 Gas consumption year-on-year 25,000,000 20,000,000 15,000,000 10,000,000 2012 5,000,000 2013 2014 0 2015 wk1 wk4 wk7 wk10 wk13 wk16 wk19 wk22 wk25 wk28 wk31 wk34 wk37 wk40 wk43 wk46 wk49 wk52 Environment | 16/19 One of our stated targets on our internal audit for reduction in waste left on-site and sent to landfills 2015 was to reduce energy and gas consumption thanks to the role ExCeL staff play in educating by 10%. As shown on the graphs above, this organisers on their CDM responsibilities. We work target was not met. Although we have gone in collaboration to ensure all waste is disposed of over target for electricity consumption in 2015 correctly before, during, and after an event and we can see from the graph that most of this is we provide handbooks to the organisers with directly attributable to very high demand from guidance. a particularly prestigious event in December which had a 24 hour tenancy with power, lighting, We measure this objective through organiser heating, etc. being used across the 24 hour feedback surveys completed by an external periods. We were under target for both chilled and agency. In 2015 63% of organisers stated that hot water consumption for 2015. they’re aware of ExCeL’s sustainability activities, and in the coming year we plan to increase this to Ensuring organisers and suppliers participate in 70%. ExCeL’s sustainability objectives Reduce amount of printed collateral and seek to The key ingredient to ensure ExCeL’s partners host digitally where possible and suppliers are aligned with our sustainability objectives is through our procurement policy, One of our informal goals for 2015 was to which outlines specific criteria to staff when continue in our pledge to reduce printing in purchasing goods or services. Each departmental our management office. As well as notices director is responsible for monitoring compliance encouraging staff to print double-sided in black with the policy and ensuring competitive and white only where necessary, our marketing purchasing processes are in place. department have actively sought to create digital collateral for organisers wherever possible. Sustainable procurement is a process whereby The most notable success for 2015 in reducing ExCeL meets its requirements for goods, services, printing was the introduction of an online works and utilities in a way that achieves value for marketing toolkit, which is hosted on ExCeL’s new money on a whole life basis in terms of generating website which was launched in summer 2015. benefits not only to the organisation, but also The marketing toolkit contains a variety of readyto society and the economy, whilst minimising to-use tools as a downloadable PDF, providing damage to the environment. Cost savings, useful information such as travel maps, venue reduced carbon emissions, less waste, lower information, key messages and recommended energy and fuel consumption, improved health partners. Since launching in June 2015, we outcomes, more skills and training, plus more estimate around 100 organisers have made use of contract opportunities for small and medium sized the marketing toolkit. To date, the landing page enterprises are some practical benefits to consider has received 1,660 visits, 731 of those which are and include within procurement. unique visitors. To be truly sustainable, we also believe our clients should work with us to run sustainable events. It is therefore one of our main goals to ensure organisers are aware of ExCeL’s sustainability objectives and that they uphold our energy savings and waste management policies. Event managers champion this objective as they are the more frequent point of contact for organisers during the planning and delivery process. Sustainability is discussed in the planning process and charges are applied for excessive waste as an incentive to keep events as sustainable as possible. We have noted a Environment | 17/19 07 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti-corruption | 18/19 8 ExCeL London upholds its commitment to people and protect our organisation. preventing corruption of any kind within its code of conduct. In addition, regular internal and To this end, ExCeL has a comprehensive external auditing of financial accounts ensures whistleblowing policy in place, as well as a that the company’s expectations in relation to whistleblowing hotline which we launched in May corporate governance are maintained. 2015. Our whistleblowing hotline is managed by external company Expolink, who will forward This auditing also enables ExCeL to achieve our concerns – anonymously if desired by the objective of maximising shareholder value, as we individual – to an internal audit manager. This must be able to guarantee the highest possible whistleblowing hotline is global, enabling our standards of financial management, assessment of visitors, suppliers, and partners to raise their risk, and control. We understand that this must be concerns from a number of locations around the undertaken at every level within the business. world. To this date, we have received zero calls to our whistleblowing hotline. The company has established an audit committee which monitors compliance, full details of their It is our policy to conduct all of our business in responsibilities can be found in the company’s an honest and ethical manner. We take a zeroaudit committee charter. The remuneration tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. Our committee makes decisions on executive pay anti-corruption and bribery policy, detailed in full and bonus. External benchmarking of employee in our employee handbook, applies to individuals salaries removes potential bias and favouritism in working at all grades and levels. annual salary reviews. Our policy does not prohibit normal and ExCeL has not been involved in any legal cases, appropriate hospitality (given or received) to or rulings, or other events related to corruption and/ from third parties. We appreciate that the practice or bribery. ExCeL aims to conduct its business of giving business gifts varies between countries honestly and in good faith, free from fraud or and regions; our employee handbook outlines deception. In order to achieve this, all ExCeL what is considered acceptable and what is not. employees must: Another way in which we strive to prevent – Comply with all applicable UK and EU laws and corruption and bribery of all forms is through our regulations, including any regulations, codes, bi-annual employee appraisals. In these appraisals, and guidelines which apply specifically to the employees are asked to declare any gifts made business. to clients so this can be logged and monitored – Not give or receive bribes, or any other for any discrepancies. All employees are asked to inducements to obtain or retain business, nor declare and keep a written record of all hospitality conduct themselves in such a way as to give or gifts accepted or offered, which are subjected rise to any conflict of interest. to this bi-annual managerial review. There is – Seek mutually beneficial commercial a 100% completion rate of appraisal forms at relationships with third parties with whom they ExCeL, and HR follow-up personally with any do business. incomplete responses regarding anti-corruption – Ensure that they do not enter into contractual and bribery. arrangements that they are unable to fulfil. – Use company assets only for the purpose Employees are also asked to ensure all expenses of ExCeL’s business and not to abuse their claims relating to hospitality, gifts, or expenses position in the company for personal gain. incurred to third parties are submitted in – Ensure that adequate systems are in place to accordance with our expenses policy and protect the business’ assets. specifically record the reason for this expenditure. Training on this policy forms part of the induction We strive to ensure that our people act with process for all new employees. Our zerohonesty, integrity, and professionalism. To support tolerance approach to bribery and corruption is these underlying ethical values we encourage our communicated to all suppliers, contractors, and employees to raise genuine issues of malpractice business partners at the outset of our business or impropriety at work. By identifying and dealing relationship with them – and as appropriate with concerns at an early stage we can prevent thereafter. malpractice and take steps to safeguard our Anti-corruption | 19/19
