UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2015-16 1|Page ABOUT REPORTING ORGANIZATION: JUBILANT LIFE SCIENCES LIMITED Jubilant Life Sciences Limited (‘the Company’ or ‘Jubilant’) is an integrated global Pharmaceutical and Life Sciences company engaged in manufacture and supply of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients, Solid Dosage Formulations, Radiopharmaceuticals, Allergy Therapy Products and Life Sciences Ingredients. It also provides services in Contract Manufacturing of Sterile Products and Drug Discovery Solutions. The Company’s strength lies in its unique offerings of Pharmaceutical and Life Sciences products and services across the value chain. With 11 world-class manufacturing facilities in India, US and Canada and a team of about 6,200 multicultural people across the globe, the Company is committed to deliver value to its customers spread across over 100 countries. The Company is well recognized as a ‘Partner of Choice’ by leading pharmaceuticals and life sciences companies globally. Jubilant progress in diverse businesses has been made possible through the contribution of R&D which is focussed on products development and cost reduction through process innovation without infringing patents. Innovation at Jubilant is backed by strong chemistry, bio science expertise and the knowledge bank created over the years. We have harnessed our strengths a strong R&D team, modern R&D facilities, command over cost effective technologies and economies of scale into a synergistic organic entity, continuously creating and nurturing high quality products and technologies. Jubilant has been recognised with several prestigious awards which bear testimony to its commitment towards operational excellence, innovation, corporate governance and social responsibility. Some of the recent awards are: • 16th Annual Greentech Environment Award 2015 (Gold Category), conferred under the Chemicals and Pharmaceutical sector category Gajraula plant, India; • Gold Award in Ankleshwar Chapter Convention on Quality Concepts 2015 (ACCQC) competition organized by Quality Circle Forum of India (QCFI), Ankleshwar presented to our Bharuch plant, India; • Golden Peacock National Quality Award for Quality, Training, Business Excellence and Innovative Product / Service 2015, presented at Dubai Global Convention, organized by the Institute of Directors; • Safety Innovation Award from the Institution of Engineers (India), Delhi Chapter for implementing Innovative Safety Management Systems at Nanjangud Plant, India; • Uththama Suraksha Puraskara from National Safety Council, Karnataka Chapter Nanjangud Plant, India; • Two Honors at the 10th Annual CIO100 Awards by CIO Magazine CIO100 Innovation Architect Special Awards 2015 and Versatile 100 honorees; 2|Page Jubilant continued focus on sustainability of business aims at improving stakeholder value through improved eco efficient use of capital and natural resources. Our Promise of Caring, Sharing, Growing is the essence of our activities that are directed towards sustainable growth. Jubilant’s approach to sustainable development focuses on the triple bottom line of Economics, Environment and Social performance. We are committed and working on various areas for energy conservation and climate change mitigation. Our sustainability efforts have been reported through Corporate Sustainability Report since 2003 and this report has been receiving GRI G3.1 A+ level & GRI Check, since 2007 from Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This reflects our commitment towards sustainable development and continued efforts directed towards protecting the environment wherever we operate. SCALE & PROFILE OF THE REPORTING ORGANIZATION Jubilant is a part of the ‘Jubilant Bhartia Group’, which is a global conglomerate with a presence in diverse sectors like pharmaceuticals and life sciences, agri products and performance polymers, food and food service (QSR), oil & gas exploration and production, services in aerospace and oilfield industries and automobile. Jubilant has relationship with 19 of top 20 pharmaceutical companies and 7 amongst top 10 agrochemical companies across the globe. The Company is a public limited company and is listed on National Stock Exchange of India Limited & BSE Limited in India with Paid-up capital of Rs. 159.28 million and Revenue of Rs. 58,023 million in FY 2015-16. As on March 31, 2016, the Company had 47 subsidiary companies out of which 9 are unlisted Indian subsidiaries. Contact: Mr. Rajiv Shah, Company Secretary Phone No.: 0120-4361141, E-mail: rajiv_shah@jubl.com 3|Page VISION VALUES PROMISE Jubilant symbolizes positivity, dynamism, triumph and joy, all of which guide and shape the Group’s collective experiences and efforts. Jubilant will always care for human needs, share its expertise to provide a better life and help upgrade the stakeholders’ standard of living and sustainable growth by dynamizing the value chain within the Jubilant Bhartia Group. 4|Page STATEMENT OF SUPPORT AND COMMITMENT SIGNED WITH UNGC Contact: Mr. Rajiv Shah, Company Secretary Phone No.: 0120-4361141, E-mail: rajiv_shah@jubl.com 5|Page UNGC AND JUBILANT The twin goals of signing the UN Global Compact are: (i) Internalizing its Ten Principles within the Company’s Strategies, Policies and Operations; and (ii) Undertaking Projects to advance the Broader Development Goals of the UN, particularly the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). While Chapter One offers a general overview of what the ten principles are and how Jubilant as a responsible corporate citizen with its best practices has tried to comply with them, Chapter Two deals with Jubilant’s efforts towards achievement of UN’s Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 6|Page CHAPTER ONE UNGC The Ten Principles The Global Compact asks its signatories to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: Principle Statement Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the Protection of Internationally Proclaimed Human Rights Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in Human Rights Abuses Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the Freedom of Association and the effective recognition of the Right to Collective Bargaining Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the Elimination of all forms of Forced and Compulsory Labour Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of Child Labour Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of Employment and Occupation Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Environmental Challenges Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Environmental Responsibility Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the Development and Diffusion of Environmentally Friendly Technologies Principle 10 Businesses should work against Corruption in all its forms, including Extortion and Bribery 7|Page IMPLEMENTING THE PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT The ten principles of the Global Compact are clustered around four issue areas including human rights (1-2), labour standards (3-6), the environment (7-9), and anti corruption (10). This section delineates examples of how Jubilant has imbibed each principle in its true spirit: UNGC UNGC PRINCIPLE JUBILANT’S ENDEAVOURS PRINCIPLE NO. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Business Should • Jubilant recognises and promotes universal Support and Respect respect for and observance of human rights and the Protection of fundamental freedom. Internationally Proclaimed Human • At Jubilant, we are committed to our Rights Sustainability Mission and signatory to the UNGC Principles with human rights commitments. • We have formulated our policies and systems to ensure protection of Human Rights of all those concerned and these are defined in our Business Code of Conduct. These policies cover issues of Child Labour, Forced & Compulsory Labour, Non-Discrimination and Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining. Code of Conduct is available to all the employees through the intranet. • There have been no significant fines or nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance pertaining to human rights, corruption, labour practices during this reporting period. There were no reported cases of child labour, forced or compulsory labour reported within the organisation or with our suppliers. Also, there have been no violations involving rights of indigenous people in Jubilant during this reporting period. • Jubilant believes in protection of the young and vulnerable. It is the Company’s policy not to employ child labour. In order to ensure this, every new recruit is required to submit a proof of age. Further, the Company is committed to work in a pro-active manner to eradicate child labour 8|Page by actively contributing to the improvement of children's social situation. To promote this, the Company encourages its Suppliers also to work towards a no child-labour policy. • Jubilant is committed to ensuring that workplaces are free from all forms of discrimination or harassment on the basis of age, caste, sex, religion or any other ground. No discrimination whatsoever is practiced during the Human Resource processes of recruitment, employee development and rewarding performance. • The Company respects the right of its employees to form association in accordance with the local laws applicable. At its locations, the Company management is engaging in open and continuous dialogue with the employee associations. The Company employees have the right to join associations of their own choosing or to refrain from joining one, unless otherwise prohibited / necessitated by law. • Jubilant respects the dignity of labour and denounces all forms of forced and compulsory labour. The Company, therefore, ensures that its terms of employment are transparent and voluntary. PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure that they • The operational responsibility of human rights is are not Complicit in vested on the Human Resource (HR) Head at Human Rights each manufacturing location reporting to the Abuses corporate HR Head. HR Head oversees the implementation of the human rights policies and takes responsibility of resolving any violations arising. • The Company conducts online training using an e-learning module on Human Rights Concept, Global and Indian Regulation & Framework’ at Jubilant. During 2015-16, total 210 employees have participated in this training, leading to a cumulative number of 2,032 participations till date. • The Company has Whistle-blower Policy and a dedicated Ombudsman team for addressing the grievances reported by the employees. A charter 9|Page of the Ombudsman has also been prepared and made available on the intranet of the Company. This Charter allows stakeholders, including employees, to voice their concerns and guide the Company to resolve issues efficiently. Under this policy, the employees can report any information which they believe reflects serious malpractice, impropriety, abuse or violation of code of conduct in relation to the Company’s functioning. The Company has a dedicated email address which can only be accessed by the Ombudsman Office, for anonymous reporting. The online portal (www.cwiportal.com) is another way of reporting concerns and maintaining complete anonymity of the whistleblower. No cases of human rights violation and corruption were reported to the Ombudsman’s Office during the reporting period. • All security personnel are briefed about relevant policies of the Company which lay the foundation for them to function effectively. They are also trained in first responder and fire security at all manufacturing locations. The security personnel are given behavioural trainings on body language, dealing with visitors and employees and other related trainings for escalation of issues. • The Company has operations in various locations across India and North America. The Company supports local culture and heritage for the respective regions. There have been no violations involving rights of indigenous people or those related to human rights in Jubilant during this reporting period. • Jubilant is committed to avoiding any form of corruption in any of its business dealings. Jubilant has a Policy on Bribery and Corruption which is stated in the Business Code of Conduct. The policy prohibits any personal payment or bribes by employees of the Company. • The Company engages with a variety of stakeholders like government, regulatory agencies, NGOs and industry associations. Through its interactions with these stakeholders, the Company participates in identifying and 10 | P a g e framing public policy matters. The Company also uses industry association forums to voice its views about policies. There have been no financial and in-kind contribution to political parties, politicians and related institutions. • There have been no fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance pertaining to human rights, corruption or labour practices during this reporting period. LABOUR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should • Jubilant respects the right of its employees to uphold the Freedom form an association in accordance with the local of Association and laws applicable. At its locations, the Company the effective engages in open and continuous dialogue with Recognition of the the employee associations. There are no Right to Collective operations where the right to exercise freedom of Bargaining association and collective bargaining are at significant risk. No case of violation of human rights regulation by our suppliers came to our notice during this year. • A total of 396 employees at our manufacturing plants at Savli, Nira and Gajraula were either members of unions or had collective bargaining capabilities. During the year ended March 31, 2016, we enjoyed cordial relations with our employees and there have been no instances of labour unrest or disputes at any of the manufacturing sites. • The information given to the Board of Directors of the Company contains significant labour problems and their proposed solutions including any significant development in Human Resources/ Industrial Relations front. PRINCIPLE 4 Elimination of all • Jubilant denounces all forms of forced and forms of Forced and compulsory labour. Jubilant never uses any form Compulsory Labour of forced or compulsory labour in any of its operations. • The employees are free to quit work at any time after serving the requisite notice period as stipulated in the terms of appointment. • The minimum notice period is mentioned in the appointment letter of all permanent employees, 11 | P a g e including workers. While the minimum notice period varies for management staffs depending on their position in the organisation, the minimum notice period for termination of a permanent worker is 30 days and the same is mentioned in their appointment letter. This is in accordance with the prevailing regional/ country labour laws. • The Company aims towards protection of human rights and its policies are extended to its suppliers and service providers integrated in its contract agreements and purchase orders. These cover prohibition of Child Labour, Forced & Compulsory Labour, Discrimination and others. • No incident of forced or compulsory labour at the suppliers’ end came to the Company’s notice during this year. PRINCIPLE 5 Effective Abolition of • The Company prohibits child labour in its Child Labour business activities. In order to ensure this, every prospective employee is required to submit a proof of age including contract employees. • There are regular internal and external audits to ensure achievement of this objective. • The Company also encourages its suppliers to work towards a no child-labour policy. Selfevaluation is filled by the suppliers of the Company which delineates prohibition of Child Labour. • There were no cases of child labour reported within the organisation or came to the Company’s notice involving its suppliers. PRINCIPLE 6 Elimination of • Jubilant does not discriminate with employees on Discrimination in the basis of age, caste, sex, religion or any other respect of ground. Employment and Occupation • No discrimination is practiced during the Human Resource processes of recruitment, employee development and rewarding performance. This is also mentioned in the Business Code of Conduct of the Company. • Jubilant is an Equal Opportunity Employer (EoE) as there is no consideration of gender or 12 | P a g e any other indicators of diversity. This is also mentioned on the Company’s website www.jubl.com. • Members of the highest governing body, being the Board of Directors, are also selected on merits. • Jubilant is a signatory to the CII Code of Conduct on Affirmative Action that reconfirms the Company’s commitment to equal opportunity in employment for all sections of society. • The Company follows the Principle of Equal Remuneration for Women and Men; hence, there is no disparity in the salary based on gender. It provides equal salary to men and women for same set of work.This is in line with the Equal Remuneration Act, 1976. There is no disparity in basic salary and remuneration between women and men employees in the Company. ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should • The Company has a system of Statutory support a Compliance Reporting System (SCRS) for Precautionary managing compliances as a part of the Approach to precautionary approach to prevent any nonEnvironmental compliance. This system is web-based and is Challenges hosted on the Company’s intranet and covers all Indian manufacturing locations of the Company. • We continuously monitor our environmental performance and have invested significantly in environment protection technologies at our manufacturing plants. Most of our plants are ISO 14001 certified. RC 14001 (Responsible Care) and ISO 50001 based energy management systems are in a matured state of implementation at our manufacturing sites at Gajraula and Bharuch respectively. • In 2015-16, a total expenditure of about INR 28.7 Million was incurred on energy conservation equipments. 13 | P a g e • The Company celebrated World Environment Day on June 5th to sensitize the employees for the cause of environment conservation. In order to support the cause, awareness activities were organised at manufacturing plants and the corporate office involving employees and their family members. Activities like plantation drive which involved distribution of 2500 saplings amongst the local school students, environmental oath, drawing, quiz, fancy dress. etc. were performed across locations. PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake Initiatives • Jubilant has already put in place, systems and to Promote Greater measures to reduce its impact on climate change Environmental in line with its climate change mitigation policy. Responsibility • As part of ongoing activities, our Business Excellence (BE) team took up 170 new resource saving projects, out of which 88 were related to energy saving projects, helping to reduce our carbon footprint. • We are mindful about global concerns on climate change and India’s intention on reduction of Greenhouse Gases (GHG) emission as communicated in its INDC (Intended Nationally Determined Contribution) during COP21(21st Conference of the Parties) and its latest National Tariff Policy 2016. • In continuation to our earlier efforts, this year Jubilant has, for the first time, implemented a total of 105 KW capacity solar power projects in its office buildings as another renewable energy source, in addition to its exiting renewable energy portfolio comprising of biomass, biogas and biodiesel. • We have also reported our climate change performance this year through Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), world’s largest climate change database representing 822 signatory investors globally. • We continuously monitor our environmental performance and have invested significantly in environment protection technologies at our manufacturing plants. Most of our plants are ISO 14001 certified. RC 14001 (Responsible Care) 14 | P a g e and ISO 50001 based energy management systems are in a matured state of implementation at our manufacturing sites at Gajraula and Bharuch respectively. PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the • To optimise its energy consumption and decouple Development and climate change impact from energy usage, the Diffusion of Company has decided to focus on improving Environmentally process energy efficiency, find alternate sources Friendly of uninterrupted low cost energy and increasing Technologies the percentage of renewable energy in present energy mix. • Jubilant has inducted solar energy in its present renewable energy mix of bio-gas, biodiesel and biomass. The Company has implemented roof top PV system at its corporate office (45 kWp) at Noida and at another office (60 kWp) at Greater Noida, India. Around 45000 kWh of solar power was generated and consumed replacing equivalent grid power this year. • From August 2015, Nira site is purchasing power from open access route to reduce its energy cost and is under RPO obligation. However, the Company has linked its RPO obligation to power purchase unit cost agreement made with M/s Global Energy Pvt. Ltd. and has complied with this obligation. • This year, the Company achieved 8% reduction in total energy consumption. This was primarily due to reduction in total production in Life Science Ingredient business. This year, 4.4% of the total energy consumption was sourced from renewable energy including solar energy. During reporting period, the energy intensity of Life Science Ingredient (‘LSI’) and Active Pharmaceuticals Ingredients (‘API’) business was calculated to 20 GJ/ MT and 526 GJ/ MT of the finished goods produced, respectively. ANTI-CORRUPTION AND PREVENTION OF BRIBERY PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should • Jubilant became a member of the UN Global Work Against Compact (UNGC) in 2010 with the aim of Corruption in all its internalizing the 10 Global Compact Principles forms, including in the areas of human rights, labour, environment 15 | P a g e Extortion and and anti-corruption within its strategies, policies Bribery and operations. • Jubilant has a Policy on Bribery and Corruption which is stated in the Business Code of Conduct. The policy prohibits any personal payment or bribes by employees of the Company. • The Company also covers this policy in a specific session during the induction of employees and communicates all updates to all employees regularly. Senior Management gives a declaration stating that they have not indulged in corruption or related activities. • The Company has a Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management. The Directors and Senior Management Personnel are required to give an annual affirmation statement to the Chairman or Co-Chairman and Managing Director (CCMD) that they have been following the Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management. Based on these, a declaration is made by the CCMD to the Shareholders that all Directors and senior management personnel have affirmed compliance with the said Code of the Company. Apart from ensuring honest and ethical conduct, the said Code also covers issues related to integrity, confidentiality, insider trading, dealings with outsiders, gifts & entertainment and penalty for breach/corruption. The details of the Code of Conduct can be accessed from the HR Policy manual and it is well covered in the Employee handbook prepared for Senior and Middle Management and handed over to new joinees. • In compliance with the SEBI’s Prohibition of Insider Trading Regulations, a code of conduct for prevention of insider trading namely Jubilant Life Sciences Limited Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading has been established with the objective of preventing possible circumstances of trading in securities of the Company by its officials while in possession of unpublished price sensitive information. Under the said Code, annual disclosures 16 | P a g e regarding securities held and other disclosures in respect of trading in securities of the Company are obtained from the Designated Persons (as defined in the Code) from time to time. • Enterprise Risk Management is carried out by the organisation along with the internal audits at each manufacturing unit. All units are covered under this risk assessment and analysed for corruption and related issues. • There have been no significant fines or nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance pertaining to corruption during this reporting period. 17 | P a g e 18 | P a g e 19 | P a g e 20 | P a g e 21 | P a g e 22 | P a g e Millennium Development Goals CHAPTER TWO The eight Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) – which range from halving extreme poverty rates to halting the spread of HIV/AIDS and providing universal primary education form a blueprint agreed to by all the world’s countries and all the world’s leading development institutions. They have galvanized unprecedented efforts to meet the needs of the world’s poorest. Communities are our partners for change. We engage with the community on a regular basis. We are working on four prime areas of intervention improvement of level of elementary education, enhancing health indices through innovative services, escalating employability and enabling a conducive environment for social entrepreneurship. We engage with communities around our manufacturing locations with the objective of bringing about progressive social change through our community development programs. Jubilant Bhartia Foundation (JBF) is a “not for profit” organisation established in 2007 by the Company to implement its Corporate Social Responsibility programs. JBF, along with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), has set up Food and Agriculture Centre of Excellence (FACE) to contribute to the ongoing policy dialogue related to agriculture and food security concerns. The Centre, through its integrated approach of action-oriented programs and capacity building, will address the issues from the farm gate to the consumer end. We endeavor to constantly engage in delivering value to our stakeholders – our customers, shareholders, employees, local communities, statutory & regulatory institutions, nongovernmental organisations, and other opinion makers through our promise of Caring, Sharing, Growing. By focussing on quality, operational efficiency and EHS compliance, we strive to maintain a direct link between sustainability and our business priorities. Our sustainable business principles are enablers for our growth. The Company’s vision is to bring progressive social change through strategic multi-stakeholder partnership and involving knowledge generation & sharing, experiential learning and entrepreneurial ecosystem. The Company relentlessly works with the neighbouring community which is one of its key stakeholders. Our community initiatives are aligned to the United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Jubilant realises that healthy societies support healthy businesses. The community adjoining our manufacturing facilities is important for us and we work for enhancing their quality of life and livelihoods to have a positive impact on people’s lives. JBF has been promoted specifically for the purpose of working in close co-ordination with the community to involve them and support them 23 | P a g e continuously. Regular interface with the local opinion leaders and community representatives provides adequate feedback which helps us evaluate the requirement and impact of social initiatives. The feedback helps shape the community initiatives to address the community expectations. Till 2015-16, the Company’s effort was to support MDGs while proactively also working towards aligning our efforts with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by United Nations. 24 | P a g e The Millennium Development Goals are: Eradicate Extreme Poverty and Hunger Achieve Universal Primary Education Promote Gender Equality and Empower Women Reduce Child Mortality Improve Maternal Health Combat HIV/AIDS, Malaria & other Diseases Ensure Environmental Sustainability Develop a Global Partnership for Development 25 | P a g e JUBILANT’S SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES ALIGNING WITH THE MDGs Given below is the summary of initiatives taken by Jubilant Bhartia Foundation (“JBF”) towards each MDG during the year 2015-16: Goal 1: Eradicate Extreme Poverty and Hunger The Company realises that health, hygiene, nutrition and education are contributors to the social development of children and the community at large. We are targeting our efforts towards these at all the stages of a child’s growth to ensure children survive and thrive. Elimination of hunger and malnutrition has been included as one of our main objectives as a nutrition-business company. This year, Jubilant continued its integrated malnutrition project towards improving the nutritional status of children under the age of 5 years in project controlled areas of Jubilant Bhartia Foundation (JBF). The project focuses on behaviour change communication and creating a supporting environment. Jubilant has also signed Statement of Commitments with SUN networkScaling Up Nutrition. The project is implemented in 10 villages around Gajraula site as a pilot. JBF focuses on improving the nutritional intake and status of mothers and children, right from pre natal stage till their growing years along with promotion of breast feeding. Baseline survey conducted during the year 2014 revealed that 34% of the children surveyed were malnourished, with 11% being severely malnourished and needed immediate medical attention. Malnourishment was more prominent among girls as compared to boys. The survey pointed out that the root cause of this malnutrition in the area is lack of awareness among the community, which the Company is now targeting. The Swasthya Praharis (the select health guards identified by JBF) regularly monitors the weight of all children in target villages below the age of five. These children are then graded according to their weight and are categorized accordingly. Children in the first two grades are advised on improvement of diet and nutrition. Children in the third grade are referred to a physician or the CHC (Community Health Center). Vocational Training Jubilant continued its vocational training programs at communities around Gajraula, Nanjangud and Nira sites where it provides training to local youth and women of the community to enhance their market skills. The training includes courses on vehicle repairing, tailoring, stitching, retail management, beautification and soft skills development, etc. JBF is running vocational training centers at the above mentioned locations in partnership with a social enterprise (LabourNet). Location Youths trained in 2015-16 Gajraula 308 Nira 532 Nanjangud 548 26 | P a g e Goal 2: Achieve Universal Primary Education JBF through Project Muskaan continued its initiative of strengthening Rural Government Primary Education System. Project Muskaan focuses on monthly extra-curricular activities in select project schools where students are motivated to participate in various stipulated competitions. Activities like mass sapling plantation, drawing competition, storytelling competition, crafts day, essay completion and street play competitions engage students in class, sustaining their interest in attending the school regularly. At JBF, it is believed that socio economic problems are caused due to poor education and therefore, education is one of the prime focus areas of intervention. The project aims at filling in the quality gaps in the existing education system. The table below shows the activities carried out at different locations and the number of student participants in the program. Activity Total No. Total Location Covered of No. of Schools Students Teachers’ Day Celebration 11 1,016 Nira, Samlaya Sports competition 25 989 Nanjangud, Nira, Samlaya, Bharuch New Joiner Felicitation 4 135 Samlaya Senior Citizen felicitation 8 946 Nira program Prabhat Pheri 2 175 Nira Parents & Teachers meeting 18 Nira Math e maze 23 2,466 Nanjangud, Nira, Bharuch, Roorkee Jubilant Pratibha Puraskar 22 220 Gaj, Nanjangud International Literacy Day 13 1,479 Nanjangud, Samlaya, Roorkee Har Aangan Mein Ped 25 2,708 Gajraula, Nanjangud, Bharuch, Samlaya, Roorkee General Knowledge Quiz 40 3,800 Gajraula, Nanjangud, Roorkee, Bharuch, Samlaya, Roorkee, Nira Drawing Competition on World 10 828 Nanjangud Environment Day activity Celebration of World 14 1,555 Nanjangud, Nira Environment Day Birthday Celebration 12 1,114 Bharuch Annual Day Celebration 13 1,506 Gajraula Essay Writing 30 2,536 Gajraula, Nanjangud, Roorkee, Bharuch, Roorkee Story Telling 32 2,687 Gajraula, Nanjangud, Bharuch, Roorkee 27 | P a g e Goal 3: Promote Gender Equality and Empower Women The social projects of Jubilant are modelled in a way to provide equal access to education, health and skill development. The Company also has a policy of non-discrimination and supports equal access to health care, quality education at all levels, career and vocational guidance, employment, equal remuneration, occupational health and safety and social security, etc. The Swasthya Prahari project of the Company involves identifying potential women health workers from select villages and providing them necessary training on maternal child health. This year, 15 Swasthya Praharis have been provided with daily utility products that they can sell from their homes like sanitary napkins, baby products, protein supplements, first aid, etc. Along with these items, they have also been provided with display cases to display their products at home. This has been done in an effort to make the Swasthya Praharis more self-reliant and develop entrepreneurial skills in them. They have also been trained on book-keeping so that they can learn the nuances of business. They are being provided back-end support by a streamlined supply chain and have also been connected with local wholesale dealers from where they can purchase items of their choice. With the infrastructure support from Jubilant, the stitching centre at Nanjangud (operated by SHG) is also running successfully since last four years. Goal 4 & 5: Reduce Child Mortality & Improve Maternal Health The concept of healthy mother and healthy baby is an important aspect of reproductive healthcare programme. In a developing country like India, poverty, illiteracy and multiple pregnancies take their toll on mother’s health and that of the breast-fed infant. Though the Government has set up Community Health Centres and Primary Health Centres to cover the entire population of the country, facilities at these centres are highly stretched. Adequate resources are generally not available at these centres, to cater to the needs of the people. While private entrepreneurs do set up various types of healthcare facilities in urban areas, there are major gaps in rural and semi urban areas, where industry CSR programs can contribute. The healthcare interventions of the Foundation are aimed to fill these gaps. Jubilant Bhartia Foundation through its Swasthya Prahari project keeps a close watch on Birth Rate, Infant Mortality Ratio (IMR) and institutional delivery in project villages of Gajraula location in Uttar Pradesh covering 34 villages and reaching out to a population of 1 lakh. The project is implemented through women health guards who promote institutional delivery and regular immunisation along with providing counselling to expecting and lactating mothers, provide information on nutrition of children and mothers. Because of their hard work and dedication, institutional deliveries stand at 90% as compared to 44% when the project was started in 2010. 28 | P a g e Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases Every year, the Company observes the ‘World AIDS DAY’ on 1st December. Various awareness sessions on the topic of HIV/AIDS are organized. Also, the Company’s registered Integrated Counselling & Testing Centre (ICTC) at Gajraula, identifies HIV infected people and provides proper counselling to them. A DOTS centre for TB treatment for diagnostic and counselling services is located at Gajraula unit. Various other regular health camps are organised in the community around manufacturing locations. Goal 7: Ensure Environmental Sustainability World Environment Day (WED), the United Nation’s program for encouraging worldwide awareness and action for the environment is observed every year on June 5. Jubilant also supports the initiative by organising environmental awareness program for the employees and their families. Continuing the trend, this year a ‘Family Day’ was organised on June 6, 2015 at the Corporate Office, Noida. The event included drawing competition, photography competition, theme dress, collage making and face painting on the theme of environmental awareness. There were around 80 participants including employees, their children and other family members. Certificates of appreciation were given to all the participants along with special prize to the winners. Environment related activities are organised at other locations also. ‘Har Aangan Me Ped’ activity was organised in Muskaan schools in Gajraula, Nanjangud, Bharuch, Samlaya, and Roorkee. The activity involves sapling plantation by the students. More than 2,500 saplings were distributed amongst the local school students. Goal 8: Develop a Global Partnership for Development The Company is partnering several local and global organisations. This year, Jubilant’s major partners under its various programs were World Economic Forum (WEF); Schwab Foundation for Social Entrepreneurship; Confederation of Indian Industry (CII); Pratham; Labour net; Aid Matrix; US AIDS; Daily Dump; SUN network; Panasonic; Vectus Industries Ltd; Start-up; ZMQ Software Systems; Ogaan Cancer Foundation; Rotary Club; ICICI Foundation, etc. 29 | P a g e
