2016 Contents Management Rationale / Top Management Message 002 Corporate Motto / Management Rationale 003 Top Management Message Management Philosophy 006 Kyocera Group Management Roots 008 Management Based on the Kyocera Philosophy 010 Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education Feature Articles 013 Feature Article 1: Kyoceraʼs Floating Solar Power Plants Contribute to Greater Diﬀusion of Renewable Energy Use 016 Feature Article 2: Kyoceraʼs Fine Ceramic Technology Contributes to Global Environmental Preservation 020 Feature Article 3: Sharing the Kyocera Philosophy on a Global Scale to Align Mental Vectors Management 025 Kyocera Group Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 039 Corporate Governance Respect for Human Rights / Optimal Work Environment 043 Respect for Human Rights and Diversity 051 Cultivation of Human Resources 055 Building a Safe & Secure Work Environment Environmental Activities 060 Kyocera Group Environmental Management 066 Green Management 072 Green Products 083 Green Factories 092 Green Communication Fair Business Activities 095 Risk Management and Compliance 105 Supply Chain Management Customer Concerns 109 Approaches to Raising Quality and Customer Satisfaction Levels Social Contribution Activities 113 Academic Advancement and Research 116 Support for Culture and the Arts 118 International Exchange and Collaboration 122 Local Community Activities 126 Editorial Policy 127 GRI and ISO 26000 Comparison 1 Management Rationale / Top Management Message Corporate Motto / Management Rationale Corporate Motto “Respect the Divine and Love People” Management Rationale To provide opportunities for the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement of society and humankind. Management Philosophy To coexist harmoniously with our society, our global community and nature. Harmonious coexistence is the underlying foundation of all our business activities as we work to create a world of prosperity and harmony. Methods of Management 1. To earn fair profit through harmonious business practices that result in products that satisfy our customers — providing quality products at lower prices, realized through ongoing R&D and sincere service. 2. To manage our company as if we were a family, hearts bound together devoid of antagonism, helping each other with a mutual sense of gratitude and appreciation. Coexistence In order for the human race to survive and prosper in the future, we must remember the concept of coexistence. This is the concept that all living things on Earth must coexist together. All living things on Earth, including human beings, depend on each other for survival. In the future, management must be based on collaboration for mutual success. Fostering relationships where we all share a common vision and are willing to help one another and share in the burden so we can all grow together — this is the kind of management philosophy that future prosperity will require. Based on the idea of coexistence, Kyocera will continue to strive towards corporate activities aimed at the prosperity and harmony of humankind. 2 Management Rationale / Top Management Message Top Management Message Correct Application of the Concept, “Do What is Right as a Human Being” At the heart of Kyocera Group management is the corporate philosophy known as the Kyocera Philosophy, which emphasizes the importance of fair business based on ethical, moral and social standards that people should uphold throughout life. Ultimately, it comes down to one criterion for making decisions: “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” To realize our corporate philosophy, Kyocera developed a unique management control method known as the Amoeba Management System. With this system in place, Kyocera promotes a management method in which all employees can participate. Furthermore, Kyocera believes in highly transparent corporate activity with timely disclosure of information to customers, employees, shareholders, investors, business associates, and all other stakeholders. For the Kyocera Group, CSR is tantamount to the practice of the Kyocera Philosophy — the heart of Kyocera Group management. We believe practice of the Kyocera Philosophy builds mutual trust with stakeholders, and contributes to sustainable growth for the Kyocera Group, as well as the overall development of society. We will continue to engage in corporate management through practice of the Kyocera Philosophy. Kyocera will contribute to the advancement and development of humankind and society through practice of the Kyocera Philosophy. 3 Contributions to Society through Business Activities Modern society faces various challenges including economic globalization, diversification of people’s values, an increase in energy demand, climate change, and growth of the global population. The Kyocera Group is working on business expansion with an emphasis on such growing markets as Information & Communications, Automotive, Environment & Energy, and Medical & Healthcare. We also reinforce development of various technologies and products to realize diffusion and expansion of IoT (Internet of Things) with the aim of delivering benefits to society through our corporate activities. In the Information & Communications market, we endeavor to develop high value­added products that can satisfy the various needs of the market, including functional enhancement and diversification of digital consumer devices such as smartphones, and meeting the increasing demands for capacity enlargement and acceleration of data transmission in various industries. Utilizing our proprietary technology, we deliver new types of communication and information equipment that are unique to those of competitors in the market so as to provide consumers with products that satisfy needs such as comfort of operation or ease of use. In the Automotive market, we are reinforcing our organizational preparedness by establishing a cross­departmental organization in order to cope with the expectations of the market — including computerization of onboard devices, environmental friendliness, and automated driving. In addition, we take various actions to expand applications for existing products, develop new customers, and to accelerate new product development through reinforcement of technical development and collaboration with customers, thereby contributing to the realization of an environmentally conscious, safe and comfortable driving experience. In the Environment & Energy market, we are determined to help create a society in coexistence with the environment by working on energy creation with solar power generating systems and fuel cells, energy storage with battery units, and encouragement of energy efficiency through energy management systems. To be specific, we endeavor to improve the conversion efficiency of solar modules, market high­efficiency fuel cell systems, and expand large­capacity battery systems in response to growing demands for greater self­sufficiency in electric power usage. In addition, we are reinforcing system development to facilitate stable supply of power and power saving. In the Medical & Healthcare market, we are engaged in business expansion of medical materials such as artificial joints as well as working towards technological synergy covering everything from materials to components and systems. Furthermore, we promote cooperation with specialized institutes so as to develop innovative products and technologies, thereby ultimately contributing to the improvement of people’s quality of life and the advancement of the medical field. 4 Handling of Global CSR Issues In order for the Kyocera Group to compete globally and continue its high­rate of growth, we believe it is essential to further reinforce our own management foundation and conduct locally rooted business activities while ensuring compliance with international norms and standards; respecting diversity including local customs and cultures, and environmental harmony. The Kyocera Group is an active member of the UN Global Compact, the basic rules on human rights, labor, the environment and prevention of corruption, and conducts positive activities towards the resolution of CSR issues. For environmental protection, we actively work on not only the development of environmentally friendly products but also continually work on energy saving at production sites and prevention of climate change while looking to satisfy both ecology and economy according to our philosophy of “living together.” These actions have been duly evaluated by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment, and we have received the Minister of the Environment's Award for Global Warming Prevention Activity consecutively for six years since FY2011. We will continue to meet the expectations of all stakeholders of the Kyocera Group, thus building relationships of mutual trust and contributing to the robust development of society. 5 Management Philosophy Kyocera Group Management Roots Company members around the time of foundation The origin of Kyocera Group management is the Kyocera Philosophy, a philosophy for work and life based on the real­ life experiences and empirical rules of Kazuo Inamori, founder and chairman emeritus of Kyocera Corporation. With “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” as its most essential criterion, the Kyocera Philosophy expounds the significance of commitment to fair management and operation in compliance with the most fundamental human ethics, moral values and social norms. What is the Kyocera Philosophy? The Management Rationale of the Kyocera Group is: “To provide opportunities for the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement of society and humankind.” The “material and intellectual growth” that we aim for includes the pursuit of economic stability, and entails the pursuit of mental riches as a human being, in the shape of life with purpose and job satisfaction through self­fulfillment in the workplace. Additionally, the steady refinement of our technology allows us to provide the world with wonderful products one after another, and thereby contribute to the advancement of science and technology. At the same time, by steadily raising profits as a company we aim to contribute to the improvement of common welfare, through increased tax payments and other means. The guidelines for action in pursuing the Management Rationale are set out in the Kyocera Philosophy. As a state of mind for leading wonderful lives, we are striving day by day to practice the Kyocera Philosophy. Origin of the Kyocera Philosophy In 1959, with the generous support of the people around them, company founder Kazuo Inamori and seven other colleagues established Kyoto Ceramic Co., Ltd. (now Kyocera Corporation). Starting with a meager amount of capital, the company had no imposing office building or elaborate machinery in the beginning. All it had were fellow colleagues who shared the joys and sorrows and formed a close bond as members of one big family. Inamori then decided to base the management of the company on this bond of human minds. This is because he believed that while human minds are extremely changeable, they are also most dependable once the minds are bonded by strong trust. Later, Inamori encountered many difficulties in managing Kyocera, but he overcame them each time believing in the strong bond of human minds. The Kyocera Philosophy was thus born as he debated his life and work. 6 Basic Ideas of the Kyocera Philosophy The Kyocera Group believes that decisions should always be made through reason and based on the idea of “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” as the basic criteria to achieve compliance with public morals. The criterion of “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” is based on the fundamental ethical and moral values of the natural goodness of human beings: “Don’t be greedy,” “Don’t cheat people,” “Don’t lie,” and “Be honest” are teachings we all received from our parents as children and represent the most basic principles of humankind. We believe that when making decisions and taking action in daily life, we should resort to the criterion of “What is universally right as a human being” and not the criterion of “What best suits our own convenience.” Kyocera Philosophy Pocketbook A copy of the Kyocera Philosophy Pocketbook is distributed to each employee at Kyocera. Employees use various opportunities to apply the principles in the Pocketbook, and to independently learn and practice the Kyocera Philosophy. In April 2011, we published the Kyocera Philosophy Pocketbook II, which summarizes additional important points of the Philosophy. The updated Pocketbook is being progressively translated into multiple languages to aid penetration of the Kyocera Philosophy in bases overseas. 7 Management Philosophy Management Based on the Kyocera Philosophy For the Kyocera Group to realize the Management Rationale, correct understanding and application of the Kyocera Philosophy are essential. This applies also to Amoeba Management, Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles, and The Twelve Management Principles. All are based on the Kyocera Philosophy. Correct understanding and application are essential for future growth and development, to sustain the dreams of employees, and for the Kyocera Group to continue as a corporate group that contributes to the development of society. In addition, we also strive to promote understanding and diffusion of the Kyocera Philosophy among employees by distributing booklets and pocketbooks. Amoeba Management The Kyocera Group uses its own business administration method called the Amoeba Management System, which is specifically developed to realize the corporate philosophy of the Kyocera Group. Under this system, the company organization is divided into small groups called amoebas, which operate on a self­supporting basis. We believe that employees’ enhanced sense of participation in management and motivation engendered by Amoeba Management constitutes the source of the Kyocera Group’s strength. The small group system also serves to clarify the responsibilities of each member of the group, secure transparency in every detail, and enable a thorough check of efficiency. The Objectives of Amoeba Management 1. Establish a market­oriented divisional accounting system 2. Foster personnel with a sense of management 3. Realize management by all 8 Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles Accounting is integral to the management of a company as it plays the key role as the compass that leads a company to its destination. When handling accounting matters, it is important to trace them back to their essence and take appropriate measures according to our primary criterion of “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” Kyocera considers the ideal state of accounting to be one in which the facts are shown as they are, and recognizes the importance of fair and transparent management. Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles are a set of practical accounting principles designed to give a correct understanding of the realities of the company and the directions to be taken. In the Kyocera Group, each employee is encouraged to understand and become familiar with the Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles, and to act in accordance with these principles. We believe this becomes a sound foundation not only for fair accounting, but also for the long­term development of the company. Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles Pocketbook Introduction: Adhere to Fundamental Rules 1. The Principle of One­to­One Correspondence 2. The Principle of Double­Checking 3. The Principle of Perfectionism 4. The Principle of Muscular Management 5. The Principle of Profitability Improvement 6. The Principle of Cash­Basis Management 7. The Principle of Transparent Management 9 Management Philosophy Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education Kyocera Philosophy Education: Basic Concept and Structure In the Kyocera Group, a variety of education programs are provided to each employee to familiarize them with the Kyocera Philosophy, realize the global growth of the Group through diligent efforts, and with originality and ingenuity, help all employees feel happy working for the Group in order to foster human resources capable of supporting the growth and development of society and humankind. We regularly hold the Group­Wide Philosophy Committee headed by Kyocera’s chairman to further reinforce the diffusion of Philosophy activities. The Group­Wide Group­Wide Philosophy Committee Philosophy Committee formulates the policies for Philosophy education and examines and determines measures to promote understanding of the Philosophy and reinforce its practice. Application of the Kyocera Philosophy Education (Results of FY2016) The Kyocera Group is expanding Kyocera Philosophy Education on a global basis in accordance with the policy of the Group­Wide Philosophy Committee. In Japan, education is divided into programs provided individually by each department, site or Group company, based on the conditions of their specific business activities and the common programs that support the individual programs. In individual educational activities, actions to diffuse the front­line­ conscious Philosophy are taken proactively by each department, site or Group company. The Leader Education and the Philosophy Workshop, which are company­wide education programs, set “Aim High” as the integrated theme for FY2016 based on the management policy of the Kyocera Group. Use of the integrated theme aims to create a sense of unity and enhance the quality of education so as to foster human resources who can contribute to the management of the company. In addition to those Philosophy education programs, various education and diffusion activities are carried out including voluntary workshops, company journals, company Web sites, and a collection of Kyocera Group Philosophy Essays. Diagram of the Kyocera Philosophy education system 10 Philosophy Education by Each Department, Site or Group Company Activities of the General Affairs Group The Corporate General Affairs Group Philosophy Committee is an organization dedicated to promoting activities of the Group­Wide Philosophy Committee. This Committee further has several working groups composed mainly of young members selected from various divisions. The General Affairs Group holds the Heart­to­Heart Discussion Seminar, in which people discuss how the General Affairs Group, which supports business activities, should be, and also publishes an in­house newsletter, the Philosophy Times. As one of the Philosophy permeation measures meant for individual employees, every employee publicly declares his or her target Philosophy in the form of the Heart­to­Heart Discussion Seminar Challenge Philosophy Card and announces it at a morning gathering. Thus, various activities for permeation of the Kyocera Philosophy are conducted. Group­Wide Common Philosophy Education Programs Leader Education The Kyocera Group (in Japan) aims to develop leaders capable of achieving high aims by enhancing the power of the organization’s unity. To this end, we hold leader education intended for people in managerial positions of section manager or higher. In FY2016, we thought about what is important to create a passionate organization as it used to be in the founding days of Kyocera when everybody had a high aim and a grand dream, in order to realize the goal of becoming “The Company” (the company of companies respected the world over). Members who participated in the post­ training “compa” party declared their commitments and announced their action plans. Leader Education Philosophy Workshop The Kyocera Group (in Japan) holds the Philosophy Workshop in order for employees to learn the basic Kyocera Philosophy essential to do their jobs better and lead a happy life beyond position, age, department, or line of work and enhance the passion for practice. In this workshop, the Philosophy is explained using phrases or comments used by famous people to relate to the Philosophy as well as familiar case examples experienced by Kyocera employees so that trainees learn the Philosophy from various viewpoints. At the same time, training programs are designed to develop a sense of unity in the group. In FY2016, employees shared success and failure examples at their respective worksites and learned the Philosophy Workshop importance of acting on their own initiative (by playing the central role) to fulfill the high aim of the organization and aggressively work with other coworkers towards the same goal. 11 FY2016 Results of Kyocera Philosophy Education Philosophy Leader Education Part­timer Workshop Workshop Total number of participants 9,665 37,347 6,037 Top management 7.5 hours x 1 Training hours and times per 3.5 hours x 1 2.5 hours x 2 1 hour x 2 employee Mid­level employees 3.5 hours x 2 · These programs cover the education provided by the department in charge of Philosophy education at Kyocera. Other education programs include those unique to each department or Group company. Provision of Kyocera Philosophy Education to Overseas Group Companies Since the Kyocera Group considers it is important to share the Philosophy beyond nationality and cultural differences in order to globally operate our business, Kyocera Philosophy education is also provided at overseas Group companies. Global Philosophy Seminar (China) Diffusion Activities Based on Kyocera Group Philosophy Essays The Kyocera Group (in Japan) annually asks for Kyocera Group Philosophy Essays from employees in order for them to reflect on their own experiences with the Kyocera Philosophy, have a clear awareness of the necessity of practical implementation of the Philosophy, and master it. This essay contest has been in place since FY1991. Some overseas Group companies also conduct the same contest. Essays submitted by employees are reviewed and the authors of selected essays are awarded the Chairman Emeritus’ Prize, the Chairman’s Prize or the President’s Prize. A collection of award­winning essays and other excellent essays is issued among the entire Kyocera Group to encourage the practice of the Kyocera Philosophy. Presentation of Philosophy Essays in China Collection of Philosophy Essays (Japanese version on the left and Chinese version on the right) 12 Feature Article 1 Kyocera’s Floating Solar Power Plants Contribute to Greater Diffusion of Renewable Energy Use While energy is indispensable for our modern lifestyles, its consumption rapidly increases with global population growth and economic growth. Stable supply of energy is now a serious issue to tackle. Under these circumstances, expanded use of solar power generating systems, which do not consume limited resources such as petroleum or coal and emit almost no CO2 during power generation, is greatly expected. In Japan, since the renewable energy feed­in tariff (FIT) program started in 2012, construction of utility­scale solar power plants has been promoted in various parts of the country. Kyocera has constructed a number of these facilities including Japan’s largest* solar power plant (at the time of construction), Kagoshima Nanatsujima Mega Solar Power Plant (approx. 70MW) in Kagoshima Prefecture, which started operation in November 2013. * Based on research by Kyocera (as of November 2013). Kyocera’s Floating Solar Power Plant Makes Effective Use of Unutilized Space While utility­scale solar power plants have been constructed one after another in Japan, it has become apparent that land for installation of such facilities is running short. Therefore, Kyocera focused its attention on water surfaces, such as ponds and reservoirs, and started to construct floating solar power plants in 2014 through Kyocera TCL Solar LLC, a joint venture set up by Century Tokyo and Kyocera. Kyocera TCL Solar LLC has already started operation of three floating solar power plants, including two in Kato City, Hyogo Prefecture, and one in Kasai City, Hyogo Prefecture. In addition, the company is currently constructing another one, the Yamakura Floating Mega Solar Power Plant, with a power output of approximately 13.7MW in Chiba Prefecture, with its completion scheduled for FY2018. 13 Takaoka Nishi Floating Mega Solar Power Plant (approx. 1.7MW, operation started in March 2015), Hyogo Prefecture Sakasamaike Floating Mega Solar Power Plant (approx. 2.3MW, operation started in June 2015), Hyogo Prefecture How to Install Solar Modules on Water Solar modules are installed on floating platforms, called “floats,” first on the ground. The floats are then towed by boat to the installation location and fixed with anchors set under the water. Manufactured by Ciel et Terre International (HQ: France), floats are made of a completely recyclable material that will not cause emission of harmful substances. Hence, environmental compliance is an important part of the design and construction of our floating solar power plants. Floating platforms being installed on the water Float structure (Source: Ciel et Terre International) 14 Features of Floating Solar Power Plants 1. An installment of solar modules set on the water takes advantage of a cooling effect on the modules from the water and is expected to enable the plant to generate more power output than those installed on the ground or rooftops. 2. As solar modules cover the water surface, it is expected to mitigate evaporation of water and prevent abnormal growth of algae. 3. Floats are made of highly dense polyethylene which possesses excellent resistance to ultraviolet rays and corrosion and are 100% recyclable. 4. The float assembly is designed to have sufficient strength against typhoons coupled with the sturdy float connecting technology. Comments of the staff in charge of the marketing section of floating solar power plants “A floating solar power plant is a promising way of installation that expands applicability of solar power. It makes effective use of the water surface of ponds and reservoirs, which have never been used for such purposes. Local people can also use the rent paid from part of the solar power sale to cover upkeep of the ponds. As Japan is subject to great changes in rainfall depending on the seasons, there are a large number of ponds for agricultural purposes and regulating reservoirs for control of river water flooding. Considering this, we will continue to promote construction of floating solar power plants.” 15 Feature Article 2 Kyocera’s Fine Ceramic Technology Contributes to Global Environmental Preservation — Contribution to Cleaning of Diesel Car Emissions Diesel vehicles make up approximately 30% of all cars produced in the world. They emit less CO2 — one of the causes of climate change — than gasoline cars and have high power and excellent durability. Because of those advantages, there is growing demand for diesel cars in the world, particularly in Europe. In Europe, there are many environmentally advanced countries engaged in active reduction of air pollutants which apply strict regulations to soot emission of diesel cars. Diesel cars in Europe are obligated to have pollution control equipment such as diesel particulate filters (DPFs) that capture soot in the exhaust gas. In order to check if the DPF is properly working, sensors to detect soot contained in the exhaust gas are essential. However, presently there are no sensor elements that can precisely detect soot. Therefore, development of such high­performance sensors is urgent. Kyocera developed a soot detection sensor element that has high reliability in high temperatures greater than 500°C for the first time in the world* by using its own metal material technology accumulated over many years. *Based on research by Kyocera (as of October 1, 2015) 16 Development of a Soot Sensor Element Capable of Detecting Soot in Temperatures Greater than 500°C without the use of Platinum Since a soot sensor element needs to be installed near the engine, it needs to be made of a material with excellent heat and acid resistance. In general, platinum is used for such sensor elements. However, when the temperature of the exhaust gas exceeds 500°C, platinum and soot cause a catalytic reaction resulting in the failure to detect soot accurately. Facing this problem, Kyocera developed a new alloy conductor featuring performance equivalent to that of platinum without using this metal for the first time in the world by utilizing material and production process technologies cultivated in our development of ceramic packages which boast the world’s top share (approx. 70%). Furthermore, we realized downsizing and durability enhancement of the soot sensor element by sintering ceramics and the alloy conductor in multiple layers. Sensor part of the soot sensor element Soot­sensing element Structure of the soot sensor element 17 Mechanism of soot detection Soot conducts electricity, and by using this characteristic, the sensor detects soot with electrodes that are arranged in a comb­like pattern and insulated so that no electricity flows in the electrodes unless soot is attached. When soot is attached among the electrodes, electricity flows, and the amount of soot contained in the exhaust gas is detected. A heater is installed inside the element so it periodically burns the soot attached to the electrodes and thus allows repeated and accurate measurement. Mechanism of soot detection Awarded the Semi Grand Prix of the CEATEC AWARD 2015 in the Green Innovation Category The soot sensor element developed by Kyocera won the Semi Grand Prix of the CEATEC AWARD 2015 in the Green Innovation Category at CEATEC JAPAN, one of Asia’s largest comprehensive exhibitions of advanced IT and electronics held in Japan every October. Products and technologies on exhibit at CEATEC JAPAN that show particularly excellent innovation are given CEATEC AWARDS. The alloy conductor, a new material developed by Kyocera to replace platinum, was used to make the element capable of detecting soot under high temperatures greater than 500°C. This innovation was highly evaluated and led to the awarding of the Semi Grand Prix Award. CEATEC AWARD 2015 Semi Grand Prix 18 Comments of the staff in charge of the development section of the soot sensor element “I was thinking for days and days about whether we could do something using the multilayer technology cultivated in the development of ceramic packages. Then my attention was drawn to the soot sensor. In Europe, control of emissions is becoming even stricter, and the present detection system was going to fail the requirement with its current precision. The advantage of multiple layering generally applies to semiconductor components and allows them to be downsized. I came to think that this technique could meet the strict condition of exposure to high temperatures. So we started development in 2013. One of the greatest challenges that we faced in development was the selection of the right materials and determination of the right sintering conditions so that we could successfully sinter ceramic and alloy simultaneously. I hope that successful commercialization of the soot sensor using this element will be able to help not only Europe but also the rest of the world promote application of stricter emissions controls and prevention of air pollution.” 19 Feature Article 3 Sharing the Kyocera Philosophy on a Global Scale to Align Mental Vectors The Kyocera Group conducts fair management and business operation according to the decision making criterion of “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” This criterion contains the fundamental ethics, sense of morality, and social norms which should be shared by all employees regardless of nationality or culture. Kyocera positions it as the most important element to realize our management philosophy. Education on this is provided to all employees in the world. Diagram for the Kyocera Philosophy Education System Outside Japan 20 Global Philosophy Seminar For overseas Group companies, Global Philosophy Seminars are held for top management and executives in the U.S.A., China, Asia & Oceania, and Europe. As in Japan, these seminars are provided to help foreign employees earnestly learn the Kyocera Philosophy, reconfirm what an ideal leader is, and have a better understanding of the type of leadership required to achieve management goals. In FY2016, seminars were held for employees to learn the Twelve Kyocera Management Principles under the theme of “Aim High.” ■ Results of FY2016 Global Philosophy Seminars Region Venue(s) Schedule No. of participants U.S.A. Greenville, San Diego August 2015 and March 2016 226 China Shilong, Shanghai August 2015 444 Asia & Oceania Singapore September 2015 132 Europe Dusseldorf (Germany) October 2015 72 Total 874 The Twelve Kyocera Management Principles The Twelve Kyocera Management Principles are fundamental management rules. In other words, they do not change, regardless of any changes occurring in the business environment or conditions. They are the starting point of universal management, and represent the tenets of our management. 1. Clearly state the purpose and mission of your business. 2. Set specific goals. 3. Keep a passionate desire in your hearts. 4. Strive harder than anyone else. 5. Maximize revenues and minimize expenses. 6. Pricing is management. 7. Success is determined by willpower. 8. Possess a fighting spirit 9. Face every challenge with courage. 10. Always be creative in your work. 11. Be kind and sincere. 12. Always be cheerful and positive. 21 Participants listening to a lecture (China) Group discussion (U.S.A.) Comments of participants “I felt anew that setting a high aim would create a motivating power for growth. So I am determined to do my job to achieve the goals of the team in the capacity of the leader.” (China) “I felt that creating a positive atmosphere in the team is the role of the leader. ”(Asia & Oceania) 22 Kyocera Philosophy diffusion activity of each region Education staff of each overseas Group company play the central role in conducting diffusion of the Kyocera Philosophy that matches the local culture and customs. We also conduct preparation of teaching material and planning of training curriculum in the language of local employees. ■ Kyocera International, Inc. (U.S.A.) Kyocera International, Inc. tries to let trainees enjoy the lesson and deepen their understanding of the Kyocera Philosophy and conducts activities to promote communication in the workplace. In FY2016, hands­on experience of calligraphy writing characters of the corporate motto “Keiten Aijin;” Respect the Divine and Love People was provided, and original goods with the words of the Kyocera Philosophy printed were produced for distribution to employees. Local employees enjoying the calligraphy experience Development of philosophy education staff It is indispensable to develop personnel dedicated to Philosophy Education in each region in order to conduct planning and operation of Philosophy diffusion activities that meet local demands. Workshops meant for those employees started in FY2015. In FY2016, a workshop was held for education staff in Asia & Oceania and China. A total of 41 employees from 34 Group companies participated in the workshop. The purpose of the workshop is to deepen employees’ understanding of the Philosophy diffusion activities and reinforce cooperation among the education staff by sharing the problems and solutions of each region. In the future, based on the actual conditions of and requests from each region, we intend to provide training programs designed to primarily help each region set up their own educational system that allows them to design and operate their own education programs by themselves. Workshop for education staff (Asia, China, and Europe / U.S.A. from left to right) 23 Comments of participants “We shared the problems with regional education staff, and that gave me good stimulation. I hope I can work with leaders of relevant departments and conduct better Philosophy diffusion activities in the future.” (Europe / U.S.A.) “I felt anew from this training that the people in charge of education, like us, are the very people who must continuously learn the Kyocera Philosophy. ”(China) Actual Case Examples of the Kyocera Philosophy Diffused in the Workplace Comments of Chinese staff in charge of business management where the Kyocera Philosophy is practically applied “I am in charge of customs clearance management for raw materials and finished products. The mission of my department is to reduce risk while reducing cost and thereby support the business. When I do my job, I always keep in mind one of the phrases of the Kyocera Philosophy, “Always Be Creative in Your Work.” In China, the business environment is becoming stricter and stricter because of various factors including rapidly rising labor costs. It is therefore important for us to realize improvement in every department. I focused on the import route that went through an airport and a warehouse both located far from the factory and decided to improve its structure. Initially, I had objections from surrounding people about taking on such drastic changes to the structure, with some saying it was reckless. I myself felt uneasy. However, I believed it was definitely something that must be achieved in order for us to survive in the severe business environment, and so I decided to involve all the people concerned. Then I solved problems one by one. We conducted tests more than 10 times and finally established a route that brings materials directly to the factory from a nearby airport. That actually resulted in reduction of both logistics costs and lead­time. From this experience, I learned that it was important to always be creative in our work without fear of change.” 24 Management Kyocera Group Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) CSR Activities Based on the Kyocera Philosophy Shortly after its founding, Kyocera adopted its management rationale: “To provide opportunities for the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement of society and humankind.” Management is based on the Kyocera Philosophy, which uses the concept “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” as its decision­making criterion. This also forms the basis for the Kyocera Group’s CSR activities. Through implementation of the Kyocera Philosophy, we work to find solutions to corporate citizenship issues, build relationships of mutual trust with our stakeholders, and aim for the sustained development of the Kyocera Group. At the same time, we endeavor to contribute to the healthy development of society. 25 Kyocera Group CSR Guidelines The Kyocera Group establishes the Kyocera Group CSR Guidelines, our standards of corporate conduct, and will act towards the creation of a sustainable society. Kyocera Group CSR Guidelines Introduction Since its foundation, Kyocera has declared that it will “provide opportunities for the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement of society and humankind” as its management rationale and has managed its business based on the Kyocera Philosophy ’ the core of management in the Kyocera Group. By practicing the Kyocera Philosophy on a daily basis, we will contribute to the sound development of society as well as build mutual trust with stakeholders, and continuously develop the Kyocera Group. We therefore establish the Kyocera Group CSR Guidelines, our standards of corporate conduct, and will act towards the creation of a sustainable society. These guidelines apply to Kyocera Corporation and Kyocera Group companies, as well as all executive officers and employees. 1. Basic duties We shall observe laws, regulations and corporate rules, have unshakable moral values based on the Kyocera Philosophy and perform corporate activities globally, making decisions based on the criterion of “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” 2. Human rights and labor We shall respect fundamental human rights. 2­1. We shall always be aware of changes in work environments and the characteristics and culture of each country to build up a personnel system that can respond appropriately. 2­2. We shall respect the human rights of employees and not treat them severely or inhumanely, including abuse or any type of harassment. 2­3. We shall promote the creation of attractive, rewarding work environments by attempting to share opinions and information with employees. 2­4. We shall respect the right of freedom of association based on the laws, regulations and labor practices of each country. 2­5. We shall not allow forced labor or child labor. 2­6. We shall not engage in unfair and discriminatory treatment. 3. Health and safety We shall observe laws and regulations related to health and safety, fire control, and undertake health and safety measures more actively and continuously including through the implementation of risk assessment and emergency preparedness to provide work environments that are accident and disaster­free, where employees can work in safety and free from anxiety. 26 4. Environmental conservation We shall regard the Kyocera Environmental Charter as our guideline for the environmental protection activities to be achieved. We shall perform improvement activities more actively and continuously to contribute to global environmental protection by working in a comprehensive fashion on environmental measures such as environmental preservation, energy conservation, climate change prevention, resource conservation, global environmental product development and biodiversity conservation. At the same time, we shall communicate those efforts widely to society. 5. Fair trade and ethics We shall always carry out fair trade in the spirit of equity and fair play. 5­1. We shall compete fairly, transparently and freely, and carry out fair trade. 5­2. We shall arrange and manage a clear import and export management system in accordance with related laws and regulations in Japan and overseas. 5­3. When procuring materials, we shall conform to laws and regulations, do business faithfully, justly and fairly without abusing any dominant bargaining position, and work to build up partnerships based on mutual trust. 5­4. We shall request business partners to understand and cooperate with our CSR activities. 5­5. We shall create, protect and utilize intellectual property rights, respect the intellectual property rights of others, and prevent any violation of their rights. 5­6. We shall neither offer nor receive inappropriate profits in relationships with stakeholders. 5­7. We shall maintain sound and normal relationships with political organizations and the authorities, and shall never offer bribes or illegal political contributions. 5­8. We shall steadfastly maintain an attitude of confrontation with antisocial forces and reject any unjust claim. 5­9. We shall carry out activities to prevent wrongdoing and also arrange systems to detect and respond to it immediately. 5­10. We shall not purchase any materials or products including conflict minerals or metals derived from them that create a source of funds for armed groups causing human rights violations. 6. Quality and product safety We shall regard the Kyocera Quality Policy and Kyocera Product Safety Policy as our guidelines to be achieved. 7. Information disclosure We shall always foster communication with society through appropriate information disclosure and active PR and IR activities; and aim at being a fair, highly transparent and open business enterprise. 7­1. We shall strive to disclose information to stakeholders including stockholders and investors quickly, appropriately and fairly; and promote understanding of our management and business activities. 7­2. We shall foster fair stock transactions and strive to prevent insider trading such as the buying and selling of stocks based on undisclosed internal information. 27 8. Information security We shall be aware that personal information and confidential information are important and strive to prevent information leakages while maintaining and promoting information security. 8­1. We shall be aware that personal information is important information that constitutes privacy, and strive to protect it thoroughly. 8­2. We shall properly manage and protect confidential information received from customers or third parties, and confidential information of companies obtained in the conduct of business, and prevent any leakage or misuse. 9. Business continuity plan (BCP) We shall formulate a BCP and aim for quick recovery and operation even if concerns over supply arise due to disaster, etc. 10. Social contribution Based on the awareness that a business enterprise is a member of society, we shall do our duty at all times as a corporate citizen that supports the development of local communities and society, and carry out various social contribution activities, not just business. 10­1. We shall actively interact with local people and support sports to contribute to the development of local communities. 10­2. We shall strive to do our duty as a member of society through various activities that contribute to society such as education, research, culture, the arts, international exchange and cooperation, and environmental protection activities. Response to International Standards and Initiatives Utilization of ISO26000 The Kyocera Group effectively uses ISO26000, the international guidance standard related to social responsibility issued in November 2010. ISO26000 puts together items to be reviewed in implementing CSR activities and summarizes them as seven core subjects. The Kyocera Group evaluates our own CSR activities based on these core subjects and conducts continuous improvement for reinforcement of our CSR management. Seven Core Subjects of ISO26000 and Corresponding References Core subjects References Organizational Governance Management Human Rights Respect of Human Rights / Labour Practices Optimal Work Environment The Environment Environmental Activities Fair Operating Practices Fair Business Activities Consumer Issues Customer Concerns Community Involvement and Social Contribution Activities Development 28 Participation in the UN Global Compact The Kyocera Group is a participant of the United Nations Global Compact — an initiative proposed in 1999 by the then UN Secretary­General Kofi Annan which was officially established in 2007. The Compact consists of 10 principles in four areas: human rights, labour, the environment, and anti­corruption. The Kyocera Group continues to contribute to society’s sustainable growth by practicing these ten principles without fail. Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti­Corruption 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 29 Important Themes of CSR Activities The Kyocera Group uses an evaluation sheet based on the “core subjects and issues” and “related actions and expectations” described in ISO26000 and makes evaluations from two viewpoints: “importance for stakeholders” and “importance for the Kyocera Group.” The Kyocera Group actively conducts the following CSR activities as important themes based on the evaluation results. Important Themes of CSR Activities Response to environmental problems Respect for diversity Supply chain management (P13, P16, P60) (P43) (P105) 30 Enhance Communication with all Stakeholders CSR Report Meetings CSR Economic, Social and Environmental Report Meetings have been held by the Kyocera Group (Japan) each year since FY2005. Their purpose is to raise the level of mutual communication with local communities — important stakeholders for the Kyocera Group. Factories invite local residents, government representatives, business associates, nearby companies and other people from the community to attend meetings where we provide participants with reports on the economic, social and environmental activities of the Kyocera Group as a whole and of the local facilities; along with exchanging views with the participants on CSR measures. In FY2016, 212 people participated in the meetings at 10 sites. Introduction of CSR Activities Experiment of effluent treatment during factory visit (Nagano Okaya Plant) (Shiga Gamo Plant) Example Questions from Participants Nagano Okaya Plant Q. Please tell us specifically what activities your plant conducts within Kyocera’s forestation activities? A. The Nagano Okaya Plant has signed the “Forest Foster Parent Agreement” for preservation of biodiversity and local contribution and works with the government and the local community to conduct thinning, undergrowth weeding and forestation. Before start of work, the Plant also holds a workshop to learn about the condition of forests near the action site and dos and don’ts about the activity. Tochigi Moka Office Q. Has the Tochigi Moka Office acquired ISO14001 certification? Is examination regularly conducted? A. ISO14001 is obtained by the Kyocera Group. As part of that, the Tochigi Moka Office also undergoes examination once a year. Apart from that, we have received opinions and questions from a lot of people. 31 Goals and Results of CSR Activities FY2016 Goals FY2016 Results FY2017 Goals Education and Reinforcement of The Group­wide Philosophy Enhancement of Permeation of the the Philosophy Committee, whose role is to Philosophy Education Kyocera Education formulate policies on appropriate for the Philosophy Programs Kyocera Philosophy actual situation of each Education and examine and department determine measures on the implementation of the Philosophy, was held (June and December) Revision of the content of programs common in Japan, or Leader Education and Philosophy Workshop, depending on the actual Management situation Philosophy Promotion of Local languages used in Reinforcement of Philosophy training preparation of teaching Philosophy training systems that match materials in addition to systems that match the the actual English and Chinese, actual conditions in conditions in each namely Spanish, Thai, each country or region country or region Korean, German and Danish Global Philosophy Seminar held for managers of overseas Group companies in the U.S.A., China, Asia & Oceania, and Europe Workshops held for education coordinators of each region Reinforcement of Promotion of CSR Report Meetings were Reinforcement of communication communication with held, and relevant communication with with stakeholders local society stakeholders in the plant local society through Management for greater mutual through CSR neighborhood, such as the periodic holding of CSR trust Report Meetings local government were Report Meetings invited (212 attendants at 10 sites) 32 Realization of Improvement of The basic policies on Further enhancement highly transparent corporate corporate governance and of corporate corporate governance internal control were revised governance systems governance and systems and to reinforce internal control and internal control Management internal control internal control system systems systems systems Information was disclosed in accordance with each principle of the corporate governance code Promotion of Implementation of Morning meeting Kyocera will continue to measures relating awareness presentations conducted, implement awareness to human rights enhancement for and readings on related enhancement for employees and issues from the Kyocera employees and legal legal audits that Employee’s Action audits that check legal check legal Guideline, which is compliance compliance distributed to all employees, conducted Respect for Self­assessment by the Human Rights human resource / Optimal Work department and legal audit Environment by the audit department were made with respect to the condition of legal compliance and management system based on labor­related laws, in­ house regulations and labor agreements with labor unions 33 Promotion of Promotion of Specific numerical targets Reinforcement of respect for creation of a were set in response to the activities to promote diversity / work­life working Act on Promotion of women’s success in the balance environment that Women's Participation and workplace toward allows a variety of Advancement in the achievement of the employees to do Workplace numerical target their job “Increase the number of Actions to improve the woman employees whose employment rate of the position is section manager disabled persons were or higher to 60 by 2020” promoted “Maintain the ratio of women employed by the ’regular university graduate recruitment system’ at 20% in and after 2017” Actions to improve the employment rate of the disabled persons, including Respect for reinforcement of Human Rights / Optimal cooperation with special­ Work needs schools, were taken Environment Enrichment of Meetings for exchange of Enhancement of measures to employees working while measures to support support work­life rearing children were early return to work for balance periodically held employees from “Manager fostering” childcare leave or seminars were held to shortened workday develop senior or system managerial employees who can respect the various ways of working of junior employees under them Reinforcement of Promotion of Measures to support Expansion of sites to measures on language learning employees’ English learning which employees are human resource support in the Kyocera Group sent for study or development (Japan) taken training and reinforcement of language learning programs 34 Reinforcement of Continuation of Factory tours by safety and Promotion of Activities management for measures to disaster prevention toward Reduction in health and safety ensure the safety of departments conducted Labor Accidents mechanical Japan: 20% reduction in the Japan: Reduction by equipment and total accident frequency rate half in total accident safety education for 30% reduction in the lost frequency rate relative employees towards time accident frequency rate to that of FY2016 the prevention of Six fire accidents, which is Reduction by half in labor accidents two up from the previous Zero fire or explosion year accidents Overseas: 25% reduction in Overseas: 20% Respect for Human Rights the total accidents per 1,000 reduction in the total / Optimal persons accidents per 1,000 Work Four fire accidents, which is persons relative to that Environment one up from the previous of FY2016 year Zero fire or explosion accidents Promotion of Health improvement Continuation of measures for activities have been measures for health health development continued at Kyocera sites development including mental health education, determination of the health management reinforcement month, and holding of health fairs Achievement of Implementation of Low­Carbon Society Continuation of Environment Vision activities towards Contribution Factor 2.85 activities towards the 2020 the achievement of was achieved achievement of a Low­ a Low­Carbon Carbon Society Society Contribution Factor of 3 Contribution Factor in 2020 Environmental of 3 in 2020 Activities Promotion of Reinforcement of The revised Green Reinforcement of the environmentally the Green Procurement Guideline was Green Procurement friendly products Procurement distributed to business Promotion System Promotion System associates to request their further reinforcement of management 35 Promotion of The basic unit Greenhouse effect gas Improvement of the environmental improvement rates emission basic unit: basic unit improvement consciousness at for greenhouse 2.5% up from FY2015 rate for greenhouse factories and effect gas emission, Energy consumption basic effect gas emission, offices energy unit: energy consumption, consumption, water 0.9% up from FY2015 water consumption and consumption and Water consumption basic industrial waste industrial waste unit: emission at all emission at all 1.9% improved from production sites by 1% production sites FY2015 or more compared to increased by 1% or Industrial waste emission that of FY2016 more compared to basic unit: Environmental that of FY2015 1.8% improved from Activities FY2015 Environmental Promotion of On­site eco lessons for Promotion of communication environmental children (participants: environmental with local society communication 13,117 children in Japan communication through through and 533 in China) environmental environmental Implementation of education support and education support forestation activities biodiversity and biodiversity (Nagano and Kagoshima) preservation activities preservation Kyocera participated in tree­ activities planting events (Thailand) and environmental enlightenment events (Mexico) Promotion of risk Promotion of risk Revision of the risk Reinforcement of management management management manual was global risk made, and more items on management system “terrorism” added Enhancement of risk Fair Business Important risks are divided management education Activities to “natural disasters,” “information security,” and “terrorism” based on the risk assessment results so as to reinforce response 36 Reinforcement of Each Group company Reinforcement of information security conducts internal audit of information security measures information security measures, such as Security measures to cope technical measures with cyber attacks optimized against cyber attacks or The status of internal fraud implementation of security measures to externally disclosed systems was verified Thorough management of Promotion of risk IT assets management Promotion of Continued maintenance of Continued maintenance accident BCP activities of domestic Group countermeasures Establishment of BCP companies’ BCP activity maintenance system activities for Japan­based Group BCP expansion to Fair Business companies completed overseas Group Activities BCP expansion to overseas companies continued Group companies continued Continuation of BCP Continuation of BCP expansion to business expansion to business associates associates Thorough legal Reinforcement of Transaction examination Transaction compliance export/import system introduced to ensure examination system management thorough management of introduced also to cargoes subject to the ensure thorough export control laws and management of orders cargoes not subject to the export control laws and orders Reinforcement of Expansion of a new legal Greater expansion of legal audit system audit system focuses on the new legal audit business process to Japan­ system to Japan­based based Group companies Group companies started 37 Reinforcement of Promotion of Supplier seminars and Continuation of holding supply chain communication with social gathering events held of supplier seminars management customers for 159 people from 136 and social gathering Fair Business major business associates events Activities Reinforcement of supply chain management in overseas Efforts towards the Reinforcement of Kyocera CS Improvement Periodic holding of raising of quality actions for quality Committee meetings were Kyocera CS and customer improvement regularly held, and actions Improvement Customer Concerns satisfaction levels to improve the loss rate in Committee meetings to and out of company with promote measures for respect to customer CS index improvement satisfaction indices taken Promotion of social Kyocera has Kyocera supports the Kyocera will continue contribution implemented Inamori Foundation’s Kyoto activities including the activities activities including Prize, an award to honor support of academic the support of excellence in three fields: and research activities, academic and Advanced Technology, Basic support of cultural and research activities, Sciences, and Arts and artistic activities, and support for cultural Philosophy international exchange and artistic The 2015 Autumn Special and cooperation Social activities, and Exhibition, which displayed Contribution international precious items of Yasaka Activities exchange and Shrine, was held at The cooperation Kyocera Museum of Art Chinese elementary school and junior high school students were invited to Japan as the China Youth Japan Friendship Tour (a total of 30 visited Japan from Beijing and Tianjin) 38 Management Corporate Governance Corporate Governance and Internal Control Systems The purpose of corporate governance and internal control in the Kyocera Group is to maintain management soundness and transparency, and to achieve fair and efficient management, through which we aim to realize the Management Rationale of the Kyocera Group. To establish a sound corporate culture, the Kyocera Group implements the following measures through the practice of the Kyocera Philosophy. Corporate Governance System 1. Directors shall accommodate requests for reports by corporate auditors. 2. Internal audit departments shall provide regular reports to corporate auditors on the state of internal audits. 3. Establishment of the Kyocera Board of Corporate Auditors Reporting System to enable employees, suppliers, customers and other individuals or organizations associated with the Kyocera Group to report directly to the Board. 4. Corporate auditors have the authority to attend important meetings and to inspect important conference minutes, documents, contracts, etc. Corporate auditors may call for meetings with representative directors to exchange opinions concerning management of the Kyocera Group in general. Internal Control System 1. Establishment of the Kyocera Disclosure Committee as a means for making timely and appropriate disclosure of management information outside the company. 2. Establishment of a Risk Management Division, as part of the Kyocera Group’s risk management system. 3. Establishment of an Employee Consultation Hot­Line Center as part of the Kyocera Group’s internal complaint system, where employees can report violations of laws, company regulations or other matters. 4. Introduction of an Executive Officer System to clearly delegate authority and related responsibilities; and construction of an effective and efficient business execution system. 39 Structure of Business Management The Board of Directors The Board of Directors of Kyocera is an organization to decide the important matters and to supervise the execution of businesses of the Kyocera Group as a whole. It consists of Directors including three Outside Directors. The Directors are nominated by the General Shareholders Meeting based on the proposal of candidates who have enough understanding of the Kyocera Group and with outstanding “personality”, “capability” and “insight” to engage in the management of the Company. Besides, the Company adopts the Executive Officer system to facilitate the efficiency of the management of the Company. The execution of the businesses of the Company is undertaken by the Executive Officers under the instruction of the President and Representative Director of the Company. The President and Representative Director is nominated by the Board of Directors, which undertakes the management decision and supervision of the execution of businesses. The Representative Director directs the Executive Officers report the status of the execution of the businesses to the Board of Directors, and the Board of Directors makes sure that the businesses is efficiently executed. As such, the Company clarifies the responsibility and authority to achieve efficient management of the Company, and to realize the efficient functionality of appropriate corporate governance and internal control of the Company. Kyocera has two Outside Directors. One of them is an Independent Outside Director. The other one, for who we have not given notice of independent director to the Tokyo Stock Exchange, nonetheless provides us with pertinent advice and supervision over the Board of Directors from an objective standpoint based upon plenty of experiences and appropriate expertise as a corporate manager. Audit & Supervisory Board Kyocera has Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Audit & Supervisory Board based on the corporate governance policy and the provision of its Articles of Incorporation which was approved by the General Shareholders Meeting. Audit & Supervisory Board Members include one full­time Audit & Supervisory Board Member originally an employee of the Company, one Audit & Supervisory Board Member who is familiar with the Company and who has plenty of knowledge and experience as an attorney­at­law, as well as two Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members, who have plenty of knowledge and experience as an attorney­at­law or Certified Public Accountant. The Audit & Supervisory Board Members are conducting audits of the Company as a whole based on accurate information about the Company gathered from inside and utilizing a variety of view­points as an outsider of the Company. Audit & Supervisory Board Members are conducting audits pursuant to the audit policy and audit plan established every fiscal year. Moreover they attend the meetings of the Board of Directors and other important meetings, so that they have access to necessary information to conduct their task and they check the soundness of the management of the Company from various points of view. The Kyocera Group Management Committee Kyocera established “the Kyocera Group Management Committee” consisting of the Directors of the Company. The Committee examines not only the agenda of the meetings of the Board of Directors but also other important matters relating to the execution of the businesses of the Kyocera Group as a whole, and holds meetings every month regularly to secure the sound management of the Kyocera Group as a whole. With respect to the nomination and remuneration of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members, the Kyocera Group Management Committee and the Board of Directors examines them and receive advice thereon from the Outside Directors, so that the decision relating thereto shall be made in a fair and appropriate manner. 40 The Kyocera Disclosure Committee Kyocera has established an organ known as the “Kyocera Disclosure Committee” which is primarily entrusted with the role of implementing the abovementioned fundamental policies of the Company for disclosure of corporate information. This Committee investigates all disclosure documents for the purpose of assuring the appropriateness of disclosures of corporate information, reporting the results of its investigations to the President and Representative Director and being the principal independent internal organ of the Company which educates Group companies concerning rules relating to disclosure and promotes appropriate disclosure of information for the entire Group. Remuneration to the Directors Remuneration to the Directors of Kyocera consists of two components, namely, “basic remuneration” and “bonus to Directors”. Basic remuneration is remuneration to be paid based on the responsibility of each Director and the amount shall be decided based on the importance of responsibility. Level of the amount to be paid to each Director shall be decided taking into consideration the amount of the remuneration of other companies doing similar businesses with the Company, provided that the total amount of basic remuneration to all Directors shall be 400 million yen or less per year. The bonus to Directors is remuneration linked with the performance of the Company. The total amount thereof to all Directors shall be 300 million yen or less per year, and besides, shall be 0.2% or less of the amount of net income attributable to shareholders of the Company for the relevant fiscal year. The amount shall be decided based on the contribution of each Director for the performance of the Company. Remuneration to the Audit & Supervisory Board Members of the Company consists of “basic remuneration” only to secure the neutrality of audit. The total amount of basic remuneration to the Audit & Supervisory Board Members shall be 100 million yen or less per year. System for Internal Complaint Reporting to the Audit & Supervisory Board In case employees find conduct that violates or is likely to violate the laws on accounting or matters related to auditing, such as illegal sale or transaction, or feel suspicious of any such conduct, they are encouraged to directly notify the Audit & Supervisory Board by e­mail or letter by means of the System for Internal Complaint Reporting to the Audit and Supervisory Board put in place for this purpose. 41 Fundamental Attitudes of Timely Disclosure Kyocera, based on the ethical views appearing in “The Kyocera Philosophy,” believes that it is important to enjoy a high degree of trust from its shareholders, investors and other stakeholders. For this purpose, Kyocera recognizes that sincere efforts to provide timely and appropriate disclosure of corporate information are indispensable and has accordingly established the following basic policies toward the disclosure of information. 1. “With respect to the disclosure of information, it shall be our policy to disclose both favorable information and unfavorable information timely in an equal and accurate manner.” 2. “With respect to the disclosure of information, it shall be our policy to disclose information without delay and in a fair manner, with no bias towards the domestic or foreign, and without preference towards specific persons.” Corporate System for the Timely Disclosure Internal Control Audits of the Kyocera Group As Kyocera is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the company is subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes­Oxley Act. Section 404 requires business operators to construct and maintain internal control systems relating to fiscal reporting. Section 404 assesses the effectiveness of internal control systems through internal audits based on internal control evaluation criteria. 42 Respect for Human Rights / Optimal Work Environment Respect for Human Rights and Diversity Respect for Human Rights Aside from compliance with the laws of individual countries, the Kyocera Group implements measures in accordance with the United Nation’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Fundamental Human Rights Convention by the International Labor Organization (ILO) and other international conventions. The Kyocera Group joined the United Nations Global Compact, a global platform setting out 10 fundamental principles relating to human rights, labor, environment, and anti­corruption, out of agreement with the main purport of the Compact. The Kyocera Group established the Kyocera Group CSR Guidelines and explicitly prohibits the use of forced labor and child labor as well as discriminatory treatment on the basis of gender, age, beliefs, nationality, physical features, etc. The Kyocera Group is also working to prevent power harassment and sexual harassment in the workplace. In addition, the Kyocera Group endeavors to exchange views and share information with employees through organizations such as labor unions and workplace associations. The Kyocera Group promotes development of a comfortable work environment that fosters motivation. Measures Relating to Human Rights and Labor To raise employee awareness concerning human rights and labor, time at morning meetings in Kyocera is set aside for announcements on matters requiring compliance in the workplace. Reading in turn about related issues from the Kyocera Employee’s Action Guideline, which is distributed to all employees, is also an ongoing activity. In addition, human resource departments undertake independent checks for legal violations such as discrimination, appropriate payment and working hour management according to labor­related laws and regulations, in­house rules, and labor agreements with unions. Auditing departments also carry out audits regularly to ensure thorough legal compliance. 43 Respect for Diversity / Work­Life Balance Adapting to Globalization Since Kyocera’s first overseas office was established in 1968 (U.S.A.), localization has been the basic principle of recruitment. The Kyocera Group has always tried to appoint local employees to management positions. Kyocera directly employs students who graduate from Chinese universities and graduate schools from the viewpoint of the employment and development of personnel who will lead our global development in the future. We will also continue to employ foreign students studying in Japan. Promoting the Careers of Women in the Workplace Kyocera views the promotion of women’s advancement as an important management issues and started efforts in 2006 with the President as the general supervisor. Kyocera actively promotes the creation of a workplace environment that helps a variety of human resources maximize their performance through the promotion of women’s advancement activities and ultimately aims to improve corporate competitiveness. Kyocera(in Japan) sets two specific numerical goals to further promote the careers of women in the workplace in FY2016. They are to “increase the number of woman employees whose position is section manager or higher to 60 by 2020” and “maintain the ratio of women employed by the ’regular university graduate recruitment system’ at 20% in and after 2017.” Toward these goals, Kyocera is taking various actions. 44 Organization System Major Actions in FY2016 Action sites Action details Hokkaido Kitami Plant · Workshop held for employees on childcare leave about return to work · A brochure on the support systems was prepared, and the information is available in digital format on the intranet Nagano Okaya Plant · The same brochure is distributed to employees who are going to have children, and the explanation is provided to individual employees · “Manager fostering” seminar held to develop senior or managerial employees who can Shiga Yasu Plant understand the various ways of working of junior employees under them and create a lively working environment · Lectures delivered in a seminar held by the labor union for the purpose of providing Shiga Gamo / Shiga employees with an opportunity to think about a two­income family Yohkaichi Plant · Career design training held · Exchange meetings for employees engaged in childcare Headquarter · Career design training held · Intranet opened in the office to provide information on “creating a better working Osaka Daito Office environment” Kagoshima Sendai Plant · Training held with female role models speaking about episodes of their experience Kagoshima Kokubu Plant · Note exchange meetings for female employees held 45 Employing People with Disabilities Kyocera focuses on hiring people with disabilities and continuing their employment. Employees with disabilities hired by Kyocera are assigned appropriately so that their jobs and workplaces match their aptitudes. Work environment improvements for employees with disabilities also continue, including elevators and bathroom facilities that are accessible to employees in wheelchairs and braille plates installed at various places to support visually impaired employees. In addition, we provide health care support with the help of occupational health physicians. These fine­ tuned responses also help create an attractive work environment for people with disabilities. The rate of employees with disabilities at Kyocera as of March 2016 is 2.08%. Kyocera intends to actively employ people with disabilities according to specific action plans developed to enhance the rate of employees with disabilities. One Approach Employing People with Disabilities (Japan) Shiga Yasu Plant promotes cooperation with schools for people with disabilities in the prefecture as part of the Plant’s effort to reinforce connection with local society. In 2015, the Plant provided tours to production lines where Kyocera employees with disabilities work or hands­on lessons on themes such as solar cells so as to provide the students with disabilities opportunities to learn in what working environment we conduct our work. The Plant is also recognized for its series of activities on employment of people with disabilities and received the commendation from the Governor of Shiga Prefecture as a Challenged Work Promotion Establishment that actively and enthusiastically cooperates with promotion of employment of people with disabilities. Children with disabilities participate in the lesson 46 Measures for Child­Rearing and Nursing Care The Kyocera Group (Japan) introduced the Child­Rearing Leave System, which helps female employees to both work and fulfill their family lives, and in FY2016, a total of 247 female employees used the system. Kyocera has a shortened workday system available for pregnant employees and employees rearing children up to third graders of elementary school. As of March 31, 2016, 272 employees use this system. Kyocera’s support for nursing care is a nursing care leave system that allows employees to take a maximum of one year off work, the benefit surpassing legal requirements. In order to reduce employees’ concern about fulfillment of both career and nursing care responsibilities, Kyocera provides necessary information to them through publication of the Guidebook for Balancing Career and Nursing Care and holding of seminars. As a result of the environmental improvement for balancing both responsibilities, Kyocera was granted certification of standard­compliant general enterprise as per the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next­ Generation Children by the Health, Labour and Welfare Ministry in 2014. 47 Examples of the systems for supporting a balance of career, childrearing and nursing care System Description Child­Rearing Leave Applicable until one day prior to the first year birthday of a child. Extendable System until the child reaches 18 months of age depending on the situation. Shortened Workday Applicable during pregnancy or the child finishes schooling of the third grade of System elementary school. Working hours can be shorted by up to two hours a day. Childrearing Subsidizes use of a Applicable until the child finishes schooling of the third grade of elementary baby­sitter school. Maximum annual subsidy per child is 200,000 yen. Up to five days per year per child providing the child is younger than elementary Child Care Vacation school age. 10 days for two or more children. Half­day leave may also be obtained. Family Nursing Care Total of one year per family member who needs nursing care. Leave Working hours can be Nursing changed to match When nursing care leave is not obtained, the work start time may be advanced care needs for nursing or delayed within one year period. care. Family Nursing Care Up to five days per year per family member who needs nursing care 10 days for Vacation two or more children. Half­day leave may also be obtained. This system allows employees, who once left Kyocera for reasons such as childrearing, nursing care, or other personal reasons, to reenter Kyocera. Comeback Entry Former Kyocera employees are eligible for this system within 7 years after their Others System departure. When a former employee applies for re­entry, Kyocera’s job openings and the applicant’s desire will be reviewed for appropriateness, and his/her re­employment will be approved if they are matched. Approaches to Stimulating Communication Holding Company Events & After­Work Social Gatherings (“Compa”) The Kyocera Group believes it is necessary to maintain family­like relationships of trust among employees, and thus considers company events and “compa” to be very important. Kyocera Group “compa” are not simply social gatherings, they are opportunities for interaction aimed at strengthening mutual understanding on reaching specific objectives. This understanding can be attained, for example, by deepening discussion on work­related issues, and by participants declaring their goals. At company events or “compa,” employees can deepen communication with executives and managers, get to know co­workers in other departments better, and deepen mutual relationships and ties. 48 Approach to Labor­Management Relations At Kyocera, great emphasis is put on building relationships based on trust and heart­to­heart bonds among employees. Labor­management relations at Kyocera go beyond the generally accepted idea of harmony between management and labor. At Kyocera, the basis of the relationship is “coaxial labor and management,” where perspectives are shared on the same level. We carry out sports meets, summer festivals and many other kinds of events that stimulate and sustain such relations through unity. In Europe, the U.S.A., China and other countries, Kyocera continues to maintain appropriate labor relations via thorough labor­management consultation in accordance with labor laws of individual countries. Labor and Athletic meet (Vietnam) management on the same axis is the key for successful labor relations. Maintaining this stance will help to resolve problems in the workplace and keep the company on the path of sustainable development. One Approach Regulations Review Project The Regulations Review Project, undertaken jointly by labor and management, was launched in 2005. Employees’ needs and lifestyles become diversified along with changes in the social climate. Labor and management are therefore working together on checking systems and standards, to ensure they are always appropriate, fair and impartial. Labor and Management Exchange Conference Meetings of labor and management representatives are held each month in Kyocera plants and offices. The purpose of the meetings is to verify working conditions for employees and the workplace environment, and to actively exchange views on matters needing improvement, among other issues. Kyocera Group Sports Festival The Kyocera Group Sports Festival is co­sponsored by labor and management in the Kyocera Group to enhance cohesion and relationships of mutual trust throughout the Group via games and victory celebrations. In 2015, the 36th year of the Festival, 34 teams, which had won preliminary tournaments at each of Kyocera’s plants and offices and domestic Group companies enthusiastically competed against each other at the Kagoshima Kokubu Plant. 49 Measures for Raising Workplace Vitality The Kyocera Group (Japan) regularly conducts an awareness survey of all employees. The survey focuses on topics such as the level of satisfaction with work and the workplace environment, the management situation, the sense of trust in the company, and suggestions for improvements. Responses from each organizational unit are analyzed, enabling diagnosis of “vitality level” in each workplace. In 2012, the survey was expanded to include Group companies in Japan. Results of analyses are compiled into a reference index. The index is then used in improvement activities centered on workplace leaders to achieve higher vitality levels in each workplace. 2014 workplace vitality diagnosis results (Kyocera Group in Japan) 50 Respect for Human Rights / Optimal Work Environment Cultivation of Human Resources Systems for the Cultivation of Human Resources Kyocera regards human resources as human “assets” and supports activities enabling employees to raise awareness of personal development and their contribution in the workplace. In particular, as personal development can be achieved to a great extent through work, Kyocera is striving to create a workplace environment that enables each employee to work cheerfully and energetically, and draws out natural talents to the maximum extent. Kyocera helps employees grow based on the following system: Structure of the Human Resource Development System One­to­One Guidance System Kyocera has established a One­to­One Guidance System to support the growth of new employees. Under this system, a guidance manager is assigned to each new employee. Guidance managers undertake close communication with new employees, including periodic interviews, and provide fine­tuned guidance. Follow­up interviews are also provided by human resource departments. New employees therefore enjoy a system that gives them advice from various viewpoints. STEP Based on the idea that employees grow steadily step by step as if they go up the stairs and move to the next level, Kyocera established the STEP system for new employees up to the fifth year of employment to support the growth of younger employees. When there are regular opportunities for communication between subordinates and supervising employees, young employees are encouraged to talk about their thoughts and ideas with their supervisors, and the supervisors listen to them and share their thoughts. This creates a feeling of oneness among all employees, which then helps support the growth of young employees. 51 Skill Development Support System for Engineers Kyocera has an Engineer Ability Development & Support System to help engineers enhance their credentials independently. This system clarifies the level of roles expected of each engineer and allows engineers to quantitatively understand the skills necessary for their roles. This system leads to improved engineering capabilities for the organization as a whole. Challenge System Kyocera also has another system for human resource development, the Challenge System. It allows the sharing of employee work targets with supervisors and improves employee capabilities through interviews with supervisors. This helps employees understand their roles and encourages them to work proactively on their job and skill development. It also aims to create a working environment where every employee can work actively and brightly. Supervisors, by heeding subordinate feedback, endeavor to improve the ability of the organization to reach goals and succeed in business. Internal Placement Application System Kyocera’s Internal Placement Application System was established to provide employees with information on departments that need personnel immediately, from the corporate viewpoint, for example, due to the start of a new project or expansion of an existing business. Since this system provides employees with various opportunities that allow them to experience different positions at their own will, it serves as an effective means of support for employee career improvement. The optimal assignment of personnel is also another important goal for the company. Human Resource Education The Kyocera Group provides human resource education aimed at improving both theoretical and practical aspects of education, understanding and practice of the Kyocera Philosophy and mastering of the specialized knowledge and skills necessary to execute work. Kyocera thus endeavors to optimize human resources who can help us achieve the Management Rationale by providing a variety of education programs based on the education system composed as follows for each objective: 52 *Human Assessment Human Resource Education System Education Results in FY2016 Management Education Technical Training Global Education No. of Course Participants 2,389 people 3,577 people 440 people Average Annual Training 2.5 days 1.5 days 2.5 days Hours Per Employee Management Education Kyocera provides training to supervisors — the leaders of the organization — to develop executives with advanced management capabilities. In addition, Kyocera aims to improve employees’ management capabilities by providing the training to employees necessary in each stage of their career development, from the time of entry into the company to mid­level and executive positions, so that they can learn the skills and knowledge required to fulfill their tasks on a step­ by­step basis. 53 Technical Training It is Kyocera's goal to develop human resources with a wide range of basic knowledge and advanced expert knowledge in all departments, including engineering, R&D, manufacturing, quality assurance, sales and management. Specific training programs include Basic Technical Training for first year employees, Specialized Technical Training mainly for young engineers, and Mid­ Level Engineer Training for mastery of technical management. The training curriculum covers a wide range, such as materials technology, manufacturing technology, production technology, and quality control. Kyocera employees can take the training necessary for their assignments under this training system. Technical training Global Education Kyocera has an Overseas Training System and Overseas Graduate School Study System in order to cultivate human resources who can function on the global stage. First established in 1984, these systems have sent many employees to various regions around the world, including Europe, China, Southeast Asia, and India as well as the U.S.A. Kyocera is thus promoting the cultivation of employees with improved language skills, the ability to obtain up­to­date knowledge and technology that can only be acquired abroad, as well as the development of internationally minded employees. As part of training to improve employees’ basic English capabilities, Kyocera Overseas training provides English learning support to aid the achievement of a minimum score of 600 points on the TOEIC English test. English education 54 Respect for Human Rights / Optimal Work Environment Building a Safe & Secure Work Environment Occupational Health & Safety Policy The Kyocera Group aims to create an accident­free and disaster­free workplace environment where everyone can work safely and with peace of mind. 1. To maintain and improve the level of employee safety and health, the Kyocera Group abides by relevant laws and regulations and establishes and operates internal standards that are stricter than the relevant laws and regulations. 2. The Kyocera Group establishes organizations to effectively promote occupational health and safety activities, and clarifies the functions and responsibilities of those organizations. At the same time, all employees continue to receive necessary and sufficient education and training needed for operation of an Occupational Health & Safety Management System. 3. The Kyocera Group is building and implementing an Occupational Health & Safety Management System, and continually aims to raise the level of occupational health and safety. 4. The Kyocera Group is building and implementing an Occupational Health & Safety Management System, and continually aims to raise the level of occupational health and safety. 5. The Kyocera Group is strengthening mental health care through activities for advancing the mental health of employees. 6. The Kyocera Group actively participates and cooperates in governmental and local activities relating to occupational health and safety. Approaches to Occupational Safety and Health / Fire and Disaster Prevention The Kyocera Group has in place a safety and disaster prevention management system for Group companies in and out of Japan based on the Occupational Safety and Health Management System (OHSAS18001) and promotes actions to ensure occupational safety and health. In Japan, Kyocera conducts continuous improvement activities by identifying problems to tackle based on the risk assessment, taking actions to solve them, and conducting audits at various sites. In FY2016, Kyocera checked safety­related conditions and identified risks hidden in work at all plants of the Group companies in Japan with the manufacturing departments and safety and disaster prevention departments again working hand in hand. Outside Japan, Kyocera promotes further enhancement of management Checking equipment and its condition at a manufacturing site level through holding safety and disaster prevention meetings and site visits so as (Shiga Gamo Plant) to prevent occupational accidents. 55 Changes in lost time accident rate of the Kyocera Group (in Japan) The lost time accident rate* of the Kyocera Group (in Japan) in FY2016 was 0.30, lower than the average of all manufacturing industries and electric machinery and appliance manufacturing industries. We are committed to taking actions to reduce occupational accidents. * Lost time accident rate: The number of casualties, which caused more than missed work, that occur per one million working hours. It indicates the frequency of accident occurrence. 56 One Approach Holding of Safety Meeting Kagoshima Sendai Plant invited lecturers from the Labor Standards Inspection Office and the Fire Department and held a safety meeting. Staff In­charge of the environmental safety department and managers of each department participated in the meeting and learned various case examples and measures taken with respect to safety and disaster prevention for enhancement of safety and disaster prevention awareness. Safety Meeting (Kagoshima Sendai Plant) Governor’s Commendation Granted as an Excellent Site about Handling of High­pressure Gas The Tamaki Plant of Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. was awarded a commendation by the Governor of Mie Prefecture as an excellent site about handling of high­pressure gas. This is the result of evaluation of the various actions of the Plant, including maintenance of equipment as per the High Pressure Gas Safety Act, acquisition of qualifications of maintenance staff, active promotion of education and training to maintenance staff, and appropriate response to newly enacted Act Concerning the Discharge and Control of Fluorocarbons. Awarding ceremony (Tamaki Plant, Kyocera Document Solutions Inc.) Holding of Night­time Drill The Nagano Okaya Plant holds disaster prevention drills in the night­time to develop the capability of ensuring employee safety even if a disaster occurs at off times. The major program of the drill is that employees look for an afflicted site in response to an emergency call made following a simulated situation where somebody needs rescue at a site, and then complete the rescue. The purpose is to enable employees to swiftly act at the time of disaster occurrence. Drill in the night time (Nagano Okaya Plant) 57 Visit to the Plant by the Safety and Disaster Prevention Departments The safety and disaster prevention departments of Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. take the initiative and visit plants in China and Vietnam, two major manufacturing regions. In this visit, they identify hidden risks with the local safety and disaster prevention staff, discuss measures to take in such situations, and improve the working environment where employees can work safely and securely. The effort is ongoing to periodically check locations that need response and reduce occurrences of accidents. Plant visit (China) Actions for Health Enhancement The Kyocera Group is undertaking various measures to raise awareness of health among all employees and support health in body and mind. At Kyocera, ongoing measures include the assignment of occupational health physicians specializing in mental health at offices, the use of consultants in and out of the company, the study of mental health measures at the In­house Occupational Health Physicians’ Meeting, and the introduction of a rehabilitation work system. Holding of In­house Occupational Health Physicians’ Meetings Kyocera holds In­house Occupational Health Physicians’ Meetings twice a year, at which in­house occupational health physicians assigned to Kyocera sites gather to improve the level of health management operations. Participants in the meetings share measures and problems concerning health management and discuss improvement measures and solutions for the future. Representatives of human resources and safety and disaster prevention departments and the health insurance union also attend the meeting. All of these departments and stakeholders combine forces to solve problems and actively promote the health care of employees. One Approach Health Osaka 21 Promotion Citizens’ Council Chairman Award (Grand Prize) Granted Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. won the Health Osaka 21 Promotion Citizens’ Council Chairman Award (Grand Prize) of the First Osaka Health Promotion Award sponsored by Osaka Prefectural Government (Japan). They take various actions to enhance employees’ health awareness, with every September designated as health month. Specific actions include measurement of lung age, quit smoking challenges, everyday weight measuring campaign, and diet seminars. The company also holds sports events and athletic meets to encourage employee fitness and Health Osaka 21 Promotion Citizens’ Council Chairman improve communication among coworkers. Those health Award (Grand Prize) Granted promotion activities were evaluated in this award. 58 Deployment of Kyocera Perfect 5S Promotion Activities The 5S system (“Seiri”: Sort / “Seiton”: Set in Order / “Seiso”: Shine / “Seiketsu”: Sanitize / “Shitsuke”: Sustain) is at the heart of work. Efforts by the Kyocera Group to implement the 5S system perfectly are called Kyocera Perfect 5S Promotion Activities. They are being introduced globally. At each worksite, employees regularly evaluate the degree of 5S achievement using a check list common in the entire company. This activity makes employees take points to improve as their worksite task and involves all members as the main players for improvement. It is a rule that evaluators are those who completed 5S training and passed the test so as to prevent evaluation inconsistency and ensure Skill test of training for 5S evaluators (Toyama Nyuzen Plant) judgment from a more objective viewpoint. Through these activities, Kyocera aims to create a working environment that allows every employee to work in a safe and secure atmosphere and help every individual employee greatly improve their 5S awareness and upgrade their sensitivity. 59 Environmental Activities Kyocera Group Environmental Management Since foundation of the company, based on the corporate motto “Respect the Divine and Love People,” the Kyocera Group has focused all corporate activities on three pillars of coexistence (Living Together): Coexisting with Our Community, Coexisting with Global Society, and Coexisting with Nature. The entire Kyocera Group is committed to environmental management and aims for sustainable corporate development while striving to combine the goals of ecology and economy. The Kyocera Group handles many chemical substances during production processes, such as raw materials and chemical agents for fine ceramics. Regarding treatment of waste water from factories, our policy is to purify discharged water to a state cleaner than the water system into which it is to be released. It is Kyocera Group policy to render any industrial waste as harmless as possible by using the latest technology. Based on this concept, the Kyocera Group enacted the “Kyocera Environmental Charter” in 1991, the company’s basic philosophy regarding the environment. Kyocera established its “Environment Vision 2020” in order to embody the Kyocera Environmental Charter and define the company’s stance on a long­term basis up to 2020. As a yearly goal to achieve this vision, Kyocera has formulated the “Kyocera Group Global Environmental Policy.” Kyocera Environmental Charter Based on the concept of “Coexistence (Living Together),” the Kyocera Group established the Kyocera Environmental Charter, which provides for comprehensive measures on environmental protection, development of environmentally friendly products, energy conservation, climate change prevention, resource conservation, waste reduction, proper management of chemical substances, and biodiversity protection in order to create a low­carbon producing society, recycling society and a society in harmonious coexistence with nature. Environment Vision 2020 The Kyocera Group has established the Environment Vision 2020, which clarifies the goals to be achieved by 2020 in order to work on environmental management aimed at sustainable growth while satisfying both ecology and economy demands. Kyocera Group Global Environmental Policy The Kyocera Group has established the Kyocera Group Global Environmental Policy, which sets yearly targets to be attained in the four areas of greenhouse gases, energy, water, and industrial waste. In all production sites, the greenhouse effect gas emissions, energy consumption, water consumption, and industrial waste discharge will be reduced by 1% or more from a year earlier in terms of energy consumption unit improvement rate. 60 Kyocera Environmental Charter Established: October 1, 1991 Revised: June 1, 2013 I. Preface Technological progress and economic development in industrialized countries have given rise to affluent societies with high standards of living. At the same time, they have led to the mass consumption of natural resources and mass discharge of chemical substances — which, in turn now threaten to escalate environmental pollution and destroy the Earth’s ecosystem. In addition, explosive population growth and widespread poverty in developing countries have aggravated these environmental problems with large­scale deforestation. The social and economic activities of both advanced and developing countries are intertwined, and with all parties intent on greater material consumption, nature’s recuperative powers have been exceeded. As a result, the Earth’s natural regenerative mechanism has been damaged on a global scale. One of our major premises up to this time — that the Earth’s ecosystem is infinitely large — is now being rejected in favor of the idea that the Earth is a closed ecosystem. Such a change in view affects the very foundation of humankind’s existence and demands a re­evaluation of the quality and quantity of the products used by humankind. This, in turn, will lead to a fundamental change in the industrial / technological system within which such products are manufactured. In the course of history, humankind has witnessed three eras of rapid development: the Agricultural Revolution, the Industrial Revolution and the Information Revolution. It is generally felt that the current environmental movement will someday be regarded as humankind’s fourth era of rapid development: the Environmental Revolution. Our future thus requires new policy goals. These should state that development and economic growth may be pursued only when proper consideration is given to the balance between nature and society and environmental conservation. While an individual's impact may be small, the cumulative result from a rapidly expanding population could cause complete environmental destruction. Therefore it is essential to establish a basic philosophy of coexistence and co­prosperity between developed and developing countries, between business and government, and between individuals and societies. All must be viewed as participants in the stewardship of “Mother Earth,” not as opposing forces with conflicting interests. The greatest responsibility for promoting the Environmental Revolution lies with the advanced countries. In particular, businesses in such countries play a vital role, as they possess production technologies and are directly engaged in industrial activities. 61 II. Basic Philosophy In accordance with our corporate motto — “Respect the Divine and Love People” — since its foundation, Kyocera has adhered closely to its management rationale, “To provide opportunities for the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement of society and humankind.” We strive to conduct business in harmony with the life­giving force of our universe. Kyocera had early insight into the mindset that today's global environmental problems make demands of every business enterprise. This mindset implies that business should uphold the dignity of humankind and contribute to the sustainable development of society. Based on the management rationale stated above, the Kyocera Group adopts comprehensive measures for the creation of a low­carbon producing, sustainable society — a society which exists in harmony with nature — and will further heighten our goals towards environmental protection, development of environmentally friendly products, energy conservation, climate change prevention, resource conservation, waste reduction, proper management of chemical substances, and biodiversity protection in order to make proactive and continuous contributions to environmental preservation. III. Basic Policies In the course of business activities, the Kyocera Group will take a serious view of global environmental protection adhering closely to the Company's basic philosophy, stated above, and will emphasize the following points: 1. Adhering to internal environmental standards that make global environmental protection our first priority; (1) In order to minimize impact on the natural environment and any harmful effects on the ecosystem, Kyocera will establish and comply with internal standards which are more stringent than those specified by applicable international agreements and national laws local regulations where the Company's facilities are located. (2) At all levels, Kyocera will scientifically study and evaluate the effects of business activities on the environment, and then take the necessary protective measures. 2. Kyocera will strive for the development of environmentally friendly products in two categories; (1) Kyocera will increase its research and development of Products for Environmental Improvement that make a positive contribution to the enhancement of the global environment, and strive to spread the use of such products. (2) Kyocera will increase its research and development of Environmentally Gentle Products that have a lighter burden on the environment at each stage of production, sales, distribution, consumption and disposal and strive to spread the use of such products. 3. Most efficient utilization of resources and innovation of processing technologies; (1) Kyocera will develop processing technologies and production facilities that have maximum resource and energy efficiency. At the same time, the Company will aim to reduce raw material and chemical consumption in all processes. (2) Kyocera will promote internal energy conservation activities, such as more efficient use of electricity and fossil fuels, the introduction of high efficiency equipment, and the reutilization of waste heat. At the same time, the Company will promote measures for climate change prevention. (3) Kyocera intends to purchase recyclable materials which contribute to resource conservation while maximizing resource efficiency by establishing recycling systems for wastewater and waste materials. The Company will take aggressive steps to reduce the volume of and decontaminate all waste. 62 4. Enhancement of environmental communication, participation in, and support for social contribution activities. (1) Kyocera will pursue education to improve employees' environmental awareness and thus promote participation in environmental preservation. (2) Kyocera will broadly establish cooperative relationships with local communities, municipalities and business partners to promote positive environmental communication. (3) Kyocera will promote the “greenification” (tree­planting) of its facilities in an organized effort to create grounds which are lush and inviting. At the same time, the Company will participate in and support social contribution activities. IV. Promotion Organization 1. Kyocera will establish and operate an environmental management system based on ISO14001 standards, and continuously expand environmental preservation activities. 2. To ensure compliance with legal and governmental environmental regulations, and internal environmental standards, an internal review group will conduct audits on both a regular and an as­needed basis. 3. The Environmental Management Division, facility manager and environmental specialists will implement an independent auditing system regarding environmental protection at each of its business locations. V. Application The Kyocera Environmental Charter will be applied to companies within the global Kyocera Group. 63 Environment Vision 2020 For the Kyocera Group, harmonious coexistence (Living Together) is the underlying foundation of all our business activities as we strive for sustainable development through environmental management. Based on a global environmental management system (Green Management), we strive for ecological and economic compatibility in three areas: Green Products, Green Factories, and Green Communication 1. Contribute to realization of a low­carbon society Targeting a Low­Carbon Society Contribution Factor of 3 (Contribution Volume / Emission Volume) by maximizing the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions through energy creation, and suppressing greenhouse gas emissions in business activities. 2. Contribute to realization of a recycling­based society Contribute to realization of a society with sustainable recycling of resources by reducing the volume of new resource input and minimizing waste. 3. Contribute to realization of a society coexisting with nature (1) Advance conservation of biodiversity by minimizing negative impact on the natural environment, as well as protecting and nurturing the natural environment. (2) Contribute to cultivation of an environmentally conscious society, through environmental communication with various stakeholders and environmental awareness activities. 64 Commitment to Achieving a Low­Carbon Society In addition to targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from business activities, the Environment Vision 2020 establishes a benchmark in aiming for realization of a low carbon society. Named the Low­Carbon Society Contribution Factor, this benchmark gives an overall assessment of the volume of contribution to greenhouse gas reduction through use of Kyocera Green Products. Low­Carbon Society Contribution Factor Calculation Method *The volume of contribution to greenhouse gas reduction is obtained by converting the volume equivalent to the energy creation effect into the greenhouse effect gas, in which the photovoltaic systems produced and marketed are assumed to continue power generation for 20 years. The emission coefficient used in conversion is set to 0.360 kg­CO2 /kWh from 2010 to 2011 and 0.505 kg­CO2 /kWh from 2012 to 2015 (based on the Industry's Voluntary Rule on Indication of the Japan Photovoltaic Energy Association). Result of Low­Carbon Society Contribution Factor FY '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 Target Factor 1.04 1.47 1.70 2.14 2.85 FY2020: 3.00 * For this page only, fiscal years (FY) are counted in the style of Japan, where the fiscal year is represented by the year in which it begins (April 1). Participation in the Low­Carbon Society Action Plan Kyocera participates in the electric and electronic industries’ Low­Carbon Society Action Plan to fulfill our contribution to the realization of a low­carbon society. To be specific, what we attempt to achieve by 2020 includes reductions in CO2 emissions by 1% annually on average in energy basic units and reductions in CO2 emissions in products. Our efforts are in concert with the industry’s commitment to climate change prevention. 65 Environmental Activities Green Management Environmental Management Promotion System The Kyocera Group formulates environment­related policies and measures through reviews and discussions in the Planning and Policy Division, Environment Division and other related divisions with the President as leader. Environment­related projects are set up whenever required to take on any environment­related challenges and resolve outstanding issues. A separate organization has been established with the Environment Division playing a central role so that Kyocera can continue activities for environmental protection. Specifically, the contents of the Kyocera Group Global Environment Policy are assimilated into our environment management system based on ISO14001 and managed through the monthly PDCA process. Environmental Management Promotion System Environmental Education The Kyocera Group provides systematic environmental education to help all employees understand the significance of environmental protection activities and their roles in them. Specifically, environment education is divided into general/awareness education and special education and is provided to employees systematically depending on their rank and occupation so as to improve environmental awareness. 66 Efforts to Improve Employees’ Environmental Awareness The Kyocera Group sets a specific period in which environmental protection activities such as energy conservation are conducted intensively so as to improve awareness of the environment and enhance environmental conservation activities at plants and offices. In Japan, the months from June to September were designated “Summer Eco Challenge 2015” as a movement to intensify efforts for energy saving during summer. Kyocera conducted various activities during this period, including a Poster of Eco Challenge Holding of the Environment Event (U.S.A.) 2015 “Green Curtain” and Environmental audit. Overseas, Kyocera also carried out active efforts including participation in local environment­related events. 67 Environmental Risk Management The Kyocera Group established the Kyocera Group Environmental Management Standard in 1992, which is stricter than statutory and public regulations on emissions, wastewater, soil and groundwater. Based on this Environmental Management Standard, we have more stringent voluntary management standards for each site. Thorough management for environmental conservation is thus ensured using these strict standards, including periodic environmental measurement. In addition, we have Soil and Groundwater Management Regulations to ensure the prevention of soil contamination. To comply with these regulations, we take various measures, including the use of double wall structures for underground storage tanks and leakage detection systems to promote early detection of leaks and prevention of the spread of contamination. Kyocera Group Environmental Management Standard Double wall structures for underground tank storage Dealing with Emergencies Dealing with Emergencies Assuming the inevitability of accidents and emergencies which may affect the environment, we have taken preventative countermeasures, such as the installation of dikes. We have also prepared procedures for dealing with emergencies. To ensure that employees are familiar with these procedures, we hold emergency training drills more than once each year. Emergency drill (Headquarters, Kyocera Display Corp.) 68 Environmental Regulations Compliance Status In the Kyocera Group, no violations of environment­related legal regulations occurred in FY2016. Reports on Soil and Groundwater Contamination The Kyocera Group (Japan) conducts soil surveys based on the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act and provides survey reports to the relevant local governments. As a result, a total of four Kyocera sites were designated by local authorities as warning areas, namely one site at Kyocera Crystal Device Corp. (Asahi City, Chiba) in 2013, two sites at Kyocera Crystal Device Corp. (Ebetsu City, Hokkaido, and Hachioji City, Tokyo) in 2014, and one site at Kyocera Crystal Device Corp. (Mikasa City, Hokkaido) in 2015. Strict control of contaminants is now being carried out at these sites, including measures to prevent the spread of contamination. No spreading or effects on surrounding areas have so far been reported. Kyocera will continue to work with local authorities and take appropriate measures to prevent pollution. Environmental Audit The Kyocera Group conducts periodic internal audits to make sure the Environmental Management System is being run properly based on the requirements of ISO14001.The results and corrective actions are reflected in the review and in the improvement of the Environment Management System. Environmental Audit 69 Environmental Accounting The Kyocera Group established an Environmental Accounting System which has been in practice since FY2003. In its business activities, the Kyocera Group quantitatively assesses the cost laid out for environmental conservation and its conservation effects as well as economic benefits, and positively utilizes this information for environmental conservation measures. Kyocera started revision of data summation methods in FY2015 to ensure company­wide sharing of information on case examples of environmental conservation and promote efficient and effective implementation of activities for environmental conservation. [Range of data collection: 185 sites] Sites collectively certified under the Kyocera Group Integrated Environment & Safety Management System Period covered: April 2015 through March 2016 Environmental Accounting Analysis Results (FY2016) The investment amount rose to 179 million yen, up 43% from FY2015. However, active promotion to reduce energy consumption by, for example, consolidating compressors produced the effect of 882 million yen, up 140% from FY2015. Environmental Conservation Effects Investment (million Effect (million yen) Effect content Effect Content yen) FY2015 FY2016 FY2015 FY2016 Unit FY2015 FY2016 Reduction of energy kℓ 417 697 (crude oil 7,111 10,449 consumption equivalent) Reduction of waste 157 112 Tons 2,006 2,290 412 179 Reduction of water 7 31 1000m3 171 671 usage Others 49 42 ­ ­ ­ Total 412 179 630 882 ­ ­ ­ 70 Overall Environmental Impact The Kyocera Group monitors and manages the relationship of business activities and environmental burdens as numerical data. The data for each stage of materials procurement, manufacturing, distribution, use, and disposal/recycling are used in the formulation of measures and the analysis and assessment of results to realize effective reductions in environmental burdens. 71 Environmental Activities Green Products Development of Environmentally Friendly Products The Kyocera Group aims for every product that it sells to contribute to the betterment of the global environment and endeavors to develop environmentally friendly products. Kyocera has clearly specified the Concept of Environmental Consciousness to guide our design of environmentally conscious products. Kyocera also identifies products designed to contribute actively to the climate change prevention, energy saving, resource saving, and reductions in hazardous substances as Green Products, and has set up evaluation criteria for each product based on the Concept of Environmental Consciousness. As a result of these efforts, 99% of our products were designated as Green Products in FY2016. We intend to continue being active in this respect to continue supplying environmentally friendly products to society. Concept of Environmental Consciousness Kyocera considers the three themes of “Climate Change Prevention and Energy Conservation,” “Resource Recycling” and “Environmental Preservation and Safety” as high­priority issues. For each of these, we have established clear guidelines for environmental protection at the product development stage. Concept of Contributing to Environmental Protection These products allow customers and end­users to contribute to the reduction of environmental impact through use of our products. Concept of Lowering Environmental Impact These products minimize environmental impact at all stages of the product life cycle, including manufacturing, sales, distribution, use, and disposal. 72 Concept of Environmental Consciousness Environmentally Conscious Designs for Printers and Multifunctional Products (MFPs) Kyocera Document Solutions Inc., which produces and sells printers and multifunctional products (MFPs), conducts environmentally conscious activities in various aspects including longevity design that reduces part replacement or disposal; 3R design that focuses on “reduce,” reuse,” and “recycling;” and low consumption power design that reduces greenhouse effect gas emission. In the design stage, designs are developed based on the Environmentally Conscious Design Standard from the initial development stage of new products through each of the subsequent development steps. The Environmentally Conscious Design Check Sheet is then used to make sure designs are environmentally conscious during product development. Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. also conducts a life cycle assessment (LCA), which digitalizes the resources, energy, and waste used or discharged for products or services during the stages from the acquisition of resources to manufacturing, transport, use, and disposal/recycling for all products to reduce the environmental burden of our products. 73 Life Cycle Stages Compliance with Environmental Product Standards Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. is committed to producing environmentally conscious products and actively acquiring Environmental Labels. The Environmental Label contains three types as specified by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), or Type Ⅰ (label for or with which a third party independently conducts product categorization and establishes the judgment criteria and certifies compliance); Type Ⅱ (self­declaration type label for which a company independently established the criteria and holds that its products are made environmentally conscious); and Type Ⅲ (label for which the environmental loads of a product from “resource acquisition” to “disposal” are calculated based on the life cycle assessment technique and are disclosed based on quantitative analysis). Kyocera actively promotes acquisition of those certification programs. To be specific, when Kyocera manufactures products, we always attempt to create products that can satisfy the required criteria of major environmental labels (Type Ⅰ), such as Eco Mark or Blue Angel Mark, as early as their development stage. For Eco Leaf environmental label (Type Ⅲ), we manufacture products that have less environmental loads and actively register and disclose environmental information of products. 74 Environmentally Friendly Products The Kyocera Group develops environmentally friendly products including fine ceramic products, energy management systems (EMS), solid oxide fuel cells (SOFC), LED lighting, and solar power generation systems. Fine Ceramic Products Fine ceramics are representative ecological materials. Because of their excellent mechanical, electromagnetic and thermal properties, fine ceramics are used frequently in machines and equipment for industrial use in such fields as environment, energy and automobiles. This contributes to the prevention of environmental pollution, conservation of resources and the prevention of climate change. Home­Use Solid Oxide Fuel Cell (SOFC) Cell Stack A residential­use fuel cell has two parts — a power generation unit and a water heating unit that uses exhaust heat from the power generation unit. The fuel cell has high energy efficiency, and produces only extremely small amounts of the greenhouse gases CO2 , nitrous oxides, sulfur oxides or other byproducts. Use of the fuel cell as an environment­ friendly system is expected to increase. Kyocera realized the world’s highest level power generation efficiency* by promoting the development of cells and cell stacks, which form the core of solid oxide fuel cells (SOFC) with high power generation efficiency, and using fine ceramics, which have excellent thermal resistance and durability, as cell materials. * World’s highest efficiency as a home­use fuel cell with a rated output of 1kW or under (as of Feb. 24, 2016) 75 Ceramic Filters Excellent in thermal resistance, ceramic filters are used in emission gas treatment equipment such as those at large­ scale waste incineration plants which optimize efficient use of exhaust heat energy. Compared with the service temperature range (150 to 200℃) of conventional bag filters, ceramic filters are capable of collecting dust at higher temperature ranges (300 to 900℃) to realize improved energy efficiency during the use of waste heat and the reuse of filters by washing. 76 Ceramic Glow Plugs and Stacked Piezoelectric Elements Ceramic glow plugs help reduce production of hazardous substances in exhaust gas as they support start­up of diesel engines. Piezoelectric stacks for fuel injectors use piezoelectric ceramics and help optimize combustion by precise control of the high­pressure injection of fuels and the volume of injection as components of fuel injectors. Aluminum Foundry Components Kyocera’s silicon nitride ceramic material features outstanding high­temperature strength, heat and thermal shock resistance as well as corrosion resistance. When used in molten aluminum smelting equipment for the production of automobile engines and aluminum wheels, silicon nitride extends the product life of components and reduces the risk of impurities entering molten metal. With such benefits, silicon nitride contributes to the reduction of waste and improves product quality. Aluminum foundry components LED Ceramic Packages and Single­Crystal Sapphire Substrates Since ceramic materials are capable of efficiently diffusing the heat generated by LEDs, they can maintain high longevity and reliability without compromising LED luminescence efficiency. Such features led to the realization of very bright LEDs. Single­crystal sapphires are used as the base substrates of LEDs and the backlights of mobile phones and LCD TV sets. 77 Solar Power Generating Systems If all solar light that reaches the entire globe could be fully converted to electric power, it would only take one hour of sunlight to meet the power consumption of the entire world for one year; showing just how enormous the solar energy of the sun is. Fossil fuels such as petroleum or coal will be gone when existing resources are used up. On the contrary, solar power is available as energy as long as we have the sun. Solar power produces almost no CO2 during power generation. Therefore, it is a powerful solution to the resource and energy problems and climate change issues that are becoming more and more Residential­use solar power generation system RoofleX serious each year. Kyocera came to firmly believe that solar power generation was an absolutely necessary future energy source for a resource­poor country like Japan when we were hit by the first oil shock (1973). We started R&D of solar cells in 1975. In 1982, we successfully mass­produced multicrystalline silicon solar power cells, which are now the mainstream model, ahead of any other manufacturers in the world. Furthermore, we started selling a residential­use solar power generating system for the first time in Japan in 1993. Kagoshima Nanatsujima Mega Solar Power Plant Today, we provide solar power generating systems for residential and (approx. 70MW), Kagoshima Prefecture, Japan industrial use in and out of Japan. We also serve as a power supplier and operate solar power plants, thereby actively promoting solar power generation. Energy Management System Kyocera’s energy management system is designed to visualize energy, such as electricity or gas, and realize efficient use of energy. When electricity created by solar power generation is stored in a battery storage system, it allows for efficient use of electricity, helping reduce utility costs. In this way we support consumers’ ecological living. Through our energy management system, which allows effective and efficient use of electricity, we aim to realize electricity self­sufficiency. We also actively conduct demonstration experiments of automatic demand response (ADR) systems that adjust the balance of power supply and demand in an entire region or a whole community. Kyocera strives to contribute to the creation of a future energy environment that prevents climate change, a major issue for all of humankind, by realizing a management system that makes maximum use of renewable energy. 78 Home energy management system Printing Devices Amorphous silicon (a­Si) photoreceptor drum Used in core parts of laser printers and multifunctional products, high­durability amorphous silicon (a­Si) photoreceptor drums contribute to elongation of the service life of the equipment, reduction of maintenance costs, and reduction of waste materials. High­durability a­Si photoreceptor drum 79 LED Lighting Kyocera supplies high­color rendering index (CRI) LED modules that reproduce light very similar to sunlight. Application of ceramics to the package realizes a life expectancy of 100,000 hours, about twice that of a resin package, thereby helping reduce waste. We also provide high­efficiency LED lights for various uses, including office lighting, high ceiling lighting in factories and warehouses, and illumination of signboards and plazas. We contribute to reduction of power consumption by promoting these products. High­color rendering index (CRI) LED module High­efficiency LED light Connector for LED light LED connectors, developed by Kyocera Connector Products Corp., contribute to mounting of LED light to compact or thin equipment as they have a stacking height of 1.4 mm, that causes no light distribution. Schematic illustration of substrates fitted with LEDs and connectors Cutting Tools Milling Cutter Milling cutters are used in a variety of metal cutting processes. Featuring both reductions in cutting resistance and excellence in loss resistance, milling cutters contribute to the improvement of productivity through stable processing and elongation of service life. Milling cutter 80 Recycling of Used Cutting Tools and Tip Cases Kyocera collects and recycles cutting tools and tip cases after use at users’ production sites. Kyocera is actively involved in the reduction of waste and effective utilization of resources by properly recycling collected tips and tip cases for relevant applications, such as material powder and RPF (refuse plastic fuel), slag used for roadbed material, and others. Organic Material Silver Sintering Paste We are recently seeing reinforcement of lead control regulations. One such move is regulation of high melting point lead, which had been excluded from the EU’s ELV Directive*. Kyocera used low­temperature sintering performance of silver nano particles and developed a new connecting material, silver sintering paste, as a replacement of lead solder. The new paste will contribute to reduction of environmental impacts by chemical substances as it is being applied to vehicular LED headlights and inverters. Silver sintering paste * Directive aiming to reduce environmental loads by reducing automobile wastes. Halogen­Free Material Halogenated elements, such as chlorine, bromine, and others, may produce harmful substances such as dioxin when burned. Their use is controlled according to regulations for chemical substances all over the world, with Europe as a leader. Kyocera has developed a wide variety of halogen­free* materials that conform to such legal regulations and contribute to a reduction in the environmental burden caused by the use of chemical substances. * Based on the standard values of the Japan Electronics Packaging and Circuits Association (JPCA). Molding compounds for semiconductor encapsulation (Halogen­free) 81 Low­VOC Materials VOC (volatile organic compounds) is the generic name for organic compounds which are highly volatile and turn into vapor in the atmosphere, including toluene, styrene, and many other substances. VOC is considered to be one of the causes of suspended particle matters and photochemical oxidant, which are suspected to affect human health. In the insulation varnish field, where varnish is used for insulation of motors, Kyocera has developed and markets styrene­free varnishes that reduce VOC generation to 1/50 or less that of conventional products, as well as greatly reduce odor. Insulation varnish Promotion of Green Procurement Aware of the importance of making efforts in the entire supply chain including Kyocera as well as our suppliers and business associates in order to tackle worsening global environment issues, Kyocera formulated the Kyocera Green Procurement Guideline in 1998 and has promoted green procurement since then. In FY2014, we revised this Guideline and divided it into two guidelines, the Kyocera Guideline on Environmentally Hazardous Substances, which established the standards for product specifications in promoting green procurement; and the Kyocera Guideline on Environmental Protection Activities, which describes the guiding principles of Kyocera's idea of environmental protection activities. With this revision, we have reinforced our ties with our business partners. Conforming to Environmental Product Regulations Today, the creation of products that are more friendly to the global environment is being demanded while regulations on the restriction of chemical substance management and use (RoHS Directives*1, REACH*2, etc.) are being reinforced from the perspective of preventing impacts on humans and environmental pollution. In response to these moves, Kyocera regularly holds Product Environmental Quality Meetings to develop company­wide response measures and share information on environment­related laws and regulations. In addition, each production department responds to environmental regulations by obtaining information on the chemical substances contained in each purchased item and conducting thorough management of chemical substances in every process. *1 Restrictions on the use of specified substances contained in electric and electronic equipment *2 Regulations on the registration, assessment, permission and control of chemical substances 82 Environmental Activities Green Factories Energy Conservation and Prevention of Climate Change Increased energy consumption has an impact on the environment, including negative effects such as climate change. We share the task of using limited energy resources more effectively, including energy use in industrial activities. The Kyocera Group works on measures for the prevention of climate change in various ways, including the setting of targets for greenhouse gases and energy reduction, and the implementation of energy­saving measures in business activities. Energy Saving and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions ·Emission coefficients are calculated based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. ·Greenhouse gas means CO2 , CH 4 , N 2 O, PFC, HFC, and SF 6 . ·Figures for overseas facilities are calculated using the emission coefficients of electricity for each country in IEA CO2 EMISSIONS FROM FUEL COMBUSTION Highlights (2015 Edition). 83 Efforts to Reduce CO2 Emissions Associated with Freight Transport One Approach Installation of Solar Power Generating Systems The Kyocera Group has introduced solar power generating systems at facilities at home and abroad, such as the Kyocera Head Office Building and Kyocera International Inc. in North America. Additional solar power generating systems were installed at five sites: Mie Ise Plant, Shiga Gamo Plant, Shiga Yohkaichi Plant, Shiga Yasu Plant, and Kyoto Ayabe Plant in FY2016. The total power generation capacity exceeds 10MW in and out of Japan. We will continue to actively introduce solar power generating systems at more Group sites to expedite reductions in CO2 emission in business activities. In Japan Hokkaido Kitami Plant (115kW) Fukushima Tanagura Plant (230kW) Fukushima Koriyama Plant (introduced in FY2011) (introduced in FY2011 and expanded in (1,500kW) (installed in FY2014) FY2012) 84 Chiba Sakura Plant (493kW) Nagano Okaya Plant (173 kW) Mie Ise Plant (366kW) (introduced in FY1985 and expanded (introduced in FY2011 and expanded in (introduced in FY2005 and expanded in FY2014) FY2014) in FY2016) Shiga Gamo Plant (571kW) Shiga Yohkaichi Plant (1,549kW) Shiga Yasu Plant (890kW) (introduced in FY2011 and expanded (introduced in FY2006, expanded in (introduced in FY2011 and expanded in FY2014, FY2016) FY2011­FY2014, FY2016) in FY2014, FY2016) Kyoto Ayabe Plant (1,500kW) Kagoshima Sendai Plant (649kW) Kagoshima Kokubu Plant (introduced in FY2014 and expanded (introduced in FY2011 and expanded in (1,100kW) (introduced in FY2006 and in FY2016) FY2014) expanded in FY2014) Kagoshima Hayato Plant (40kW) Headquarters (214kW) Yokohama Office (58kW) (introduced in FY2006) (introduced in FY1999) (introduced in FY2012) Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. Headquarters (12kW) Tamaki Plant (50kW) Hirakata Plant (60kW) (introduced in FY2008) (introduced in FY2011) (introduced in FY2006) 85 Kyocera Connector Products Corp. Kyocera Crystal Device Corporation Headquarters (130kW) (688kW) (introduced in FY2012) (introduced in FY2015) Reduction of CO2 Emissions by Introduction of LED Lighting The Kyocera Group promotes introduction of LED lighting that features low power consumption. A total number of 56,000 fluorescent lamps have been replaced by LED lights by FY2016. [Annual CO2 emission reduction] 4,300 ton­CO2 LED lights installed at Kagoshima Kokubu Plant Reduction in CO2 Emissions by Use of Waste Heat from Production Equipment At the Shiga Yasu Plant, a new heat exchanger was installed to use waste heat from the production process as part of the effort to further reduce energy consumption. [Annual CO2 emission reduction] 264ton­CO2 Waste heat recovery flow 86 Energy Reduction by Introducing High­efficiency Equipment The Shiga Gamo Plant used air­conditioning systems using city gas as a fuel. Now they introduced a new high­efficiency heat pump chiller. The Plant also reduced energy consumption by replacing the conventional steam humidifier, used for humidification of clean rooms, with the spray type humidifier. [Annual CO2 emission reduction] 785ton­CO2 High­efficiency heat pump chiller Growing “Green Curtains” The Kyocera Group covers windows with plants, such as goya (bitter gourd), hechima (sponge cucumber), and morning glory to screen off strong sunlight as part of “Green Curtains” that effectively control increase of indoor temperatures. In FY2016, the Green Curtains at 30 factories and offices in Japan, and 2 sites in foreign countries, covered a total length of 891.4m and a total area of 3,535.3m2 (approximately 13 tennis courts). An annual CO2 reduction of approximately 12,000kg was achieved. In FY2017, we plan to create Green Curtains at 27 sites. Green Curtain of goya Effective Use of Water Resources 87 One Approach Reduction of Water Consumption by Improving the Production Process and Introducing Effluent Recycling Equipment The Shiga Gamo Plant reduced water consumption by taking various measures. To be specific, shower washing was adopted at part of the processes following the installation of a new plating line to reduce water supply. Used washing water is also recycled with the newly installed recycling equipment. [Annual water consumption reduction] 50,000m3 Wastewater recycling equipment Waste Reduction and Recycling Measures One Approach Reduction of Production Wastes by Internal Treatment of Resin­containing Waste Fluid Kagoshima Sendai Plant formerly treated resin­containing waste fluid from the development process of substrates but partly remodeled the wastewater treatment facility to newly treat the waste fluid in the plant, thereby reducing emission of industrial wastes. [Annual waste emission reduction] 1,050ton Effluent treatment plant 88 Chemical Substances Management Some chemical substances cause environmental pollution and can affect human health and the ecosystem as a result of long­term accumulation. The Kyocera Group sets a voluntary control standard and takes initiative in carrying out environmental load reduction activities. In addition, the Kyocera Group (Japan) carries out thorough control of emissions and the transferred amount of Class I Designated Chemical Substances as prescribed by PRTR Law. Management and Disposal of PCB Waste The Kyocera Group (Japan) strictly controls and manages PCB (polychlorinated biphenyl) waste at specified locations with control sheets prepared in accordance with relevant laws. Kyocera has already become an early registrant for disposal of these wastes with the Japan Environmental Safety Corporation and will dispose of them accordingly. Transporting operations for outsourced disposal (Kagoshima Sendai Plant) 89 Environmental Load Data at Major Production Sites Energy consumption *1 CO emission *2 Water consumption Industrial waste emission [as converted to crude oil Area Country Company [t-CO2] [m3] [t] consumption in kℓ] FY2015 FY2016 FY2015 FY2016 FY2015 FY2016 FY2015 FY2016 Asia Japan Hokkaido Kitami Plant, KYOCERA 2,595 2,614 7,014 7,110 21,149 19,852 59 42 Corporation Fukushima Tanagura Plant, KYOCERA 418 440 984 1,001 7,373 7,672 24 15 Corporation Fukushima Koriyama Plant, KYOCERA 1,563 1,562 3,755 3,648 9,719 9,696 266 372 Corporation Tochigi Moka Office, KYOCERA Corporation 269 238 569 479 1,616 1,190 42 75 Kawasaki Plant, KYOCERA Corporation 1,356 1,420 2,737 2,803 18,314 20,823 294 241 Toyama Nyuzen Plant, KYOCERA 11,315 12,878 28,313 33,564 2,233,544 1,753,942 449 358 Corporation Niigata Shibata Plant, KYOCERA Corporation 14,376 18,893 43,631 41,976 1,561,138 1,529,754 4,218 4,573 Nagano Okaya Plant, KYOCERA Corporation 12,864 8,680 26,468 17,259 100,214 67,343 128 65 Mie Ise Plant, KYOCERA Corporation 3,032 2,594 6,219 5,155 10,541 8,233 355 334 Shiga Gamo Plant, KYOCERA Corporation 16,691 15,171 34,483 31,863 613,297 803,755 134 194 Shiga Yohkaichi Plant, KYOCERA 53,948 51,091 114,812 110,341 1,151,834 1,142,886 2,041 1,729 Corporation Shiga Yasu Plant, KYOCERA Corporation 29,920 27,949 63,292 60,177 1,202,553 922,394 1,454 1,459 Kyoto Ayabe Plant, KYOCERA Corporation 16,818 19,407 35,210 41,321 1,434,347 1,637,870 346 831 Kyoto Fushimi Office, KYOCERA Corporation 235 228 489 483 1,430 1,424 5 6 Osaka Daito Office, KYOCERA Corporation 1,018 1,078 2,057 2,209 20,535 20,173 89 113 Kagoshima Sendai Plant, KYOCERA 50,270 51,651 122,111 120,329 1,528,091 1,603,736 3,171 2,429 Corporation Kagoshima Hayato Plant, KYOCERA 64,368 65,329 152,607 148,787 1,746,160 1,703,729 1,448 1,250 Corporation Kagoshima Kokubu Plant, KYOCERA 5,493 5,593 13,316 12,941 172,251 217,471 408 382 Corporation Hirakata Plant, KYOCERA Document 3,211 3,582 6,507 7,381 34,299 36,879 78 70 Solutions Inc. Tamaki Plant, KYOCERA Document 7,247 6,860 14,455 13,256 27,294 29,276 610 492 Solutions Inc. Okaya Plant, KYOCERA Connector Products 1,499 1,405 3,181 2,874 7,292 7,008 6 6 Corporation Headquarters, KYOCERA Crystal Device 6,204 6,952 14,823 16,043 135,938 171,939 248 342 Corporation Nagano Okaya Plant, KYOCERA Crystal 809 1,955 4,027 3,949 15,505 18,123 2 3 Device Corporation Shiga Yohkaichi Plant, KYOCERA Crystal 2,455 2,497 5,129 5,306 2,581 3,322 5 6 Device Corporation Headquarters and Chigase Plant, KYOCERA 1,103 1,106 2,331 2,227 21,287 20,417 85 77 OPTEC Co., Ltd Shiga Plant, KYOCERA Medical Corporation 793 761 1,656 1,616 8,726 8,011 12 10 Kobe Plant, KYOCERA Medical Corporation 371 363 752 750 850 1,174 10 8 Headquarters and Shiga Yasu Plant, 20,944 21,894 51,195 47,983 784,194 776,487 1,299 1,133 KYOCERA Display Corporation Kagoshima Hayato Plant, KYOCERA Display 3,431 2,235 8,292 5,156 255,447 97,728 161 119 Corporation 90 China Shanghai KYOCERA Electronics Co., Ltd. 14,345 11,210 51,393 38,585 389,842 282,537 868 358 Dongguan Shilong KYOCERA Co., Ltd. 6,587 6,891 21,370 21,958 218,021 237,720 199*3 238*3 KYOCERA OPTEC (Dongguan) Co., Ltd. 2,516 2,512 8,222 8,048 67,230 73,406 KYOCERA Document Technology Company 8,349 8,236 25,327 24,176 366,550 367,870 416 374 (Dongguan) Limited KYOCERA Connector Products (Dongguan) 3,705 3,878 12,106 12,233 45,749 62,817 63 57 Co. Ltd. KYOCERA (Tianjin) Solar Energy Co., Ltd. 4,275 3,823 16,057 14,342 44,664 37,980 493 278 KYOCERA Display (Zhangjiagang) Co., Ltd. 3,846 3,139 14,185 11,623 278,914 212,460 111 99 Thailand KYOCERA Crystal Device (Thailand) Co., 6,925 4,865 13,773 9,859 249,911 186,250 209 214 Ltd. Malaysia KYOCERA Telecom Equipment（Malaysia） 3,674 4,394 9,791 12,099 142,335 109,808 38 21 Sdn.Bhd. North U.S.A. KYOCERA America, Inc. 4,609 4,945 8,924 9,592 121,199 126,319 66 58 and South Mexico KYOCERA Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. 4,783 5,064 8,616 10,181 128,653 76,860 317 327 America *1 ･Crude oil conversion factor is calculated based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. *2 ･The emission factor is calculated based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. ･Data is calculated based on the emission factor of electricity of each country as given in IEA CO2 Emissions From Fuel Combustion Highlights (2015 Edition). *3 ･The total sum of the emissions of Dongguan Shilong KYOCERA Co., Ltd. and KYOCERA OPTEC (Dongguan) Co., Ltd. 91 Environmental Activities Green Communication Support of Environmental Education for Children Kyocera Group “Eco­Lessons” The Kyocera Group has conducted “Eco­Lessons”, a locally rooted social contribution activity, since FY2003, to help children, the next­generation of leaders, better understand environmental problems and energy, and recieve an environmentally friendly school education. Kyocera started Eco­Lessons in China too in FY2010 based on knowhow accumulated in Japan. In FY2016, the Kyocera Group provided lessons to 13,117 students at 210 elementary schools around the Group’s 21 sites (in 11 prefectures). In China, Eco­ Lessons were provided to 533 children at primary schools in Shanghai. The total number of students who took the lessons after FY2003 is 110,363. Children enthusiastically taking a lessen (Japan) Cooperating with Environmental Awareness Event Since 1996, Kyocera Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. has participated in an annual environmental education event organized by the Tijuana municipal government for local middle and high school students from Tijuana, where Kyocera operates a manufacturing plant, and its neighboring areas. Attracting roughly 20,000 participants, the event enlightens students about the importance of environmental protection as they learn about local environmental initiatives undertaken by companies and the government in an enjoyable way. Students learning at the Kyocera booth Activities Related to the Conservation of Biodiversity Human society consists of various blessings from nature. On the other hand, forests equivalent to one fifth of Japan’s land area are lost from the world every year. It is also said that the effect of human activities over the last several hundreds of years has caused the extinction rate of species to be accelerated by 1,000 times. In these ways, circumstances surrounding biodiversity have become extremely serious. In regards to the Kyocera Group’s business activities, while we are benefitting from the ecological system in the form of raw materials, its output has no small effect on biodiversity. The Kyocera Group establishes working policies relating to the conservation of biodiversity on activities such as the reduction of destructive effects on the natural environment and on the ecological system, active promotion of greenification at Group facilities, and participation in and support of social contribution activities. 92 Promotion of Kyocera Forestation Activities The Kyocera Group works on the prevention of climate change and the conservation of biodiversity. The Group also conducts activities to restore rich greenery in plant compounds and local forests to improve employee awareness of environmental protection. Kyocera conducts forestation activities in Nagano, Kanagawa, Shiga, Kyoto, and Kagoshima prefectures (Japan), including thinning and bottom grass cutting together with local residents. Employees taking part in forestation activity with local residents (Okaya City, Nagano Prefecture) Promoting Project Firefly The Kagoshima Kokubu Plant launched Project Firefly in November 2009 in order to preserve the distinctive local biosphere around the manufacturing plant. With the cooperation of local firefly researchers, employees improved the environment around a pond in the plant premises to make it habitable. As a result, fireflies flew around the plant in May 2010, glowing brilliantly. We also endeavor to enhance the environmental awareness of employees through this project. A firefly in the plant compound Conducting Local Forestation Activity Kyocera Crystal Device (Thailand) Co., Ltd. has actively engaged in local forestation activities in Lamphun Province and Chiang Mai Provinces of the northern part of Thailand since 2007. Timed to coincide with World Environment Day in June, the tree­planting involves local students and residents at places that need “greening” — such as schools, temples and public spaces. Organizers provide tree seedlings and conduct youth camps for people to learn about the environment. Engaging in tree planting with local residents 93 Main Feedback on Sustainable Management Minister of the Environment’s Commendation for Global Warming Prevention Activity Awarded to Kyocera Consecutively for Six Years Kyocera received the Minister of the Environment’s Commendation for Global Warming Prevention Activity for our high­output solar module in 2010. Since then, we have been awarded the same prize consecutively for six years. In 2015, we were presented the commendation in the Action Results and Diffusion Category as a result of comprehensive evaluation of the Shiga Yasu Plant’s activities toward realization of low­carbon society including energy saving for production equipment in the plant and provision of environmentally themed Eco­Lessons to local elementary schools, in addition to energy saving and CO2 emission reduction benefits by the plant’s production of solar power cells. Award ceremony Awards Received Related to the Environment (FY2016) Date Award Recipient June KYOCERA Communications, Inc. (U.S.A.) 2015 Recycler of the Year 2015 (now KYOCERA International,Inc) October Encouragement Award, Osaka Environmental Award KYOCERA Document Solutions Inc. Group 2015 November Environmental Grand Prize by the Japan Cutting & Wear­ Kagoshima Sendai Plant 2015 resistant Tool Association November Environmental Special Prize by the Japan Cutting & Wear­ Nagano Okaya Plant and Shiga Yohkaichi 2015 resistant Tool Association Plant November 3R Activity Excellent Establishment by Yokohama City Yokohama Office 2015 February Grand Prize (Manufacturing Industry Category) by Fukushima Tanagura Plant 2016 Fukushima Protocol Business Commendation March Practice Award, Yokohama Environmental Activity Award KYOCERA Connector Products Co., Ltd. 2016 94 Fair Business Activities Risk Management and Compliance Risk Management Promotion The Kyocera Group is making Group­wide efforts to reinforce its risk management system to cope with global risks that are becoming ever more complicated. The Kyocera Group faces various risks that may affect the credibility or business sustainability of the Kyocera Group, including changes in the market environment, occurrence of natural disasters, incidents and accidents, the impact of climate change, information leakage, deficiencies of labor conditions in the supply chain, and violation of human rights. To cope with these, the Kyocera Group endeavors to reduce and mitigate risks while acting on the Basic Policy on Risk Management put in place for this purpose. Basic Policy on Risk Management 1. In accordance with assurance of compliance and the spirit of the Kyocera Philosophy, the group will consider what is the right conduct as a human being and act based on the value standards. 2. In accordance with the spirit of the Kyocera Philosophy, the group will accept “the highest priority is to ensure safety of bodies and lives of people,” deal with crisis, and for convergence of crisis, cooperate among employees as a unit to minimize loss, recover the damage, and make efforts to prevent reoccurrences, thereby attempting to remove or mitigate impediments to the interests of each stakeholder (the interested party), including customers, business partners, shareholders/investors, and the community. 3. The Kyocera Group will attempt to continuously develop its business through implementing risk management. 4. The group will act with its social mission to stably supply products and services helpful to the progress and development of society. Risk Management System The Kyocera Group conducts risk management, with the President as the group chief officer and the General Manager of Corporate General Affairs Human Resources Group as his assistant to supervise the risk management divisions. The Risk Management Committee conducts risk assessment of each department and each site in and out of Japan and formulates, examines, and approves response measures and monitors their progress with respect to risks considered to be particularly high in importance. In FY2016, the Kyocera Group conducted active response to major risks including natural disasters, terrorism countermeasures and information security. Kyocera Group’s Risk Management System 95 Systematic diagram of risk management Promotion of Contingency Planning The Kyocera Group has a Disaster Response Manual established based on the Basic Guidelines for Disaster Response to take appropriate actions in the event that a large­scale natural disaster damages the Kyocera Group, including minimization of personal and physical damage and implementation of swift restoration of business operations. The Disaster Response Manual provides regulations based on the Basic Guidelines for Disaster Response regarding collection and distribution of information on disasters and response measures for earthquakes, floods, wind damage, volcanic eruptions and other disasters. Basic policy of disaster response 96 Actions against Earthquakes In an attempt to minimize injury and damage from a major earthquake, the Kyocera Group (Japan) is installing a disaster warning system at all plants and offices. This uses the Earthquake Early Warning System provided by the Japan Meteorological Agency. The Kyocera Group endeavors to minimize earthquake damage through diverse means. These include drills using the Earthquake Early Warning System, disaster prevention training for employees, regular disaster drills held with local fire stations and other organizations. Considerable damage is expected from a tsunami that could be generated by an earthquake in the Nankai Trough. To counter the potential damage, evacuation areas have been prepared for bases that are likely to sustain damage, based on the expected maximum tsunami height and shortest arrival time. Steps have been taken to ensure employees are fully aware of what they need to do. One Approach Holding of General Drill for Large­Scale Earthquakes The Kyocera Group holds a general drill at all plants and offices assuming that a major earthquake occurred and that a fire has broken out in the building. The head office of Kyocera conducted a drill simulating a fire that follows the occurrence of a major earthquake of 6+ in seismic intensity at two locations. About 1,500 employees participated in the drill. An earthquake early warning was sounded off in the entire site, safety confirmation of the staff was conducted on each floor, and evacuation was completed in Voluntary fire brigade chief reporting to the Employees guided for Fushimi Fire Department about completion of approximately 9 minutes. The result of all these evacuation. evacuation on each floor actions was reported to the fire brigade. Initial fire extinguishing of a fire was conducted by the fire department, and training on transport of the injured and emergency medical treatment was also provided. Kyocera intends to periodically conduct these drills in preparation for potential unforeseen events in order to improve our disaster prevention capability. 97 Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Efforts The Kyocera Group has its BCP in place and uses it to reinforce the readiness of business continuity in order to fulfill its stated BCP policy, which is swift restoration and restart of business operations in the event of severance of product and service supply due to a natural disaster. In particular, Kyocera formulated BCP and completed implementation of necessary actions, including fixation of major equipment, arrangement of repair parts, and securing of alternative production in preparation for a possible major earthquake. Tabletop training assuming earthquake disaster In FY2016, we revised measures in response to changes in the business (Shiga Gamo Plant) environment and continuously conducted BCP activities. BCP drills are also provided by each department and for entire factories to help employees smoothly conduct a series of response actions in the event of a major earthquake, from securing safety to prevention of secondary disasters and restoration of business. In FY2017, Kyocera will conduct BCP training, while keeping in mind the problems to solve identified by the previous year’s drills, and further improve our response capability to emergency situations. Group companies in Japan also completed formulation of BCP and drills and aim to make such preparedness so practical that they can continue and maintain BCP Drill of wearing oxygen tank at a workplace (Okaya Plant, Kyocera Connector Products activities in FY2017. Overseas Group companies continue to conduct BCP Corporation) activities depending on the disaster risks (natural disaster, infectious disease, etc.) expected to occur in each region. BCP Efforts for the Supply Chain The Kyocera Group promotes evaluation of alternative items and multiple purchasing sources with respect to the procurement of important raw materials and components so as to prevent the stagnation of production activities during a disaster situation. Kyocera has distributed the Supply­Chain CSR Deployment Guidelines to all business partners to help them understand our concept of BCP since FY2014. For business partners who supply us with important raw materials and components, we are carrying out a survey on the progress of their BCP efforts for business continuity in more detail. Promotion of Risk Crisis Management The Kyocera Group has in place the Risk Management Manual, which is developed based on the Basic Guidelines for Crisis Management and contains various scenarios. The Manual is intended to help our employees in foreign sites secure their safety in case a terrorist action occurs. In FY2016, the Manual was revised, and the updated version was distributed to all Group companies. 98 Information Security Efforts The Kyocera Group makes effective and efficient use of information assets. We have clarified the basic requirements that employees should comply with in the handling of information assets and established an information management system. Policy and System of Information Security Management The Kyocera Group regards information on management strategies, product development, expertise, technology, organization, and personnel as important assets of the company. To ensure sufficient protection of these assets, we have formulated the Technical Expertise Leak Prevention Guidelines, which specify necessary rules for the management of information assets including confidential information management, intellectual property management, physical security management, visitor management, and personnel management. In addition, the Kyocera Group has established a digital information security management policy and management regulations to ensure the thorough management of digital information. The Kyocera Group has established a Digital Information Security Committee with the President as its chairman and is implementing various digital security measures including periodic employee education, restrictions on the external use of information equipment, measures to prevent information leaks from PCs and smart devices, thorough management of IT assets, and enhancement of information security against cyber attacks. Furthermore, the audit and information system divisions conduct reviews, and when any problem is found, they endeavor to solve it while working together with the division that owns the information and the relevant management division. Protection of Personal Information The Kyocera Group regards the personal information obtained from stakeholders through business activities as important private information and strives to protect it thoroughly as a primary social responsibility. Kyocera has set up rules on protection of specific personal information, clarified usage purposes of personal information and the dedicated contact for inquiries, and provided education on private information to employees handling such information, thereby ensuring thorough management. Communication system on personal information 99 Protection of Intellectual Property Rights The basic policy of the Kyocera Group is to safeguard the yields of research and development by the Group as intellectual property rights, and to respect the intellectual property rights of others. We assign liaison officers responsible for intellectual property to main offices and manufacturing plants. Their role is to facilitate the processes of obtaining intellectual property rights — maintaining control of rights and negotiating licenses for intellectual property rights. The Kyocera Group is undertaking activities relating to intellectual property in close cooperation with relevant business units. Kyocera also regularly holds the Global Intellectual Property Partners Meeting Global Intellectual Property Partners Meeting for patent offices and the personnel of Group companies in charge of intellectual property in the U.S.A., Europe, China, Korea, and Japan, which help us obtain patents in those countries. The participants in the Meeting discuss improvement of patent application specifications and response actions to patent acquisition using specific case examples so that Kyocera can improve the Guideline and the system of sharing information. 100 One Approach Kyocera Named a 2015 Top 100 Global Innovator Kyocera was named as one of the 2015 Top 100 Global Innovators by Thomson Reuters, a worldwide provider of intelligent information. The Thomson Reuters Top 100 Global Innovators awards are presented annually to recognize companies and organizations leading the world with their innovative actions based on the analysis of the candidates’ developments in intellectual property and patents using Thomson Reuters’ own data and criteria. Kyocera was again highly evaluated for its patent grant success rate and global reach, receiving the honor for a second consecutive year. Receiving the trophy Measures for Dealing with Counterfeit Products The Kyocera Group is implementing diverse measures in various countries around the world to protect customers from the harm caused by counterfeit products, and to enable product use with peace of mind. Kyocera monitors mail order Web sites and distribution sites around the world looking for counterfeit products. Counterfeit ceramic knife Vendors selling counterfeit products are warned and asked to pledge they will no longer handle them. They are requested to destroy stocks and reveal the names of their suppliers. Kyocera also uses hologram seals to distinguish between genuine and counterfeit products for some products, such as toner containers, making it easier to determine whether a product is authentic. 101 Thorough Legal Compliance The Kyocera Group ensures thorough compliance with the law by taking measures including management by each division in charge of a specific law or regulation, the establishment of an in­house communication system for notification of the enactment or revision of a law or regulation, the establishment of Employee Consultation Offices (internal reporting system), the implementation of regular legal compliance audits, and provision of compliance education to employees upon new employment or promotion. We also regularly hold the Kyocera Group Global Legal Affairs Meeting, in which legal affairs personnel of major Group companies in the U.S.A., Europe, and Kyocera Group Global Legal Affairs Meeting China participate in order to reinforce global cooperation. At each Meeting, participants learn about each other’s results, share information on legal issues currently being faced by each company, and engage in discussions regarding various legal issues affecting the Group. Measures for Fair and Free Competition The Kyocera Group considers it important to maintain fair and free competition and promote it while using as a judgment criterion the concept, “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” As part of such activities, the Kyocera Group issued the Kyocera Group Global Antitrust Compliance Manual, common to the entire Group and provides education on antitrust laws to employees in and out of Japan. We also formulated the Antitrust Act Compliance Regulations that specifically provide for items of compliance for employees. In addition, Kyocera started an individual interview based educational program for managers in sales divisions in June 2015 so as to enhance employees’ understanding of the antitrust act. We continue to provide such education and ensure thorough compliance with relevant laws including the antitrust act. Kyocera Group Global Antitrust Compliance Manual Security Trade Control System The Kyocera Group complies with the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act and other regulations relating to international security. In addition, the Kyocera Group is establishing a system for heightening security trade control. The purpose is to prevent the outflow of components for weapons of mass destruction and arms, or products and technology that could be used for their production and development. Kyocera introduced a cargo transaction audit system that complies with the said Act in FY2016 to reinforce the audit system and shipment management system. In addition, the Kyocera Group (Japan) regularly holds a Security Trade Control (STC) Committee to thoroughly ensure compliance with foreign exchange and export­related laws and regulations. For overseas Group companies, Kyocera has established a system that emphasizes education on and audits of security trade control systems to enhance legal compliance. 102 One Approach Measures to Ensure Security in International Distribution Kyocera is recognized as an “authorized exporter” and “authorized importer” according to the AEO (Authorized Economic Operator) system, an international standard designed to ensure safety and smoothness of international trading and for which the mechanism of mutual approval is established in each country. This authorization helps us ensure security and smooth trading related to products delivered to customers outside Japan. We will continue to improve maintenance of the security system in distribution. Authorized exporter Authorized importer certificate certificate Appropriate Information Disclosure The Kyocera Group complies with regulations relating to the disclosure of information. The Group endeavors to provide appropriate information without falsehoods or expressions that invite misunderstanding, in accordance with social and moral principles. Additionally, display of product labels and operating instructions, catalogs, sales promotion documents, advertisements and other materials by Kyocera is in line with the company standard as set out in our Public Document Verification Guidelines. We are building a check system for verification by the Quality Assurance, Legal, Intellectual Property and Corporate Communications divisions. Measures for Prevention of Bribery and Corruption For the Kyocera Group, the basis of dealings with business associates is to always be fair and just, and to approach all manner of transactions in the spirit of fair play with the correct attitude as a human being. The Kyocera Group CSR Guideline prohibits the excessive exchange of gifts, the provision and receipt of excessive entertainment, and other corrupt activities. The Guideline also forbids activities that depart from customary business practice. Ensuring Transparency in Political Donations The Kyocera Group may provide political donations as required from perspectives such as the realization of policy­ oriented politics and contributing to the sound growth of parliamentary democracy. When we make political donations, we will comply with relevant laws and regulations including the Political Funds Control Act as well as relevant bylaws. 103 Measures for Prevention of Insider Trading The Kyocera Group has established management systems to prevent insider trading and educates employees thoroughly. Kyocera has enacted Insider Trading Prevention Regulations, which establish a management system for insider information and provide restrictions on stock trading. The company prepared an Insider Trading Prevention Handbook and distributed it to employees to enhance understanding of its importance. In addition, the company takes various continuing actions including provision of education on prevention of insider trading to newly employed or promoted employees and advising of no stock trading periods at morning meetings. In FY2016, Kyocera provided education to a greater range of employees, including fixed­term employees, part­timers, and temporary staff in addition to all regular employees in the form of e­learning and group training. The same education approach is going to be applied to all Group companies. Measures for Exclusion of Antisocial Groups The Kyocera Group established a basic policy for corporate governance and internal control including the prevention of involvement in management activities by antisocial groups and the prevention of damage by such groups. The basis of the measures for exclusion of antisocial groups is that “the entire company is united in confronting antisocial groups with determination.” The Kyocera Group CSR Guideline clearly specifies how to handle antisocial groups to notify all employees of the company’s attitude. The transaction basic contract form Kyocera has with our business associates now contains terms on exclusion of antisocial groups. More efforts will be made in the entire supply chain to redouble exclusion of antisocial groups. Establishment of Employee Consultation Hot­Line Center (Internal Reporting System) Kyocera Group employees can consult the Employee Consultation Hot­Line Center on diverse issues. Employees can seek advice and consult on diverse matters of doubt, and report actions that are or may be in violation of laws and internal regulations relating to human rights, labor, safety and health, environment, fair business practices, etc. Measures for protection of individual privacy are clarified, and employees can consult the Hot­Line Center directly by telephone, e­mail or other means. Details of the consultation are investigated and ascertained in cooperation with the relevant divisions. This is followed by corrective action and preventive measures against recurrence. At Kyocera, consultations were undertaken on 24 matters in FY2016, and steps toward resolution were taken in each case. Legal Audit System The Kyocera Group conducts legal audits to check the status of legal compliance of the Kyocera Group as part of the reinforced effort to ensure legal compliance. In FY2015, a new audit system was established and operated with a focus on the operational process. Since FY2016, a new audit system is being sequentially applied to Group companies in Japan based on Kyocera’s audit system. 104 Fair Business Activities Supply Chain Management Policy and Systems Related to Purchasing Activities The Kyocera Group thinks that the mutual prosperity of the entire supply chain will only be realized if all companies involved in the series of business processes including development, production, sales and service work together to meet the demands of society. To this end, the Kyocera Group actively communicates with business partners and focuses on the building of partnerships based on mutual trust. We also ensure thorough compliance with business­ related laws such as the Subcontract Act, by regularly implementing in­house education and audits of personnel in charge of materials and business divisions. Basic Policy on Purchasing At the Kyocera Group, we are determined to contribute to value creation and business development through materials business, diligently conduct work, and coexist with business partners, thereby attempting to be better people and win society’s trust. We established the Basic Policy on Purchasing with this idea as the basis of our purchasing activities. Under this policy, we conduct various surveys on corporate overviews and CSR to evaluate and select our business partners fairly. · Whether the fundamental thinking of the Kyocera Group is understood. · Whether the thinking of the business operator and the management rationale of the prospective supplier are acceptable to Kyocera. · Whether the company aims to improve management ability, technological strength and manufacturing ability; and whether business management is appropriate and stable in terms of scale and finances (e.g.: VA*1 / VE*2 proposal strength). · Whether the company excels in such areas as quality, price, delivery time, service response, etc. (e.g.: ISO9000 series or equivalent quality management systems; lead­time reduction activity). · Whether the company is seriously involved in global environmental conservation activity (e.g.: ISO14001 certification). *1 Value Analysis *2 Value Engineering Holding of Supplier Seminars and Social Gatherings The Kyocera Group regularly holds supplier seminars and social gathering with business associates in order to better allow them to understand the management policy and business policy of the Group and request their further cooperation with our activities. In FY2016, the supplier seminar and social gathering were held in Kyoto for major business partners, or 159 people from 136 companies. In addition, we awarded particularly excellent business partners in terms of quality, pricing and delivery, selected based on the transaction records in the past one year. Awarding at the social gathering in the supplier seminar 105 CSR Deployment in the Supply Chain The Kyocera Group promotes CSR activities together with our business partners in order to fulfill our social responsibilities in terms of human rights, labor and environmental conservation. Kyocera established the Kyocera Supply­Chain CSR Deployment Guidelines to appropriately handle CSR issues that should be addressed by the entire supply chain, including formulation of BCP regarding conflict minerals and swift business restoration and continuation in disaster situations. We survey the CSR activity efforts on the part of business partners based on the Guideline. Kyocera Supply­Chain Specifically, we surveyed human rights, labor, environment, safety and health, fair trade, ethics, CSR Deployment quality, safety, business continuity plans (BCP), information security and other items with the Guideline help of our business partners. For business partners whose efforts on some items was found to be insufficient, we requested them to work more proactively on CSR activities. As a result, we found that many business partners showed successful results from their efforts. We intend to deploy CSR activities to overseas business partners as well as Group companies’ business partners. Supply­Chain BCP Survey Kyocera asks business partners to have their own business continuity plan (BCP) by surveying their promotion of BCP activities in order to ensure that there is no interruption of important operations in the event of damage by a disaster or an accident, to be able to restart operations as soon as possible even if they are interrupted, and to continue the supply of products and services to customers. In FY2016, we explained the importance of CSR efforts to business partners who were found by the FY2015 survey to be insufficient in their effort and requested them to reinforce their involvement in BCP activities. Kyocera will continue to promote and spread BCP in the Kyocera supply­chain to help our business partners further promote their own BCP activities. Measures to Address Conflict Minerals In recent years, there is concern that mineral resources mined in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries may serve as a source of funds to the armed groups that have caused human rights violations, and this has become an international issue. Knowing that some revenue of minerals produced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its neighboring countries in Africa — including columbite­tantalite (tantalum), cassiterite (tin), gold, wolframite (tungsten), and their derivatives — are used to fund armed groups that commit human rights violations, the Dodd­Frank legislation of July 2010 designates these minerals as “conflict minerals” regardless of where they are produced and requires all companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange to disclose information on the use of these minerals in their products. 106 Kyocera Group’s Conflict Minerals Policy The Kyocera Group’s policy is that we will not purchase materials or products that use conflict minerals and their derived metals which are mined in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries and serve as a source of funds to the armed groups that have caused human­rights violations. We issued the Kyocera Supply­Chain CSR Deployment Guideline, which states our policy on conflict minerals, to help our business partners understand our stance and policy, thereby sharing the same attitude toward this issue. Organizational System to Handle Conflict Mineral Issue In the Kyocera Group, the Kyocera Conflict Minerals Committee, consisting of directors or general managers of departments in charge of procurement (materials), IR, general affairs, internal auditing and legal affairs, has been established as the central player to deal with the conflict mineral issue. This Committee determines the methods that serve as the basis of conflict mineral investigation and the information to disclose about conflict minerals, and provides reports on its activities to the top management in a timely and appropriate manner. Furthermore, the Committee provides education to Kyocera Group companies about the rules and policies on conflict minerals and makes sure the entire Group appropriately deals with the problem of conflict minerals. Furthermore, we play important roles to realize early recognition of risks in handling conflict minerals, including communication with stakeholders, communication with the procurement division, and swift response to complaints or notices on conflict minerals collected through the internal reporting system. Coordination and cooperation with trade organizations As conflict minerals are an issue that should be addressed by the entire supply chain, Kyocera actively promotes coordination and cooperation with trade organizations. Kyocera participated in the Responsible Minerals Trade Working Group, established under the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA), as one of the core members as early as in the establishment stage. We have been in charge of lecturing at the conflict mineral survey briefing sessions as the team leader of education and publicity. Furthermore, Kyocera took part in the symposium on future harmonious coexistence, “Sustainable Mineral Procurement,” held by Nikkei Business Publications as a panelist in December 2015. 107 Actions for Business Partners and Survey Results Kyocera conducted survey to our business partners using the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) prepared by the Conflict­Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI), an international organization dealing with conflict mineral issues. The FY2016 survey included holding a total of four briefing sessions in Japan (Tokyo and Kyoto), where business partners of Kyocera are concentrated. 138 companies participated in those sessions. In China and Malaysia, Kyocera held a training session for in­house personnel in charge of conflict mineral research to reinforce the internal system of the Kyocera Group. The survey using CMRT identified some business partners who procured conflict minerals from DRC countries, and we provided due diligence including direct interviewing to those partners. Based on the results of the due diligence, Briefing session to business partners Kyocera collated the list of refineries and smelters disclosed by CFSI with the processing facilities of conflict minerals used in Kyocera’s products and obtained the following findings as of April 12, 2016: Tin Tantalum Tungsten Gold Total Number of 67 45 36 93 241 refineries/smelters Number of refineries/smelters 57 45 28 78 208 Validated as CFS* * Refineries or smelters validated to be conflict­free by a third party Kyocera Group’s Future Measures The Kyocera Group recognizes the importance of continuing its survey using the CFS program and in identifying and investigating smelters and refiners. Therefore, we intend to continually establish a strong supply chain relationship through various measures, including the signing of a letter of engagement with suppliers that includes a pledge to contact Kyocera immediately if a connection to a conflict mineral has been uncovered. It is important to increase the number of smelters that submit to an independent third­party audit in order to be assessed as “conflict­free.” However, since it is difficult for a single company to prompt smelters to participate in such audits, Kyocera continues to work through industry organizations such as JEITA for this purpose. 108 Customer Concerns Approaches to Raising Quality and Customer Satisfaction Levels Efforts to Improve Product Quality Kyocera Quality Policy The Kyocera Group has established the Kyocera Quality Policy to achieve production of quality goods that fully satisfy our customers’ needs. We develop all our businesses on the basis of this Quality Policy, and aim to always be an enterprise that is worthy of trust throughout the world. Moreover, Kyocera is doing everything possible to think hard as early as in the planning stage and do the right job at the beginning in order to provide a high level of satisfaction to our customers. Kyocera Quality Policy 1. Kyocera places top priority on our environmental management and product safety systems. 2. Kyocera provides products and services to our customers that exceed their expectations by putting them first. 3. Kyocera aims to be a world leader in quality by doing every job right the first time. Quality Management Systems The Kyocera Group holds meetings of the Kyocera CS Improvement Committee with the President serving as its chairman on a regular basis to improve the customer satisfaction indices, share quality information to prevent quality problems, and prevent the recurrence of quality­related problems. The company has established quality management systems based on ISO 9001, and each business unit sets its own quality targets and carries out quality improvements towards their achievement. Furthermore, these improvement activities are continuously being upgraded by holding various quality­related training programs. This training is designed to give employees field drills with the help of Kyocera style tree diagrams and help them enhance their practical capability that allows them to smoothly Kyocera CS Improvement Committee handle quality problems. Efforts to Ensure Product Safety Kyocera Product Safety Policy Safety is the utmost priority for all products made or sold by Kyocera. Regardless of form or function, they must not endanger a person’s life or well­being, nor inflict damage on property. From this perspective, Kyocera has set a Product Safety Policy, in addition to its Quality Policy. Kyocera established Product Safety System Guidelines as a concrete code of action at all levels of corporate activity. Additionally, the Guidelines for Product Safety Labeling serve as supplementary guidelines for understanding international standards relating to safety labels. Kyocera Product Safety Policy 1. Kyocera is fully acquainted with the latest information related to product liability and product safety. 2. Kyocera maintains an industry­leading standard of product safety. 3. Kyocera systematically practices product safety in accordance with manuals. 109 Responses to Accidents Involving Products We have established systems that allow the CS Division and Risk Management Division to gather information and implement countermeasures if a serious product accident occurs. We also notify the competent authority of such accidents and disclose information on our Web site. Approaches to Raising Customer Satisfaction Levels Action by the Customer Support Center The Kyocera Group operates a Customer Support Center (Call Center) to handle mainly matters concerning products for general consumers. By responding earnestly, correctly and promptly to customer inquiries, consultations, complaints and other issues, the Kyocera Group aims to raise the level of customer satisfaction. Valuable information and inquiries received from our customers are promptly reported to top management and shared among the relevant business segments. The information received is used to improve the quality of our products and services. In FY2016, Kyocera received 60,197 inquiries, about 2,000 more than in the previous year, mainly because of an increase in the number of questions on smartphone operation. Safeguarding Customer Personal Information In the Kyocera Group, the personal information of customers is as a rule obtained directly from customers, upon agreement with the customers, and only after clarification of the purpose for which it would be used is provided. Personal information stored by the Kyocera Group is handled appropriately in accordance with strict controls based on the Electronic Information Security Management Policy and associated regulations. Efforts of Universal Design Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. incorporates the concept of User Centered Design in its development process. Under this concept, users are always at the center of the life cycle of products such as printers and multifunctional products (MFPs), covering planning, design, production and sale; and products are designed based on information gathered from users and a good understanding of what they want. Wheelchair usability evaluation Particularly in the design stage, it is important to understand customers’ needs and repeat the production and evaluation of prototypes. This is how the company realizes the supply of easy­to­use products and user­friendly services. Engineers and designers whose job is to develop products actually visit workplaces where people with disabilities work, as well as place themselves in wheelchairs or wear special kits in order to recreate the physical experience of elderly people so that they can better understand the needs of diverse people. What they learn is then incorporated into the verification and development of products. 110 One Approach Development of Antibacterial Artificial Hip Joints Kyocera Medical Corp. developed an antibacterial artificial hip joint that features both antibacterial performance and osteocompatibility jointly with Saga University. While surgical operations that replace deformed joints with artificial ones have become standard, there are still problems of postoperative complications not totally solved although the occurrence ratio of infection is in the low single digit percentile. To solve these problems, the newly developed sterilizing technology AG­PROTEX® features a high sterilization capability against many bacteria and applies coating of silver, a metal of low toxicity in the body, to the surface of an artificial joint. Kyocera is actively engaged in R&D that helps solve various medical problems in the future. Artificial hip joint using antibacterial technology AG­PROTEX® Rugged Smartphone Won the Red Dot Design Award Kyocera’s rugged smartphone DuraForce XD on sale in the U.S.A. won the Red Dot Design Award 2016, an international product design award sponsored by the Nordrhein Westfalen Design Center, Germany. Candidates for this award are examined based on 9 criteria including innovativeness, functionality, ergonomics, ecology, and durability. DuraForce XD was evaluated for its design concept that makes it usable under harsh business environments, such as at worksites, and its sturdy and prominent design. High­durability smartphone DuraForce XD Washable Smartphone DIGNO® rafre Commercialized Kyocera commercialized a handsoap­washable smartphone called the DIGNO® rafre in December 2015. Kyocera’s waterproofing technology and high durability performance accumulated over years of effort make it possible to incorporate the handsoap­washable waterproofing feature and the hot­waterproofing feature to this smartphone. This product was created in response to the requests of customers who want to keep their smartphones clean, as they are usually used in contact with the skin and casually handled by children. Kyocera intends to tackle development of various user­friendly products that satisfy customers’ demands. Washable smartphone DIGNO® rafre 111 Color A4 Multifunctional Product TASKalfa 406ci Earns Highly Recommended Commendation The color A4 multifunctional product (MFP) TASKalfa 406ci produced and sold by Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. was highly evaluated for its reliability by the U.S.­based independent survey organization Buyers Laboratory (BLI) and earned their Highly Recommended rating. The Highly Recommended rating is the top of five ranks of comprehensive evaluation. It is generally granted to a product after about two months of examination with wide­ranging tests including reliability, image quality, printing performance and scanning performance. TASKalfa 406ci was awarded the accolade for its easy and simple network settings, color reproducibility and operability. We are determined to create highly reliable products to satisfy customers’ needs. Color A4 multifunctional product TASKalfa 406ci 112 Social Contribution Activities Academic Advancement and Research Supporting the Inamori Foundation’s Kyoto Prize The non­profit Inamori Foundation was established in 1984, based upon the belief of Kyocera’s founder Kazuo Inamori, that “a human being has no higher calling than to strive for the greater good of humanity and the world,” and that “the future of humanity can be assured only when there is a balance between scientific development and the enrichment of the human spirit.” The Kyoto Prize, organized by the Foundation, was established in 1985. It celebrates its 32nd anniversary in 2016 as an international award that honors people who have made significant contributions in the three categories of Advanced Technology, Basic Sciences, and Arts and Philosophy. Each laureate receives a diploma, Kyoto Prize medal and prize money of 50 million yen per category. Following the Kyoto Prize presentation ceremony each November, events are held to encourage citizen interaction with the laureates, including commemorative lectures for the general public where the laureates present their path of research and world views, academic workshops involving experts in the chosen award fields, and educational programs for students from elementary school to university level. Also, a Kyoto Prize Symposium for local university students and the general public has been held in San Diego (U.S.A.) since 2001, and in 2017, a Kyoto Prize Symposium will be held for the first time at Oxford University (U.K.). The Kyocera Group is fully aligned with the spirit of the Kyoto Prize and is pleased to support this award. The 2015 Kyoto Prize laureates The Kyoto Prize Presentation Ceremony Kyoto Prize Symposium held in San Diego (U.S.A.) (©Erik Jepsen/UC San Diego) Inamori Frontier Research Center at Kyushu University The Inamori Frontier Research Center was established at Kyushu University (Fukuoka Prefecture, Japan) to undertake research activities contributing to the harmony of minds and technology, and to support the education of young researchers. Kyocera agrees with the goals of the Center, and has supported its operations since 2008 by donating scholarship funds. Inamori Foundation Memorial Hall housing the Inamori Frontier Research Center 113 Inamori Academy Building at Kagoshima University In 2008, the Inamori Academy building opened at Kagoshima University (Kagoshima Prefecture, Japan) to offer a course targeting the comprehensive development of human potential. Kyocera supported the construction of the facility. In 2000, Kyocera endowed the Chair of Management Studies in the Faculty of Engineering. In 2005, the Inamori Academy of Management and Technology was founded, which later reorganized and merged into the Inamori Academy in 2008. Inamori Academy building Research Support at Four U.S. Universities In gratitude for many years of collaboration with the American electronics industry, and based on a desire to ensure the industry’s continued development, Kyocera has given endowments to the engineering departments of Alfred University, Case Western Reserve University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and the University of Washington. These endowments support the research activities of appointed Kyocera Professors as well as the enrollment of overseas students and researchers at each institution. Kyocera Professors meet to exchange research ideas The Kyocera Museum of Fine Ceramics The Kyocera Museum of Fine Ceramics was inaugurated at 1998 at the global headquarters building in Kyoto, followed by a sister museum in the company’s Kagoshima Kokubu Plant, which opened in 2001. Open to the public and free of charge, the museums showcase the evolution and latest technological advances around which Kyocera has grown, and serve to support the future development of fine ceramics. The museum in Kyoto was completely renovated in March 2014, and receives more than 20,000 visitors per year. The Kyocera Museum of Fine Ceramics 114 Donation of the Kyocera Collection of British Parliamentary Papers In 1998, Kyocera donated to Japan’s National Museum of Ethnology more than 12,000 volumes of documents that had been submitted to the British parliament in the 19th and 20th centuries. The collection was transferred to the Center for Integrated Area Studies (CIAS) at Kyoto University in 2006 and is utilized as a resource for research. Kyocera Collection of British Parliamentary Papers 115 Social Contribution Activities Support for Culture and the Arts The Kirishima International Music Festival Since 2001, Kyocera has supported the Kirishima International Music Festival (Japan) with the hope of providing students an opportunity to learn from outstanding musicians by experiencing their performances firsthand. Concerts and workshops are held every year, featuring musicians from around the world as invited performers and lecturers. Concert at the Kirishima International Music Festival © Kirishima International Music Festival Kyoto Hanatouro Project Kyocera supports the Kyoto Hanatouro Project, in which lights and flowers evoking a rich Japanese ethos decorate Kyoto’s prominent streets, temples, shrines and other historic cultural assets. More than two million people enjoyed fantastic night scenery during 2015 events in Higashiyama and Arashiyama. In 2016, Hotel Princess Kyoto Co., Ltd began providing volunteer Information Desk staffing and distributing promotional literature and questionnaires. Townscape vividly lit by street lanterns © Kyoto Hanatouro Promotion Council Shiki Theatre Company’s Kokoro no Gekijo Kyocera supports Kokoro no Gekijo (theatre of the heart), planned and managed by the Shiki Theatre Company, which uses the stage to communicate to children such important life lessons as trust, altruism and the value of life. Children across Japan are invited to attend the free performances. Shiki Theatre Company performing The Cat Who Wished to be a Man (Photo by Akihito Abe) 116 The Kyocera Museum of Art The Kyocera Museum of Art, which is open to the public and free of charge, was established at 1998 at Kyocera’s headquarters building (Kyoto, Japan). Many works of art are on permanent display, including Picasso’s copper plate print series 347, paintings, sculptures, and Qianlong glass from China. A special exhibition was held in 2015 to display ancient offerings dedicated by the shogunate government during the Edo period (1603­1868) to Yasaka Shrine in Kyoto. These rare exhibits have not been widely available for public viewing and were The Kyocera Museum of Art Detail of a poster from the 2015 Autumn Special received enthusiastically by visitors. Exhibition 117 Social Contribution Activities International Exchange and Collaboration Donations to Nepal to Support Earthquake Reconstruction To support reconstruction in Nepal following the 2015 earthquakes, Kyocera donated solar power generating systems through the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), which established temporary facilities and helped rebuild infrastructure and lifelines. The solar installations power lighting and computers at Gorkha District Hospital and a rehabilitation facility in the Sindhupalchowk District. Delivery to Sindhupalchowk District (Nepal) Picture Books for Children in Asia In 2009, to support international efforts to promote reading, Kyocera joined a program to deliver children’s picture books translated into local languages to regions in Asia with lower literacy rates. Books delivered to Cambodia and refugee camps in Myanmar (Burma) help local children learn to read and write. Employees volunteer to make picture books Children enjoying the picture books (photo courtesy of Shanti Volunteer Association) The Inamori­Kyocera Western Development Scholarship In 2001, Kyocera and its founder, Kazuo Inamori, set up the Inamori­Kyocera Western Development Scholarship Fund to assist economically disadvantaged university students in China’s western provinces who show both outstanding academic achievement and high moral character. The fund fosters individuals who will aid regional development through science and technology. Scholarships are granted at 12 universities each year, with more than 4,000 recipients to date. Scholarship recipients 118 Providing Scholarships to Japanese Language Students Since 1983, Kyocera International, Inc. (U.S.A.) has provided Kyocera Japanese Scholarships and Best Student Awards to students at San Diego State University. These annual partial scholarships and awards recognize outstanding students of Japanese language and encourage cross­cultural studies. Representatives from Kyocera International, Inc. (center and right) present a Kyocera Japanese Scholarship. (© Cassandra Neel) Cultural Exchange Tours Enable Chinese Children to Visit Japan Since 1997, Kyocera has invited children from China to visit Japan, with the hope that providing firsthand experience of different cultures to children will facilitate future bonds of friendship between the two countries. The summer of 2015 marked the 16th anniversary of this tour, with 30 children visiting Japan from Beijing and Tianjin Province to travel around Kyoto and Osaka. 454 children have visited Japan and enlarged their experience so far. Chinese Children visit the headquarters of Kyocera Lunch party with host family Chinese children visit a middle school in Japan 119 Support for Overseas Study Since 2013, the Japanese Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology has implemented “TOBITATE! NEXT JAPAN” — a public­private overseas study program aimed at nurturing human resources with a global perspective who can succeed in the modern world. In August 2015, a Kyocera executive with both overseas study and work experience gave a keynote speech during a pre­departure study abroad training seminar for students about the importance of maintaining hopes and dreams which he tied it in to the company’s corporate philosophy. “TOBITATE! NEXT JAPAN” send­off party Kyocera supports this program in the hope that motivated and capable young people will grow into adults who contribute to a more harmonious global society. Pre­departure training seminar Supporting Education of Vietnam Maritime University Students To support the development of the local city of Hai Phong, Kyocera Document Technology Vietnam Co., Ltd. started offering scholarships to Vietnam Maritime University students in 2013. By providing annual scholarships to economically disadvantaged students with excellent academic performance and conduct, Kyocera hopes to assist in developing strong leaders for the next generation. Ceremony inaugurating the scholarship Scholarship recipients program 120 Donations to Schools in Uganda, Tanzania and Nepal To help improve the educational environment in areas lacking electricity, Kyocera has donated solar power generating systems and basic electrical equipment, including lighting, TVs and radios, to schools in Uganda, Tanzania and Nepal from 2009 to 2014. As a pioneer in solar power, Kyocera can help improve educational standards in developing countries by giving children — our future leaders — classrooms lit by solar electricity. Solar modules installed at a school Schoolchildren watch a solar­powered TV (Uganda) (Uganda) Solar modules installed at a school Solar modules installed at a school (Tanzania) (Nepal) 121 Social Contribution Activities Local Community Activities Japan Supporting Kyoto Sanga F.C. Professional Soccer Team In 1994, in response to the high expectations of Kyoto residents calling for a local professional soccer team, Kyocera helped establish Kyoto Purple Sanga (now Kyoto Sanga F.C.), with the belief that it is the responsibility of local companies to help local communities thrive. Kyocera Group companies in Japan work together to support the team. Kyocera also supports the Sanga Cup Kyoto Youth Soccer Championships, as well as a project that helps develop soccer skills in players ages 18 and younger. © KYOTO SANGA F.C. Operation of Kagoshima Nanatsujima Solar Science Museum Kyocera, working through the Kagoshima Mega Solar Power Corporation, built and operates the 70­megawatt Kagoshima Nanatsujima Mega Solar Power Plant and the adjoining Kagoshima Nanatsujima Solar Science Museum where people can explore global environmental issues and learn how solar power generation works. More than 22,000 people have visited the facilities since they opened in November 2013. In addition to offering stunning views of the Kagoshima Nanatsujima Mega Solar Power Students touring the Kagoshima Nanatsujima Plant where the Solar Science Museum is Solar Science Museum solar power plant and Mt. Sakurajima, the located Museum seeks to contribute to local revitalization. Christmas Illuminations In December, Kyocera festively illuminates its global headquarters building in Kyoto with LED lighting to enliven the local community. During the holiday season, the headquarters building becomes a huge, 86­meter­high shining fir tree through the clever arrangement of lighted windows. In 2015, many visitors enjoyed strolling in the headquarters courtyard, which was decorated by approximately 200,000 LED bulbs, providing a festive atmosphere on winter nights. A giant Christmas tree LED illuminations in the public space in front is created through of the headquarters building the clever arrangement of lighted windows 122 Donation of “Kyocera Libraries” To commemorate its 55th anniversary in 2014, Kyocera donated approximately 50 million yen worth of books — dubbed “Kyocera Libraries” — to 130 local elementary and middle schools in communities where 25 of Kyocera’s main manufacturing plants and business offices are located in Japan. In response to an overall decline in readership, Kyocera hopes that this donation will enhance the development of our next­generation leaders by providing them with more opportunities to enjoy books and discover the importance of reading. Presentation ceremony at an elementary school (Yasu, Shiga Prefecture) Outside Japan Outreach Activities for Local Children and Groups Kyocera Precision Tools Korea Co., Ltd. (Korea) has conducted outreach to disabled children and elderly persons living alone at Christmastime every year since 1999. Approximately 400 employees devide into small to deliver food and daily necessities donated by employees, and also engaged in other volunteer activities such as light housekeeping. Scarves delivered to children in welfare facilities Donation to the Autism Research and Treatment Organization Kyocera Document Solutions America, Inc. (U.S.A.) began fundraising for World Autism Awareness Day in 2014. Kyocera employees who donated five dollars or more come to work in blue, the official color of World Autism Awareness Day. Money donated by employees is given to Autism Speaks, an organization specializing in the research and treatment of autism. Employees in blue who participated in the charity drive 123 Renovating Schools Kyocera Crystal Device (Thailand) Co., Ltd., together with local communities, joined in renovations such as re­tiling bathroom floors, painting walls and washbasins, and installing drinking fountains at schools in Lamphun Province where the company is located. These efforts greatly improved the sanitary conditions at the schools and evoked messages of joy and gratitude from the children. Employees who took part in school renovations Raising Funds for Cancer Patients Kyocera Document Solutions Australia Pty. Ltd. (Australia) supports both “Daffodil Day” and “Australia’s Biggest Morning Tea” charity fundraisers, which benefit cancer patients and research. Teddy bears, pens and other goods were sold in the office and a staff­funded morning tea was held to raise donations. All funds raised were donated to the Cancer Council Australia. Employees participate in “Australia’s Biggest “Australia’s Biggest Morning Tea” charity Morning Tea” charity event event Toys for Tots Donation Since 2006, Kyocera Document Solutions America, Inc. has supported the annual Toys for Tots campaign run by the U.S. Marine Corps, which collects toys to give as holiday gifts to underprivileged children. The primary goal of Toys for Tots is to deliver a message of hope to less fortunate youngsters that will assist them in becoming responsible and productive citizens. U.S. Marines and Kyocera employee with donated toys 124 Pink Ribbon Activities The Kyocera Group supports the Pink Ribbon movement to promote early detection and diagnosis of breast cancer, and donates part of the profits from its pink ceramic kitchen products to this effort. In the United States, Kyocera has donated part of the profits from its pink­handled ceramic knives to breast cancer research since 2004. Kyocera supports similar activities in Australia, Singapore, China, Japan and Korea. Ceramic knife series supports the Pink Ribbon movement Summer Festivals at Plants and Offices Every year since 1972, Kyocera Group has held summer festivals at its offices and plants throughout Japan to deepen the relationship with local communities. The Kyocera Group also began holding summer festivals in China in 2009 and Vietnam in 2014. About 3,000 local residents visit our plant in Vietnam to enjoy food, games, karaoke and dance performances every year. Employees wearing traditional national dress, ao dai , while performing the Non La dance (Vietnam) Local Beautification Activities Kyocera aims to be an integral part of its local communities, participating in beautification efforts for parks, forests, rivers and areas around the company’s offices and plants worldwide on a regular basis. Kyocera Document Solutions Australia Pty. Ltd. (Australia) has participated in the nation’s largest community­ based environmental event, “Clean­up Australia Day” since 2011 and conducted cleanups at Lane Cove’s Blackman Park in 2015. Kyocera continually seeks to help beautify its communities. Employees taking part in the clean­up event (Australia) 125 Editorial Policy This CSR report is published to report on the Kyocera Group’s CSR activities in keeping with the concept of ISO26000, the international standard concerning social responsibilities. Information contained in this report is disclosed in consideration of opinions and views received from stakeholders, and the degree of importance placed on the above activities by the Kyocera Group. Reporting Period Information disclosed focuses on content from FY2016 (April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016). Scope of the Report Kyocera Corporation and consolidated subsidiaries In this report, “Kyocera” refers to Kyocera Corporation as a separate entity. The environmental data shown here are for production sites. Whenever the scope differs, it is so specified. Accuracy of Information To ensure the accuracy of disclosed information, the information presented here is disclosed after being cross­checked by multiple divisions, including the division providing the information, the Editorial Section, and the Corporate Communications Division. 126 GRI and ISO26000 Comparison Tables The Kyocera Group strives to report in conformity to international standards and refers to core subjects of Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4 of GRI and ISO26000: 2010. GRI Guideline ·The Company's CSR Report conforms to the core items of the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. General Standard Disclosures Item Indicator References Strategy and Analysis Provide a statement from the most senior decision­maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to G4­1 Top Management Message the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and Top Management Message G4­2 opportunities. Form 20­F Organizational Profile G4­3 Report the name of the organization. Corporate Summary G4­4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. Business Segments G4­5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. Corporate Summary Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the Business Development G4­6 organization has significant operations or that are Global Network specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. Corporate Summary G4­7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. Form 20­F Report the markets served (including geographic G4­8 breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and Corporate Summary beneficiaries). G4­9 Report the scale of the organization. Corporate Summary a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. G4­10 Respect for Human Rights and Diversity e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as selfemployed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers. 127 Report the percentage of total employees covered by G4­11 Respect for Human Rights and Diversity collective bargaining agreements. Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4­12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. Responsibility (CSR) Supply Chain Management Report any significant changes during the reporting G4­13 period regarding the organization’s size, structure, Not applicable ownership, or its supply chain. Commitments to External Initiatives Corporate Governance Report whether and how the precautionary approach or G4­14 Risk Management and Compliance principle is addressed by the organization. Environmental Risk Management List externally developed economic, environmental and Response to International Standards and G4­15 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the Initiatives organization subscribes or which it endorses. List memberships of associations and national or Keidanren (Japan Business Federation), JEITA G4­16 international advocacy organizations in which the (Japan Electronics and Information Technology organization: Industries Assocciation) etc Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4­17 b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s Responsibility (CSR) consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4­18 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Responsibility (CSR) Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. List all the material Aspects identified in the process for Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4­19 defining report content. Responsibility (CSR) For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4­20 within the organization, as follows. Responsibility (CSR) For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4­21 outside the organization, as follows. Responsibility (CSR) Report the effect of any restatements of information G4­22 provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such Not applicable restatements. Report significant changes from previous reporting G4­23 Not applicable periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Stakeholder Engagement Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4­24 organization. Responsibility (CSR) 128 Report the basis for identification and selection of Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4­25 stakeholders with whom to engage. Responsibility (CSR) Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4­26 and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether Responsibility (CSR) any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4­27 concerns, including through its reporting. Report the Responsibility (CSR) stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for G4­28 Editorial Policy information provided. G4­29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). July, 2016 G4­30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Annual Provide the contact point for questions regarding the G4­31 Support / Contact report or its contents. GRI Content Index a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). G4­32 c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, GRI and ISO 26000 Comparison Tables if the report has been externally assured. (GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines.) Assurance a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of G4­33 any external assurance provided. Form 20­F c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. 129 Governance Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. G4­34 Corporate Governance Identify any committees responsible for decision­making on economic, environmental and social impacts. Ethics and Integrity Kyocera Group Management Roots Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards Kyocera Group Corporate Social G4­56 and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and Responsibility (CSR) codes of ethics. Corporate Governance Specific Standard Disclosures ( : Selected as material issues for Kyocera Group) Item Indicator References Economic Economic Performance G4­EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Form 20­F Form 20­F Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Feature Article 1: Kyocera’s Floating Solar G4­EC2 for the organization’s activities due to climate change Power Plants Contribute to Greater Diffusion of Renewable Energy Use Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan G4­EC3 Form 20­F obligations G4­EC4 Financial assistance received from government Form 20­F Market Presence Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared G4­EC5 to local minimum wage at significant locations of ­ operation Proportion of senior management hired from the local G4­EC6 ­ community at significant locations of operation Indirect Economic Impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments G4­EC7 Social Contribution Activities and services supported Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent G4­EC8 Environmental Accounting of impacts Procurement Practices Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant G4­EC9 ­ locations of operation 130 Environmental Materials G4­EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ­ Percentage of materials used that are recycled input G4­EN2 Environmentally Friendly Products materials Energy Energy Conservation and Prevention of G4­EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Climate Change Energy Conservation and Prevention of G4­EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Climate Change Energy Conservation and Prevention of G4­EN5 Energy intensity Climate Change Energy Conservation and Prevention of G4­EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Climate Change Reductions in energy requirements of products and G4­EN7 Environmentally Friendly Products services Water G4­EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ­ Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of G4­EN9 ­ water G4­ Percentage and total volume of water recycled and Effective Use of Water Resources EN10 reused Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent Activities Related to the Conservation of G4­EN11 to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value Biodiversity outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, G4­ Activities Related to the Conservation of and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas EN12 Biodiversity of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4­ Activities Related to the Conservation of Habitats protected or restored EN13 Biodiversity Total number of IUCN Red List species and national G4­ conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by ­ EN14 operations, by level of extinction risk Emissions G4­ Energy Conservation and Prevention of Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) EN15 Climate Change G4­ Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope Energy Conservation and Prevention of EN16 2) Climate Change G4­ Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope Energy Conservation and Prevention of EN17 3) Climate Change 131 G4­ Energy Conservation and Prevention of Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity EN18 Climate Change G4­ Energy Conservation and Prevention of Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions EN19 Climate Change G4­ Emissions of ozone­depleting substances (ODS) Complete elimination EN20 G4­ Energy Conservation and Prevention of NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions EN21 Climate Change Effluents and Waste G4­ Total water discharge by quality and destination Effective Use of Water Resources EN22 G4­ Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Waste Reduction and Recycling Measures EN23 G4­ Total number and volume of significant spills Environmental Risk Management EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated G4­ waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel ­ EN25 Convention2 Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of G4­ water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by ­ EN26 the organization’s discharges of water and runoff Products and Services G4­ Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of Environmentally Friendly Products EN27 products and services G4­ Percentage of products sold and their packaging Environmentally Friendly Products EN28 materials that are reclaimed by category Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of G4­ non­monetary sanctions for non­compliance with Environmental Risk Management EN29 environmental laws and regulations Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products G4­ Energy Conservation and Prevention of and other goods and materials for the organization’s EN30 Climate Change operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall G4­ Total environmental protection expenditures and Environmental Accounting EN31 investments by type 132 Supplier Environmental Assessment G4­ Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Supply Chain Management EN32 environmental criteria Promotion of Green Procurement G4­ Significant actual and potential negative environmental Supply Chain Management EN33 impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Promotion of Green Procurement Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, Thorough Legal Compliance G4­ addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Approaches to Raising Customer EN34 mechanisms Satisfaction Levels Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment Total number and rates of new employee hires and G4­LA1 Careers employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Benefits provided to full­time employees that are not G4­LA2 provided to temporary or part­time employees, by ­ significant locations of operation Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by G4­LA3 ­ gender Labor/Management Relations Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, G4­LA4 including whether these are specified in collective ­ agreements Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Approaches to Stimulating management — worker health and safety committees that G4­LA5 Communication(Approach to Labor­ help monitor and advise on occupational health and Management Relations) safety programs Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, Approaches to Occupational Safety and G4­LA6 lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of Health / Fire and Disaster Prevention workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases Approaches to Occupational Safety and G4­LA7 related to their occupation Health / Fire and Disaster Prevention Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements G4­LA8 Approaches for Health Enhancement with trade unions 133 Training and Education Average hours of training per year per employee by Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education G4­LA9 gender, and by employee category Cultivation of Human Resources Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that G4­LA10 support the continued employability of employees and Cultivation of Human Resources assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education G4­LA11 and career development reviews, by gender and by Cultivation of Human Resources employee category Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, G4­LA12 Respect for Diversity / Work­Life Balance age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men No discrimination with regard to male and G4­LA13 by employee category, by significant locations of female compensation within the same category operation Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4­LA14 Supply Chain Management labor practices criteria Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor G4­LA15 Supply Chain Management practices in the supply chain and actions taken Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about labor practices filed, Thorough Legal Compliance G4­LA16 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Approaches to Raising Customer mechanisms Satisfaction Levels Human Rights Investment Total number and percentage of significant investment G4­HR1 agreements and contracts that include human rights ­ clauses or that underwent human rights screening Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that Respect for Human Rights and Diversity G4­HR2 are relevant to operations, including the percentage of Supply Chain Management employees trained Non­discrimination Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective G4­HR3 ­ actions taken 134 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining Respect for Human Rights G4­HR4 may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken CSR Deployment in the Supply Chain to support these rights Child Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant Respect for Human Rights G4­HR5 risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to CSR Deployment in the Supply Chain contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Forced or Compulsory Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and Respect for Human Rights G4­HR6 measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of CSR Deployment in the Supply Chain forced or compulsory labor Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the G4­HR7 organization’s human rights policies or procedures that ­ are relevant to operations Indigenous Rights Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of G4­HR8 ­ indigenous peoples and actions taken Assessment Total number and percentage of operations that have Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education G4­HR9 been subject to human rights reviews or impact Cultivation of Human Resources assessments Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4­ Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using ­ HR10 human rights criteria G4­ Significant actual and potential negative human rights Supply Chain Management HR11 impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, Thorough Legal Compliance G4­ addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Approaches to Raising Customer HR12 mechanisms Satisfaction Levels Society Communities Percentage of operations with implemented local Green Communication G4­SO1 community engagement, impact assessments, and Social Contribution Activities development programs Operations with significant actual or potential negative G4­SO2 Environmental Risk Management impacts on local communities 135 Anti­corruption Total number and percentage of operations assessed for Internal Control Audits of the Kyocera G4­SO3 risks related to corruption and the significant risks Group identified Thorough Legal Compliance Communication and training on anti­corruption policies G4­SO4 Thorough Legal Compliance and procedures G4­SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken ­ Public Policy Total value of political contributions by country and Thorough Legal Compliance(Legal Audit G4­SO6 recipient/beneficiary System) Anti­competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions for anti­competitive G4­SO7 behavior, anti­trust, and monopoly practices and their Not applicable outcomes Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of G4­SO8 non­monetary sanctions for non­compliance with laws Not applicable and regulations Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4­SO9 Supply Chain Management criteria for impacts on society G4­ Significant actual and potential negative impacts on Supply Chain Management SO10 society in the supply chain and actions taken Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, Thorough Legal Compliance G4­ addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Approaches to Raising Customer SO11 mechanisms Satisfaction Levels Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety Percentage of significant product and service categories G4­PR1 for which health and safety impacts are assessed for Efforts to Ensure Product Safety improv ement Total number of incidents of non­compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health G4­PR2 ­ and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes 136 Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service G4­PR3 information and labeling, and percentage of significant Thorough Legal Compliance product and service categories subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non­compliance with G4­PR4 regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and ­ service information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4­PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction ­ Marketing Communications G4­PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products ­ Total number of incidents of non­compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing G4­PR7 ­ communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding G4­PR8 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer Not applicable data Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non­compliance G4­PR9 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and Information use of products and services 137 ISO26000 ISO26000 Core Subjects Issues References Top Management Message Organizational Kyocera Group Corporate Social Responsibility ­ Governance (CSR) Corporate Governance 1. Due diligence 2. Human rights risk situations 3. Avoidance of complicity 4. Resolving grievances 5. Discrimination and vulnerable Respect for Human Rights and Diversity Human Rights groups Risk Management and Compliance 6. Civil and political rights Supply Chain Management 7. Economic, social and cultural rights 8. Fundamental principles and rights at work 1. Employment and employment relationships 2. Conditions of work and social Respect for Human Rights and Diversity protection Labour Practices Cultivation of Human Resources 3. Social dialogue Building a Safe & Secure Work Environment 4. Health and safety at work 5. Human development and training in the workplace 1. Prevention of pollution 2. Sustainable resource use Kyocera Group Environmental Management 3. Climate change mitigation and Green Management The Environment adaptation Green Products 4. Protection of the environment, Green Factories biodiversity and restoration of Green Communication natural habitats 1. Anti­corruption 2. Responsible political involvement Promotion of Green Procurement 3. Fair competition Fair Operating Practices Risk Management and Compliance 4. Promoting social responsibility in Supply Chain Management the value chain 5. Respect for property rights 138 1. Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices 2. Protecting consumers' health and safety Promotion of Green Procurement 3. Sustainable consumption Risk Management and Compliance Consumer Issues 4. Consumer service, support, and Supply Chain Management complaint and dispute resolution Customer Concerns 5. Consumer data protection and privacy 6. Access to essential services 7. Education and awareness 1. Community involvement 2. Education and culture 3. Employment creation and skills development Community Involvement Green Communication 4. Technology development and and Development Social Contribution Activities access 5. Wealth and income creation 6. Health 7. Social investment 139 Duplication or reproduction of any part of this brochure without approval is prohibited. © 2016 KYOCERA Corporation
