Communication on Progress Year : 2016 Hindustan Platinum Pvt. Ltd. has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since 17th July 2008. We are committed to the ten principles of the compact which promote better corporate responsibility in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. Summary of the progress made in these principles is attached Ashish Choksi Vice President Contact: 022 61904000 Email: ashish.choksi@hp.co.in P 1/6 Commitment/ Policies, Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans Global Compact Principle for the upcoming Year 1: Businesses should support and Commitment/ Policies : We are following the international declaration of Human Rights. We respect the protection of have formulated conflict mineral policy for us and our suppliers. internationally proclaimed human rights Action Taken : We have sent conflict mineral reporting template to our core suppliers. . Outcomes : Employee grievances, if any are addressed on priority. Our suppliers have understood and endorsed the CMRT declaration. 2: and make sure that they are not Commitment/ Policies : We have formulated below policies for our organisation : complicit in human rights abuses. 1. Sustainable and ethical procurement policy, 2. Code of conduct & Ethics 3. Sexual harassment policy 4. Human rights policy. Action Taken Our company has a strict policy of registration of all employees with the provident fund, Employees state insurance. We follow guidelines of the workers minimum wages act. Company provides conveyance to all employees from all parts of the city. Mediclaim policy for all the employees and their family member is provided. We have conducted third party audit for all factors related to sustainability. We have made internal complaint committee under the sexual harassment of women at workplace (prevention, prohibition and redressal) Act 2013 & the rules, 2013. Outcomes The HR department discusses all issues related to the employees with recognised and representative union and finds a solution. If required the issue is brought to the notice of Vice President for a solution. Our overall compliance in this aspect is more than Indian average. Our division is awarded with OHAS 18001 certification. Plans for the Upcoming Year . : To hold meeting once in six months / after the receipt of complaint to resolve it. P 2/6 3: Businesses should uphold the Commitment/ Policies Our company has a recogonised employees union. freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Action Taken Office bearers of the employees union discuss with company management on collective bargaining; various issues including wages. Wages are revised in discussion with the union. We have signed the agreement with recognised union up to 2018. Outcomes. Employees get solutions to their problems. Plans for the Upcoming Year : We conduct scheduled meetings to discuss all issues. 4: the elimination of all forms of Commitment/ Policies : Our recruitment is defined and our HR department recruits based on forced and compulsory labour; application received. Action Taken : Above policy is strictly followed. We have conducted third party audit. Outcomes : No forced labour. We got 100 % marks in forced labour that means we do not have any forced labour in our organisation. Plans for the Upcoming Year : We will adhere to our policy. We also ask our vendor to implement the same. 5: the effective abolition of child Commitment/ Policies : We have human rights policy, where we have addressed to recruit a labour; person above 18 years. Action Taken The company human rights policy ensures that no child labour is recruited. We have conducted third party audit. Outcomes : The age of all employees is more than 18 years. Plans for the Upcoming Year : We strictly follow the company human rights policy on child labour. We also ask our vendor to implement the same. 6: and the elimination of Commitment/ Policies : The policy on Human Rights includes no discrimination on account of discrimination in respect of age, sex, nationality or religion. employment and occupation. Action Taken : The company’s Human Rights policy ensure that there is no discrimination on account of age, sex, nationality and religion. We have conducted third party audit. Outcomes: We have women working as Managers and General Managers. Third party audit had rated us 100 % on this criteria. We have formulated a internal complaints committee for redressal of sexual harassment of women at work place. P 3/6 Plans for the Upcoming Year : To hold meeting once in six months / after the receipt of complaint to resolve it. 7: Businesses should support a Commitment/ Policies : Company has an environment policy. precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Action Taken : 1. The company has made a procedure to check aspect and impact on environment of new activity. If it exceeds to certain value it will be taken seriously and precautionary measures will be taken to reduce its impact on the environment. 2. Company has installed wet scrubber for melting furnace, having low power consumption, 3. Installed exhaust system for plating plant 4. Company has its own effluent treatment plant, where water is treated before it is release to the drain. 5. Company has sewage treatment plant, after treating sewage water, it is released to root zone. 6. Third party testing of our water is done periodically. Ambient air, air emission are also checked by third party periodically. Noise level in the company’s premises is also checked periodically. 7. Mass transportation is being provided to our staff as well as our workers to reduce pollution. 8. We have maintained green garden in our premises and also maintain garden outside our compound wall. 9. Company has installed Organic Waste Converter System to convert Biomass / Waste into bio-organic soil enricher and conditioner. 10. Obtained ISO : 14001 certificate in the month of March ’12. 11. Started maintain records as per ISO : 14001 and finalised Environment Management Program like reduction in consumption of water, electricity, reduction in generation of hazardous waste and set the target to reduce the adverse effect on environment due to our operation. 12. Started sending Hazardous Waste to Government Authorised disposer for proper disposal of waste. 13. Company has procured noise level checking instrument and noise level is monitored periodically. 14. E-Waste is disposed through government approved agency. 15. We have developed AgZnO material, this can be used as substitute to Cadmium. 16. One of our customers has conducted RoHS audit and we scored 60 % marks. 17. The generation of electrical power at our wind mills and solar panel installation is in net surplus of our total power consumption. 18. We have tested our electrical contacts for REACH compliance of 169 substances. 19. We have reduced our effluent quantity approximately by 15 %. P 4/6 20. we have modify the process with automisation in the process Improved condenser system . And scrubber system with greatly increased efficiencies over our past scrubber 21. We have started using Eco-friendly fuel (PNG supplied by Mahanagar Gas Ltd.) 22. We have developed new Green belt/garden, Nos. of Trees planted – Inside HPPL-89 No of trees Out Side HPPL-213 Pot Plant: 394 No. Lawn developed – Garden area in side HPPL: 3087m2 Root Zone in side HPPL: 353 m2 And also Outside HPPL Garden area 23. we have upgraded Effluent treatment plant with new technology using a Diffused Aeration system MBBR Outcomes : We have reduced adverse impact of our activities on environment. Plans for the Upcoming Year : We monitor all Environmental data and will try to achieve the target. 8: undertake initiatives to promote Commitment/ Policies : To reduce water / power consumption greater environmental responsibility; Action Taken : 1. We have changed water distribution system 2. We have installed overhead tank to save consumption of power. 3. We monitor water and power consumption every month. 4. We have kept targets to reduce water consumption and electrical consumption without affecting production. 5. We have replaced halogen lamps with LED lamps to save power in the factory. 6. We have changed Hard disc to solid state disc and installed LED monitors to save power consumption. 7. We have installed motion detector in all passages area to reduce power Consumption. 8. Company has rain water harvesting system, The water collected by rain harvesting system is used for plantation and gardening. 9. We have procured new wire washing machine to reduce water consumption. Outcomes Consumption of power and water has been reduced. Plans for the Upcoming Year . To replace all tube lights of office area by LED. 9: and encourage the development Commitment/ Policies To reduce use of natural resources by using eco-friendly technology, and diffusion of environmentally To reduce adverse effect on environment by using advance machines friendly technologies. Action Taken 1 Used Belt Polishing instead of open air hand brushing to reduce air pollution. 2. We have installed 60 KW power melting furnace to replace 150 KW furnace. P 5/6 3. We have started practice of reducing furnace temperature during no load situation and starting furnace just in time to be ready for production process when required. Outcomes : Due to belt polishing machine, spreading of polishing dust on the floor and in air is avoided. Electric power is saved. Plans for the Upcoming Year : We will promote Environment friendly electrical contact material against AgCdO. 10: Businesses should work against Commitment/ Policies : We have formulated Human Rights policy for our employees and Code all forms of corruption, including of conduct for suppliers. extortion and bribery. Action Taken : Code of conduct has been forwarded to core supplier for signin, which also covers corruption and bribery. Outcomes : Supplier has taken it in right spirit. Plans for the Upcoming Year Plan to increase awareness among all the supplier on this aspect. P 6/6
