Communication on Progress 2015 n Global tio United Na mpact Co June 2016 Jean-Marc Bianchi, Chief Executive Officer DECLARATION OF SUPPORT FROM THE CEO AND PRESIDENT OF KERNEOS I am pleased to confirm that Kerneos reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Aware of its corporate and environmental responsibilities, Kerneos has pursued, for a number of years the integration of these universal principles into its strategy, culture and daily operations. Kerneos wants to demonstrate this with a public commitment by joining the United Nations Global Compact. The commitment by the management at Kerneos is conveyed through the adoption of a Code of Conduct, and the formalization and launch of a Sustainable Development Policy, based around six areas of action and establishing a five-year progress plan and targets. In 2015, Kerneos gathered policies for its Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR) under one program, in order to bring coherence to its approach. Kerneos calls this program KARE: Kerneos Acts as a Responsible Enterprise. Accordingly, the KARE Program includes not only the six axes of the Sustainable Development Policy but also initiatives from the following fields: • Respect for human rights • Respect for ethical business • Responsible purchases • Human resource management • Health, Safety and Environment • Community roots and support for local charities In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours. Jean-Marc J Bianchi, Chief Chie Executive Officer Kerneos, the expert in calcium aluminates technologies, offers a varied range of high-tech calcium Introduction aluminates binders with the brand names: CIMENT FONDU®, SECAR®, TERNAL®, PERAMIN®, ALAG®, CALCOAT®, SEWPERCOAT®, FONDAG®, LDSF® et OPTIMET®. These products, with numerous properties, are designed for applications within refractory, building chemistry, technical concrete, mining, pipes, wastewater, and metallurgical flux applications. In combination with other specialist mineral and organic products, including Peramin® polymer powders, Kerneos’ product ranges offer innovative solutions and guarantee improved performances. Kerneos aims to act as a partner for its customers, thereby opening up new areas of application, with the aim of meeting the needs of its markets. Kerneos has around twenty subsidiaries worldwide and its products are sold in more than one hundred countries. In 2015, Kerneos generated a turnover of 417 million euros and currently employs 1,532 people around the world. Since March 2014, Kerneos is controlled by Astorg Partners, a French fund private equity. Astorg invests in high-potential industrial and service companies, which are backed by management teams combining operational success with an entrepreneurial drive. WORLDWIDE NETWORK LOCAL PRESENCE In the context of globalization of the construction industry, having suppliers with a truly global activity is critical. Kerneos is a genuine and reliable partner offering local presence, global product availability and a local understanding of customers’ requirements and evolution. Kerneos provides: • Local commercial network covering more than 100 countries ready to serve customers • Marketing and technical experts able to support partners developments and anticipate market needs • Industrial network of 10 plants worldwide, all operating under ISO 9001 • 2 central research centers (France, China). • 1 regional development laboratory (North America) • 4 application laboratories (Brazil, India, South Africa and Russia) 1 KERNEOS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT POLICY POLICY Aware of its corporate and environmental responsibilities, actions. The effectiveness of these actions is evaluated every Kerneos has pursued, for many years, the integration of year with performance indicators with a target established sustainable development principles into its strategy, culture for the next five years. and daily operations. A centralized team is dedicated to the coordination of all The Kerneos Sustainable Development Policy, established to sustainable development actions and the progress of those respond to the concerns of its principal stakeholders, revolves actions is monitored at the Executive Committee level of the around six ambitions, that is, six fields of excellence for company (a progress review of our performance scorecard which Kerneos intends to progressively improve. The policy is is performed every quarter by the Executive Committee). comprised of several commitments that represent tangible 2015 ACTIONS 2015 was a crucial moment for the buy in of this Sustainable relay Kerneos’ commitments to their teams and explain to Development policy for all of the Kerneos teams worldwide, them the action plans and monitoring indicators being set up. thanks to a number of training and information initiatives. In 2015, 80% of managers attended the online training A pamphlet on our Sustainable Development Policy was seminar that was prepared by our Sustainable Development distributed in 2015 to all Kerneos managers so that they could Management. 2016 ACTIONS Preparation of a Sustainable Development Report. INDICATOR % of employees trained Roll out of Sustainable Development Policy 80% of managers KERNEOS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT POLICY 2 PRINCIPLES REGARDING HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY Promotion and respect for international human Avoiding complicity in human rights violations rights law With a presence in almost 20 countries, Kerneos ensures Kerneos is committed to implementing the laws, conventions that the fundamental principles of human rights are strictly and regulations in force in the countries in which it operates. implemented in all its subsidiaries by means of regular visits Kerneos adheres to the principles of the 1948 Universal conducted by Executive Management Committee members. Declaration of Human Rights and avoids any action violating human rights. Furthermore, Kerneos acknowledges its indirect responsibility further up the supply chain; therefore, a special section on Respecting human rights appears among the fundamental human rights and working conditions has been included in principles reaffirmed by the Kerneos Code of Conduct. the Suppliers and Subcontractors Charter. 2015 ACTIONS Adoption of a Code of Conduct the compliance of a situation with the Code of Conduct, This code, prepared in 2015, has been distributed to all ensuring that employees know where to obtain help and managers to ensure its promotion. It is available in three advice when faced with ethical issues in their job, and assisting languages (French, English and Chinese) to ensure global managers in the reporting of situations that do not conform coverage. to the Code of Conduct. The Compliance Officer is answerable to the Group President. Appointment of a Compliance Officer A Compliance Officer was appointed within the organization Formulation and roll out to Kerneos suppliers and in order to ensure consistent compliance with the Code subcontractors of the Suppliers and Subcontractors Charter of Conduct by the entire Kerneos Group. Further tasks in 2015 by the Kerneos Purchasing teams. include analyzing potential conflicts of interests, encouraging employees to come forward in the case of doubts regarding 2016 ACTIONS Creation of an e-learning module for raising employee Training purchasers in assessing a supplier using CSR criteria. awareness on issues and the module’s roll out to employees. INDICATORS % of employees trained Number of suppliers and subcontractors Code of Conduct launch Supplier Charter signature Available in 2016 Suppliers and Subcontractors Charter A charter was defined in 2015 with the aim of promoting the rules in our own code of conduct among our partners and suppliers. The commitments presented in that charter are underpinned by the observance of local regulations on labor, safety and the environment as well as by fundamental international texts such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention, and the ILO’s Fundamental Conventions. Through the charter, Kerneos attempts to encourage its suppliers to develop proactive initiatives and move beyond merely sufficient compliance with sustainable development regulations. 3 PRINCIPLES REGARDING WORKING CONDITIONS POLICY Respect for the freedom of association and recognition of the right to collective bargaining Kerneos places particular attention to the respect of the Notably in France, all discussions between the local or general freedom of association and recognizing the right to collective management and the staff representatives take place at this bargaining. The Group guarantees all rights, stipulated under level. In France, all staff are represented by the elected bodies; the law of the country in which it operates, to the bodies in 2015, each of the five site works councils met within the representing the staff. deadlines, and the Central Works Council met three times. Within this context, Kerneos organizes and facilitates social The joint discussions allowed a certain number of agreements dialog within the group by prioritizing social dialog at the local to be signed which have improved the working conditions and level in order to allow the social partners to control all its aspects welfare benefits of the employees and take into account the legal provisions of the country. Extract from the Kerneos Code of Conduct: Kerneos respects its employees’ right of association and their right to representation. As an employer, Kerneos is committed to building positive relationships that protect the interests of each party and that foster dialog and the sharing of information. Employee health and safety Employee development Health and safety are fundamental values that are taken into Through its Human Resources Policy, Kerneos fosters its consideration in all aspects of our business throughout the employees’ training and development, and provides fair and world. Our Health and Safety Policy defines the values, motivational salaries as well as working conditions that respect principles and objectives of Kerneos, along with the methods the regulations on working time. to implement them. As part of its Sustainable Development Policy, Kerneos wishes The ProSafe Program, adopted within all Kerneos companies, to highlight the essential nature of maintaining diversity in skills has the goal of reinforcing our safety culture and pushing as a guarantee for innovation. Therefore, Kerneos has set the Kerneos to higher global standards in order for it to achieve objective of spending 1.1% of its entire payroll on training. This the target of zero accidents among all our employees and very important investment clearly reflects Kerneos’ ambition subcontractors. to continue the development of all its employees’ skills. 2015 ACTIONS Collective bargaining Health & safety Negotiation of a wage agreement and renegotiation of an After an assessment of investment agreement in France. our corporate safety Employee development culture in 2013, assisted Introduction of various training courses, developed internally by the tools and expertise and notably allowing employees of all countries to benefit of DuPont, Kerneos established Group-wide action plans and from the same training course and develop their skills together launched 26 groups all led by a member of the Steering in order to improve synergy and reinforce inter-departmental Committee. The safety organization was strengthened in 2014 cooperation, e.g. production campus sessions implemented and 2015 through the recruitment of safety professionals at all for production staff. Kerneos industrial sites. 2016 ACTIONS INDICATORS Collective bargaining Election of staff representatives in France in 2016 and opening of five new negotiations with the social partners. Health & safety Employee development Frequency rate Launch of a “Management Campus” module for managers LTI NLTI (within France) and opening of negotiations on the overhaul of the career paths and skills development for factory staff in France. Health & safety 3.6 6.1 Roll out of standards, such as operational discipline, Training management standards and inspections. 6,160 hours 72% employees trained Employee development Training expenditure 1.3% of payroll 4 PRINCIPLES REGARDING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION POLICY Whilst certain Kerneos sites already had their own Besides the obligation to observe applicable regulations, it environmental policy, in 2015, Kerneos wished to formalize centers on 4 main domains which are: a shared environmental policy for all of its entities, aiming to • Energy efficiency and combating climate change reduce its activities’ impact on the environment. • Conservation of natural resources and recycling • Control of airborne emissions • Analyses of product life-cycles 2015 ACTIONS Environmental performance of our industrial facilities In 2015, Kerneos published two papers on the optimization of Yearly monitoring of performance indicators was implemented the environmental footprint of calcium aluminates during the and the quantitative targets were established for limiting 14th conference of the International Congress on the Chemistry our CO2 emissions and energy consumption per ton of of Cement and the 14th conference of the Unified International manufactured product. Technical Conference of Refractories held in September 2015 in Vienna. Furthermore, concrete steps for reducing our atmospheric emissions were undertaken in 2015. Thanks to the new Thanks to those assessment tools, Kerneos delineated ecobagfilter installed in the industrial plant at Fos-sur-Mer (France), design criteria for the development of its new products. dust emissions from chimney have been significantly reduced, One such example is the new “eco-design” packaging far below the current threshold of 30 mg/Nm3 imposed by developed in 2015 for Ciment Fondu®, historical flagship regulations that we were already in compliance with. product of Kerneos and sold to traders, which is presented in the example box below. Environmental performance of products For many years, Kerneos has been equipped with specialized tools and has had internal expertise for the evaluation of the environmental impacts of its product range according to the Life-Cycle Assessments (ISO 14040 and 14044). 2016 ACTIONS Following the entry into force of new environmental standards in China over the course of 2015, investments initiated in 2015 will be completed in 2016 which will effectively reduce emissions of dust, sulfur oxides and nitrogen oxides. INDICATORS Indicator (ratios per ton 2013 amount 2015 of product) = base 100 amount Environmental certification Energy consumption 100 98 No. of ISO 14001-certified sites Environmental CO2 emissions 100 93 performance (industrial) Emissions of nitrogen oxides 100 61 3 out of 12 Emissions of sulfur oxides 100 81 An example of a tangible action implemented in 2015: the eco-design of new packaging for Ciment Fondu®, the historical flagship product of Kerneos, sold to traders The packaging is an integral part of the product’s presentation and the sustainable development performance of a product cannot be mentioned without due consideration to its packaging which assumes a key function before, during and after use of the product. Additional functionalities with A detailed life-cycle assessment provided alternative solutions and allowed the LESS IMPACT company to choose, with its suppliers, the option representing the smallest environmental footprint, while guaranteeing the best storage conditions for Positive feedback the product and fulfilling user demands (waste reduction, better handling). This from customers! study, which conformed to the ISO 14040 standard on life-cycle assessments, was subject to an external review. BENEFITS • Economic: long-term preservation and a reduction of cement loss (easy opening/closing system) • Health & Safety: adding a handle which facilitates transport • Environment: reduced carbon footprint 5 RESPECT FOR BUSINESS ETHICS AND COUNTERING CORRUPTION POLICY Acting against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery The Kerneos Group’s Code of Conduct (see text box opposite) • Confidentiality and observance of intellectual recalls the applicable rules for the following areas: property rights • Rejection of all forms of corruption And, on a more general basis, transparent, fair, honest and • Respect for anti-trust rules law-abiding relationships with trade partners. • Management of potential conflicts of interests Extract from the Code of Conduct: Kerneos will not accept any form of corruption, in accordance with the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention and with the current laws in the relevant country. Regardless of the country, our employees must not, under any circumstances, respond to solicitations or offer, directly or via an intermediary, any financial or other type of benefit, to a public agent or to a private individual, for the purpose of ensuring preferential treatment or influencing the outcome of negotiations to benefit Kerneos. 2015 ACTIONS 2016 ACTIONS Adoption of a Code of Conduct Creation of a training module dedicated to corruption This Code, formulated in 2015, has been distributed to all and anti-trust problems. It will be rolled out to all Group staff employees of the Group and it is also contained in the who are potentially exposed to these issues. introductory pack for all new employees. Our Code of Conduct, values and rules, guiding our actions As a means of supporting all company policies, the Code of Conduct is a document designed to govern the behavior of all employees in all places and circumstances, regardless of their duties or positions, on the ethical issues that they encounter in the course of their work. • It reaffirms the three ethical principles that are fundamental to Kerneos, which are respect for men and women, protection of people and the environment, and financial transparency. • It formalizes the commitments of Kerneos to its internal and external stakeholders and the fundamental ethical principles that should guide everyone’s behavior and actions • It implements a procedure for drawing attention to risk situations and for managing violations Observance of the Code of Conduct is compulsory. CONTACT Emmanuelle HENRY LANIER Sustainable Development Manager E-mail: emmanuelle.henry-lanier@kerneos.com www.kerneos.com
