COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS for the UN Global Compact Roland Berger GmbH Reporting period: October 2015 to September 2016 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 About Roland Berger Roland Berger, founded in 1967, is the only leading global consultancy of German heritage and European origin. With 2,400 employees working from 34 countries, we have successful operations in all major international markets. Our 50 offices are located in the key global business hubs. The consultancy is an independent partnership owned exclusively by 200 Partners serving around 1,000 international clients. We consider corporate responsibility to be a strategic business approach. From our consulting experience we see that corporate responsibility has gained relevance for international companies in recent years, as it reconciles economic, social and environmental success. As a global company, we live up to our social responsibility by treating our employees, clients, suppliers and the environment responsibly. We are a social community made up of different people from many nations with diverse backgrounds and outlooks. As a business, we are also part of a community – namely, the society in which we work. About this report This report illustrates how Roland Berger GmbH, as the German pillar of our group of companies, is working to bring the Global Compact to life in our consulting operations. This Communication on Progress is the fourth report after Roland Berger Strategy Consultants GmbH became a member of the UN Global Compact. In September 2015, we changed our name to Roland Berger GmbH. The following report describes the current status, past development and what we plan for the future, by setting goals related to the ten principles of the Global Compact. This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. PAGE 2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 CONTENTS P.5 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 | Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 | Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. P.12 LABOR STANDARDS Principle 3 | Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 | The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 | The effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6 | The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. P.20 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 | Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 | Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 | Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. P.24 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 | Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. P.4 OUR CEO’S DECLARATION P.27 THE ORIGIN OF OUR GOALS PAGE 3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 Our CEO’s declaration of continued support Since 2012, Roland Berger has been committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our company's strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. This letter underscores our intent to endorse these principles within our sphere of influence. In the following report, we describe our company's efforts to implement the ten principles in our core business activities. We take our corporate responsibility seriously and live up to its demands each day by treating our employees, clients, suppliers and environment responsibly. We believe that it lies in our own interest to act responsibly. Our understanding of ethical behavior towards our stakeholders is reflected in our primary policy document: the Code of Conduct, which was developed to provide clear guidelines for our work and the way we interact with clients, business partners, communities and colleagues. This Code reflects our value statement and describes how we put it into practice. I am pleased to confirm our continued support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We will continue and further increase our efforts to move forward in the four areas of the Global Compact over the next 12 months. Charles-Edouard Bouée CEO, Roland Berger Group PAGE 4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 Human rights COMMITMENT | IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Principle 1 | Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 | Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. PAGE 5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 OUR COMMITMENT Roland Berger explicitly supports the protection of human rights. We emphasize this support in our primary policy document: the Code of Conduct. We are committed to ensuring that we as a company, as well as our employees as individuals, respect and uphold human rights in every way. CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION Our commitment to protect all human rights is not only anchored in our Code of Conduct, but also enacted in the form of various established processes and control mechanisms. HUMAN RIGHTS Upon joining the company, every Roland Berger consultant is introduced to the topic of ethical behavior at our consultants' kick-off seminar. Additionally, an e-training session about the Code of Conduct is compulsory for all employees and freelancers/subcontractors. Designed as a refresher course, these training sessions aim to foster awareness of the issue of ethical behavior. Any failure to complete this course is reported to the Compliance Officer, who acts accordingly. If employees suspect a human rights violation, they can communicate their information to the Compliance Officer through a number of channels. We are proud to say that to date no human rights violations have occurred at Roland Berger. In order to encourage our people to report irregularities, abuses and risks, we set up a totally anonymous internet–based whistle-blowing platform in 2014. A substantial number of our employees have read our intranet information on the whistle-blowing system, but no incident has been reported via this platform since its introduction. HEALTH & SAFETY We care about the well-being of all our employees, so we have a comprehensive network of health and safety measures in place to address issues such as stress resilience. Roland Berger employees are encouraged to make full use of their annual vacation days. A trust-based vacation policy has been implemented for our managers, to ensure sufficient down time. The Office Friday policy stipulates that consultants should spend Fridays at their local PAGE 6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 offices, instead of with the client. In addition, to deal with potential situations of high pressure, a stress management seminar is offered as part of the regular seminar curriculum. In 2015, we held eight seminars for experienced consultants and service staff and three stress-management refresher seminars. We also introduced the Team Barometer tool five years ago to monitor team atmospheres and situations of extraordinary stress and pressure. We perform annual workplace inspections to ensure the health and safety of our employees. On these occasions we make sure that the rooms and office equipment meet the highest ergonomic standards. Should any employee ever have a concern or special needs, we promise to take action to meet their requirements. Since travelling is necessary for all our employees, we have control mechanisms to ensure their safety. To offer optimal care and coverage, Roland Berger has engaged a globally acting service provider to help us with medical, health, insurance and security matters. The services it provides include a 24/7 hotline for all colleagues, emergency services worldwide (for health or security problems) and pre-travel advice on security situations, medical standards and visa information. All employees are informed immediately by e-mail about unforeseen events such as terrorist attacks or natural disasters. We also track whether any colleagues are in the country or city concerned. Affected colleagues are contacted directly to arrange a safe trip home or hotel bookings and to offer general care. In the event of insecure situations over protracted periods, Roland Berger tries to arrange long-term solutions. For example, in the context of the geopolitical crisis in Ukraine, we transferred some of our local colleagues to other countries, at least on a temporary basis. SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Since we are a service provider, our supply chain is not usually confronted with human rights issues. Our employees all work for us of their own accord and are all of legal age. The prevention of forced or compulsory labor and child labor is not explicitly phrased in our internal guidelines thus far, mainly because German legislation addresses and enforces a respective corporate behavior. The elimination of these issues is of course a very important topic that must not be disregarded. Our Human Resources department and Compliance Officer are not only designated, but well equipped to deal with any situation regarding human rights at Roland Berger. PAGE 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS In the last Communication on Progress, we defined some objectives that we wanted to achieve in order to continuously improve and expand our actions in the field of human rights protection. GOALS COMMENT In the next reporting period we want to keep We fully achieved this goal. the rate of successfully completed e-trainings on the Code of Conduct at least on the same level. Additionally, we aim to further extend the In 2015 we carried out eight stress number of stress management seminars and management seminars (+ 3 seminars) and want to pilot a one day refresher seminar. offered three refresher seminars. GOALS FOR THE FUTURE In the future we will of course remain committed to the protection of human rights within our sphere of influence. Particularly, we will strive to reach the following goals: • We want to keep the rate of successfully completed e-trainings on the Code of Conduct at least at the same level. • In the next period we want to maintain the same number of stress management seminars and refresher seminars. • We aim to change the performance management system to track each consultant's workload and establish follow-up calls with HR to define actions such as personal stress management coaching where necessary. PAGE 8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 Responsible business Many of the issues that the United Nations Global Compact addresses are explicitly covered by German and EU law, which companies based in Germany must observe. As a German company, Roland Berger GmbH does so too. But we go further, proCODE OF CONDUCT actively taking steps in line with Living up to our values the guidelines set out by the Global Compact. By introducing our Code of Conduct in 2004, RoIt covers issues such as data security, intellectuland Berger established general rules for ethical al property rights, insider information, respectful behavior in our business dealings. That document conduct, recruitment standards, health and safety is a formal element of every employment contract at work, human rights and environmental protecwe offer, and we expect our employees to comtion. ply with it. Additionally, all Roland Berger Partners have to confirm their compliance with the Code of Our Code of Conduct is a living core document of Conduct on a yearly basis. our firm that undergoes constant amendment. Thus, it now even more explicitly covers the four Our compliance management system encomareas that the Global Compact addresses. passes all tools and mechanisms that define and implement the principles and values of our orRoland Berger takes many actions that build on ganization, including the guidelines of the Code of the ten principles set out by the Global Compact, Conduct. Thus, it allows us to uphold them in our as described in this report. strategic and operational business. The code was designed to meet the specific deFIND THE LATEST VERSION mands faced by Roland Berger. It provides guidOF OUR CODE OF CONDUCT HERE: ance for behavior in our dealings with clients, https://www.rolandberger.com/publications/ colleagues, suppliers and competitors. Our Code publication_pdf/roland_berger_code_of_ of Conduct is built on the pillars of corporate reconduct_20150916.pdf sponsibility, professional integrity, confidentiality, safety and personal conduct. PAGE 9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 People who care @ Roland Berger Refugees from war-torn countries like Syria and Iraq, but also from Africa and the Western Balkans, crossed the German border. The majority subsequently seek asylum. This development has dominated Europe's agenda ever since, with Germany's government demonstrating its determination to master the situation. Yet as a result, huge challenges have COMPANY PROJECTS arisen as the country tries to cope In 2015, Roland Berger started an assignment with the huge number of refugees. at the German Federal Office for Migration and Refugees. Our team assists the Federal Office in Roland Berger endeavors to tackle mastering new challenges by setting up efficient, the economic and social challenges integrated national refugee management, with a focus on the interface to the legal sector. This prothat this development brings with it. cess is characterized by the involvement of various institutions and points of contact. REFUGEE AID Roland Berger also helped the Federal Office deal A startup called One Night Tents , which Roland with the increased need for interpreters by creatBerger helped set up, provides assistance to refing a transparent model to optimize the planning ugees by sending airbeds to Eastern Europe. Roprocess for interpreters. This project is not only land Berger colleagues supported this initiative of great importance to Roland Berger but also for by donating airbeds. Colleagues in various offices Germany as a whole. also collected donations for local refugee shelters and gave their time to volunteer at donation Our overall goal with these projects is to enhance drop-off points and refugee centers. The Munich efficiency in order to quickly attain legal certainty office not only supported refugees with its annual for refugees and accelerate the following processChristmas charity that benefits over 90 children es of integration. and families at one of the city's refugee centers, it also raised money with an auction that was used Roland Berger also assists with the implementation to give unaccompanied minors who are refugees of Wirtschaft zusammen (Economy together). in Munich a backpack containing welcome gifts. On this platform, companies can present their PAGE 10 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 initiatives to spur employee motivation and inspire more companies to start new or join existing initiatives. The goal here is to create new perspectives for refugees by incorporating them into the working environment. This topic is addressed in our newly published study Flüchtlinge erfolgreich integrieren (Integrating refugees successfully). FUTURE COMMITMENT We will all have to deal with the social and economic consequences of the current situation in the near and distant future. Since we see ourselves as part of a global community, we want to actively contribute to shaping the future, not only with personal commitment and by supporting governments, but also by helping our clients face the new challenges raised by the current global development. PAGE 11 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 Labor Standards COMMITMENT | IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Principle 3 | Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 | The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 | The effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6 | The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. PAGE 12 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 OUR COMMITMENT We are committed to providing our employees with a work environment that is open, friendly and non-discriminatory and that is fully in accordance with German legislation, our Code of Conduct and the Global Compact. CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION Everyone at Roland Berger is dedicated to our three corporate values: entrepreneurship, excellence and empathy. These values are an imperative for each of us, and they determine our thoughts and actions. As a result, we undertake continuous efforts to improve our personal skills and professional know-how in our consulting teams. EDUCATION AND DEVELOPMENT To provide our clients with the best possible consulting services, we offer our employees a broad educational program with a vast range of both mandatory and optional seminars. These seminars include topics such as methodology, soft and leadership skills and individual coaching. Currently, consultants attend 5-6 days of compulsory training per year. Support staff typically have 2-3 days of training per year. Relevance of the topics and the quality of the training measures are guaranteed by a carefully arranged selection and quality-management process. We enable our employees to pursue their academic interests by sponsoring Master, MBA and doctoral programs. We also offer a sabbatical to enable employees to pursue interests beyond Roland Berger's daily operations. Our common understanding of quality and performance for our clients and the way we all work together is reflected in a climate of equality, respect, openness and constructive feedback. • We have extensive evaluation mechanisms installed: regular project assessments (both top-down and bottom-up) allow employees to voice their opinions on all matters. An additional leadership assessment is held annually. The results of this anonymous feedback have a direct impact on the individual supervisors' remuneration. In 2015, we introduced a new evaluation process to further improve the feedback quality, to make PAGE 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 assessment more objective and give even better career and personal development advice. The participation rate of consultants in these bottom-up assessments increased again this year compared to the previous year, with 74% of consultants (+1.0%) participating. For service staff, adjusted calculation following a change of global reporting lines led to a service staff participation rate of 59.1%. This new participation rate is not comparable to the previous one, but overall a larger number of participants was achieved. DIVERSITY MANAGEMENT Outstanding management consultants are more than just brilliant analysts and strategists. Above all, they are strong and creative personalities from a variety of backgrounds. Diversity and non-discrimination lie at the heart of our Code of Conduct and are thus part of our business and personal behavior. We acknowledge and value the differences among our workforce, clients and business partners and consider them an opportunity. The Equal Treatment Act (Allgemeines Gleichbehandlungsgesetz, AGG) is part of every employee's contract in Germany. To underscore its importance, all new employees are required to participate in an e-learning course on this subject. Also, several processes have been installed to ensure equal treatment of all employees. In May 2016, an LGBT network was launched to create a global network for lesbian and gay colleagues from all offices and an environment where they feel welcome. More generally, the community stands for a caring work environment for all our employees that values dignity and respect. Another step towards more diversity is the formation of a Diversity Committee at Roland Berger. The goal of this committee is to launch initiatives for a diverse workforce, including topics such as LGBT, women and multiculturalism. RECRUITING PRACTICES Roland Berger is a strategic partner of several international business schools whose students have particularly diverse backgrounds. These partnerships further strengthen our diversity approach. Our entire recruiting process of addressing, identifying and selecting new employees is based on talent, performance and potential. Our promotion system is likewise based on transparency, performance evaluation and merit. State-of-the-art methods are applied to ensure an impartial and skill-based decision-making process. The remuneration of our employees is linked strictly to their rank within the company. Employees are rewarded for their work performance, so the remuneration process is transparent. Our International Staff Exchange Program is also designed to foster diversity at the workplace. In 2015, 110 employees participated in the exchange program and 19 different countries were involved. At the same time we increased the amount of regular cross-border staffing. Cross-border networking beyond the day-to-day work is enhanced by events like our international kick-off meetings and our development program for high performers: the Challenge Club. This program – which includes the most promising high potentials PAGE 14 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 within the firm – aims at contributing to the individual development of the consultants. The members – up to 51 consultants from 23 countries – meet twice a year for a few days to further develop their personal and business skills and network across borders. The diversity of our employees is also reflected in the array of nationalities represented in our offices. In 2015, Roland Berger in Germany had employees from 25 countries. At the end of the year, 23.3% of Roland Berger employees in Germany were female. 11.0% of consultants and 4.7% of consultants in management positions are now women. In order to make consulting more attractive for women we conduct special recruiting events, have implemented measures to improve the work and family life balance and we have a special mentoring program for female consultants in place. To better attract and retain female consultants and to strengthen the role and number of female leaders, Roland Berger recently launched the Women in Consulting@RB initiative. To further foster diversity, Roland Berger participated in the Sticks & Stones this year, the first career fair in Germany directed mainly at the LGBT community. And despite taking part for the first time, Roland Berger was ranked third in the category Most Positive Impression . Through our membership in the Charta der Vielfalt (Diversity Charta) we express how much we value diversity. WORK-LIFE BALANCE The company's continuous efforts to create a better work-life balance for our employees – men and women alike – is expressed by the berufundfamilie certification. Also, in October 2015 Roland Berger launched a new study on the opportunities and challenges that digitalization harbors for work-life balance. For instance, in the last year 50% of our employees on parental leave were men. To foster the opportunity to combine sports and work, we conducted a sports survey within the company last year that received very positive feedback. The survey showed that most colleagues would like to do sports with others during the week at the office or at a project location. As a result, we launched an internal task force in Germany with the goal of pushing all kinds of joint physical exercise, and local sports ambassadors were elected. Supported by the firm, they organize and coordinate several sporting events per year at all German office locations, such as beach volleyball, canoeing or just going for a run together. In the company's intranet it is also possible to follow the #rbsports community, to stay informed about the events and activities worldwide. We are proud to be ranked among the top three employers in our industry in our European core markets. This reflects how the efforts we undertake to create the best possible work environment bear fruit. PAGE 15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS As expressed in the previous report, we aim to further live up to internationally accepted labor standards and to build the diversity of our employees by setting the following goals. GOALS COMMENT To increase the number of female consultants With 11% of our consultants female at present, to 15% by the end of 2016 is one of our main we have not yet fully accomplished this goal. objectives. To create more impetus here, our CEO will start a global initiative to attract more women to consulting. We have also launched a new initiative known as Women in Consulting @ RB to attract and retain more women. We wanted to maintain the current level of This goal was fully met. training days in the seminar program per employee and continuously provide up-todate and relevant courses using effective and high-quality teaching methods. For 2015/16 we planned to achieve at least In 2015 we achieved our goal for an increased the same participation rates in the leadership consultant participation rate of 74% (+1.0%). assessment as in 2014. Following a change of global reporting lines for service staff, with new and non-comparable calculation measures for the service staff, the service staff participation rate reached 59.1%. We aimed to maintain the high level of There was a small drop in the number of participants and countries involved in international staff exchanges from 145 in 22 international staff exchanges during the last countries to 110 in 19 countries. But we were reporting period. able to increase the number of regular crossborder staffings. We piloted new evaluation processes, This goal was fully met. including new bottom-up leadership assessments, to improve the feedback quality, make assessment more objective and give even better development advice. We aimed to come under the top five This goal was fully met. employers in our industry in the overall European ranking by 2017. PAGE 16 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 GOALS FOR THE FUTURE In the months to come, we will continue our efforts to reach the goals regarding our work force. • Increasing the number of female colleagues remains one of our main objectives. We expect to reach our initial goal for 2014 of 15% female consultants by end of 2017. • Our targets for 2020 are as follows: 35% female applicants in all regions; a 25% women among Senior Consultants and Project Managers (first management level) and 20 new female Partners. • Regarding the seminar program, we want to maintain the current level of training days per employee, while increasing the number of mandatory global trainings to ensure equal training standards for all our employees. • Concerning the leadership assessment, for 2016/17 we plan to achieve at least the same participation rates as in 2015. • We want to maintain or even increase the number of participants in the International Staff Exchange Program. • We aim to further increase international cooperation on topics such as staffing, evaluation processes, graphics, research and IT. • We want to launch an initiative to foster multiculturalism at Roland Berger. • We will increase our LGBT activities, e.g. hosting the gay/lesbian consulting dinner as part of our participation in the Sticks & Stones career fair. PAGE 17 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 Diversity @ Roland Berger NEW INITIATIVES AT ROLAND BERGER Diversity is key for us; it's at the By signing the 10 commitments, all Roland Berger core of our story. We are a company Partners commit to creating a work environment which from the beginning has that fosters individual development and innovapromoted diversity and the impact tion by means of a collaborative work approach of individuals as a key value. characterized by an ethical and respectful cooperation. This has recently led to the launch of new In a way, we ARE diversity. It's not initiatives: just a buzzword for us; it's about individual people being unique. Alongside our existing measures for our female colleagues, we have launched a new initiative: At Roland Berger, we care about Women in Consulting@RB . The aim of this inindividuals and want all colleagues itiative is to develop further strategies to attract to feel comfortable. and retain female consultants and to strength(Charles-Edouard Boueé, 2016) en the role and increase the number of women among the ranks of our consultants, but especially in management positions. Working groups have been set up, led by female leaders from different As an international consultancy, diversity has alRoland Berger offices, to work on several topics ways been a key topic at Roland Berger. We value such as our corporate governance and relevant diversity as a strength within our own company KPIs, role modelling, setting up internal networkand know how to thrive on diversity in our clients' ing platforms and holding specialized seminars. environment. This is also shown by our membership in the Charta der Vielfalt (Diversity Charta). FAMILY AS A SUCCESS FACTOR We believe that in order to act as insightful, respectful and responsible advisors for our clients, our project teams need to be as diverse as our clients. For this reason, we put together our teams of consultants with varying ethnicities, genders, educational and cultural backgrounds and ages. To create a space where lesbian, gay, bisexual We are also convinced that diversity helps us to and transgender colleagues feel welcome, we foster innovation, development and motivation. have launched our new internal LGBT platform It supports us in mastering challenges such as Just Be . This platform creates a global network globalization, demographic changes and legal to facilitate professional and personal exchange. developments. Roland Berger also participated in the Sticks & Stones , the first career fair in Germany directed predominantly at the LGBT community. PAGE 18 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 And despite participating for the first time, Roland Berger ranked third in the category Most Positive Impression . As a next step, Roland Berger will host the gay consulting dinner taking place during the career fair next year. Just be The LGBT Network at Roland Berger We already start sensitizing our consultants for diversity topics related to religion, culture and multiculturalism at our kickoff seminar for new consultants. The intercultural training is designed to broaden the understanding that there is a wide array of cultures and religions, not just nationalities. It helps our consultants to become more aware of intercultural challenges and benefits. Moreover, our newly founded Diversity Committee plans to launch an initiative for more multiculturalism, which will include new marketing and recruiting measures. FUTURE COMMITMENT TO DIVERSITY There is no doubt that diversity will be a key topic during the next years. To show that diversity is not merely a buzzword for us, but in our genes, we will pursue and extend our existing initiatives while also seeking further ways to create a really diverse workforce at Roland Berger. PAGE 19 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 Environment COMMITMENT | IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Principle 7 | Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 | Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 | Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PAGE 20 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 OUR COMMITMENT As a professional services company, Roland Berger is certainly less exposed to environmental issues than many other companies, as our product does not have a direct ecological impact. Nevertheless, we strive to minimize our negative ecological influence, even though environmental protection is not as central for us as other elements of the Global Compact. CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION We believe that within our corporate responsibility we have an obligation toward the environment. Hence, in our operations we consider environmental protection part of our duty and are committed to contributing our fair share to this important matter. ECOLOGICAL FOOTPRINT The greatest impact on the environment is indisputably created by the traveling of our consultants. However, we aim to keep our carbon footprint small. Our travel guidelines are intended to encourage cost-conscious, environmentally aware and efficient travel. Our employees can choose between plane, train, leased car, rental car, car-sharing options or public transport as possible modes of transportation. We encourage our employees to always select the most cost-effective, time-efficient and environmentally friendly transportation. As an example: last year 51 employees and in 2016 so far 90 employees moved from a car-leasing option to a more environmentally friendly mobility concept (car-sharing, rental car or public transport). For travel routes with high-speed connections, the train is our preferred means of transport. In 2015, 4,001,600 kilometers of our German travel with the train were realized using environmentally friendly electricity (in 2014 this figure was 3,063,976 kilometers). In addition, we encourage telephone and video conferencing in lieu of travel. All German offices utilize state-of-the-art video conferencing devices, and our consultants can request an individual equipment set for their laptops. For instance, again from 2014 to 2015 we significantly increased our time spent (+33%) in video conferences in Germany. PAGE 21 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 And we will further improve our equipment in the next year so that our employees use video conferencing even more frequently. To help our employees be as environmentally conscious in their individual behavior as possible, we provide them with Eco Tips on our intranet. To reduce our environmental impact at the German offices a number of processes have been put in place. For instance, in our central purchasing we select products that meet environmental standards or have relevant certificates. We give preference to regional suppliers of food and beverages to reduce the amount of carbon emissions caused by processing, packaging and transport. Furthermore, we separate trash, such as paper, batteries and other electronic waste to facilitate the recycling process. We constantly strive to minimize our paper consumption and use FSC certified paper in all offices in Germany. When moving our head office in Munich in 2015 we were able to reduce our energy consumption by about 75%. The new building has a high standard of energy conservation, using shade, lighting, etc. in a way that wastes as little and stores as much energy in the building as possible. We only have customary air-conditioning installed in technical rooms, and instead use heating/cooling ceilings in the offices. A surface analysis showed that we do not need as much space as in 2014. We have open space areas and a clean desk policy, so our utilization of working space is close to 90%. This concept will be assigned to all German offices in future. In 2015, three company venues moved into new buildings with energy standards just as high as in the previous premises, and less working space because of the open space and clean desk policy. Thanks to all these changes, our energy savings in 2016 will be even greater than in the past. Furthermore, Roland Berger changed all our power supply contracts in mid-2016, so we now use ecologically generated electricity in all our German Offices. This will be the standard for Roland Berger in future. We want to save as much energy as we can in our office buildings and with our equipment and travel policy, etc. As shown in the table below we have constantly reduced our energy consumption in our German offices in the past. As a matter of fact, the decrease amounts to 61% since 2011. Office 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 buildings [kWh] [kWh] [kWh] [kWh] [kWh] Berlin 110,350 90,200 78,370 33,738 30,560 Dusseldorf 137,339 133,100 110,167 141,378 176,000 Frankfurt 126,272 120,155 106,266 87,693 109,136 Hamburg 63,423 63,797 53,210 66,004 52,306 Munich 1,190,347 1,129,288 1,062,841 937,872 249,060 Stuttgart 45,524 50,000* 43,000* 38,558 41,400 Total 1,673,255 1,586,540 1,453,854 1,305,243 658,462 consumption REDUCTION -5,18% -8.36% -10.22% -49.55% -13.11% -21.99% -60.65% * Estimate PAGE 22 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 We use environmentally friendly electricity at all our sites and we seek to rent energy efficient offices. Our building in Frankfurt, for example, is certified with the LEED® Gold standard. ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS With the goals set in our previous report, we wanted to have a greater positive impact on our environment. GOALS COMMENT With the roll-out of a wider range of new This goal was fully met. video conference equipment in 2016 (+33% of video conferencing). we aimed to constantly increase video conferencing and reduce travel. We planned to further reduce the average CO2 Since 2014 we have reduced our CO2 emissions of our leased car fleet by 10% by emissions by 9% and we are still looking into September 2016. ways of reducing it further in the next six months. Overall, we strive to further encourage our This goal was fully met. In 2016 so far 90 employees to use alternative – and more employees moved from a car-leasing option flexible – mobility offers instead of a leased to a more environmentally friendly mobility car. concept (car-sharing, rental car or public transport). GOALS FOR THE FUTURE We will continue our efforts to reduce our ecological footprint by setting the following environmental goals: • With the implementation of our new Energy Management System (DIN ISO EN 50001) we will gain a better overview of our energy usage and energy consumers. So in the next years we will be able to reduce our energy usage even more. • When relocating an office, we inspect the energy status of the new building as we did in Munich, with a view to saving energy on heating and cooling. PAGE 23 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 Anticorruption COMMITMENT | IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Principle 10 | Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. PAGE 24 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 OUR COMMITMENT As a leading consultancy, Roland Berger is committed to operating with a clear conscience and speaking out against any and every form of unethical behavior. Thus we assert our opposition to corruption, extortion and bribery within and outside our company. CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION Our Code of Conduct conveys a clear understanding of ethical behavior and guides us in our day-to-day business decisions. TRANSPARENT CONTRACTS To prevent abuse, all payments to freelancers or Senior Advisors are made via bank transfer, without exception. Furthermore, contracts for all Roland Berger freelancers and Senior Advisors have been standardized and their payment is controlled via proApproval , a tool for avoiding disproportionate remuneration. During our annual audit the contracts for Senior Advisors and all related payments are subject to strict scrutiny. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY To avoid potential conflicts of interest amongst clients' teams, a steering body and strict guidelines in the form of Chinese walls are in place. All employees must adhere to binding confidentiality rules, in accordance with both their employment contract and our Code of Conduct. Our clean desk policy is regularly checked in our German offices. E-learning courses are compulsory for all employees, to keep them aware of the issue. Like our employees, freelancers must also adhere to our Code of Conduct and take part in the refresher trainings. All Partners sign a formal declaration every year that they have adhered to the Code of Conduct. DATA SECURITY We treat all our clients' non-public information with strict confidentiality and keep proprietary and confidential information secure at all times. To ensure utmost security in PAGE 25 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 all our electronic communications, our information and communication equipment – IT infrastructure, hardand software – fulfills highest security and technology standards. We operate our own IT infrastructure for business communication, using encrypted notebooks and secure mobile devices that allow e-mail encryption. Furthermore, all Roland Berger employees have to know and comply with our IT User Policy, which is part of the company's Code of Conduct and as such also the subject of regular e-trainings. The IT User rules cover issues like password and access control, data protection, installing and using IT-equipment, using e-mail and the internet, mobile working and protecting against malware. We do not use public cloud programs, such as freeware provided by Yahoo! or Google for our business communication. Data exchange between companies of the Roland Berger group is governed by compliant contractual regulations. ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS To demonstrate that the prevention of corruption is very important to us, we set a number of shortand mediumterm goals one year ago. GOALS COMMENT We planned to introduce the topic into our To make sure that the awareness of all conleadership seminars to further establish sultants is raised, instead of only consultants sensitivity for potentially delicate situations visiting the seminar, we decided to include and avoid any unethical behavior. three questions on ethical behavior in our project assessments and included a reference to our whistleblower system in each assessment. GOALS FOR THE FUTURE In order to prevent corruption, we aim to realize the following: • We will further tighten our compliance regulations for high risk countries with additional declarations and compliance procedures and know your customer / supplier checks. PAGE 26 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 The origin of our goals Summarizing the implementation status and the achievement of the goals set in the last Communication on Progress, we at Roland Berger GmbH still strive to constantly improve ourselves in our core business activities with respect to the four areas of the UN Global Compact. Thus, our future objectives are as follows: Global Compact Goal Deadline Page area / issue Human Rights We want to keep the rate of successfully completed e-trainings Sep. 2017 p. 8 on the Code of Conduct at least at the same level. Human Rights In the next period we want to keep the number of stress Sep. 2017 p. 8 management seminars and refresher seminars. Human Rights We aim to change the performance management system to Sep. 2017 p. 8 track each consultant's workload and establish follow-up calls with HR to define actions such as personal stress management coaching where necessary. Labor Standards Increasing the number of female colleagues remains one of our Dec. 2017 p. 17 main objectives. We expect to reach our initial goal for 2014 of 15% female consultants by end of 2017. Labor Standards Our targets for 2020 are as follows: 35% female applicants Dec. 2020 p. 17 in all regions, a share of 25% women in the group of Senior Consultants and Project Managers (first management level) and 20 new female Partners. Labor Standards Regarding the seminar program, we want to maintain the current Sep. 2017 p. 17 level of training days per employee, while increasing the number of mandatory global trainings to ensure equal training standards for all our employees. Labor Standards Concerning the leadership assessment, for 2016/17 we plan to Sep. 2017 p. 17 achieve at least the same participation rates as 2015. Labor Standards We want to maintain or even increase the number of participants Sep. 2017 p. 17 in the International Staff Exchange Program. Labor Standards We want to further increase international cooperation on topics Sep. 2017 p. 17 such as staffing, evaluation processes, graphics, research and IT. Labor Standards We want to launch an initiative to foster multiculturalism at Sep. 2017 p. 17 Roland Berger. Labor Standards We will increase our LGBT activities, e.g. hosting the gay/lesbian Sep. 2017 p. 17 consulting dinner as part of our participation in the Sticks & Stones career fair. Environment With the implementation of our new Energy Management Sep. 2017 p. 23 System (DIN ISO EN 50001) we will gain a better overview of our energy usage and energy consumers. So in the next years we will be able to reduce our energy consumption even more. Environment If we relocate an office, we examine the energy status of the new Sep. 2017 p. 23 building as we did in Munich, so we can save more energy with heating, cooling, etc. Anti-corruption We will further tighten our compliance regulations for high Sep. 2017 p. 26 risk countries by adding further declarations and compliance procedures and know your customer / supplier checks. PAGE 27 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2015 to September 2016 Point of contact: Peter Hochstrasser E-mail: Peter.Hochstrasser@rolandberger.com Tel.: +49-30-399273-454 © Roland Berger 2016 www.rolandberger.com
