2015 Reference document REFERENCE 20 DOCUMENT 15 This Reference Document was ﬁled with the Autorité des marchés ﬁnanciers (AMF, the French ﬁnancial market authority) on April 12, 2016, in accordance with article 212-13 of its general regulations. It may be used in support of a ﬁnancial transaction if it is accompanied by an oﬀering circular signed by the AMF. This document was prepared by the issuer and is binding on those signing it. This is a free translation into English of the AREVA group’s Reference Document for 2015, which is issued in the French language, and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 1 CONTENTS 01 PERSON RESPONSIBLE 6 08 PROPERTY, 1.1. Person responsible PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 91 for the Reference Document 6 8.1. Principal sites of the group 91 1.2. Attestation by the person 8.2. Environmental issues that may responsible for the Reference aﬀect the issuer’s use of property, Document 6 plant and equipment 96 02 STATUTORY AUDITORS 8 09 ANALYSIS OF AND COMMENTS 2.1. Statutory auditors 8 ON THE GROUP’S FINANCIAL 2.2. Deputy auditors 8 POSITION AND PERFORMANCE 97 9.1. Overview 97 9.2. Situation and activities 03 SELECTED of the company FINANCIAL INFORMATION 9 and its subsidiaries by business Summary of key data 9 segment during the year 99 9.3. Events subsequent to year-end closing for 2015 115 04 RISK FACTORS 10 4.1. Risk management and coverage 11 4.2. Legal risk 14 10 CAPITAL RESOURCES 116 4.3. Industrial and environmental risk 18 4.4. Operational risk 25 11 RESEARCH 4.5. Risk related to major projects 26 AND DEVELOPMENT 4.6. Company exposure to price, PROGRAMS, PATENTS credit, liquidity and cash AND LICENSES 117 management risk 27 11.1. Research and Development 117 4.7. Other risk 30 11.2. Intellectual property 124 05 INFORMATION ABOUT 12 TREND INFORMATION 126 THE ISSUER 32 12.1. Current situation 126 5.1. History and development 12.2. Financial objectives 126 of the issuer 32 5.2. Investments 34 13 PROFIT FORECASTS 127 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 35 6.1. Markets for nuclear power 14 ADMINISTRATIVE, and renewable energies 37 MANAGEMENT AND 6.2. AREVA’s customers and suppliers 46 SUPERVISORY BODIES 6.3. Overview and strategy of the group 47 AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 128 6.4. Operations 52 14.1. Board of Directors 128 14.2. Executive oﬃcers 137 14.3. Legal information, conﬂicts of 07 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE 90 interest and service contracts 138 Simpliﬁed organization chart 14.4 Transactions on the company’s of the group at December 31, 2015 90 shares carried out by oﬃcers 138 2 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 15 COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 139 19 TRANSACTIONS 24 INFORMATION AVAILABLE 15.1. Compensation of oﬃcers WITH RELATED PARTIES 165 TO THE PUBLIC 294 and directors 139 19.1. Relations with the French State 165 24.1. Availability of documents 294 15.2. Stock owned by oﬃcers 19.2. Relations with the CEA 166 24.2. Persons responsible for ﬁnancial and directors 148 19.3. Relations with publicly information 294 15.3. Audit fees 148 held companies 166 24.3. Financial information programs 295 24.4. Tentative ﬁnancial communications schedule 295 16 FUNCTIONING OF CORPORATE 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION BODIES 149 CONCERNING ASSETS, 16.1. Functioning of Executive FINANCIAL POSITIONS 25 INFORMATION ON HOLDINGS 296 management 149 AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 167 25.1. Signiﬁcant equity interests of AREVA 296 16.2. Functioning of the Board 20.1. Consolidated ﬁnancial 25.2. Shareholders’ agreements 296 of Directors 150 statements for the year ended 16.3. Functioning of the Committees December 31, 2015 168 established by the Board 20.2. Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial APPENDIX of Directors 150 statements for the year ended 16.4. Report of the Chairman December 31, 2015 180 A1 Report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors on 20.3 2015 Financial statements 255 of the Board of Directors governance and internal control 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 261 on governance and internal control and risk management procedures 150 and risk management procedures 298 20.5. Five-year ﬁnancial summary 283 16.5. Report of the statutory auditors 20.6. Information on accounts payable A2 Statutory Auditors’ report 319 prepared in application to suppliers 284 of article L. 225-235 of the French 20.7. Dividend distribution policy 284 A3 Social, environmental and societal Commercial Code 151 responsibility 325 20.8. Legal and arbitration proceedings 285 20.9. Signiﬁcant change in the issuer’s A4 Non-ﬁnancial reporting ﬁnancial or trading position 285 methodology and independent 17 EMPLOYEES 152 17.1. Employment 153 third-party report on social, environmental and societal data 339 17.2. Organization of work 156 21 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 286 17.3. Labor relations 156 21.1. Share capital 286 A5 Ordinary General Meeting 17.4. Health and safety 157 21.2. Certiﬁcate of incorporation of Shareholders of May 19, 2016 344 17.5. Training 158 and articles of association 289 17.6. Equal treatment 159 A6 Values Charter 348 21.3. Agreements referred to 17.7. Promotion and compliance in Article L. 225-102-1 paragraph 13 A7 Table of concordance with the stipulations of fundamental of the French Commercial Code 290 of the management report 354 agreements of the International 21.4. Review of agreements authorized Labor union 161 during previous ﬁnancial years GLOSSARIES 355 with continuing eﬀect in the last ﬁnancial year 291 18 PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS 162 18.1. Distribution of capital and voting rights 162 22 MAJOR CONTRACTS 292 18.2. diﬀerent voting rights 163 18.3. Control of the issuer 164 18.4. Agreements known to the issuer 23 THIRD PARTY INFORMATION, that could, if implemented, result STATEMENTS BY EXPERTS in a change in control of the issuer 164 AND DECLARATIONS OF INTEREST 293 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 3 4 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT General Comments This Reference Document contains information on AREVA’s objectives, prospects Pursuant to article 28 of the European Community regulation no. 809/2004 of and development strategies. This information should not be interpreted as a April 29, 2004, the directive 2004/100/CE and article 212-11 of the General guarantee that events and data set forth herein are assured or that the planned Regulations of the Autorité des marchés ﬁnanciers, the following items have been objectives will be met. Forward-looking statements made in this Reference included for reference: Document also address a certain number of risks, whether proven or unproven, AREVA’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, p known or unknown, which remain subject to unforeseen events. Were they to 2013 and the statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements translate into fact, these risks could cause AREVA’s future ﬁnancial results, operating for the year ended December 31, 2013, presented in pages 190 to 200 and performance and production to diﬀer signiﬁcantly from the objectives presented or pages 188 to 189 respectively of the Reference Document ﬁled with the Autorité suggested herein. In particular, these risk factors include trends in the international des marchés ﬁnanciers on March 31, 2014 under number D. 14-0255; and economic and commercial situation. p AREVA’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, This Reference Document contains estimates of the markets, market shares and 2014 and the statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements competitive position of AREVA. They are provided solely for purposes of information for the year ended December 31, 2014, presented in pages 172 to 181 and and are likely to vary as a function of circumstances. pages 170 to 171 respectively of the Reference Document ﬁled with the Autorité In this document, the company is referred to as “AREVA”. The “group” designates des marchés ﬁnanciers on March 31, 2015 under number D. 15-0263. AREVA and its subsidiaries. A glossary deﬁning technical terms may be found at the end of this Reference Document. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 5 01 PERSON RESPONSIBLE 1.1. PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE REFERENCE 1.2. ATTESTATION BY THE PERSON RESPONSIBLE DOCUMENT 6 FOR THE REFERENCE DOCUMENT 6 1.1. PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE REFERENCE DOCUMENT Mr. Philippe Knoche Chief Executive Oﬃcer of AREVA 1.2. ATTESTATION BY THE PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE REFERENCE DOCUMENT “I hereby attest, having taking every reasonable measure to this eﬀect, and to the best of my knowledge, that the information contained in this Reference Document fairly reﬂects the current situation and that no material aspects of such information have been omitted. I attest that, to my knowledge, the ﬁnancial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and give a fair presentation of the assets, ﬁnancial position and operating results of the company and of all consolidated companies, and that the management report of the Board of Directors, whose structure is described in Appendix 7 of this Reference Document, presents a fair picture of the business, income and ﬁnancial position of the company and of all consolidated companies as well as a description of the main risks and uncertainties they confront. I have received an end-of-engagement letter from the Statutory Auditors indicating that they have veriﬁed information relating to the ﬁnancial position and the ﬁnancial statements provided in this reference document and have read the entire report. The end-of-engagement letter does not contain any observations. The historical ﬁnancial information presented in this document has been the subject of reports by the statutory auditors, which contain observations. Without qualifying the ﬁndings on the ﬁnancial statements, the statutory auditors, in their report on the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 on page 168 of this Reference Document, wish to draw attention to: p Note 1.1 sets out the context of the closing, the AREVA Group’s liquidity situation and the information relating to the application of the going concern principle; p Notes 1.1, 1.3.1.5 and 9, which describe the accounting treatment and the impacts of the transaction under consideration with EDF to transfer a majority share of AREVA NP, as well as the accounting treatment of the discontinued operations (wind power and solar energy activities, nuclear measurements and AREVA TA); 6 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT PERSON RESPONSIBLE 1.2 Attestation by the person responsible for the Reference Document 01 p Note 24 describes the reasons that led AREVA to apply paragraph 32 of IAS 11 as from the second half of 2013 and the methods of recognition applicable to the construction contract for the Olkiluoto 3 (“OL3”) EPR. In addition, this note speciﬁes the conditions of completion of this contract, in particular for the end of construction and testing until the reactor is put into service as well as for legal risks; p Notes 1.3.17 and 13 describe the conditions of measurement of the provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations, and their sensitivity to the assumptions used in terms of technical processes, costs, disbursement schedules and inﬂation and discount rates. The reports on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the years ended December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2014 contain observations, are incorporated by reference and appear on page 188 of the 2013 Reference Document and on page 170 of the 2014 Reference Document.” Courbevoie, April 12, 2016 Philippe Knoche Chief Executive Oﬃcer of AREVA 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 7 02 STATUTORY AUDITORS 2.1. STATUTORY AUDITORS 8 2.2. DEPUTY AUDITORS 8 The term of oﬃce of the statutory auditors is six years. 2.1. STATUTORY AUDITORS Mazars Ernst & Young Audit Tour Exaltis – 61 rue Henri-Regnault – 92400 Courbevoie – France 1-2 place des Saisons – 92400 Courbevoie – Paris la Défense 1 – France Represented by Cédric Haaser and Jean-Louis Simon Represented by Aymeric de la Morandière and Jean Bouquot p First term granted by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders convened p First term granted by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders convened June 26, 1989. Term renewed in particular by the Annual General Meeting of May 7, 2013, and to expire following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders convened May 7, 2013, and to expire following the Annual General Shareholders convened to approve the ﬁnancial statements for the year ended Meeting of Shareholders convened to approve the ﬁnancial statements for the December 31, 2018. year ending December 31, 2018. 2.2. DEPUTY AUDITORS Mr. Hervé Hélias AUDITEX Tour Exaltis – 61, rue Henri-Regnault – 92400 Courbevoie – France 1-2 place des Saisons – 92400 Courbevoie – Paris la Défense 1 – France p First term granted by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders convened Represented by Christian Scholer May 7, 2013, and to expire following the Annual General Meeting of First term granted by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders convened p Shareholders convened to approve the ﬁnancial statements for the year ended May 7, 2013, and to expire following the Annual General Meeting of December 31, 2018. Shareholders convened to approve the ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018. 8 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION 03 SUMMARY OF KEY DATA Change (in millions of euros, except workforce) 2015 2014* 2015/2014 Income Reported revenue 4,199 3,954 +246 Gross margin (288) (579) +291 Percentage of reported revenue ns ns ns Operating income (1,388) (2,115) +727 Net ﬁnancial income (313) (299) -14 Share in net income of joint ventures and associates (21) (14) -7 Net income from discontinued operations (190) (1,678) +1,488 Consolidated net income (2,038) (4,833) +2,795 Comprehensive income attributable to equity owners of the parent (1,825) (5,155) +3,300 Cash ﬂow EBITDA 685 471 +214 Percentage of reported revenue 16.3% 11.9% +4.4 pts Change in operating working capital requirement 246 (76) +322 Net operating Capex (631) (991) +359 Operating cash ﬂow 297 (579) +876 Miscellaneous Backlog 28,990 32,103 -3,113 Net cash (debt) (6,323) (5,809) -514 Equity attributable to owners of the parent (2,516) (691) -1,825 Workforce (end of period, including operations held for sale) 39,761 41,847 -5.5% Dividend per share * Adjusted for adoption of IFRS 5. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 9 04 RISK FACTORS 0.0. 4.1. RISK SOMS_T2NUM MANAGEMENT AND COVERAGE 11 00 0.0. 4.5. SOMS_T2NUM RISK RELATED TO MAJOR PROJECTS 26 00 4.1.1. Risk management 11 4.5.1. New reactor construction contracts 26 0.0. 4.1.2. SOMS_T2NUM Risk coverage and insurance 00 13 0.0. 4.5.2. SOMS_T2NUM AREVA’s industrial projects 00 27 0.0.0. soms_t3num 00 0.0.0. soms_t3num 00 4.2. 0.0.0. LEGAL RISK soms_t3num 14 00 4.6. 0.0.0. COMPANY EXPOSURE TO PRICE, CREDIT, soms_t3num 00 0.0.0. 4.2.1. soms_t3num Regulatory risk 00 14 0.0.0. LIQUIDITY AND CASH MANAGEMENT RISK soms_t3num 27 00 0.0.0. 4.2.2. soms_t3num Contractual and commercial risks 00 17 4.6.1. 0.0.0. Liquidity soms_t3num risk 27 00 0.0.0. 4.2.3. soms_t3num Risks and disputes involving AREVA 00 17 4.6.2. 0.0.0. Foreign soms_t3numexchange risk management 28 00 4.6.3. Interest rate risk management 28 4.3. 0.0. SOMS_T2NUM INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISK 00 18 0.0. 4.6.4. SOMS_T2NUM Risk associated with equity securities 00 4.3.1. Nuclear soms_t3risk 00 19 and other ﬁnancial instruments soms_t3 28 00 4.3.2. Chemical soms_t3 risk management 00 23 4.6.5. Risks soms_t3associated with uranium, enrichment 00 and conversion 29 4.3.3. Other soms_t3environmental risk 24 00 soms_t3 00 4.6.6. other Commodity risk 29 soms_t3 00 soms_t3 00 4.4. OPERATIONAL RISK 25 4.6.7. Counterparty risk related to the use of derivatives 29 4.4.1. Risk of interruption in the supply chain for products or services 25 4.7. OTHER RISK 30 4.4.2. Risk of default by suppliers, subcontractors, 4.7.1. Political and economic conditions 30 partners and customers 25 4.7.2. Risks related to the group’s structure 31 4.4.3. Risk associated with dependency on the group’s 4.7.3. Human resources risk 31 customers 25 4.4.4. Risk related to the information system 25 4.4.5. Unscheduled work in the production of products and services sold 26 4.4.6. Supplier concentration in the procurement chain 26 10 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT RISK FACTORS 4.1 Risk management and coverage 04 The realization of one or more of the risks presented below or the occurrence course of the group’s operating activities. The operating units (Business of one or more of the events described in this section could have a signiﬁcant Groups and Business Units) are responsible for leading the risk management impact on the group’s operations and/or ﬁnancial position. Unidentiﬁed risks policy in close coordination with the specialized departments. The policy or risks that the group currently considers to be insigniﬁcant could also aﬀect involves procedures, analyses, monitoring and, whenever possible, risk transfer to the insurance and reinsurance market. The policy for each type of the conduct of its operations. risk is presented in this chapter. However, the group cannot guarantee that All identiﬁed risks are monitored within the framework of the business risk the monitoring and follow-up implemented in connection with this policy will model (BRM) presented in Section 4.1, and, more speciﬁcally, in the ordinary prove suﬃcient in all circumstances. 4.1. RISK MANAGEMENT AND COVERAGE 4.1.1. RISK MANAGEMENT OVERALL ORGANIZATION OF RISK MANAGEMENT The Risk and Insurance Department steers this initiative by: AND CONTROL p establishing a common set of methodological tools and benchmarks; The purpose of the risk management policy and insurance is to protect the group’s p leading a network of risk coordinators trained by the group and assigned to the operations, performance and strategic objectives. operating units; and The Risk Committee coordinates the analysis of the group’s main risks for all nuclear p following up the action plans. and renewable operations worldwide and sets up the necessary action plans for The risk maps are presented every year to the Management Committees of the better control of them. Business Units and the Business Groups, and then to the Risk Committee, which The Risk Committee may call on expertise from throughout the group to accomplish prepares the summary that will be validated by the group’s Executive Committee for its mission. presentation to the Board of Directors’ Audit and Ethics Committee. This initiative covers the entire consolidated group. The Risk Management and Insurance Department, working closely with the operating departments, is responsible for implementing the risk management policy. The group’s multiyear audit plan builds among other things on risk mapping results, The department develops methodological tools to ensure consistent treatment of which are updated every year. The Audit Department subsequently implements risk among the group’s diﬀerent entities, assists them in their use and promotes this plan by conducting audits. the exchange of best practices. The Risk Management and Insurance Department consolidates risk assessment at the group level. Financially, the Risk and Insurance RISK ANALYSIS AND CONTROL Department arbitrates between retaining part of the risk and transferring it to the insurance and reinsurance markets through the group’s comprehensive and Managing risk entails: global policies. This speciﬁc point is developed in Section 4.1.2. Risk coverage p an ongoing and documented process of risk identiﬁcation, analysis, ranking, and insurance. optimization, ﬁnancing and monitoring; p a broad scope covering all of the group’s activities, both operational (construction, RISK MAPPING manufacturing, sales, projects, services, etc.) and functional (ﬁnance, legal, contractual, organizational, human resources, etc.); The principal objectives of risk mapping are to: p contributing to resource optimization and cost reduction; and p formally identify operational risks; p developing business continuity and crisis management plans. p characterize these risks so as to be able to rank them; and p deﬁne and implement an action plan aimed at managing them. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 11 04 RISK FACTORS 4.1 Risk management and coverage AREVA BUSINESS RISK MAPPING PROCESS SINCE JANUARY 8, 2015 (1) Audit & Ethics Committee Top down Global Synthesis Executive Committee Validation Corporate Functions (HR, Finance, Safety…) Coordination Leadership Risk insurance Risk Committee Guidance synthesis department Arbitration Validation Operating Units (BG/BU) Bottom Up Source: AREVA. The ﬁrst stage of the risk management process is to identify the risk using a Business The operating units, supported by AREVA’s specialized departments, manage risks Risk Model (BRM) drawn up for the use of the operating units. Working from a related to nuclear safety, the environment, and the physical protection of AREVA’s deﬁned number of typical risks or families of risk (BRM risk), the model lists all facilities under the oversight of national and international authorities. The Risk of the foreseeable or fortuitous situations or events that may have an impact on and Insurance Department draws technical expertise from these departments in employee safety, the ﬁnancial performance of the Business Unit or even of the performing its duties. group, and its corporate image. The BRM is destined to evolve by incorporating best practices and lessons learned. RISK MANAGEMENT RELATED TO THE GROUP’S INDUSTRIAL The establishment of the risk map is the opportunity for collecting components of OPERATIONS recommendations and decision-making concerning the implementation of action By regulation, industrial facilities operated by AREVA are classiﬁed into various plans designed to optimize the management of each risk and render the residual categories by level of risk and the quantity of nuclear material or chemical risk acceptable to the group. The operating units are responsible for analyzing and substances. ranking their risks, and for managing them by implementing action plans using appropriate means. In addition to the means of preventing and countering acts of malfeasance and actions to ensure public safety in the event of an accident, the industrial safety of In each Business Group, the risk management coordinators provide their the facilities consists in particular of: management with a cross-business picture of risks and of how the Business Units are managing them. The Risk Committee is then informed of the status of action p protecting employees, members of the public and the environment from the plans and decides which risks aﬀect the group’s strategic objectives. harmful eﬀects of radiation and chemicals; and The group’s commitment to transparency in risk management is shown in particular p deﬁning and implementing measures designed to prevent accidents and limit through the publication of environmental monitoring results for the principal sites their impacts. and more generally through the implementation of its Nuclear Safety Charter and its sustainable development policy. (1) For the mapping process prior to the change of governance on January 8, 2015, please refer to the 2014 Reference Document, Section 4.1.1. 12 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT RISK FACTORS 4.1 Risk management and coverage 04 4.1.2. RISK COVERAGE AND INSURANCE Some risk factors, were they to materialize, could be covered by one or several of AREVA’s liability the insurance policies taken out by the group as part of its insurance programs. The group is covered by a “worldwide” civil liability program with limits appropriate To mitigate the consequences of certain potential events on its operations and to its size and operations. The program covers: ﬁnancial position, AREVA transfers risk to reputable insurance and reinsurance p operator liability related to operating activities and services performed at companies worldwide. For example, AREVA has acquired insurance coverage for customer sites; its industrial risks, civil liability and other risks related to its nuclear and non-nuclear operations, with coverage limits varying according to the nature of the risk and the p product liability covering the post-delivery period; and group’s exposure. p professional liability (“Errors and Omissions”) covering the ﬁnancial consequences of damages associated with intellectual services performed by a company of the AREVA’s Risk and Insurance Department leads the insurance program for the group for its own account or on behalf of a third party. entire group. The Department: It is also covered for liability for environmental damage, damage to property held on p recommends solutions Executive Management, either to retain the risk and behalf of third parties, and for product recall expenses, among others. ﬁnance it internally or to transfer it to the insurance market; The program covers the monetary consequences of civil liability likely to be p negotiates, sets up and manages comprehensive and global insurance programs incurred by the operating entities due to their operations, including bodily harm, for the entire group and reports to Executive Management on actions taken and property damage and consequential damage suﬀered by third parties, excluding costs incurred; and nuclear operator liability. Certain events not usually covered by insurance, such p settles claims for the subsidiaries involved. as landslides, damage from asbestos, or damage caused by computer viruses, are also excluded. Liability insurance limits vary based on capacities available on 4.1.2.1. WORLDWIDE GROUP INSURANCE PROGRAMS the insurance market and on a reasonable assessment of the risks to which the group is exposed, as identiﬁed by the operating units and the Risk and Insurance Department, in particular during the risk mapping process. Directors and oﬃcers liability insurance The purpose of directors and oﬃcers liability insurance is threefold: Coverage relating to nuclear facility operations p ﬁrstly, it provides liability coverage for ﬁnancial risk incurred by group directors For a description of insurance taken out related to nuclear facility operator activities, and oﬃcers due to damages suﬀered by third parties as a result of errors or see Section 4.3.1.9. misconduct in the course of their duties; p secondly, it reimburses group companies that are legally allowed to indemnify 4.1.2.2. OTHER INSURANCE directors and oﬃcers for claims submitted against these individuals; p thirdly, it covers civil and/or criminal defense expenses incurred by directors and The group has recourse to Coface type coverage for some large export contracts oﬃcers as a result of any claims based on errors or misconduct in the course from France, such as the construction of nuclear power plants. The insurance of their duties. policies cover auto liability and work accidents in accordance with the legal obligations of each country in which AREVA and its subsidiaries are based. The policies exclude coverage of claims based on intentional misconduct by a director or an oﬃcer, or on personal gain (ﬁnancial or otherwise) to which a director or oﬃcer was not entitled. Fines and penalties levied against directors and oﬃcers 4.1.2.3. OUTLOOK AND TRENDS IN 2016 are also excluded, as well as claims for losses due to pollution, asbestos or toxic mold. Liability insurance policies for directors and oﬃcers exclude claims based on The insurance programs will be renewed in April 2016. the purchase of securities or assets of a company at an inadequate price. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 13 04 RISK FACTORS 4.2 Legal risk 4.2. LEGAL RISK 4.2.1. REGULATORY RISK The group conducts its operations in accordance with local laws under operating controls to take into account nuclear safety and radiation protection requirements licenses and permits. In particular, these operations require licenses relating to incumbent upon the manufacturer, which is responsible for the compliance of this production capacities and to environmental releases from the facilities. In conducting equipment, designed for use in nuclear reactors, which is likely to prolong the time its operations, the group must comply with applicable legislation and regulations, in needed by the French nuclear safety authority ASN to pronounce the compliance particular concerning environmental protection, employee protection, public health of the most signiﬁcant pressurized nuclear equipment. and nuclear safety, and with its operating licenses and permits. The operator may be The group may also not receive on a timely basis permits or licenses to modify or subject to sanctions, including administrative sanctions, in the event of an incident expand its industrial operations for which it has applied or may apply, whether in or lack of compliance with applicable regulations or operating permits and licenses. France or abroad, which could limit its growth capabilities. Such sanctions may include, among other things, the temporary suspension of operations, or measures to enforce compliance or to restore normal conditions. In Moreover, some operations, such as those of the Mining Business Group in certain addition, damage to the environment, to public health or to occupational safety, or countries, are subject to special tax rules whose modiﬁcation could have a negative the non-compliance of the group’s facilities could result in liabilities for some of the impact on the group’s ﬁnancial position. group’s entities with regard to third parties and government agencies. In addition, the group pays particular attention to regulations with which nonMoreover, a strengthening of or change in legislation or regulations, particularly in compliance could expose the group to criminal or civil penalties and signiﬁcantly areas such as environmental protection, health and nuclear security, could require impact its operations, image and reputation. that the group’s facilities and products be brought into compliance, which would likely have a signiﬁcant impact on the group’s operations or ﬁnancial position. In 4.2.1.1. NUCLEAR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS France in particular, the French Nuclear Safety and Transparency Law of June 13, 2006 (“TSN Law”) codified in the Environmental Code requires a periodic The group’s operations are subject to constantly changing and increasingly stringent reassessment of nuclear safety likely to translate into considerable expense to bring national and international regulations in the nuclear and environmental ﬁelds. The the facilities into compliance, but this would bolster their nuclear safety and ensure list of the group’s regulated nuclear facilities (see Glossary) or similar facilities is their sustainability. Similarly, the administrative order of December 12, 2005 related presented in the adjacent table. to pressurized nuclear equipment (the “ESPN Order”) strengthens requirements and 14 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT RISK FACTORS 4.2 Legal risk 04 NUCLEAR FACILITIES FOR WHICH ENTITIES OF THE GROUP HOLD THE OPERATING PERMIT OR LICENSE The main nuclear facilities at December 31, 2015, whether classiﬁed as regulated nuclear facilities in France (INB) or their corollaries in other countries, are listed below. Legal entity Location Business Unit holding the license Description Front End Business Group Malvési (France) Chemistry AREVA NC Packaging and storage of radioactive substances Tricastin, France Chemistry AREVA NC Preparation of UF6 Tricastin, France Chemistry AREVA NC Conversion of enriched uranium-bearing materials (U3O8) Tricastin, France Chemistry AREVA NC Analytical laboratory Tricastin, France Enrichment Eurodif Production Georges Besse gaseous diﬀusion enrichment plant Tricastin, France Enrichment SET Georges Besse II centrifuge enrichment plant Tricastin, France Enrichment Socatri Plant for uranium recovery and cleanup Romans, France Fuel AREVA NP Fuel fabrication for research reactors Romans, France Fuel AREVA NP Fuel fabrication for power reactors Fabrication of uranium and MOX fuel Dessel, Belgium Fuel FBFC International SA (undergoing dismantling) Lingen, Germany Fuel ANF Fuel fabrication Richland, United States Fuel AREVA Inc. Fuel fabrication Reactors & Services Business Group Maubeuge, France Equipment Somanu Nuclear maintenance workshop Back End Business Group Veurey, France (1) Valuation SICN Fuel fabrication plant (undergoing decommissioning) Recycling/ Decommissioning & Used fuel treatment plants and liquid eﬄuent/ La Hague (France) (2) Dismantling AREVA NC solid waste treatment facilities Marcoule, France Recycling AREVA NC MELOX MOX fuel fabrication plant (1) Two INBs at this site in ﬁnal shutdown/dismantling status. (2) Seven INBs at this site, including four in ﬁnal shutdown/dismantling status. Internationally, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the European most of whose provisions became eﬀective on July 1, 2013. In addition, the TSN law Commission have each established a system of nuclear materials safeguards. and law no. 2015-992 of August 17, 2015 concerning the energy transition for green Other international agreements adopted under the umbrella of the IAEA govern growth (TECV) establishes administrative and criminal penalties (articles L. 596-14 nuclear safety in the facilities, including the Convention on Nuclear Safety (CNS) et seq. and articles L. 596-27 et seq. of the French Environmental Code). Every and the Joint Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel Management and on the year, each regulated nuclear facility operator must also submit a report on measures Safety of Radioactive Waste Management. taken in respect of nuclear safety and radiation protection, which is made public. With respect to the European Union, the provisions of the Euratom Treaty and Regulated nuclear facilities are monitored closely by the French nuclear safety its implementing provisions reinforced the aspects related to nuclear materials authority ASN, an independent administrative authority. Operations abroad are safeguards and established a common set of rules, in particular concerning subject to the same type of rigorous control, the United States Nuclear Regulatory public health protection, radiation protection of workers and radioactive waste Commission (NRC) being one example. transportation. In France, regulated nuclear facilities (INB, installations nucléaires In France, some facilities operated by the group are subject to regulations pertaining de base) operated by the group fall under a strict legal framework. For example, to environmentally regulated facilities (ICPE), depending on the operations speciﬁc licenses and permits are delivered for the construction, startup, modiﬁcation, performed or the substances used. Group facilities that may represent hazards or safety review, ﬁnal shutdown, dismantling and decommissioning of the facilities, drawbacks, in particular for public health, safety and security, or for the protection and govern in particular rules for nuclear safety, protection of public health and of of nature and the environment, are subject to prior reporting to the Prefecture, to the environment, and the monitoring of radioactive and non-radioactive releases. a registration process, or to a licensing process. In the last case, the operating The license decrees required for certain operations are granted following a public license or permit granted upon completion of a public inquiry after consultation inquiry and an administrative process requiring the opinion of several organizations. with various organizations takes the form of a prefectorial order accompanied by Procedures related to the creation, modiﬁcation or ﬁnal shutdown of regulated speciﬁc operating requirements. nuclear facilities are set by decree no. 2007-1557 of November 2, 2007 pertaining The group is also subject to regulations pertaining to the protection of its employees, to regulated nuclear facilities and, in matters of nuclear safety, to the control of the its subcontractors and the public from the hazards of ionizing radiation (radiation transportation of radioactive materials. Pursuant to this order, the general technical protection), in particular by the establishment of exposure limits. rules applicable to regulated nuclear facilities were strengthened by the order of February 7, 2012 setting the general rules pertaining to regulated nuclear facilities, 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 15 04 RISK FACTORS 4.2 Legal risk Other national and international provisions govern: from the shutdown of the nuclear facility to the decision of the competent authorities the protection and safeguarding of nuclear materials, of their facilities and of their to decommission the facility, at which time it can generally be put to new industrial p transportation, such as the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear use. In France, the group is currently the licensee of 20 regulated nuclear facilities, Materials of October 28, 1979, the French Defense Code (articles L. 1333-1 6 of which are oﬃcially in ﬁnal shutdown/dismantling status, and one nuclear et seq. and R. 1333-1 et seq.), the Euratom Treaty of March 25, 1957 (Chapter defense facility. The level of dismantling selected depends in particular on the VII) and the Euratom Regulation no. 302/2005 of February 8, 2005, the IAEA/ expected use of the site that hosts the regulated nuclear facility. In the United States, France/Euratom Safeguards Agreement (INFCIRC/290 of July 27, 1978), and Germany and Belgium, where the group operates four nuclear facilities, dismantling many international agreements. Compliance with these requirements is regularly regulations are based on principles that are largely similar to those of France. veriﬁed by inspectors from the IAEA, Euratom and the oﬃce of the Senior Defense The non-regulatory aspects of dismantling are addressed in Section 4.3.1. and Security Oﬃcial at the French Ministry of Ecology, Sustainable Development and Energy (MEDDE); Regulations governing radioactive waste p the safety of facilities of vital importance, as provided in the French Defense In France, the waste generated by nuclear operations or by the dismantling of Code (articles L. 1332-1 et seq. and R. 1332-1 et seq.) and the national safety regulated nuclear facilities is governed by articles L. 542-1 to L. 542-14 of the directives, under the supervision of the Senior Defense and Security Oﬃcial at Environmental Code in particular. At the international level, radioactive waste the MEDDE and the prefectorial authorities; management falls under the purview of the IAEA’s Joint Convention on the Safety p nuclear facilities contributing to deterrence, as provided in the French Defense of Spent Fuel Management and on the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management Code (article R. 1411-1 et seq.) under the supervision of the French deterrence of September 5, 1997. At the European level, the Council directive no. 2011/70/ authority; Euratom of July 19, 2011 establishes a strict European Community framework for the safe and responsible management of used fuel and radioactive waste. p the transportation of radioactive materials with the Transport of Dangerous Goods Order of May 29, 2009 (TDG Order see Glossary); The producer or, as applicable, the holder of waste from nuclear operations or p the control of cross-border movements of radioactive waste with the Council dismantling operations is obligated to process and dispose of such waste. Directive 2006/117/Euratom of November 20, 2006 on the supervision Article L. 542-2-1 of the French Environmental Code authorizes the treatment of and control of transfers of radioactive waste and used nuclear fuel; see also foreign used fuel and radioactive waste in French facilities under certain conditions, Regulations governing radioactive waste, below. including in particular the signature of intergovernmental agreements indicating Similar regulations provide for rigorous control of facilities and their operating an estimated schedule for the receipt and treatment of these substances and, as conditions by the competent bodies in the foreign countries in which the group applicable, the prospects for the later use of the radioactive materials separated operates nuclear facilities (Belgium, Germany and the United States). during the treatment. Every year, the operator submits a report inventorying these substances to the minister of Energy. Article L. 594-1 of the Environmental Code Regulations governing end-of-lifecycle operations provides that operators of regulated nuclear facilities must establish provisions to cover the cost of dismantling the facilities and managing used fuel and radioactive Regulations governing dismantling waste, and allocate the necessary assets to cover these provisions exclusively. In this regard, the regulations specify that the operator must account for these assets The legal framework governing dismantling operations performed in France separately and that they must be suﬃciently secure and liquid to meet their purpose. primarily derives from the TSN Law as codiﬁed and the TECV Law. In addition, the Their realizable value must be at least equal to the amount of the provisions. The September 5, 1997 Joint Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel Management and portfolio of assets thus earmarked is protected from all creditors, except for the on the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management, adopted under the auspices of the State when it enforces compliance with rules pertaining to nuclear operations. All of IAEA, contains provisions related to the nuclear facility decommissioning process. these items are veriﬁed by a number of diﬀerent administrative authorities, including As the holder of licenses and permits for operations and dismantling, the nuclear the French national commission to assess the funding of dismantling expenses. operator is the legal entity responsible for the operation and dismantling of the Moreover, ﬁnancial penalties apply in the event of a failure to comply with all of the facilities. The operator remains responsible for the timing and methods selected to obligations related to dismantling expenses. dismantle the facilities it operates, subject to the technical supervision of the French nuclear safety authority ASN, which validates each major stage of dismantling. The decision authorizing dismantling and specifying its procedures is made by 4.2.1.2. RULES OF BUSINESS ETHICS decree following a public inquiry and a process requiring the opinion of several The group attaches special importance to adherence to strict ethical values in organizations. The decree authorizing ﬁnal shutdown and dismantling operations connection with its operations. It adopted a Values Charter in 2003 that calls for all speciﬁes, among other things, the features of dismantling, the dismantling schedule, employees to comply with applicable legislation and regulations and with the speciﬁc the ﬁnal conditions to be achieved, and the types of operations for which the values, action principles and rules of conduct set forth in that charter. Occasional operator is responsible upon completion of dismantling. deviations from these standards by employees, oﬃcers or representatives of the Depending on the particular features of each facility, dismantling operations may group are nonetheless possible, with potential repercussions on AREVA’s reputation take several decades, encompassing work execution phases and facility monitoring as a function of their severity and possibly ﬁnancial costs if violations have been phases involving practically no operation. Dismantling involves a series of operations, committed. 16 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT RISK FACTORS 4.2 Legal risk 04 4.2.2. CONTRACTUAL AND COMMERCIAL RISKS 4.2.2.1. BREACH OF CONTRACTUAL COMMITMENTS could prevent the group from taking advantage of price increases for those products or services; this is the case for certain natural uranium sales contracts, in particular, The group is exposed to the risk of default by its customers for the payment of its or for conversion or enrichment services. products and services and/or by its suppliers for the performance of certain services or the delivery of certain products. In addition, the proﬁtability of certain long-term contracts in which the group commits to providing deliverables at a ﬁxed price, adjusted based only on general indices, Except when customers deposit funds to cover the group’s expenses during the could be aﬀected by certain excess costs that cannot be charged to customers, contract implementation phase, the group is exposed to the risk of a customer’s including unanticipated increases for certain types of costs, technical diﬃculties, inability to accept delivery or to the risk of default on payments during delivery. subcontractor default or a suboptimal group organization. The performance of In such instances, the group may not be able to recover expenses incurred for this type of contract could, therefore, reduce the group’s anticipated proﬁtability, the project or attain the operating margins contemplated when the contract was or even cause an operating loss. concluded. In connection with certain disputes set out in Section 20.8. Legal and arbitration proceedings, the group may also be exposed to the risk of customer payment for 4.2.2.4. WARRANTIES part of its products and services on a blocked account during the execution of In accordance with the group’s practices and policies, the warranties provided in certain contracts. In fact, depending on the outcome of the disputes in question, the group’s contracts or ﬁnancing are limited in duration and capped in value, and the group could run the risk of having all or part of the blocked payments withheld. exclude consequential or indirect damages. However, the group could under certain Though the group endeavors to control its exposure to contractual risk, it is not circumstances give warranties exceeding those limits, particularly in competitive possible to guarantee that all risks of non-payment risk or non-execution can be markets. eliminated. 4.2.2.5. EARLY TERMINATION CLAUSES 4.2.2.2. NON-RENEWAL OR TERMINATION OF The group enters into contracts that sometimes include clauses allowing the CONCESSIONS RELATED TO THE GROUP’S customer to terminate the contract or reject the equipment if contract clauses MINING OPERATIONS concerning schedule or performance have not been met. Diﬃculties concerning The group’s mining operations involve concessions received or partnerships formed products and services provided under this type of contract could thus result in under legal systems speciﬁc to each country. Despite the relatively long terms of unexpected costs. these partnerships or concessions, the group is exposed to the risk of non-renewal Contract performance difficulties, besides the aforesaid negative financial or termination of its mining concessions. consequences, could also harm the group’s reputation with existing or potential customers, particularly in the nuclear sector. 4.2.2.3. LONG-TERM CONTRACTS 4.2.2.6. REQUIREMENTS CONTRACTS THE GROUP ENTERS INTO LONG-TERM CONTRACTS Some contracts concluded by entities of the group, in particular in the Front End THAT COULD LIMIT ITS OPPORTUNITY TO TAKE ADVANTAGE Business Group, are contracts for variable quantities, depending on our customers’ OF IMPROVING CONDITIONS IN CERTAIN MARKETS, reactor requirements; these are called “requirements contracts”. OR RESULT IN LOWER PROFITABILITY THAN ANTICIPATED. Therefore, the estimates provided by AREVA’s customers in connection with these In these long-term contracts, prices are adjusted based on general indices rather contracts may be revised downwards in certain circumstances, with a corresponding than current market prices for certain raw materials or services. This type of contract reduction in the revenue anticipated by AREVA for the contracts in question. 4.2.3. RISKS AND DISPUTES INVOLVING AREVA AREVA is exposed to the risk of disputes that could lead to civil and/or criminal 4.2.3.1. OLKILUOTO 3 EPR POWER PLANT (OL3) penalties. AREVA cannot guarantee that it is not potentially exposed to claims or investigations that could have a signiﬁcant unfavorable impact on the group’s image On December 5, 2008, the AREVA-Siemens consortium initiated arbitration and ﬁnancial performance. proceedings with the ICC with regard to delays and disruptions suffered in connection with the performance of the contract and the resulting extra costs (“D&D Except for the following cases, and to AREVA’s knowledge, there is no other Claim”). In July 2012, the Court of Arbitration rendered a ﬁnal partial decision governmental, administrative, legal or arbitration proceeding pending or threatened enjoining TVO to release 100 million euros (plus interest) due to the AREVA-Siemens that had or could have a signiﬁcant impact on the ﬁnancial position, proﬁtability or consortium which had been retained in contravention of contractual provisions. reputation of AREVA and/or of the group in the past twelve months. This decision was duly executed by TVO. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 17 04 RISK FACTORS 4.3 Industrial and environmental risk As of the end of 2015, after seven years of legal proceedings (exchanges of briefs Commission in an out-of-court settlement, and AREVA paid the sum of 5.1 million by the parties and intermediate audiences with the arbitration court), the parties’ euros to Alstom pursuant to the agreement reached in September 2015 on the respective claims amounted to approximately 3.5 billion euros for the Consortium share of the ﬁne to be borne by AREVA. (on Sections 1 and 2 of its claim, covering the start of the project to February 2014) Disputes involving AREVA related to the T&D business, sold on June 7, 2010, are and 2.3 billion euros for TVO. The proceeding is following its course. now closed. The Consortium and its counsel still consider the allegations of serious/intentional oﬀense made in TVO’s counterclaim to remain unfounded. 4.2.3.4. URAMIN ACQUISITION Discussions have begun with TVO with the objective of jointly laying the foundations for cooperation to complete the project and settle the dispute. At the closing of Following the preliminary inquiry led by the French national ﬁnancial prosecutor’s the 2015 ﬁnancial statements, all parties consider that preliminary discussions oﬃce, two judicial inquiries against persons unknown were opened concerning have proceeded positively. If this agreement materializes, the OL3 contract will be the conditions of the acquisition of UraMin and the presentation of the company’s transferred from AREVA NP to AREVA SA within the framework of the restructuring ﬁnancial statements concerning this purchase from 2009 to 2012. of the French nuclear industry. In response to the subpoena received from the court in December 2015, AREVA brought an independent action for damages in connection with the investigation of the UraMin acquisition. 4.2.3.2. SOCATRI For the civil counts of the case, and following the subpoena of Socatri, Eurodif Production, Comurhex and AREVA NC by the Town of Bollène in August 2012, the 4.2.3.5. CFMM High Court of Carpentras rendered a decision on May 12, 2015 which found no A request for arbitration was submitted to the International Chamber of Commerce known damage to species and natural habitat, to the ground or to water, and granted on July 28, 2014 against the CFMM company by a partner, Mr. Georges Arthur only 30,000 euros in damages, 154,051 euros for expenses and 50,000 euros for Forrest, in which the petitioner challenges the decision of the General Meeting the costs of the proceeding to the Town of Bollène, versus the requested 11 million of Shareholders on June 24, 2013 to liquidate ArevExplo RCA. CFMM has euros against Socatri. The Town of Bollène did not appeal this decision, which submitted counterclaims in response to this petition. An arbitration tribunal has thus becomes ﬁnal. been constituted and the proceeding, which is to take place in 2015 and 2016, is expected to result in a decision in 2017. 4.2.3.3. DISPUTES INVOLVING AREVA RELATED TO THE T&D BUSINESS, SOLD ON JUNE 7, 2010 4.2.3.6 EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP PLAN Following the European Commission decision of January 24, 2007 in which In November 2015, the group was informed through a handout from the CFE-CGC 11 companies were fined, including AREVA, for anti-competitive practices labor union that it had “ﬁled an action against person or persons unknown for false concerning the gas-insulated switchgear market (GIS), the Court of Justice of the information” with the public prosecutor of Nanterre concerning the circumstances European Union, in its decision of April 10, 2014, partly upheld certain appeals in which the employee share ownership plan was implemented in the ﬁrst half which had been lodged in this matter by AREVA, causing a modiﬁcation of the of 2013. Since then, a certain number of employees have allegedly joined the distribution of the penalty, but not a reduction of the overall penalty. The total amount complaint as individuals. of the penalty, including interest, is 79 million euros, including 28 million euros for Alstom and AREVA severally. This amount was paid in full by Alstom to the European 4.3. INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISK By nature, the group’s operations carry risk, most notably those performed in serious consequences, particularly in the event of radioactive contamination and/ the nuclear facilities listed in Section 4.2.1.1. and those performed in its other or irradiation of the environment, of individuals working for the group or of the industrial facilities or during logistics or maintenance operations at its customers’ general public, as well as a signiﬁcant negative impact on the group’s operations sites. To prevent these risks and limit their consequences, the group has adopted and ﬁnancial position. risk management strategies and procedures in line with best practices. If incidents If an accident should aﬀect one of the group’s plants or the transportation of and accidents were nonetheless to occur, in particular due to security breaches or hazardous and/or radioactive materials, the severity of the accident could be acts of malfeasance, the group could face substantial liability or signiﬁcant operating aggravated by various factors that are not under the group’s control, such as cost overruns. In fact, the group’s operations require processes that use various meteorological conditions, the type of terrain, or the intervention of outside entities. toxic chemical compounds and radioactive substances. Such events could have 18 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT RISK FACTORS 4.3 Industrial and environmental risk 04 4.3.1. NUCLEAR RISK 4.3.1.1. RISK OF NUCLEAR ORIGIN The results recorded (see Appendix 3. Social, environmental and societal responsibility) testify to the eﬀectiveness of these practices and the good level of Risks of nuclear origin are linked to the characteristics of radioactive substances. radiation protection control in the group. These risks thus concern all of the group’s industrial facilities in which these substances are found, whether regulated nuclear facility, regulated defense nuclear Criticality facility, environmentally regulated facility or mining operations. The risk of a criticality accident corresponds to the risk of an uncontrolled chain Risk prevention is based on a systemic and systematic analysis of the risks speciﬁc reaction with a brief and intense emission of neutrons, accompanied by radiation. to each facility or activity undertaken and on the deﬁnition of the means to prevent This risk, should it materialize, would result in irradiation of workers or individuals events of concern and to detect and manage incidents and accidents and limit their located near the event, causing lesions proportional in seriousness to the intensity potential consequences, based on defense-in-depth principles. These principles of the radiation received. This risk is addressed in any facility likely to receive ﬁssile consist of systematically analyzing potential technical, human or organizational materials. failures, and of deﬁning and implementing a series of independent lines of defense to protect against the consequences of those failures. The prevention of this risk is based on limiting the factors leading to uncontrolled chain reactions. This limitation is factored into the design (e.g. equipment geometry) These principles are implemented in the facility design phase, during the industrial or in operating requirements, mass limitations, etc. In areas of facilities most exposed production phase, and during cleanup and dismantling after the end of production to risk, prevention measures are strengthened with the use of shielding which operations. strongly reduces the consequences of a potential criticality incident for personnel, and with the installation of a criticality accident detection, alarm and measurement Dissemination of radioactive materials that can lead system. to contamination For transportation, nuclear safety and criticality are veriﬁed under both normal and Uncontained radioactive materials (solid, liquid or gaseous) may disperse and lead accidental operating conditions. Transportation regulations set forth rules for storage to human and environmental contamination if they are insuﬃciently contained. during transit, particularly in terms of the criticality risk. Controlling this risk consists above all of limiting the dispersion of those substances from the facilities under all operating conditions (normal or accidental), as well Thermal releases and radiolysis as after shutdown, in particular by interposing suitable containment barriers and ventilation systems. Matter absorbs the energy produced by intense radiation, which can lead to temperature increase. The energy is removed to control the temperature rise and Radiation prevent the dispersion of radioactive materials. Cooling is provided by redundant cooling systems with heat exchangers and ventilation systems. Whenever a person works in the presence of radioactive materials, there is a risk of exposure to radiation. Radiolysis corresponds to the decomposition of a hydrogenated compound (especially water) when exposed to radiation, leading to the release of hydrogen. The estimated biological impacts of radiation on the human body are generally In normal operations, the facilities are designed to limit hydrogen concentrations expressed in millisieverts (mSv). The regulatory annual dose limits are as follows: by ﬂushing the equipment with air. A backup system is added if a loss of normal p in the European Union, 1 mSv per year for the general public above naturally ﬂushing capacity can cause concentrations to rise to the limit value in a few hours occurring radioactivity, and 100 mSv over ﬁve consecutive years for employees, or tens of hours. not to exceed 50 mSv in any one year; p in the United States, 1 mSv per year for the general public and 50 mSv per year 4.3.1.2. INTERNAL RISKS THAT COULD LEAD TO NUCLEAR for employees; RISK p in France, the maximum regulatory limit for employees is 20 mSv/year. AREVA applies this maximum limit to all of its employees and subcontractors in all of As in any industrial activity, facility operations and the presence of personnel also its facilities and operations, regardless of the country in which they are located. give rise to risk. Since such incidents could aﬀect equipment important for managing nuclear safety, strong prevention measures are taken in the nuclear industry. Collective protection and monitoring systems are installed to limit radiation at the Prevention is based on factoring the potential causes of malfunctions into the source and optimize the doses received to levels that are as low as reasonably design or into operating instructions and on limiting their possible consequences. possible. In addition and if necessary, the time at work of operators is limited. The group applies the ALARA principle (“as low as reasonably achievable”), which The conventional risks most frequently encountered are: holds that any action will be taken to reduce exposure to radiation, as long as it p the risks associated with handling and the use of hoisting, transfer and positioning is reasonable from the technical, economic, social and organizational points of equipment; view. The radiation protection departments continually verify compliance with this p the risks of ﬁre and internal explosion; principle of optimization. p the risks related to the use of chemical reagents or toxic raw materials such as After a job study and approval by the occupational health physician, all operators HF or UF6; and workers qualiﬁed for work in a radioactive environment receive thorough medical and radiological follow-up. In accordance with applicable regulations, regular training sessions are held to maintain their knowledge at the appropriate level. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 19 04 RISK FACTORS 4.3 Industrial and environmental risk p the risks associated with the use of pressurized equipment; p away from controlled airspace; p the risks associated with utilities (electricity, water, steam, industrial gases, etc.). p away from airspace used by military aircraft; and These risks are managed with an approach similar to that used for nuclear risk p far from any airport. management, reﬂecting the nature of the risk and in compliance with regulatory Safety studies are carried out to assess the risk of an airplane crash and determine requirements deﬁned for each technical ﬁeld: safety systems, ﬁre containment, the means for limiting its consequences (factoring in the organization of airspace detection, Atex rules for explosive atmospheres, separation of incompatible use, type of ﬂights, known crash statistics, etc.), including the risk of deliberate chemicals, etc. These technical measures are supplemented as necessary by attack. compliance inspections, periodic veriﬁcations and maintenance, and operator training and/or certiﬁcation measures. Special measures are taken to protect the nuclear facilities from terrorism; these measures have been strengthened under the French national security plan known Measures are also adopted to minimize the consequences of a failure whenever an as “Vigipirate”. For security reasons, these measures may not be disclosed to the incident may have an impact on nuclear safety. Automatic ﬁre detection systems are public. used for early alerts to employees trained to respond to and extinguish a ﬁre start. Response means are also provided (e.g. ﬁre department in the event of a ﬁre start). Adverse meteorological conditions and ﬂooding A risk highly speciﬁc to the group involves the use of uranium hexaﬂuoride This risk is factored into the design based on potential local weather conditions. (UF6). Advance warning is given for any threatening weather conditions, and there are During enrichment operations, uranium is handled in the chemical form of UF6 instructions for each facility concerning additional measures to be taken, such as (uranium hexaﬂuoride), which is a solid at normal temperatures and pressures, increased monitoring or speciﬁc action. and becomes gaseous when heated (sublimation at about 56 ). This gas can react The possible causes of external ﬂooding (rain, river ﬂooding, breach of levies, when it comes into contact with water vapor in the air, forming uranium oxide and tsunami) are factored into the design of the facilities and in operating measures. hydroﬂuoric acid, a highly toxic compound for man, plants and animals. In view of The risk of a thousand-year ﬂood is taken into account, in particular by locating the large quantities of UF6 handled at the production sites, the inherent risks were facilities above the thousand-year ﬂood plain. factored into the design of the facilities (double containment barrier, automated Other risks caused by potential external events, such as the loss of power supply or monitoring of high-risk areas, etc.). utilities (water, steam, compressed air, etc.), are also addressed through redundant Other risks, such as those related to parallel activities and to human and or independent backup systems. organizational factors, are also taken into account. Prior coordination of activities Following the accident at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant in Japan, and the parties involved and the establishment of a suitable organization combined in addition to measures taken in the design of the facilities or during operations, with personnel training in particular contribute to the limitation of these risks. supplementary safety assessments (SSA) were carried out to evaluate the facilities’ strength after a malfunction. Based on these assessments, special programs to 4.3.1.3. EXTERNAL RISKS THAT COULD LEAD improve the level of facility protection led to work and actions (see Appendix 3, TO NUCLEAR RISK Section 2. Environmental information). Other measures are being implemented in accordance with regulatory decisions by ASN applicable to the group’s nuclear Unlike risks of internal origin, it is not always possible to act on risks of external origin facilities. related to the facility’s environment. However, their origin must be taken into account to reduce and manage their consequences, particularly in terms of radiation. The desired level of protection is secured by considering in particular unforeseen but 4.3.1.4. TRANSPORTATION OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS highly improbable events in the context of each site. To protect members of the public, property and the environment from the eﬀects of radiation during the transportation of radioactive materials on public lands, the Earthquake “defense in depth” concept applies to these operations, as it does to other nuclear Earthquakes and their possible repercussions, such as a tsunami, can cause operations. This concept consists of setting up a series of barriers – safety systems, damage that could disable nuclear safety systems. procedures, technical or administrative controls, etc. – to prevent accidents and limit For facilities in which nuclear materials are handled, the risk of an earthquake is their consequences. The design of the shipping cask is the main component of factored into the design of equipment, systems and buildings. The analysis consists this system. As with any nuclear activity, these operations are governed by stringent of demonstrating that damage aﬀecting the nuclear safety of the facility is unlikely international regulations. to occur at the level of the event scenario. If the materials transported exceed a certain level of activity set by regulation, the cask must, under normal and accidental operating conditions, provide: Airplane crash p the containment of the materials; This risk concerns the crash of an airplane, or part of an airplane, on a facility. Its probability of occurrence depends on the number of aircraft that could reach the p continued sub-critical conditions when ﬁssile materials are transported; site without being detected, and its potential severity depends on the type of aircraft p control of radiation intensity; and and the surface of sensitive areas in each facility. Each site is located: p protection from the heat of the materials transported to prevent damage. The related requirements cover cask design, fabrication, operation and maintenance. 20 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT RISK FACTORS 4.3 Industrial and environmental risk 04 AREVA’s objective is to ensure an optimum level of safety and security during any risk that would potentially alter nuclear safety. To perform its duties, the General transportation. To accomplish its mission of supervising the group’s transportation Inspectorate has: operations, AREVA has an organization that analyzes risks, establishes action plans a corps of inspectors, which performs independent veriﬁcations of the operating p and manages emergencies around the globe. Its monitoring center is able to access organization of the facilities; and in real time all necessary information on shipments under its supervision at all times. p ongoing support from the SQED’s safety specialists. In addition, insurance is taken out for shipments in accordance with the conditions The inspector general proposes an annual inspection program, which is approved described in Section 4.3.1.9. Special coverage relating to nuclear facility operations. at the highest level. This program ensures that the Nuclear Safety Charter is correctly applied, detects any warning signs of a potential deterioration in nuclear safety 4.3.1.5. NUCLEAR SAFETY IN THE AREVA GROUP performance, and points to necessary improvements to ensure the best level of control. Nuclear safety encompasses all of the technical provisions and organizational measures pertinent to the design, construction, operation, shut-down and Subcontracting dismantling of regulated nuclear facilities and to the transportation of radioactive Ensuring nuclear safety, health, industrial safety and environmental protection in materials, and designed to prevent accidents and limit their consequences. subcontracted activities is an ever-present concern for the nuclear industry. AREVA Nuclear safety is an absolute priority for AREVA. The group formalized its is dedicated to improving the formal conditions for subcontracting and monitoring commitments in the ﬁelds of nuclear safety and radiation protection in a Nuclear subcontracted work. This includes applying internal guidelines for compliance with Safety Charter (available on the group’s website under “Media Center”), which aims nuclear safety, radiation protection and environmental protection requirements as to ensure a very high level of nuclear safety throughout the operation of its facilities part of the procurement process. It also includes the deﬁnition of a social certiﬁcation and its services activities. The Charter is founded on the principles hereunder. for service providers based on the criteria of nuclear safety, occupational safety, training, professionalization and employee satisfaction. Organizational principles The executive management of AREVA and each of its subsidiaries set up an Reporting system organization reﬂecting the legal provisions of the country in question based on the AREVA endeavors to provide reliable and relevant information enabling an overriding liability of the operator. Each site director is responsible for nuclear safety objective assessment of the status of nuclear safety in its facilities. Nuclear events and radiation protection at that site. He or she sets up an appropriate organizational are evaluated according to the International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale structure to ensure that all legal and regulatory requirements for every aspect of (INES), including in countries where no such requirement exists (see Appendix 3, nuclear safety and radiation protection are applied at every aﬀected unit and facility. Section 2. Environmental information). The INES ranks the severity of events on a He or she delegates authority as regards nuclear safety and has the resources scale from 1 to 7. Level 1 or higher events are of public record. to verify implementation of this delegation independently of operating personnel. As per its commitments, the group publishes, both in hard copy and on its website (under “Media Center”), the annual report of the General Inspectorate of Nuclear Action principles Safety. This report presents the status of nuclear safety and radiation protection at Nuclear safety applies to every stage in the facility lifecycle, from design to the group’s nuclear facilities in France and abroad, as observed through the program dismantling, and to the services operations. It builds on a nuclear safety culture of inspections, and draws on analyses of events and on various elements identiﬁed shared by all personnel and maintained by regular training. In the area of radiation by nuclear safety specialists with a view to identifying areas for improvement. protection, the group is committed to maintaining the exposure of workers and the public to a level as low as reasonably achievable (see Section 4.3.1.1.). The same Also, pursuant to article L. 125-15 of the Environmental Code, each of the sites continuous improvement initiative applies to the reduction of impacts from liquid operating the group’s nuclear facilities in France publishes an Annual Nuclear Safety and gaseous eﬄuents (see Appendix 3, Section 2. Environmental information). and Radiation Protection Report and makes it publicly available. An organization 4.3.1.6. PROTECTION AND SAFEGUARD OF NUCLEAR In the ﬁelds of nuclear safety and radiation protection, the Safety Health Security MATERIALS AND FACILITIES Quality Environment Department (SQED) deﬁnes, leads and coordinates the group’s nuclear safety and radiation protection policy; coordinates regulatory intelligence in In addition to the measures adopted to prevent the risks of an incident or accident the ﬁelds of safety and radiation protection; and provides leadership for the network and limit the consequences, sites in possession of nuclear materials must take of related experts. It provides the necessary support to the operating entities and measures to prevent the loss, theft or diversion of the materials held in the facilities, or steers relations with the regulators. any act that might result in their dispersal in the environment. As is done for nuclear safety, the measures taken are based on the concept of defense in depth and rest General Inspectorate for Nuclear Safety on three interrelated pillars forming a strong and interconnected whole, which are: The General Inspectorate for Nuclear Safety is part of the SQED. It is headed by the p physical protection to avert, detect, prevent or delay any unauthorized access Inspector General, who reports directly to the group’s Executive Management. It to the nuclear materials or any act of sabotage that might endanger the public; proposes and implements an annual nuclear facility inspection program to prevent p physical monitoring, in which movements of nuclear materials require authorization and are monitored; 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 21 04 RISK FACTORS 4.3 Industrial and environmental risk p a materials accounting system distinct from physical monitoring, which provides Note 13. End-of-lifecycle operations). However, it may be stated with certainty that independent control based on the daily accounting of quantities of materials the provisions currently set up will be in line with the actual costs ultimately borne held in each area of the site and of all movements of nuclear materials from by the group, which could be higher than initially estimated, due in particular one area to another. to changing legislation and regulations applicable to nuclear operations and The competent authorities including, in France, inspectors reporting to the Senior environmental protection, to their interpretation by the courts, and to the growing Defense and Security Oﬃcial at the Ministry of Ecology, Sustainable Development body of scientiﬁc and technical knowledge. These costs also depend on regulatory and Energy, regularly verify compliance with and proper application of these decisions, in particular concerning dismantling methods, and on the choice and measures. cost of solutions for the ﬁnal disposal of certain types of radioactive waste (see Section 20.2. Notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note 13. End-oflifecycle operations). It is therefore possible that these future obligations and potential 4.3.1.7. NON-PROLIFÉRATION expenses or potential additional future liability of a nuclear or environmental nature that the group may later have to bear could have a signiﬁcant negative impact Proliferation is the diversion of nuclear materials by a State for non-peaceful on the group’s ﬁnancial position. For example, as provided in the French law of purposes. June 28, 2006, the Direction Générale de l’Energie et du Climat (DGEC, the French Non-proliferation is a shared objective of all of the signatory countries of international government’s oﬃce of climate and energy) tasked a working group with performing agreements in this area, in particular the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear a new cost assessment for deep geologic disposal (Cigéo Project). The working Weapons of July 1, 1968. Non-proliferation requirements relate to the physical group, established by a decision on June 23, 2011 of the Industrial Coordination protection of nuclear materials per the Convention on the Physical Protection of Committee for Radioactive Waste (COCIDRA) and led by the DGEC, brings together Nuclear Material; to safeguards controls per the Euratom treaty, which established representatives from Andra, AREVA, the CEA, the EDF group and ASN. In its order a nuclear materials accounting system; and to inspection by the IAEA and Euratom. of January 15, 2016, the Ministry of Ecology, Development and Energy set the cost To meet national regulatory requirements for the nuclear materials safeguards and for implementation of long-term management solutions for long-lived mediumand facility protection, AREVA takes every measure necessary in this ﬁeld to know, at all high-level radioactive waste (the Cigéo project) at 25 billion euros (not discounted times, the amount, type, use and location of the materials held by the group’s entities. to the economic conditions of 2011) for a period of 140 years beginning in 2016. This cost, arising from the phase outlining the Cigéo project, substitutes for the 2005 estimate of 14.1 billion euros (at 2003 economic conditions) on which the 4.3.1.8 RISKS RELATED TO END-OF-LIFECYCLE corresponding end-of-life cycle provision was based. The development of this new OPERATIONS reference cost for Cigéo led AREVA NC to supplement the net end-of-lifecycle provision by 250 million euros, factoring in the increased cost of Cigéo and a As an operator of regulated nuclear facilities and industrial facilities covered by margin for contingencies. The provision for Cigéo (disposal) is thus a total of 716 legislation on environmentally regulated sites, the group is legally obligated to million euros in discounted value at December 31, 2015 (2.136 billion euros in secure, dismantle or remediate its facilities after shutdown, in whole or in part, and undiscounted value) based on criteria for allocation of funding among producers to manage waste resulting from these operations. As a mine operator, it must also that is unchanged in relation to previous accounting periods. It should be noted that provide for closure, securing and reclamation after operations. Cigéo is funded by EDF, the CEA and AREVA according to allocation criteria based The group plans for the dismantling of its facilities from the beginning of the on the volume of waste to be sent to the geologic repository. The two main factors design phase. Operating experience from facility maintenance, from dismantling likely to inﬂuence the amount of the provision are the cost of the Cigéo project and activities carried out for its own account or for other nuclear operators, and from the funding allocation criteria. pilot projects conducted beforehand contribute to the safety of similar dismantling In addition, any reduction of the discount rate, or any acceleration of the dismantling operations. Operations carried out by subcontractors are supervised closely. schedule, would require the group to record an increase in the value of the provisions Computer programs were developed to facilitate the adoption of new standards (for more details, see Section 20.2. Notes to the consolidated financial statements, for data historization and traceability, thus reducing the research necessary for Note 13. End-of-lifecycle operations). characterization at the end of operations (radiological, physico-chemical, etc.) and the impacts of dismantling work. The group holds a portfolio of ﬁnancial assets (equities, bonds, mutual funds and receivables from third parties) to fund its future end-of-lifecycle obligations. The group In France, the law provides for a mechanism to ensure that the operators of regulated is exposed to a risk of insuﬃcient value of assets held to fund its end-of-lifecycle nuclear facilities have suﬃcient assets to fund long-term expenses associated with operations. The group would have to use its own ﬁnancial resources to fund these the dismantling of these facilities of the management of used fuel and radioactive operations, which would result in a signiﬁcant negative impact on its net income waste. In the United States, the Decommissioning Funding Plan (DFP) is updated and ﬁnancial position. every three years. In particular, considering the intrinsic volatility of equity markets, the value of the Future expenses relating to end-of-lifecycle operations for its nuclear facilities and for portfolio of ﬁnancial instruments could decrease and/or provide a return insuﬃcient reclamation of regulated industrial facilities are identiﬁed and special provisions are to fund the group’s end-of-lifecycle operations. The sensitivity of the value of the recorded. Rules regarding provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations, in the amount of portfolio to variations in the markets is described in Section 20.2. Notes to the 6.985 billion euros on a discounted basis, including a third party share of 188 million consolidated financial statements, Note 13. End-of-lifecycle operations. euros, are described in Section 20.2. Notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note 13. End-of-lifecycle operations. Used fuel treatment contracts call for the ﬁnal waste and residues from those operations to be allocated to and retrieved by the original waste and residue The provisions set up to cover these expenses are based on estimates of future generator. However, as the temporary holder of the nuclear waste and residue costs developed by the group, taking into account, by definition, a series of generated by its customers, the group could remain liable if a customer defaults assumptions (see Section 20.2. Notes to the consolidated financial statements, or ﬁles for bankruptcy. 22 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT RISK FACTORS 4.3 Industrial and environmental risk 04 4.3.1.9. SPECIAL COVERAGE RELATING TO NUCLEAR facility). The limit of liability during transportation would increase from 22.9 million FACILITY OPERATIONS euros to 80 million euros per accident. The State in which the nuclear facility responsible for the damage is located would cover the 700-million-euro to 1.2-billionInternational nuclear liability law is based on a series of principles that override euro tier. Beyond this amount, the other Signatory States would intervene up to a general liability law. The operator of the nuclear facility that caused the damage is limit of 1.5 billion euros. A mechanism to increase these limits would apply as new solely responsible. This is known as the exclusive liability channeling principle. Its States ratify the Conventions. liability is objective (“no fault”), for which there are few exemptions. The operator of a nuclear facility is therefore required to compensate the victims for the bodily harm In addition, law no. 2015-992 of August 17, 2015 concerning the energy transition and property damage they have suﬀered. The operator is required to maintain a for green growth brings forward the eﬀective date for the increased nuclear operator ﬁnancial guarantee, which is generally insurance, to cover its liability at a capped liability (700 million euros per nuclear accident in a facility and 80 million euros per amount. transportation accident), as contemplated in the protocols of February 12, 2004 amending the Paris and Brussels Conventions. These new caps on the French This system is deﬁned by international treaties such as the Paris Convention on nuclear operator’s responsibility will be eﬀective as from February 18, 2016. Third Party Liability in the Field of Nuclear Energy of July 29, 1960, amended, and the Brussels Supplementary Convention of January 31, 1963, amended, Description of insurance acquired by the group or the Vienna Convention of May 21, 1963, amended. In addition, the Common Protocol of September 21, 1988, which entered into force in France on July 30, AREVA has acquired several insurance policies in France, Germany, Belgium and 2014, is intended to connect the two systems established by the Paris and Vienna the United States to cover its regulated nuclear facilities in France and abroad, and conventions, thus reducing common law jurisdiction in order to provide better its nuclear transportation operations. These special insurance policies comply with protection to potential victims of a nuclear accident. In the United States, while the international conventions governing nuclear operator liability, including their not founded on an international convention, the Price Anderson Act establishes a liability limits. system to manage claims submitted to nuclear operators. The insurance policies are reinsured by the nuclear insurance pools of various Every country in which the group operates nuclear facilities is subject to one of countries, including Assuratome in France, DKV in Germany, Syban in Belgium these legal constructions. and ANI in the United States. In addition, AREVA is a member of the European Liability Insurance for the Nuclear Industry mutual insurance association (ELINI). For purposes of information, France has set a maximum nuclear civil liability amount, currently 91.5 million euros per nuclear accident in a nuclear facility and Property and business interruption insurance for nuclear 22.9 million euros per accident during transport. Moreover, should an accident operations occur in a regulated nuclear facility in France, the French government would Due to the nature of the potential damage to the facilities, this type of insurance is assume liability above 91.5 million euros and up to a limit of 228.6 million euros. available only through the pools mentioned above or through specialized mutual Thereafter, the Signatory states to the Brussels Supplementary Convention would insurance companies capable of providing the necessary coverage. The limits of assume collective liability for the amount above 228.6 million euros, up to a limit coverage for this type of insurance are based on the estimated replacement value of 381.1 million euros. or on an estimate of the maximum possible loss (MPL). The coverage for some The protocols amending the Paris Convention and the Brussels Supplementary complex facilities can be up to 1 billion euros. Convention were signed on February 12, 2004 by representatives of the signatory Mining operations and AREVA’s US and Belgian sites are not covered by property states. However, the amended conventions are not yet in effect. The main and business interruption guarantees for the nuclear process; rather, they are amendments will concern the increase of the three tiers of indemnity. Thus, the covered by speciﬁc programs set up locally in agreement with AREVA’s Risk and nuclear operator’s liability would increase from 91.5 million euros to 700 million Insurance Department. euros per nuclear accident in any given facility (70 million euros in a reduced-risk 4.3.2. CHEMICAL RISK MANAGEMENT 4.3.2.1. SEVESO REGULATIONS In accordance with the regulatory requirements, the three sites in France have set up a plan to prevent major accidents and limit their impacts on individuals and The group operates nine sites subject to Seveso regulations, which implement the environment. A safety management system incorporating the organization, European Directive 2012/18/EU concerning the control of major accident hazards functions, products and other resources was set up to strengthen risk management. involving dangerous substances, as amended. The regulations apply to facilities that may present a signiﬁcant risk to public health and safety or to the environment. Similarly, hazards studies are updated on a regular basis. They are the foundation of The sites subject to these regulations are located in France and in Germany (Lingen the process designed to minimize risk from the outset, control urban development, ANF). Four of them are subject to high-threshold Seveso regulations, three of which establish emergency management plans and inform the public. Hazards studies are in France: AREVA NC (Tricastin and Malvési sites) and AREVA NP (Jarrie site). present in particular the hazards that the facility could generate in the event of The ANF Lingen site is a nuclear facility and also presents a high-threshold Seveso a deviation and demonstrate measures capable of reducing the probability and risk due to its storage of hydroﬂuoric acid (HF). impacts of an accident to the lowest achievable level in view of current knowledge and practices, taking into account the vulnerability of the facility’s environment. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 23 04 RISK FACTORS 4.3 Industrial and environmental risk As part of a continuous improvement process, the relevance, reliability and Some 160 substances were introduced in the process; an initial list of substances “stand-alone” quality of safety barriers are reviewed on a regular basis. This review was published in October 2008 and is regularly updated. Today, 31 substances applies to prevention barriers (intended to reduce the probability of an unscheduled are listed in Appendix XIV. AREVA is directly concerned by only a few of these event) and to protection barriers (intended to limit the consequences of an substances; a research and development program is in progress to ﬁnd substitutes unscheduled event). Moreover, a dedicated working group was set up in 2004 to for them. harmonize and share best practices from Seveso sites. Several steps were taken to manage the legal, ﬁnancial and technical consequences With respect to insurance, the above-mentioned facilities of AREVA NC, AREVA NP of the REACH regulation and to ensure that all of the group’s entities are in and ANF are covered by the civil liability program taken out by the group. The level compliance. In October 2006, an awareness program targeting the affected of coverage is based on quantiﬁcation of reasonably expected risk and guarantees functions was deployed throughout the group and has continued since then. An available in the insurance market. internal organization was set up consisting of a REACH steering committee at the corporate level (Safety-Health-Security-Quality-Environment Department, Purchasing Department, Legal Department, and Research and Development Department), 4.3.2.2. IMPLEMENTATION OF REACH REGULATIONS representatives of the entities and technical advisors for the various issues related On December 18, 2006, the European Parliament adopted the REACH to REACH. This organization, described in a group procedure, will deploy and regulation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals), monitor the initiative in each legal entity. EC no. 1907/2006. REACH establishes a policy for managing chemical substances AREVA is aﬀected by this regulation as a producer and importer of substances in the European Union. The long-term objective is to ﬁnd substitutes for substances used in certain operations, in particular in the Front End Business Group, and more that are of most concern for health and the environment. The regulation helps generally as a downstream user of substances and mixtures. It should be noted that improve knowledge on the properties of chemical substances and the risks the radioactive substances covered in the Euratom directive (no. 96/29, replaced by associated with their use. no. 2013/59) are excluded from the scope of the REACH regulations. The group It requires that all chemical substances produced or imported in quantities of more pre-registered and registered all substances produced or imported in quantities than one metric ton per year be registered. The data collected in this way are being of more than one metric ton. Eleven applications for registration, including three used to ensure appropriate management of the risks associated with the use of each as lead registrant, were ﬁled before the ﬁrst deadline of November 30, 2010, and substance. In addition, each user of a substance must ensure that its use is covered six applications were ﬁled before the second deadline in 2013. by the manufacturer’s and importer’s registration ﬁle and that recommended risk management measures are applied. 4.3.3. OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL RISK NATURAL DISASTERS PREVALENT IN CERTAIN REGIONS group or in claims for compensation, either from employees or former employees, IN WHICH THE GROUP DOES BUSINESS COULD AFFECT ITS or from buyers of the group’s businesses, in the event that occupational disease OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL POSITION as the result of a previous exposure should arise in employees prior to their transfer with the business. These actions could result in the payment of damages. The location of some of the group’s production sites in areas exposed to natural disasters, such as earthquakes or ﬂooding, could weaken the group’s production The group received a limited number of claims in France for occupational diseases capacity. Following the Fukushima accident in March 2011, stress tests were carried concerning various disorders in 2015, mostly for musculoskeletal ailments (joint out or are being completed on nuclear facilities in most of the countries that have disorders). them; the conditions required for their continued operation were set upon the completion of these tests. OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES RELATED, IN PARTICULAR TO EXPOSURE TO ASBESTOS OR RADIATION, CANNOT BE RULED OUT The group believes that it fundamentally complies with legal and regulatory provisions pertaining to health and safety in every country in which it operates and considers that it has taken the measures needed to ensure the health and safety of its own personnel and of subcontractor personnel (see Section 17. Human Resources). However, the risk of occupational disease cannot be excluded in principle. Yet the occurrence of disease could result in legal action against the 24 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT RISK FACTORS 4.4 Operational risk 04 4.4. OPERATIONAL RISK 4.4.1. RISK OF INTERRUPTION IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN FOR PRODUCTS OR SERVICES An industrial breakdown, a work stoppage or an interruption of the supply chain Contracts between the group and its customers include a certain number of in the group’s manufacturing plants or at a supplier’s location could delay or stop warranties that can trigger penalties for delays. These warranties could enter into the ﬂow of the group’s products or services. play as a result of an industrial breakdown, work stoppage, or an interruption of This risk is heightened by the fact that the group’s diﬀerent plants, in any given the supply chain, whether at one of the group’s industrial units or at one of its business, are highly integrated and interdependent, and that some of the group’s supplier’s locations. suppliers could have ﬁnancial diﬃculties or might not be able to cope with demand Although the group has implemented measures to limit the impact of a potential while complying with the group’s deadlines and quality standards. A potential breakdown and has covered its exposure through business interruption insurance breakdown or stoppage of production in a plant or at a supplier’s location, or an for its industrial units and selects its suppliers based on stringent criteria for quality interruption of some shipments could aﬀect all of the group’s operations and cause and ﬁnancial soundness, it is nonetheless still possible that an industrial breakdown, an interruption of supplies or services. a work stoppage or an interruption of the supply chain at the group’s industrial units or at a supplier’s location could have a signiﬁcant negative impact on the group’s ﬁnancial position and on its ability to respond in optimum manner to customer demand. 4.4.2. RISK OF DEFAULT BY SUPPLIERS, SUBCONTRACTORS, PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS AREVA’s suppliers, subcontractors and partners could encounter financial Depending on the geographical area, the economic situation could have a negative diﬃculties related to economic conditions and no longer be in a position to perform impact on the group’s suppliers, subcontractors, partners and customers, whether contracts entered into with the group. for their access to sources of funds or for their ability to meet their obligations in the group’s regard. 4.4.3. RISK ASSOCIATED WITH DEPENDENCY ON THE GROUP’S CUSTOMERS THE GROUP’S LOSS OF ONE OF ITS MAIN CUSTOMERS In its operating segments, these contracts give AREVA operating visibility beyond OR A REDUCTION IN THEIR PURCHASES, OR AN EROSION 2020, with the regular signature of contracts covering multiple years. OF CONTRACT TERMS OR CONDITIONS, COULD HAVE In addition, the impacts of the law of August 17, 2015 pertaining to the energy A SIGNIFICANT NEGATIVE IMPACT ON THE GROUP’S transition in France (articles L. 311-5-5 and L. 100-4-5) on EDF’s operations OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL POSITION. should be speciﬁed in the Multiyear Energy Program to appear in the spring AREVA has very substantial commercial relations with the EDF group. At of 2016. According to the report of the Cour des Comptes (Court of Audit) of December 31, 2015, EDF France represented about 30% of the group’s revenue. February 10, 2016, the law provided that the adoption of the Multiyear Energy AREVA is the leading supplier to the EDF group in the nuclear ﬁeld, providing Program be accompanied by a study of the economic, social and environmental products and services at every stage in the nuclear fuel cycle as well as for the impacts of the program and on its sustainability for public ﬁnances. The implications construction, equipping and maintenance of the EDF group’s nuclear power of the law for the nuclear reactor ﬂeet maintenance project must be speciﬁcally generating resources. In the fuel cycle, the relationship between the EDF group identiﬁed and assessed therein. and AREVA is governed by multiyear contracts. The group’s 10 biggest customers, including the EDF group, represented about 63% of its revenue at December 31, 2015. 4.4.4. RISK RELATED TO THE INFORMATION SYSTEM All industrial and commercial activities in the group rely on a mission-critical However, faced with constantly changing threats and the growing sophistication information system. of the attacks, it cannot guarantee that they will remain without signiﬁcant impact The group deploys resources to ensure information system security and the ﬂuidity on its operations. of its business processes. Similarly, it cannot guarantee that no technical malfunction will occur likely to cause signiﬁcant disruptions. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 25 04 RISK FACTORS 4.5 Risk related to major projects 4.4.5. UNSCHEDULED WORK IN THE PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES SOLD The group provides services and designs, manufactures and sells several and standards, these unanticipated expenses could have a signiﬁcant negative products with a high unit value used in major projects, in particular the design and impact on the group’s business or ﬁnancial position. construction of nuclear reactors and heavy equipment, work to extend the plant When the group sells certain products, such as nuclear steam supply systems, operating period, and reactor maintenance. Occasionally, ﬁnal adjustments may or concludes service contracts, customers sometimes demand schedule or be required, products may need to be modiﬁed after manufacturing has begun or performance warranties, or penalties for not meeting them. Pursuant to such after customers have placed them in service, or services to be provided may have commitments, the group may have to repair products delivered or correct services to be adapted. These adjustments, modiﬁcations and additional services could provided in the event of faulty design or performance. The risk is signiﬁcantly trigger unexpected costs for the group. Though the group has set up a rigorous increased if the repairs or services concern a standardized series of products. management control system and a system to control product and service quality 4.4.6. SUPPLIER CONCENTRATION IN THE PROCUREMENT CHAIN A DECREASE IN THE SUPPLY OF CERTAIN STRATEGIC The group’s large requirement for commodities and semi-ﬁnished products is such COMPONENTS OR AN INCREASE IN THE COST OF ELECTRICITY that the group could experience procurement diﬃculties, given the limited number COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON THE GROUP’S of suppliers. PRODUCTION COSTS. For all of these operations, a shortage of commodities or semi-ﬁnished products The group’s operations require large supplies of speciﬁc commodities and semicould translate into a production slowdown or even, in certain circumstances, in ﬁnished products, including base products, zircon ore and others. Some operations shutdown. also use large quantities of electricity. 4.5. RISK RELATED TO MAJOR PROJECTS Generally, the revenue, cash ﬂow and proﬁtability recognized for a project may the ﬁnancial diﬃculties of the group’s customers, payments withheld by the group’s vary signiﬁcantly as a function of the percentage of completion of the project customers, the default or ﬁnancial diﬃculties of AREVA’s suppliers, subcontractors involved. Furthermore, they may depend on a certain number of items such as or partners in a consortium with which AREVA is jointly responsible, and additional the occurrence of unforeseen technical problems inherent in the complexity of the unforeseen costs resulting from project modiﬁcations or changes in legislation. The projects and/or concerning the equipment supplied, loss of skills or questions about proﬁt margins on some of AREVA’s contracts may be diﬀerent from those initially technologies, postponements or delays in contract execution. They may also be anticipated insofar as costs and productivity may vary during contract execution. 4.5.1. NEW REACTOR CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS As for any new project, the construction of a new reactor model involves risks relating Several specialized teams manage the various aspects of the project, whether in to its technical implementation, the manufacture of new components, achievement terms of delays, disruptions, disputes or risk. In addition to operational meetings, the of performance levels, and startup schedule compliance. teams hold joint progress meetings once a month to ensure coherence in project Such risk could have a short-term negative impact on the group’s operations and management. Work is being carried out within the group to harvest operating ﬁnancial position. experience and thus improve project management in the future. For additional information on the OL3 project, see Section 4.2.3.1. Olkiluoto 3 EPR power plant Events related to the construction of the Olkiluoto 3 EPR power plant (OL3) illustrate (OL3), Section 20.2. Notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note 24; and this risk. A project management department is in charge of managing the risk Section 20.8. Legal and arbitration proceedings. related to the OL3 project and is in regular contact with the executive management. 26 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT RISK FACTORS 4.6 Company exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash management risk 04 4.5.2. AREVA’S INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS THE GROUP CANNOT ENSURE THAT INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS expected return on investment, particular if the competitive situation in the target OR MINING PROJECTS CAN BE IMPLEMENTED WITHIN market changes. THE PLANNED BUDGETS AND SCHEDULES AND CONSISTENT Similarly, in the case of transitions between two industrial plants, the group cannot WITH THE OPERATING REQUIREMENTS OF THE SITES guarantee that facility shut-down and start-up schedules will be optimized to INVOLVED. minimize the ﬁnancial and social impacts. As for any new project, the development of new mining or industrial capacities In addition, the group cannot guarantee that suppliers associated with the diﬀerent involves risks relating to its technical implementation and to start-up schedule projects will provide their products or services on time and as required in the compliance. contracts. The group cannot guarantee that the product of mining or industrial projects will Such risk could have a negative impact on the group’s operations and ﬁnancial enable it to cover its operating, depreciation and amortization expenses or give the position. 4.6. COMPANY EXPOSURE TO PRICE, CREDIT, LIQUIDITY AND CASH MANAGEMENT RISK The group has an organization dedicated to implementing market risk management handled by DOFT cover foreign exchange and commodities trading, interest rates, policies approved by Executive Management for centralized management of centralized cash management, internal and external ﬁnancing, borrowings and exposure to foreign exchange, commodity, rate and liquidity risks. investments, and asset management. In the Finance Department, the Financial Operations and Treasury Management The reporting system also includes weekly reports submitted to the group’s CFO, Department (DOFT) makes transactions on financial markets and acts as a including a valuation of all positions and their market value. Together, these reports central desk that provides services and manages the group’s ﬁnancial exposure. and reviews are used to monitor the group’s counterparty risk. For more information, The organization of this department ensures the separation of functions and the please refer to Section 20.2. Notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note 31. necessary human, technical, and information system resources. Transactions 4.6.1. LIQUIDITY RISK The liquidity risk is the risk that the group may be unable to meet its immediate or p an unused balance of conﬁrmed bilateral lines and syndicated line of credit in short-term ﬁnancial commitments. the amount of 2.1 billion euros. Management of the liquidity risk is provided by the Financial Operations and Since December 31, 2015: Treasury Management Department (DOFT), which ensures that it has suﬃcient p as it announced on January 27, 2016, AREVA drew 2,045 million euros on its financial resources available at all times to fund current operations and the bilateral lines of credit and syndicated line of credit on January 4 and 5, 2016; investments needed for its future growth, and to cope with any exceptional event. p in addition, an interim ﬁnancing in the amount of 1.1 billion euros, negotiated The goal of liquidity management is to seek resources at the best cost and to ensure with banks, will ensure the group’s business continuity. that they may be secured at any time. These aspects are described in more detail in Section 20.2. Notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note 31. Market At December 31, 2015, current ﬁnancial debt totaled 1.440 billion euros, consisting risk management. in particular of: In addition, the group’s liquidity risk, including stress scenarios, is regularly p the last installment, in the amount of 200 million euros, of a loan granted by the monitored. European Investment Bank, reimbursed in January 2016; As of the date that this Reference Document was ﬁled, AREVA’s Standard & Poor’s p the scheduled repayment of 964 million euros of a bond issue in September 2016; rating was B+ for long-term borrowings and B for short-term borrowings, with a p scheduled repayments of the redeemable loan for structured financing of negative outlook (developing). Georges Besse II in the amount of 36 million euros; At December 31, 2015, the liquidity risk was covered for the year of 2016 by: p accrued interest on bond issues in the amount of 56 million euros in September 2016; p a positive gross cash position of 0.8 billion euros (versus 1.7 billion euros at December 31, 2014). Gross cash was maintained at this level through the p commercial paper in the amount of 26 million euros; and combination of optimization actions taken during the year (strengthened cash p current bank credit facilities and positive credit balances in the amount of management, implementation of the competitiveness plan, factoring transactions 91 million euros. and the sale of tax credit receivables). These optimization actions will continue in 2016; 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 27 04 RISK FACTORS 4.6 Company exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash management risk Beyond 2016 and up to 2018 year end, signiﬁcant debt repayments include yens of approximately 60 million euros in September 2018. Over that timeframe, the bond issue expiring in October 2017 in the nominal remaining amount of business continuity will be ensured through the measures set forth in the group’s 798 million euros, the repayment of the 1.1 billion interim ﬁnancing in January 2017, ﬁnancing plan, whose objective is to give the company the means to implement the repayment of bilateral lines of credit in the amount of 795 million euros in 2017 its transformation plan and to have a ﬁnancial proﬁle enabling it to reﬁnance in the and the repayment of the syndicated line of credit in the amount of 1.250 billion markets on a long-term basis. These measures include among others the capital euros in January 2018 and the repayment of a private placement issued in Japanese increase, the sale of the majority of AREVA NP to EDF, and the other subsidiary sales. 4.6.2. FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK MANAGEMENT In view of the geographic diversity of its locations and operations, the group is associated with sales of heavy components (steam generators, reactor vessel exposed to ﬂuctuations in exchange rates, particularly the dollar-euro exchange heads) that may be invoiced in US dollars while production costs are incurred rate. The volatility of exchange rates may impact the group’s currency translation in euros; adjustments, equity and income. For 2015, the average value of the euro decreased p Back End Business Group: This Business Group’s exposure to foreign exchange by 10% compared with the US dollar. risk is minimal. Most sales outside the euro zone are denominated in euros. The principal factors that may inﬂuence the group’s exposure to currency risk, by As provided by group policies, each operating entity responsible for identifying Business Group, are: foreign exchange risk must hedge exposure to currencies other than its own p Mining and Front End Business Groups: due to their geographically diversiﬁed accounting currency by initiating a transaction exclusively with the group’s Treasury locations (local currencies: euro/FCFA, Canadian dollar, tenge) and their Management Department, except as otherwise required by speciﬁc circumstances operations denominated primarily in US dollars, which is the world reference or regulations. The Financial Operations and Treasury Management Department currency for the price of natural uranium and for conversion and enrichment (DOFT) centralizes the currency risk for the entities and hedges its position directly services, these Business Groups have signiﬁcant exposure to the risk of the with banking counterparties. A system of strict limits, particularly concerning results, US dollar’s depreciation against the euro. This exposure, consisting mainly of marked to market, and foreign exchange positions that may be taken, is monitored multiyear contracts, is hedged globally to take advantage of the automatic hedges daily by specialized teams that are also charged with valuation of the transactions. resulting from the purchase of materials. As medium to long term exposure is In addition, analyses of sensitivity to changes in exchange rates are periodically involved, the amount of the hedge is set up according to a gradual scale for a performed. duration based on the likelihood of the risk, generally not to exceed ﬁve years; For more information, please refer to Section 20.2. Notes to the consolidated p Reactors & Services Business Group: Speciﬁc insurance coverage is usually financial statements, Note 31. Market risk management. acquired or forward currency transactions are concluded to hedge the risk 4.6.3. INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT The group’s exposure to ﬂuctuating interest rates encompasses two types of risk: management policy, approved by Executive Management, is supplemented by a a risk of change in the value of ﬁxed-rate ﬁnancial assets and liabilities; and system of speciﬁc limits for asset management and the management of rate risk on p borrowings. In particular, the system sets authorized limits for portfolio sensitivity, p a risk of change in cash ﬂows related to ﬂoating-rate ﬁnancial assets and liabilities. derivatives authorized to manage ﬁnancial risk, and subsequent positions that may The group uses several types of derivative instruments, as required by market be taken. conditions, to allocate its borrowings between ﬁxed rates and ﬂoating rates and to For more information, please refer to Section 20.2. Notes to the consolidated manage its investment portfolio, with the goal being mainly to reduce its borrowing financial statements, Note 31. Market risk management. costs while optimizing the management of its cash surpluses. The group’s rate 4.6.4. RISK ASSOCIATED WITH EQUITY SECURITIES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS THE GROUP HOLDS OF PUBLICLY TRADED SHARES The risk on shares held in the portfolio of assets earmarked to fund end-of-lifecycle IN A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT AND IS THUS EXPOSED TO CHANGES operations is an integral component of AREVA’s asset management program, which IN THE FINANCIAL MARKETS. includes equities to increase long-term returns as part of a program to allocate assets between bonds and equities (see Section 20.2. Notes to the consolidated Publicly traded shares held by the group are exposed to the volatility inherent in financial statements, Notes 13, 14 and 15). equity markets. In addition, the group is exposed to changes in the value of other financial Of particular note at December 31, 2015 are equities held in the portfolio of ﬁnancial instruments in its portfolio, in particular bonds and mutual fund shares held in the assets earmarked for future end-of-life-cycle operations (see Section 20.2. Notes to portfolio earmarked for end-of-lifecycle obligations. the consolidated financial statements, Note 13. End-of-lifecycle operations). The risk of a decrease in the price of shares and of other non-current ﬁnancial assets is not systematically hedged. 28 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT RISK FACTORS 4.6 Company exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash management risk 04 4.6.5. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH URANIUM, ENRICHMENT AND CONVERSION 4.6.5.1. RESERVES AND RESOURCES 4.6.5.2. PRICE MOVEMENTS OF URANIUM, ENRICHMENT AND CONVERSION The group’s uranium reserves and resources are only estimates drawn up by the group based on geological assumptions (developed based on core drillings, among Fluctuations in the prices of uranium, uranium conversion and uranium enrichment other things) and economic assumptions, and there is no guarantee that mining could have a signiﬁcant negative or positive impact on the ﬁnancial position of the operations will produce the same results. group’s mining, enrichment and conversion operations. The group could be led to modify these estimates if there is a change in evaluation Although the group operates mostly as a provider of processing services for methods or geological assumptions, and/or a change in economic conditions (see uranium, of which the customers are generally owners, it remains exposed to price Section 6.4.1. Mining Business Group). risk for uranium in its mining operations and to price risk for uranium conversion Estimates of uranium resources and reserves are updated annually to produce data and enrichment services. Natural uranium and conversion and enrichment prices for the Reference Document for the year ended. The functioning of the Resources have ﬂuctuated in the past, and depend on factors that are beyond AREVA’s control. and Reserves Committee in 2015 is described in Section 6.4.1. Mining Business These factors include demand for nuclear power; economic and political conditions Group. in countries that produce or consume uranium, including Canada, the United States, Russia, other CIS republics, Australia, and some African countries; nuclear materials It is not possible to guarantee that the projected quantities of uranium will be and used fuel treatment; and sales of surplus civilian and defense inventories. produced or that the group will receive the expected price for these ores, which is indexed to market performance, in accordance with contract terms agreed upon If the prices for natural uranium, conversion and enrichment were to remain below with the customers. production costs over a prolonged period, this could have a negative impact on the group’s mining operations and uranium conversion and enrichment operations. There is no assurance that other resources will be available. Moreover, uranium price ﬂuctuations, production cost increases and declining mining and milling recovery rates can aﬀect the proﬁtability of reserves and require their adjustment. In section 6.4.1, for Katco resources, AREVA declares 6,510 metric tons of uranium in measured and indicated resources and 6,250 metric tons of uranium in inferred resources; their registration in the Kazakh State’s records is under review. Validation is expected in 2016. 4.6.6. OTHER COMMODITY RISK The group has little exposure to variations in commodities prices. 4.6.7. COUNTERPARTY RISK RELATED TO THE USE OF DERIVATIVES THE GROUP IS EXPOSED TO THE CREDIT RISK OF The limits allowed for each counterparty are determined based on its rating and the COUNTERPARTIES LINKED TO ITS USE OF FINANCIAL type and maturity of the instruments traded. Assuming the rating of the counterparty DERIVATIVES TO COVER ITS RISKS. is not downgraded earlier, the limits are reviewed at least once a year and approved by the group’s Chief Financial Oﬃcer. The limits are veriﬁed in a speciﬁc report The group uses diﬀerent types of ﬁnancial instruments to manage its exposure to produced by the internal control team of the Treasury Management Department. foreign exchange and interest rate risks, and its exposure to risks on commodities. During periods of signiﬁcant ﬁnancial instability that may involve an increased risk The group primarily uses forward buy/sell currency and commodity contracts and of bank default, which may be underestimated by ratings agencies, the group tries rate derivative products such as swaps, futures or options to cover these types of to monitor advanced indicators such as the value of the credit default swaps (CDS) risk. These transactions involve exposure to counterparty risk when the contracts of the eligible counterparties to determine if limits should be adjusted. are concluded over the counter. To limit the counterparty risk on the market value of its commitments, the group To minimize this risk, the group’s Treasury Management Department deals with has set up a mechanism for margin calls with its most signiﬁcant counterparties diversiﬁed, top quality counterparties based on their ratings in the Standard & concerning interest rate transactions (including foreign exchange and interest terms Poor’s and Moody’s rating systems, with a rating of Investment Grade. An umbrella and conditions). agreement is always signed with the counterparties. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 29 04 RISK FACTORS 4.7 Other risk 4.7. OTHER RISK 4.7.1. POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS SOME OF THE GROUP’S OPERATIONS ARE SENSITIVE TO POLICY THE GROUP CONDUCTS OPERATIONS ON INTERNATIONAL DECISIONS IN CERTAIN COUNTRIES, ESPECIALLY AS REGARDS MARKETS SUBJECT TO STRONG COMPETITIVE PRESSURES ENERGY. THAT COULD LEAD TO A CONSEQUENTIAL DROP IN DEMAND FOR THE GROUP’S PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. The risk of a change in energy policy by certain States cannot be excluded and could have a signiﬁcant negative impact on the group’s ﬁnancial position. The The group’s products and services are sold on international markets characterized debates that have begun or will come in various countries on the future of nuclear by intense competition on price, financial terms, product/service quality and power could evolve in a manner that is unfavorable to the group’s operations, the capacity for innovation. In some of its businesses, the group has powerful particularly as inﬂuenced by pressure groups or following events that give the public competitors that are larger than the group or have access to more resources. a negative image of nuclear power (e.g. accidents or incidents, violations of nonMoreover, these competitors may sometimes make decisions that are inﬂuenced proliferation rules, diplomatic crises). by extraneous considerations other than proﬁtability or have access to ﬁnancing As a result of events in Japan in March 2011, the German government decided to at advantageous terms. phase out nuclear power while other European Union countries, including France, In addition, competitive pressures increased as a result of the deregulation of the decided to perform stress tests on their facilities (see the ASN report of January 3, electricity market, which opened the door to new competitors for the group’s main 2012 on the supplementary safety assessments of nuclear facilities). customers and in particular resulted in increased price volatility. Deregulation may More generally, events of this nature are likely to aﬀect the positions of certain States lead to changes in prices for electricity and for products and services related to the vis-à-vis nuclear energy and could for example lead to: generation, transmission and distribution of electricity and/or to lower investment in the nuclear power sector. p new reviews of the share of nuclear power and renewable energies in the energy mix; Nuclear power and renewable energies developed by the group are also competing with other sources of energy, in particular oil, natural gas, shale gas, coal or p the early shutdown of certain nuclear power plants; hydroelectricity. These other energy sources could become more attractive than p the slowdown or freezing of investment in new nuclear construction projects; the energy sources developed by the group. p the reconsideration of programs to extend the operation of existing power plants; Certain risks have been identiﬁed as being inherent to the Renewable Energies p changes in policies for the end of the cycle, particularly as concerns used fuel Business Group: recycling; and/or; p the risks associated with the order intake process and the conﬁrmation of key p lesser acceptance of nuclear energy by the public. sales opportunities; In addition, a change in economic policy, at a time of ﬁnancial and budgetary p the risks associated with the ramp-up of the supply chain and assembly lines, of pressures, may lead to lower support for the development of renewable energies internal/supplier quality control, and of the execution of projects that technology in some countries. leaders and in many countries; p the risks related to the ability of the technologies sold to achieve the level of POLITICAL RISK SPECIFIC TO CERTAIN COUNTRIES performance required and the impact this may have on existing contracts and IN WHICH THE GROUP DOES BUSINESS COULD AFFECT on the market, in particular with the lack of a representative installed base to ITS OPERATIONS AND THEIR FINANCIAL EQUILIBRIUM support planning and the establishment of the necessary provisions for defects (E.G. POLITICAL INSTABILITY, ACTS OF TERRORISM). and malfunctions over the medium and long term; p the risks related to the safety of operations in new environments and with rising AREVA is an international group with energy operations around the globe, including volumes; and countries with varying degrees of political instability. Some of the group’s mining operations, for example, are located in countries where political change could p the risks associated with the loss of key technical skills. aﬀect those operations. Political instability can lead to civil unrest, expropriation, Since 2010, the group has set up a certain number of risk mitigation action plans nationalization, changes in legal or tax system, monetary restrictions, and with the objective of securing project completion and the full operational cycle of the renegotiation or cancellation of ongoing contracts, leases, mining permits and group’s products, ensuring the strength and quality of the group’s value chain, and other agreements. Acts of terrorism can also generate socio-political turmoil or implementing all of the group’s operational performance optimization processes. impair the physical safety of the group’s personnel and/or facilities. For example, the mining agreements between the government of Niger on the one hand and Somaïr and Cominak on the other concerning the operation of uranium deposits in Niger expired on December 31, 2013. Discussions for their renewal began in 2012 and came to a successful conclusion in May 2014 as part of the strategic partnership agreement signed between AREVA and the State of Niger. In accordance with the agreement, the mining agreements of Somaïr and Cominak were renewed under the Nigerien law of 2006. 30 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT RISK FACTORS 4.7 Other risk 04 4.7.2. RISKS RELATED TO THE GROUP’S STRUCTURE THE GROUP CANNOT ENSURE THAT ITS STRATEGIC ALLIANCES, objectives; or third-party challenges to these strategic alliances or mergers and RESTRUCTURING OR REORGANIZATION, MERGERS acquisitions, based on their impact on those parties’ competitive positions. AND ACQUISITIONS, ASSET DISPOSALS AND CONSOLIDATION In addition, minority shareholders in certain AREVA subsidiaries, such as Eurodif WILL BE PERFORMED AS INITIALLY CONTEMPLATED OR THAT (see Section 25.2.2. Main shareholders agreements concerning AREVA’s equity THESE OPERATIONS WILL GENERATE THE ANTICIPATED interests), could restrict the group’s decision-making ability. SYNERGIES AND COST REDUCTIONS. Until it was amended on January 14, 2016, decree no. 83-1116 of December 21, The conclusion of certain asset disposal transactions may depend on conditions 1983, as amended, relating to the Société des participations du CEA (AREVA) precedent over which in some cases AREVA has no control, such as approval by stipulated that the CEA was obliged to hold more than half of AREVA’s capital. competition authorities in the relevant countries or opinions issued by certain bodies Since January 15, 2016, that decree requires that the French State, or the representing the group’s employees. A lack of approval, or a delay in this regard, Commissariat à l’énergie atomique et aux énergies alternatives, or the other public could result in the termination of these transactions and thus have a material impact institutions of the State, or the companies in which they hold a majority share, on the group’s anticipated ﬁnancial position and performance. directly or indirectly, singly or jointly, are required to hold more than half the capital The group is involved in a variety of acquisitions, strategic alliances and joint ventures of the company. with partner companies. Although the group believes that its acquisitions, strategic At December 31, 2015, the CEA held 54.37% of AREVA. It has the power to make alliances and joint ventures will be beneﬁcial, a certain level of risk is inherent most of the decisions during General Meetings of shareholders, including those in these transactions, particularly the risk of overvalued acquisitions; insuﬃcient relating to the appointment of members of the Board of Directors and those relating vendor warranties; underestimated operating costs and other costs; disagreements to the distribution of dividends. with partners (particularly in joint ventures); potential integration diﬃculties with personnel, operations, technologies or products; lack of performance on initial 4.7.3. HUMAN RESOURCES RISK THE GROUP MIGHT NOT BE ABLE TO FIND THE NECESSARY The group cannot guarantee that it will be able to call up the necessary resources EXPERTISE TO CARRY OUT ITS OPERATIONS. for its development in due time or under satisfactory conditions. In some ﬁelds, the group has to turn to outside experts when it does not have The group’s development, reorganization or restructuring could potentially be expertise internally for the successful conclusion of its projects. The group cannot accompanied by labor protests that could disrupt its operations and impact its guarantee that it will ﬁnd the necessary skills for the successful performance of some ﬁnancial position. operations, which could have a signiﬁcant negative impact on those operations and on the group’s ﬁnancial position. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 31 05 INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER 5.1. HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE ISSUER 32 5.2. INVESTMENTS 34 5.1.1. Legal and commercial name of the issuer 32 2014 34 5.1.2. Place of registration of the issuer 2015 34 and registration number 32 5.1.3. Date of incorporation and length of life of the issuer 32 5.1.4. Additional information 32 5.1.5. Important events in the development of the issuer’s business 33 5.1. HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE ISSUER 5.1.1. LEGAL AND COMMERCIAL NAME OF THE ISSUER The legal name of the company is AREVA. 5.1.2. PLACE OF REGISTRATION OF THE ISSUER AND REGISTRATION NUMBER AREVA is registered under number 712 054 923 with the Business Registry of Nanterre. Business code (APE): 741J (company management). Business registration number (Siret): 712 054 923 000 57. 5.1.3. DATE OF INCORPORATION AND LENGTH OF LIFE OF THE ISSUER The French decree no. 83-1116 of December 21, 1983 establishes the Société des AREVA was registered on November 12, 1971. The statutory term of the company participations du Commissariat à l’énergie atomique, the former name of AREVA. is 99 years from its date of registration, unless extended or the company is dissolved beforehand. 5.1.4. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE STRUCTURE OF AREVA AND APPLICABLE REGISTERED OFFICE LEGISLATION The registered office is located at AREVA Tower, 1 place Jean Millier, AREVA is a business corporation with a Board of Directors* (Société anonyme à 92400 Courbevoie, France. Conseil d’administration) governed by Book II of the French Commercial Code, by decree no. 83-1116 of December 21, 1983, as amended, and by order no. 2014-948 of August 20, 2014 on governance and transactions on the share capital of public corporations. * On January 8, 2015, the Shareholders of AREVA decided to change the form of governance from that of a Supervisory Board and an Executive Board to that of a single Board of Directors. 32 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER 5.1 History and development of the issuer 05 5.1.5. IMPORTANT EVENTS IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE ISSUER’S BUSINESS Two major nuclear energy industry companies majority-held directly and indirectly IMPORTANT EVENTS IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE ISSUER’S by CEA-Industrie were combined to form AREVA on September 3, 2001: BUSINESS p Cogema (Compagnie générale des matières nucléaires), established in 1976 to For earlier main events, please refer to previous AREVA Reference Documents. acquire the majority of CEA’s production department operations: mining, uranium enrichment and used fuel treatment; and 2012-2014 p Framatome, established in 1958, one of the world’s leading companies in the On May 16, 2012, AREVA ﬁnalized the disposal of its 26% interest in Eramet to the design and construction of nuclear reactors, in nuclear fuel and in the supply of Fonds stratégique d’investissement. services relating to those operations. In 2001, Framatome established Framatome On June 11, 2012, AREVA closed the sale of its 27.94% equity interest in the ANP as a joint company of AREVA (66% interest until March 2011) and Siemens Millennium mining project to Cameco Corporation for 150 million Canadian dollars (34% interest until March 2011), thus merging the nuclear operations of those (about 115 million euros) following the signature of the sales agreement on March 2, two groups. 2012. AREVA was thus formed from the corporate structure of CEA Industries. It kept the Euronext Paris SA listing of 4% of its share capital. On August 28, 2012, AREVA ﬁnalized the disposal of its 63% interest in La Mancha Resources, Inc. to Weather Investments II. Cogema and Framatome took the trade names AREVA NC and AREVA NP in 2006. On January 18, 2013, AREVA signed a ﬁve-year syndicated line of credit agreement Several ﬁndings were brought forward in 2015: with 19 banks for 1.25 billion euros to replace the previous undrawn syndicated p AREVA no longer has a suﬃcient capital base to carry the risk of a new reactor line of credit, which expired in 2014. construction project alone across the full scope of a power plant; On June 2, 2013, AREVA launched the ﬁrst employee shareholding program since p the competitiveness of the group’s products in the new builds market must be the company was established; following this transaction, 36% of the employees in reinforced; France, the United States and Germany held approximately 1.2% of the group’s p there are overlapping areas of expertise between AREVA NP and EDF for the share capital at December 31, 2013. nuclear island, although AREVA NP still has its own areas of expertise which On June 24, 2013, the AREVA Supervisory Board appointed Pierre Blayau to the may be oﬀered to its entire international customer base on a long-term basis; position of chairman of the Supervisory Board to replace Jean-Cyril Spinetta, who p AREVA NP has a variable level of risk management available to it for the had resigned. diﬀerent design and construction work packages of a power plant construction On August 29, 2013, AREVA launched a new seven-year, 500-million-euro bond or modernization project. As project manager and operator of complete issue maturing on September 4, 2020 with an annual coupon of 3.25%. In addition, power plants, EDF has skills that are synergistic with those of AREVA for the the group undertook the buy-back of outstanding bonds maturing in 2016 and management of some of those risks, opening up the opportunity for a business 2017. combination between EDF and AREVA NP. On March 12, 2014, AREVA priced and launched a 750-million-euro bond issue These points conﬁrmed that AREVA should refocus its scope of responsibility with an annual coupon of 3.125% maturing in nine years, on March 20, 2023. on new build projects in its core business: the primary coolant system and the instrumentation and control system. On April 1, 2014, Advanced Nuclear Fuels GmbH, an AREVA subsidiary, sold its fuel cladding production plant in Duisburg, Germany. In concrete terms, that reorientation should translate into: On May 7, 2014, AREVA ﬁnalized the sale of Euriware and its subsidiaries to the p the sale of part of AREVA NP to EDF under terms and conditions yet to be deﬁned Cap Gemini group. (AREVA keeping a strategic interest in AREVA NP); On June 30, 2014, AREVA finalized a financing project for the Société p the creation of a joint AREVA NP/EDF entity for the design and project d’Enrichissement du Tricastin (SET). A ten-year loan in the amount of 650 million management of new reactors; euros was established with a group of ten international banks. p the strengthening of the partnership between AREVA and EDF. On August 1, 2014, on the occasion of the publication of its half-year results, As a result of the implementation of this guidance, AREVA was led to refocus its AREVA announced the decision to terminate the Solar Energy business upon the operations on the nuclear materials cycle and on their sustainable management. completion of current construction projects, unless it received a full takeover bid. On October 7, 2014, AREVA announced new measures to strengthen its balance sheet and manage its debt. On October 22, 2014, in view of Mr. Luc Oursel’s unavailability, the Supervisory Board decided to confer the same powers to Mr. Philippe Knoche as those of the Chairman of the Executive Board until the next General Meeting of shareholders. On October 31, 2014, AREVA ﬁnalized the sale of the Control Command Transport (CCT) business to Alstom via its subsidiary AREVA TA. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 33 05 INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER 5.2 Investments On November 18, 2014, in the framework of planning and forecasting activities 2015 performed regularly by the Executive Board, AREVA suspended its ﬁnancial outlook For the main events of 2015, please refer to Sections 6.4. Operations and 9.1.3. for the years 2015 and 2016, pending the conclusion of these activities. Highlights of the period. On December 1, 2014, AREVA ﬁnalized the sale of the Aerospace Integration business to AIP Aerospace via its subsidiary AREVA TA. 5.2. INVESTMENTS 2014 Gross Capex amounted to 986 million euros in 2014 and to 991 million euros net of of strategic and priority investments begun in previous years: Georges Besse II to disposals. In 2014, the bulk of capital expenditures related mainly to the continuation a large extent, along with mining development and Comurhex II. 2015 In 2015, gross Capex decreased in the Mining and Front End operations, in This Capex program covers all Business Groups. However, projects were selected accordance with the planned pace of construction and ramp-up of the Cigar Lake and rescheduled based on their current level of completion and usefulness. mine in Canada and of the conversion and enrichment facilities. In 2015, the bulk of capital expenditures relates to the continuation of strategic and As a result, it amounted to 640 million euros in 2015, compared with 986 million priority programs begun in previous years: Georges Besse II to a large extent, along euros in 2014. with mining development and Comurhex II. Net of disposals, Capex amounted to 631 million euros in 2015, compared with 991 million euros in 2014. 34 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 06 6.1. MARKETS FOR NUCLEAR POWER 6.3. OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY OF THE GROUP 47 AND RENEWABLE ENERGIES 37 6.3.1. Overview 47 6.1.1. Nuclear power and renewable energies 6.3.2. Strategy 49 in the global energy landscape 37 6.3.3. Operating organization 51 6.1.2. Nuclear energy markets 43 6.1.3. Renewable energies markets 45 6.4. OPERATIONS 52 6.4.1. Mining Business Group 52 6.2. AREVA’S CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS 46 6.4.2. Front End Business Group 64 6.2.1. Customers 46 6.4.3. Reactors & Services Business Group 70 6.2.2. Suppliers 47 6.4.4. Back end Business Group 78 6.4.5. Renewable Energies 85 6.4.6. Other operations 89 A FEW FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTS FOR AN requirements. The three main components needed to sustain, control and UNDERSTANDING OF NUCLEAR POWER cool the ﬁssion process in the reactor core are fuel, a moderator and a coolant. The combination of these three components determines the reactor type or Since the beginning of this century, energy has been a centerpiece of many of model. Several combinations have been tested, but only a few of them have our society’s challenges, which may be summed up as the need to continue gone beyond the prototype stage to commercial operation. to produce and consume energy without threatening the climate. If the share of fossil fuels in the global energy mix is to be reduced from its current level A heat source and a cooling source of more than 80%, low-carbon energy sources that do not aﬀect the climate must be developed, including nuclear power, which is capable of producing Like all other thermal power plants, a nuclear power plant has a heat source massive quantities of electricity on demand, and renewable energies. (the nuclear steam supply system with its fuel core and heat exchangers) and a cooling source designed to condense steam after it has passed through Using ﬁssion energy in nuclear power plants the turbine. That is why power plants are usually built near the sea or a river A nuclear power plant is an electric generating station with one or more – the water is used to cool the steam. Some power plants are also equipped reactors. Like all conventional thermal power plants, each reactor unit consists with cooling towers in which cooling water is dispersed like rain so that it will among other things of a steam supply system that converts water into steam. evaporate, improving the eﬃciency of cooling and reducing the environmental The steam drives a turbine, which in turn drives a generator, producing impacts (reduced withdrawal of water and elimination of thermal releases electricity. to rivers). A “nuclear reactor” is an industrial facility that produces heat from the energy A moderator and a coolant released by the fission of combustible atoms during a controlled chain reaction. A “nuclear steam supply system” is the combination of equipment During the ﬁssion process, neutrons are released at very high speed. As they used to produce steam from ﬁssion energy. A “nuclear island” is the system strike light atoms (hydrogen contained in water) and slow down, they react encompassing the nuclear steam supply system and the fuel-related facilities, much more with the uranium-235 atoms. That is how “thermal neutron” or as well as the equipment required for the system’s operation and safety. A “slow” reactors function; the level of uranium-235 enrichment required for the “conventional island” consists of the turbine, the alternating current generator chain reaction is much lower than for “fast” reactors. In water reactors, the connected to it, and the equipment required for its operation. A nuclear power water is used as a moderator, i.e. to slow the neutrons released by nuclear plant thus consists primarily of a nuclear island and a conventional island. ﬁssion, but it also serves as a coolant, i.e. the ﬂuid that circulates in the reactor The reactor is enclosed in a solid, leaktight building meeting nuclear safety core to extract heat. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 35 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW The world’s most prevalent reactor: the pressurized BOILING WATER REACTOR water reactor In light water reactors, the fuel is low-enriched uranium. The water in the Primary cooling system primary cooling system bathes the reactor core, consisting of tubes containing Reactor vessel Steam-water system the fuel, which heats up as a result of the ﬁssion reactions. In pressurized water reactors (PWR), the water is heated by the tubes containing the fuel and transfers its heat via heat exchangers to a secondary Steam cooling system, where the water is converted into steam. The nuclear steam Reactor Feed water Generator supply system consists of the reactor core and the steam generators, together core with the pressurizer, the reactor coolant pumps, and the hot and cold legs Feedwater pump connecting the pumps. The primary cooling system is separate from the Condenser secondary cooling system, which produces steam to drive the turbo-generator, making radioactive containment that much stronger. Cooling Heater water PWR reactors have a triple barrier system to prevent the release of radioactive Reactor water Control rod drive recirculation mechanisms fission products. The primary barrier in this system is the metal tubes pumps containing the fuel. The secondary barrier consists of the separate primary and secondary cooling systems. The third barrier is comprised of the nuclear steam supply system enclosed in a concrete containment building capable Source : AREVA. of containing hazardous products in the event of a leak. All of the reactors in AREVA is active in both of these reactor systems. the French nuclear reactor ﬂeet are PWRs, which represent the majority of reactors in service around the world. Diﬀerence between generation II and generation III reactor systems PRESSURIZED WATER REACTOR Nuclear reactor technologies are classiﬁed in terms of generation. The timeline for the diﬀerent generations corresponds to the date at which the related technologies become mature. Most of the reactors currently in service around Primary cooling system the world are generation II reactors consisting mainly of PWRs and some Steam generator BWRs. AREVA’s generation III reactor models are based on evolutionary Secondary cooling system technology with additional features which factor in the operating experience Pressurizer steam from previous generations of reactors, particularly in terms of nuclear and Control industrial safety. rod drive Reactor mechanisms Generator coolant pump Renewable energies water Renewable energies – hydropower, biomass, wind, solar, geothermal and ocean energies – do not consume natural resources for their operations. Reactor core Feedwater Their eﬃciency is contingent on their location (dam site, wind, sunshine, etc.). pump Reactor Condenser Some of these energy sources are spread out and intermittent, which makes vessel Reheater Cooling water them less suitable for centralized baseload power generation. Others are more ﬂexible and allow relatively high power densities to be achieved. AREVA’s operations in renewable energies are presented in Section 6.4.5. Source : AREVA. Renewable Energies Business Group. Boiling water reactors (BWR) are generally comparable to PWRs. The main diﬀerences are that the water boils when it comes into contact with the fuel, and there is only one steam system. The fuel core releases its heat to the water passing through it, which vaporizes at the top of the vessel containing the core. The resulting steam drives the turbine, then cools when it comes into contact with the cold source and is liqueﬁed in the condenser before it is recirculated to the reactor vessel. Thus, in a BWR, the water is in a closed cycle in which the steam produced in the reactor core expands directly into the turbine. 36 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.1 Markets for nuclear power and renewable energies 06 6.1. MARKETS FOR NUCLEAR POWER AND RENEWABLE ENERGIES 6.1.1. NUCLEAR POWER AND RENEWABLE ENERGIES IN THE GLOBAL ENERGY LANDSCAPE 6.1.1.1. THE CHALLENGES OF THE ENERGY SECTOR renewable energies and/or increasing their contributions to bolster their security of energy supply, enhance competitiveness and cost predictability, and reduce CO2 Strong growth in demand for electricity emissions in order to ensure sustainable economic growth. Global economic growth is relatively stable; it has risen slightly since 2012 (about Energy and global warming 2.4% per year, according to the World Bank), but growth is unevenly distributed regionally. However, world demand for energy has continued to grow, including in Since the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change was created industrialized countries. Several macro-economic indicators suggest that economic in Rio in 1990, the world’s governments have become involved in the subject of growth in industrial countries will remain weak in the medium term. Emerging global warming. The objective is to attempt to limit the average temperature increase markets, on the other hand, will continue to expand and oﬀer the most promising on Earth to 2°C in relation to the pre-industrial era. The Conference of the Parties growth opportunities for the energy sector. (COP), a meeting of all governments, is held at the end of each year in a diﬀerent country. A ﬁrst major agreement for a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions over On the whole, global demand for energy is set to increase, led by world population the 2008-2012 period was reached in 1997 when historically industrialized countries growth, more widespread access to energy, and long-term economic growth. signed the Kyoto Protocol in Japan. According to the New Policies Scenario (1) of the World Energy Outlook (WEO) The United States and China – the largest producers of GHG from energy, accounting published by the International Energy Agency (IEA) in November 2015, world for more than half of all emissions – committed in 2014 to future reductions. The primary energy consumption is expected to grow from 13.56 gigatons of oil United States established the Clean Power Plan in 2015 under President Obama’s equivalent (Gtoe) in 2013 to 17.9 Gtoe in 2040, giving average annual growth of leadership. This plan calls for reductions of 17% in 2022, 26-28% in 2025, and 1.1%. According to the report, it is China and India along with emerging countries 32% in 2030 compared with 2005 levels in the power generation sector. Each and developing countries that are expected to account for the majority of the added state will have to meet a reduction objective set by the Federal government, which demand. diﬀers from state to state. Electricity consumption, which rose an average of 3% per year from 1990 to 2013 In 2014, China stated that it was committed to using 20% non-fossil fuels in its (with 3.3% growth from 2000 to 2013), has grown a little more than world primary energy mix by 2030 while limiting its coal consumption. energy consumption, which rose an average of 1.9% per year from 1990 to 2013 (with 2.3% growth from 2000 to 2013). According to the IEA’s New Policies Scenario, The European Union, which was a pioneer with its Energy-Climate policy, has world power generation in 2040 is estimated at 39,444 TWh, compared with already committed to a 20% reduction in its GHG emissions by 2020 compared 23,318 TWh in 2013, for average annual growth of 2.3%. Almost all of this growth with 1990 levels. The reduction to be met by 2030 is 40%. originates in non-member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation The commitment of these countries has fostered a global turnout. and Development (OECD). In China, for instance, electricity consumption is The compilation of the Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDC) expected to more than double by 2040. submitted shows that the desired objective cannot be achieved: the temperature On the supply side, oil, gas and coal continue to be the preferred energy sources. increase would range from +2.7°C to +3.5°C by 2100. The countries’ intended In 2013, oil constituted 31.1% of global primary energy, while coal represented contributions currently cover only half of the requirements. To achieve the +2°C 29% and natural gas 21.4%. In the United States, technologies deployed on a large objective, carbon emissions would have to be limited to 42 billion metric tons scale by the oil and gas industry are facilitating the development of oil and shale gas in 2030, yet forecasts put those emissions in the range of 55-60 billion metric tons. production. However, the hydraulic fracturing technique used in non-conventional Carbon dioxide emissions and the generation of electricity have increased gas production is a cause for environmental concern. The energy policies being proportionately since the 1990s. In the New Policies Scenario to 2040 of the IEAimplemented by several countries are looking to reverse this trend. The ﬁght against WEO 2015, which includes the INDCs of the diﬀerent countries, there is a gap greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) and the question of the security of fossil fuel between these two numbers. Whereas power generation rises nearly 70% over the supply have become major concerns for the public, businesses and governments period, CO2 emissions grow by only 15%, thanks to energy eﬃciency and less use alike. The latter are devising measures to conserve energy and policies to promote of coal. This scenario leads to a temperature increase of 2.7°C (Source: WEO 2015). renewable energies and diversify their portfolios of energy technologies. A number of countries are currently considering the possibility of using nuclear power and (1) In addition to national policies and measures decided in mid-2015, the IEA’s New Policies Scenario includes greenhouse gas reduction statements communicated at the Framework Convention on Climate Change; other reductions are expected to be necessary in order to limit the impact of climate change to a temperature increase of 2°C. The 450 scenario in the report conﬁrms that new nuclear and renewable energy facilities would be required to meet this goal. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 37 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.1 Markets for nuclear power and renewable energies The logical conclusion of all these debates is that no source of energy should be provisioned at the level of 7.4 billion euros in 2014 through contributions from the ignored in the mix, in particular nuclear power, recognized as one of the means United States, Japan, the United Kingdom, Germany and France. The agreement to ﬁght climate change. sets a ﬂoor of 100 billion dollars per year by 2020 to help the most vulnerable The agreement reached by the governments during COP 21, held in Paris in countries adapt to climate change and support low-carbon investment projects. December 2015, is the ﬁrst agreement on this subject to involve both developed The agreement also encourages bilateral and multilateral sources of public and countries and developing countries. It reiterates the founding principle of joint but private funding, which have already been created in the form of, for example, the diﬀerentiated responsibility for climate change (making the distinction between Green Climate Fund and the Global Environmental Facility. developed and developing countries). It strengthens the implementation of the The agreement will be open for signature by the States for a year and a half starting Framework Convention to contain the average global temperature increase to less April 22, 2016. It will enter into force 30 days after at least 55 States totaling at least than 2°C above pre-industrial levels by the end of the century and to try to limit it to 55% of the GHG emissions have signed it. 1.5°C, which signiﬁcantly lowers the risks and impacts. At the Convention’s request, To change the direction of the emissions curve, several States have decided to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) will publish a report in 2018 assign an economic value to carbon and have established emissions trading specifying the emissions level to achieve the latter reduction. markets. Currently, a global market for emissions permits does not exist. However, The Paris agreement calls for an update of the INDCs every ﬁve years and an the emissions avoided by projects connected with the Clean Development increased ability to adapt to climate change. It also calls for the availability of a Green Mechanism (CDM) of the Kyoto Protocol may be exchanged between States. Climate Fund, which was set up in 2009 during the Copenhagen conference and STATUS OF THE LEADING EMISSIONS TRADING SYSTEMS (ETS) KAZ ETS since 2013 Turkey : Regional initiatives: Particularly considered pQuébec (2013) now linked with California since 2014 for the power sector pConsidered in Ontario, Manitoba and British Columbia Linkage between the Swiss Pilots in China: 5 cities and 2 provinces and EU-ETS under discussion since 2013-2014 National system under discussion EU-ETS since 2005 Regional initiatives: Korean ETS implemented in 2015 pRGGI (2009) pCalifornia (2013) Regional initiatives: pConsidered for 2016 in the state pTokyo metropolis (2010) of Washington pSaitama prefecture (2011) National ETS considered depending NZ ETS since 2008 on impact assessment. Regional initiatives in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro delayed ETS in force ETS in force on regional scale Australian Carbon Pricing Mechanism abolished in 2014 ETS considered Source: ICAP, 2015. At the global level, 39 countries and 23 regions have set up or scheduled economic p In 2013, Kazakhstan also initiated a system of caps and emissions trading. instruments to monetize carbon, whether through emission trading systems or Ukraine is contemplating an emissions trading system, as are Russia and Turkey; taxes. The map shows the largest emission trading markets, which are in varying the electric power segment could be subject to quotas. stages of maturity. p Federal laws in the United States, such as the Energy Independence and Security p The European Union set up a system of caps on CO2 emissions and of emissions Act, the Energy Improvement and Extension Act, and the American Recovery trading in January 2005 called the Emissions Trading System (ETS). The EU ETS and Reinvestment Act, provide ﬁnancial support to companies that invest in the is one of the world’s ﬁrst and currently the largest operational systems, bringing carbon-free energy sector or local sources of energy with high added value. together the 28 member States of the European Union along with Norway, Iceland Three voluntary carbon emissions trading exchanges – the Regional Greenhouse and Liechtenstein. It is one of the most mature systems. Gas Initiative in 2009, the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Accord in 2007 and the Western Climate Initiative in 2007 – have been established in 38 states and 38 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.1 Markets for nuclear power and renewable energies 06 provinces of the United States, Mexico and Canada. In 2008, Quebec joined the The need for investment and a change in the Western Climate Initiative and is collaborating with California. global power generation mix p In Latin America, Brazil is preparing to institute an emissions trading system, and Massive capital spending in the electricity sector and a radical change in the power two initiatives are pending in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. generation mix are required for the reasons outlined above: rising demand for p In China, a trial phase began in 2013-2014 with the launch of seven pilot electricity, urgent eﬀorts to prevent climate change, and declining fossil resources. projects in ﬁve cities (Chongqing, Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzen and Tianjin) and In the WEO 2015 New Policies Scenario, the contribution of low-carbon technologies two provinces (Guangdong and Hubei). On December 10, 2014, the National to electricity production increases from about one third in 2013 to 47% in 2040. Commission for Development and Reform of China (NDRC) published the ﬁrst This increase comes primarily from non-hydro renewable energies. Contributions legal fundamentals for a national carbon quota exchange system, which should from nuclear power and hydropower to the electricity mix are stable over that be launched soon. Once in operation, this market will be the largest in the world. period. Nuclear generating capacity would climb by more than 86% to around p In Japan, a new energy plan is under discussion to curtail the growth of carbon4,606 terawatt-hours (TWh) by 2040, when a signiﬁcant share of the existing reactor emitting energies, and there are already two local initiatives. In South Korea, an ﬂeet would have to be replaced. Wind energy would increase more than sixfold emissions trading system was launched in January 2015. by 2040. p A similar program has also existed in New Zealand since 2008. Australia had GLOBAL ELECTRICITY MIX IN THE IEA’S NEW POLICIES SCENARIO initiated an emissions trading system but abolished it in 2014. p Meanwhile, South Africa is planning to deploy a system that combines a carbon 40,000 tax with emissions trading as from January 1, 2016. The price of carbon remained relatively low in these markets (less than 30 euros per 35,000 metric ton of CO2) and did not have a real impact on GHG emissions reduction. In Other renewable Europe, prices for the European Union Allowance (EUA) have stagnated since 2013 30,000 Wind at around 5-9 euros per metric ton of CO2. Other factors may have played a part Biomass and waste in observed emissions reductions, such as the impact of policies in support of 25,000 Hydraulic renewable energies, the economic situation, and energy eﬃciency. In the European Nuclear Union, a reform of the CO2 emissions market is under study. This involves creating Gas reserves of emissions permits so as to promote trading and maintain or even 20,000 Oil increase the price per metric ton of CO2. Coal 15,000 It is necessary to plan for the depletion of fossil energy resources 10,000 The global availability of energy resources will not dampen the growth in energy demand by 2040 and beyond. However, a large amount of capital funding is 5,000 required to exploit these energy resources and many factors will determine the rate at which this occurs, such as the uncertainty of the economic outlook, the investment climate and the availability of ﬁnancing, geopolitical factors, climate 0 change policies, technology advances, and changes in legal, tax and regulatory 2013 2020 2030 2040 frameworks. Source : IEA, WEO 2015. In the absence of a strong climate policy, the gradual depletion of hydrocarbon WORLD ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION IN 2013 resources is a major threat to global energy supply. According to the IEA New Policies scenario, oil production peaked in 2006 and the average world price per 6% barrel is expected to reach 128 dollars by 2040 (in US dollars). Forecasting the 16% Renewable energy mediumto long-term availability of fossil fuel resources (oil and natural gas) thus Hydraulic remains very diﬃcult. The reserves, production costs and environmental standards that might impact production (in particular for shale gas, bituminous sands, deep oﬀshore oil and arctic resources) are all subject to considerable uncertainty today. In addition, oil and gas resources are unevenly distributed around the globe. To 11% 41% take an example, three countries – Iran, Russia and Qatar – hold more than half of Nuclear Coal the world’s natural gas reserves. Consequently, relying on the massive use of fossil resources to meet demand for 4% energy would be the source of serious problems in terms of security of supply, with Oil uncertainties as to volumes available and prices in addition to geopolitical risks. Oil is used mainly for transportation, while natural gas and coal are used for industry, 22% power generation and heat production. China is a big consumer of coal, which it Gas uses heavily in its energy mix. Source : IEA, WEO 2015. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 39 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.1 Markets for nuclear power and renewable energies 6.1.1.2. NUCLEAR POWER p it is a solution for limiting trade deﬁcits for countries that import fossil energies and for preserving the reserves of the exporting countries by limiting their domestic Nuclear power oﬀers many advantages on the environmental, economic, strategic use; and operational levels: p it oﬀers heightened operational and safety performance, particularly with the p it helps combat climate change; new generation III reactors developed by AREVA: the EPR and ATMEA1 p it creates signiﬁcant added value locally as well as a large number of highly reactors (1). qualiﬁed jobs that cannot be delocalized; p it is cost-competitive compared with other sources of baseload electricity; Nuclear power helps combat climate change it oﬀers stable production costs with less uncertainty concerning the price of Nuclear power is already making a strong contribution to the ﬁght against climate p the electricity produced; change. The ﬁgure below shows that greenhouse gas emissions from nuclear power are as low as those from renewable energies. p it ensures security of supply: nuclear fuel is easy to store and uranium resources are well distributed around the world, unlike oil and gas reserves, which are concentrated in Russia and the Middle East; GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (GHG) BY POWER GENERATION SOURCE ACROSS THE ENTIRE OPERATING CYCLE kg CO2 eq/MWh 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 s as PV P gy lic rg y ind ar as al CS er au ne W cle lG Co om lar lar en dr Nu ra Bi So al Hy ee tu So m rin Na er Ma oth Ge Source: IPCC, literature review, 2014. On a global scale, nuclear power has already avoided the release of approximately Short-term gas and oil prices can ﬂuctuate widely as they are subject to ﬁnancial, 57 billion metric tons of CO2 since 1971, equivalent to almost two years of global economic and geopolitical risk: very high level of uncertainty about production costs emissions at current levels (source: WEO 2015). (deep oﬀshore, shale gas, etc.), economic environment (ﬁnancial crisis followed by Faced with the climate issue, nuclear power is increasingly proving to be an an economic crisis), and ﬁnancial speculation in the commodity markets. essential component of the energy mix, producing baseload electricity that supports Nonetheless, the consensus is that there is a long-term upward trend due to rising sustainable economic and social development. demand, the shift from coal to natural gas and the depletion of conventional resources. Regional imbalances exist, however, especially for natural gas. Competitiveness of nuclear power Fluctuations in supply and demand therefore remain the key determining factors Nuclear power generation costs are not very dependent on the price of uranium. in fossil fuel price trends. The percentage of raw materials in the total cost of nuclear power (at net present While gas prices are high in Europe and Asia, this source of energy has become value) is minimal, and the impact of a doubling of uranium prices on the full cost very cost eﬀective in the United States thanks to the shale gas made available of power generation in new power plants is only about 5%. by new technologies such as hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling. Still, Conversely, the price of fossil energies has a very strong impact on the cost of substantial uncertainties remain as to its price volatility, its competitiveness in other the electricity generated in thermal power plants fueled with coal and especially regions, potential reserves, and the acceptability of the potential environmental natural gas. In fact, natural gas fuel represents 70 to 80% of the total cost of the consequences of its extraction, such as ground pollution and the signiﬁcant use electricity generated by a combined cycle gas turbine. The price of carbon is also of fresh water resources. an important component in the cost structure of gas-ﬁred power plants, and even more so for coal-ﬁred plants, but it has zero impact on the cost of nuclear power. (1) The ATMEA1 reactor is being developed in collaboration with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries. 40 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.1 Markets for nuclear power and renewable energies 06 In Europe, shale gas production may appear attractive in view of the region’s growing established, while in other countries, carbon restrictions appear to be unavoidable dependency on imported gas. There are, however, several obstacles to developing in the medium to long term. shale gas on a large scale: the diﬃculty of accessing the deposits in some cases, Thus, the volatility observed in commodity markets and the uncertainty surrounding the lack of harmonization in the regulatory systems of European countries, and the price of carbon make it diﬃcult to predict the cost of electricity generated with much higher development costs than in North America. gas or coal. In Europe, carbon prices remained low in 2015, in particular because planned EUIn addition, for countries that export fossil energy, nuclear power helps secure ETS (1) reforms will take several years to be put into practice. However, increasingly current and future income for national budgets: the resource extracted can be stringent commitments in terms of emissions reductions are expected to push used to generate cash from exports rather than using it to produce electricity locally. carbon prices up in countries where a regulated carbon market has already been OIL PRICE SCENARIO COAL PRICE SCENARIO $2014 / barrel $2014 / ton 140 120 120 100 100 80 80 60 60 40 40 20 20 0 0 2014 2020 2030 2040 2014 2020 2030 2040 Source: WEO 2015. Source: WEO 2015. GAS PRICE SCENARIOS CARBON PRICE SCENARIOS $2014 / MBtu $2014 / ton 18 60 16 50 14 12 40 10 30 8 6 20 4 10 2 0 0 2014 2020 2030 2040 2014* 2020 2030 2040 Japan EU28 + South Korea EU28 China USA South Africa Source: WEO 2015. *For EU28. Source: WEO 2015. (1) European Union Emission Trading System: the European system to trade emission quotas. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 41 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.1 Markets for nuclear power and renewable energies A long-term view of the energy sector shows that nuclear power is a competitive With the latest generations of reactors, nuclear power oﬀers source of electricity, oﬀering stable and predictable costs. enhanced safety and operating performance The data and results of the latest assessment of nuclear power generating costs AREVA’s range of reactors oﬀers a combination of capacities, from 1,100 MWe to performed jointly by the International Energy Agency and the Nuclear Energy Agency 1,650 MWe, and of technologies. These reactors meet the most recent requirements of the OECD (entitled Projected Costs of Generating Electricity, 2015 edition) shows in terms of: varying levels of competitiveness of new nuclear projects depending on the region: nuclear safety: designs that drastically reduce the possibility of a serious accident p p in China, new nuclear projects are clearly competitive; and ensure that there would be no oﬀsite environmental consequences by p in Europe, the total cost of new nuclear projects is comparable to that of other maintaining containment integrity (core catcher to conﬁne the molten core, baseload electricity generation technologies (gas, coal); prevention of a hydrogen explosion or steam inside the containment, ability to withstand a large commercial aircraft crash), as conﬁrmed by the safety p in the United States, the prices for fossil fuels and/or carbon would have to be regulators’ certiﬁcation and by the necessary measures to ensure continuity high to restore the competitiveness of new nuclear projects. of cooling; The amount of capital expenditure on new nuclear units is very high, representing p competitiveness: reduction in fuel consumption and operating costs, high several billion dollars, and the share of that investment in the kilowatt-hour cost is availability (92%) over a 60-year period of operation, thus maximizing power 60% or more. Equipment costs vary as a function of their location, as do those of generation; and labor. Such construction requires speciﬁc ﬁnancing, with a share of capital and a share of debt. Added to the high cost of CAPEX are interest during construction p environmental protection: reduction in the quantity of used fuel and ﬁnal waste. and provisions for contingencies. The total cost is therefore sensitive to the interest rate contracted for the debt. 6.1.1.3. RENEWABLE ENERGIES For operating reactors, decisions to extend their operating period are highly Renewable energies also contribute to energy self-suﬃciency as regards fossil dependent on market conditions and demand forecasts, also coupled to social and resources while limiting greenhouse gas emissions. political factors. The US Nuclear Regulatory Commission has granted permission to extend the operating life of 78 units up to 60 years. US utilities predict that fuel Many countries are oﬀering support for renewable energies, whether through and maintenance costs will go down in the coming years to face the reduced price subsidized electricity rates, production quotas, green certiﬁcates, or other means. of electricity in the markets. In fact, reactors operating in deregulated markets are The commitment of many countries to expanding the percentage of renewable more at risk than those that operate in regulated markets. Five reactors have already energies in their production leads one to assume that such policies will be pursued. closed in the United States, in 2013, due to market conditions – two in California, two In some regions, the competitiveness of certain renewable technologies is already in Florida and one in Wisconsin – and others are threatened. Five reactor uprating in line with that of more conventional sources of energy, thanks to technology projects have been cancelled. In Sweden, the relatively low market prices for enhancements, economies of scale, the learning curve and the growing size electricity and the recent increase in the nuclear tax threatens the competitiveness of facilities. The acceleration in market consolidation observed recently in of two reactors, which are likely to close ﬁve years earlier than planned. many segments of this market should also contribute to an increase in their competitiveness in the short term. Nuclear power improves national security of electricity supply Renewable energies thus oﬀer several advantages on the environmental, economic, strategic and operational levels: Another major advantage of nuclear generated electricity lies in the security of supply it provides. Unlike hydrocarbon reserves, which are concentrated in certain p they contribute to the fight against climate change by avoiding carbon regions, uranium resources are well distributed around the world. For example, accumulation in the atmosphere, in addition to reducing local pollution associated proven uranium resources are found in OECD countries (41%), in major emerging with certain gases (SOx, NOx) (1) and particles emitted by plants using fossil fuels; countries such as Brazil, Russia, China and South Africa (23%), and in other parts p under certain conditions, they can become competitive with fossil sources of of the world (36%) (source: Uranium 2014: Resources, Production and Demand, electricity, especially in a situation with rising fuel prices over the long term and IAEA© OECD 2014). uncertainties about CO2; p they are available locally and well distributed geographically, thus contributing to security of supply, unlike oil and gas reserves, which are concentrated in Russia and the Middle East; p they limit trade deﬁcits for countries that import fossil energies and preserve the reserves of the exporting countries by limiting their domestic use; p they oﬀer heightened operational performance, although their integration into power grids raises important challenges due to their intermittency. (1) SOx: sulfur oxides emitted by coal and diesel fuel combustion – NOx: nitrous oxides emitted by the combustion of all types of fossil energies. 42 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.1 Markets for nuclear power and renewable energies 06 6.1.2. NUCLEAR ENERGY MARKETS The ﬁrst commercial nuclear power programs were launched in the mid-1960s 399 reactors had been built over the 1970 to 1990 period, installed capacity rose in the United States and in the early 1970s in Europe. In the 1970s, with fears of by only 20% over the 1990 to 2015 period. As the vast programs initiated in North fossil fuel shortages rising (oil shock), several countries decided to reduce their America and Western Europe subsided, the growth of the global reactor ﬂeet picked dependency on imported energy by launching the development of nuclear power up in Eastern Europe and Asia. This trend continues despite delays associated with programs. The 1970s and 1980s saw a sharp rise in these programs, as shown the assessment of the Fukushima accident in 2011. below. Strong initial growth slowed when the public became concerned after the accidents at Three Mile Island in 1979 and Chernobyl in 1986. As a result, whereas WORLD INSTALLED NUCLEAR GENERATING CAPACITY (IN NET GWE) 450 Europe Western Global installed nuclear generating capacity is estimated at 382 GWe in 2015, Europe Central and Eastern slightly more than in 2014. 400 Asia Middle East and South The adjacent ﬁgure shows the breakdown of global installed nuclear generating 350 Asia Far East capacity. America Northern 300 Net Capacity (GWe) America Latin At December 31, 2015, a total of 441 reactors representing 401 GWe (382 GWe 250 Africa net) were in service in 31 countries, including the world’s largest energy consuming regions. 200 With about 42% of the global fleet, the installed base in Europe and the 150 Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) is preeminent, ahead of North America, 100 which represents about 27% of the ﬂeet. Through 2016-2017, most of the mediumterm growth potential for nuclear power is located in Asia (China, South Korea and 50 India) and, to a lesser extent, in the countries of the CIS, as shown in the ﬁgure below. 0 1955 1960 1965 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 Year Sources: IAEA PRIS Database, AREVA Estimations. REACTORS IN OPERATION OR UNDER CONSTRUCTION WORLDWIDE AT YEAR-END 2015 Europe CIS 134 51 12 North America 118 4 Southern & Eastern Asia 125 5 Africa & Middle East 6 6 37 South America In service 7 2 Under construction Sources: IAEA, WNA, restated by AREVA. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 43 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.1 Markets for nuclear power and renewable energies Nuclear power continues to grow globally, led mainly by China, Russia, South OUTLOOK FOR INSTALLED NUCLEAR GENERATING CAPACITY Korea and India, as well as by a number of countries which are examining the Nuclear power’s recognized advantages include its competitiveness and cost nuclear option as a new component of their energy mix. According to the IAEA predictability, security of supply, and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. and the World Nuclear Association (WNA), 66 reactors were under construction These advantages are expected to lead to the modernization and optimization of worldwide at the end of 2015 (compared with 70 at the end of 2014); 158 reactors existing reactors to further increase their safety and possibly available capacity. were planned or on order (compared with 181 at the end of 2014, 170 at the end They are also expected to contribute to new reactor construction to replace or of 2013, 165 at the end of 2012 and 152 at the end of 2011); and more than 300 expand installed generating capacity worldwide, and thus to be a potential source more are planned in the coming years. of long-term growth for all nuclear fuel cycle operations. Three main types of reactors are involved: With the prospect of increasing reliance on nuclear power over the years to come, p light water reactors, which represent about 82% of the global ﬂeet and may be especially in emerging countries, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) further divided into two categories: the majority are pressurized water reactors is seeking to promote the establishment of a new framework to respond eﬀectively (PWR), which represent practically all of the new builds, while the remainder to demand from diﬀerent countries while still limiting the risks of proliferation. For are boiling water reactors (BWR). There were 360 light water reactors in service example, the IAEA is leading the International Project on Innovative Nuclear Reactors in 2015, including 56 VVER reactors (Russian PWR technology); and Fuel Cycles (INPRO) to anticipate the speciﬁc needs of developing countries p heavy water reactors based on a Canadian design (CANDU), of which there were and to help emerging countries acquire the necessary infrastructure for a nuclear 49 in service at the end of 2015; power program. At the same time, the IAEA is working to establish mechanisms p gas-cooled reactors (Magnox and AGRs), of which there were 15 units are in to guarantee fuel supply and related services so that sensitive nuclear facilities, in serve in the United Kingdom. proliferation terms, do not come into being. Lastly, following the Fukushima accident, the IAEA adopted a multi-disciplinary Nuclear Safety Action Plan to further improve Other types of reactors in service include Russian-designed light water graphite nuclear safety in global nuclear power production. reactors (RBMK) and breeder reactors, but their number and power rating are marginal on the international level. SCENARIOS FOR THE GLOBAL NUCLEAR REACTOR FLEET (IN NET GWE) GWe net 900 + 108% 800 795 732 700 720 600 583 552 500 502 400 369 382 367 300 3.7% ≈ 4% 200 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 IAEA 2015 Low WNA 2015 High IAEA 2015 High IEA 2015 Current Policies WNA 2015 Low IEA 2015 New Policies WNA 2015 Reference IEA 2015 450 ppm Policy Sources : IAEA, WNA, International Energy Agency. In France, the law on the energy transition and green energy adopted by Parliament in July 2015 sets a ceiling on installed capacity in France of 63.2 GWe and sets an objective for reducing nuclear’s share of power production to 50% by 2025. Methods of implementation are still being deﬁned at this time. 44 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.1 Markets for nuclear power and renewable energies 06 6.1.3. RENEWABLE ENERGIES MARKETS Each year since 2008, renewable energies represented a greater share of new China, India and other emerging countries, which are setting goals for reduced generating capacity coming on line in the United States and Europe than that of carbon intensity, are potential growth markets for these energies. China, for example, fossil energies. Whereas renewable energies, excluding hydropower, accounted for has set up seven pilot exchanges to trade carbon credits. Both China and India have less than 5% of the electric power mix in 2011, national governments have often ambitious objectives for building renewable energy capacities in their respective set a target of 15% to 20% of the mix by 2020. ﬁve-year plans. In addition to low construction costs, these countries often have As shown in the ﬁgure below, more than 60% of the electricity from renewable good access to renewable energy resources, such as biomass in Brazil and India. energies was produced in Europe or in the United States in 2013. The New Policies Scenario of the IEA’s World Energy Outlook 2015 foresees very strong worldwide growth in electricity generation from renewable sources, for a ELECTRICITY GENERATION FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES* combined total excluding hydropower of 4,925 TWh per year by 2030. BY REGION IN 2013 (TWH) WORLD RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY GENERATION* (TWH) 154 Rest of the world 282 TWh USA 12,000 63 Japan 10,000 206 China 8,000 60 6,000 India 47 4,000 Brazil 505 EU 2,000 * Excluding hydropower Source: IEA, WEO 2015. 0 1990 2013 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 Europe is particularly dynamic when it comes to developing renewable energies. For example, the European Union has set a goal of a 27% share of ﬁnal energy 450 ppm Policy Current Policies consumption from renewable energies by 2030. New Policies North America is also in a growth mode in this area. Legislation passed in more than half of the US states calls for renewable energy sources to contribute 12% or *Excluding hydroelectric power more to total electricity generation by 2020. Three markets were created in recent Source: IEA, WEO 2015. years to trade carbon emission permits, particularly for the power sector, under a voluntary system. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 45 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.2 AREVA’s customers and suppliers 6.2. AREVA’S CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS 6.2.1. CUSTOMERS REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF CUSTOMERS BY REVENUE NUCLEAR The nuclear businesses have a limited number of customers. The contracts are AREVA’S REVENUE generally large, amounting to as much as several billion euros. In addition to the 2.3% EDF group, the principal customers are utilities such as Duke and Exelon in the Africa and Middle East United States, ETN in Brazil, Engie, RWE and E.ON in Europe, and CGN, CNNC, KHNP and Tepco in Asia. Customers are diversiﬁed geographically, with a strong historical presence in Europe and growth in Asia. 21.3% North and In the diﬀerent segments of the nuclear fuel cycle, AREVA has long-term contractual South America commitments from its customers. This is the case in several businesses, such as 42.8% Chemistry, Enrichment and Recycling, and in the Mining Business Group, which France have service agreements with most of the world’s nuclear utilities. The Reactors & Services Business Group signs contracts for services and equipment replacements for the installed reactor base. 14.6% AREVA is in a position to sign large-scale contracts and to make oﬀers for the fuel Asia-Paciﬁc cycle and connected with reactor supply. AREVA is competing for several other large new build projects, particularly in Europe, China and India. 19.3% In addition to contracts with nuclear utilities, more than 90% of which are reactors Europe served by AREVA in 2015, the group has signiﬁcant contracts with governmental (excluding France) and paragovernmental entities such as the Commissariat à l’énergie atomique et Source : AREVA. aux energies alternatives in France (CEA, the French atomic energy commission), AREVA’s customers are chieﬂy electric utilities, energy services companies, public the United States Department of Energy (DOE), the Nuclear Decommissioning entities (agencies in charge of the back end of the nuclear cycle, research centers, Authority of Great Britain (NDA), the French naval shipyards DCNS and the Direction etc.) and local public sector or economic players. générale de l’armement (French defense procurement agency, DGA), among others. Geographically, most of the group’s customers are located in Europe, the United In line with market practices, a certain number of warranties are given to customers States, Latin America and Asia. for performance, late penalties, liability for failure to deliver, etc. The warranties and the risks associated with these warranties are described in Sections 20.2. Notes A consolidated assessment of 2015 shows that the breakdown of operations to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014 by geographical area adjusted from IFRS 5 varies little in connection with the and 4. Risk factors. reorganization of the group and of the nuclear industry. The EDF group is AREVA’s leading customer, representing about 30% of its revenue. The group’s top ten customers represented approximately 63% of its revenue RENEWABLES in 2015. A discussion of backlog may be found in Section 9. Customers are public or private utilities, independent energy infrastructure project developers, local and regional economic development groups, and industry. These customers are located in a wide range of geographic areas on ﬁve continents. The diversity of these diﬀerent types of customers from very distinct regions oﬀers the beneﬁt of uncorrelated market dynamics. This situation is strengthened by the diversity of the three complementary resources targeted by AREVA’s renewables oﬀering: coastal winds, direct solar radiation and biomass. 46 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.3 Overview and strategy of the group 06 6.2.2. SUPPLIERS Outsourced procurement represented a volume of approximately 3.3 billion p forgings, boilers, piping and welding; euros in 2015 (consolidated group excluding Wind Energy, Solar Energy and p mechanical accessories, components and equipment; Nuclear Measurements), including 1.3 billion euros for non-production purchases p electricity, electronics and instrumentation; (information technology, telecommunications, intellectual and engineering services, corporate services and energies). Production purchases are divided among the p logistics, handling and storage; and following categories: p production services. p civil engineering and ﬁnishings; p raw materials and semi-ﬁnished products; 6.3. OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY OF THE GROUP 6.3.1. OVERVIEW AREVA conducts its operations in the energy market, where global demand is To optimize the opportunities for synergy available in the French nuclear industry, propelled by the combined eﬀects of demographic dynamism – particularly in AREVA’s operating footprint is destined to change signiﬁcantly: emerging countries – and long-term economic growth leading to access to energy EDF will acquire a majority interest in AREVA NP, whose operations include the p for as many people as possible. Against that backdrop, nuclear power has several design, construction, servicing of and upgrades to nuclear steam supply systems advantages to secure its position in the global energy mix: it is one of the few as well as the design and fabrication of nuclear fuel; energies to limit carbon dioxide emissions, avoid the ups and downs of fossil energy markets, and meet demand for base load electricity. p the operations of the new AREVA will be refocused on the fuel cycle. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 47 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.3 Overview and strategy of the group CHANGE IN AREVA’S OPERATING FOOTPRINT Mining Reactors Renewable Front End Back End & Services Energies Chemistry / Large Projects Mining Recycling Bioenergy Enrichment International Fuel Installed Base Energy storage Projects Manufacturing Dismantling Solar Energy & Services Products & Technology Nuclear Logistics Wind Energy Propulsion & Research Reactors Nuclear Measurements New AREVA scope Held for sale operations to EDF (excluding OL3) Source : AREVA. Other operations sold, discontinued or held for sale In its new scope of consolidation, AREVA has recognized technology expertise power plant operators. It oﬀers high value-added technologies and services in across the entire nuclear fuel cycle anchored in 40 years of research, operating uranium mining, chemistry and enrichment, used fuel recycling, logistics, fuel cycle experience and proprietary processes, enabling it to meet the challenges of nuclear engineering and dismantling. THE GROUP’S BUSINESSES The group’s operations in the nuclear power sector revolve around four main ﬁelds: Post exploitation MOX Energy Fabrication Nuclear Extraction Chemistry production / Used fuel facilities of uranium Enrichment operation / management of uranium Fuel UO2 dismantling Fabrication services Seeking new Conversion of Enrichment Used fuel Valuation of assets uranimium natural uranium of natural uranium treatment and amortized deposits into uranium (centrifugation New AREVA share of and recycling facilities hexaﬂuoride concept) AREVA NP Extraction of Storage service uranium and and solutions ore processing Logistics services Nuclear materials transportation (uranium, used fuel, waste) Cask design and manufacturing Mining Front End Back End Source: AREVA. 48 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.3 Overview and strategy of the group 06 In view of the asset sales in progress, AREVA NP’s operations are recognized as The Reactors & Services Business Group is part of the operations held for sale: discontinued operations, in accordance with IFRS 5. In particular, its revenue is no the sale of AREVA NP’s Large Projects, Installed Base, Manufacturing, and p longer recognized in the group’s revenue. Products & Technology operations; and In 2015, AREVA had reported revenue of 4,199 million euros. The group had p other asset disposals concerning the Propulsion & Research Reactors and 29 billion euros in backlog at December 31, 2015, representing 7 years of revenue, Nuclear Measurements operations. providing good visibility for the group. It employs 39,761 people. Accordingly, this Business Group is no longer presented in business segment information. AREVA’S REPORTED 2015 REVENUE BY BUSINESS GROUP The Back End Business Group represents 38% of AREVA’s revenue reported The Mining Business Group represents 34% of AREVA’s revenue reported for 2015, or 1,593 million euros. It oﬀers eﬀective management solutions for the for 2015, or 1,447 million euros. Present on ﬁve continents, its operations include back end of the nuclear cycle. AREVA’s solutions consist primarily of used reactor exploration for new deposits, mining and milling of the uranium ore, and site fuel treatment to recover reusable materials, and of nuclear site cleanup and value rehabilitation following mining operations. Today, AREVA is a leader in uranium development. The Back End Business Group’s technology and industrial lead have production with a diversiﬁed portfolio of operating mines (Canada, Kazakhstan enabled it to be a major player in markets for the back end of the nuclear cycle and and Niger) and projects under development or in the exploration phase (Africa, to comply with the highest standards for nuclear and occupational safety. AREVA’s Canada and Mongolia). customer base in the back end of the fuel cycle is chieﬂy comprised of European utilities. The group has signed agreements to transfer technology to Japan, the The Front End Business Group represents 26% of revenue reported for 2015, or United States and China in connection with work to deﬁne used fuel management 1,097 million euros. It combines the uranium chemistry and enrichment operations. solutions. The business group is also active in site and facility value development The new Comurhex II conversion plant and Georges Besse II enrichment after production has been discontinued. plant position AREVA as a major player in the front end of the nuclear cycle. The Renewable Energies Business Group is no longer presented in business The light water reactor fuel assembly design and fabrication* operations, which segment information, and in fact three of its operations – Wind Energy, Solar were previous part of the Front End Business Group, are part of the operations held Energy and Energy Storage – no longer contribute to consolidated results, and for sale in connection with the sale of AREVA NP. the Bioenergy operations are now part of the Corporate and other operations described hereunder. The group’s Corporate and other operations represents 1% of AREVA’s revenue reported for 2015, or 62 million euros. This function includes the bioenergy business, which supplies turnkey design, construction and commissioning services to customers for biomass power plants. 6.3.2. STRATEGY Since the Fukushima accident in 2011, the group is facing a deteriorated situation sustainable management of the back end of the cycle is becoming a priority due to: and requires decisions on capital expenditure (whether in recycling, logistics reactor shutdowns in Germany and the slow reactor restart in Japan; or cleanup); p excess capacity in the uranium, conversion and enrichment markets; p in the new builds market, competition is becoming more pronounced, with some p competitors beneﬁtting from the growth of their essentially captive domestic p the reduction in power generators’ maintenance budgets. markets (in particular South Korea and Russia) and from ﬁnancial support for Despite the economic situation, energy demand fundamentals conﬁrm the growth their projects. In addition, the redeﬁnition of the French nuclear industry was prospects for the nuclear market. According to available estimates, world nuclear undertaken because AREVA no longer has a suﬃcient capital base to carry the generating capacity is destined to rise more than 50% by 2040, led by the Asian risk of a new construction project alone, and because AREVA NP and EDF have market in particular. overlapping skills in the nuclear island. Although the growth of the global installed base is conﬁrmed, the fundamentals of Given this situation, it is planned to: this market have changed in recent years: p sell a majority interest in AREVA NP to EDF. AREVA will keep a strategic p in mature nuclear markets (Europe and the United States), AREVA’s traditional interest in AREVA NP. This acquisition of an equity interest should optimize the customers are under heightened economic pressure, which is passed on to performance of the French nuclear industry and its global reach; suppliers. Proﬁtability requirements and power plant aging are creating new p create a joint entity between AREVA NP and EDF devoted to the design demand in the utilities market; and construction of nuclear islands for new reactors. This combination will p markets in the front end (mining, chemistry, enrichment) have faced signiﬁcant underpin an ambitious export policy and the future replacement of the French price reductions since 2011. Prices are expected to rise as supply and demand nuclear ﬂeet; readjust and in response to the need to attract investment in new capacity; p develop the AREVA-EDF partnership to improve the performance of the p the management of environmental and ﬁnancial issues in the back end of French nuclear industry. This strategic partnership should serve to establish the cycle may open new growth opportunities for industrial companies over new industrial plans of action, in recycling for example. the medium term. For all countries with a signiﬁcant nuclear power program, * Excluding MOX fuel. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 49 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.3 Overview and strategy of the group AREVA NP’s future development should rely on four fundamentals: maintaining its p Capture major growth opportunities in Asia recognized operational excellence in safety, quality and performance; continuing Asia’s domestic nuclear cycle industry is relatively undeveloped at this stage. It to improve performance; setting up a new organization and new management; is currently a source of 20% of the group’s revenue, in line with the percentage and developing industrial synergies with EDF while complying with applicable of the global ﬂeet represented by Asian power plants. It could oﬀer new growth regulations on competition. opportunities to the new AREVA. Among them, the industrial and ﬁnancial impacts It should occur as part of a newly created entity devoted to the production of nuclear of the technology transfer contract associated with the Chinese recycling plant islands for new reactor projects. This plan will preserve the integrity of AREVA NP’s project may be considered a “game changer” for the group and its partners. Other nuclear steam supply system skills. discussions with Chinese industrial companies are in progress in mining, conversion and logistics. It should follow four major lines of action: Also, in the back end of the cycle, new AREVA’s participation in the resumption of p consolidate AREVA NP’s global market share in fuel supply by developing new recycling and dismantling operations in Japan could have a very favorable impact products and a policy of selective market conquest; on the group’s proﬁle. p strengthen the development and deployment of innovative solutions in services to nuclear operators; p Complete the capital spending program on industrial capacity in anticipation of a market rebound p develop the position of a supplier of technology building blocks (equipment, technologies and services); The path to proﬁtable growth will be facilitated by the completion of AREVA’s major capital spending programs. The group currently has some of the world’s p participate in the growth of EPR and ATMEA 1 construction projects through largest mineral reserves, which are geographically diversiﬁed, new plants (the ore the new plan drawn up between EDF, AREVA NP and the entity devoted to processing plants in Canada and Kazakhstan, the Georges Besse II enrichment new builds. plant, the Comurhex II conversion plant and the waste storage facility at La Hague), The new AREVA would refocus on its core business to maintain its role as a global a new logistics oﬀering and experienced engineering capabilities. expert in the nuclear materials cycle and its sustainable management. Armed with In each of these industrial facilities, safety levels must remain above reproach. its competitiveness plan, the strengthened of its backlog, ans its new management Anchored in the group’s DNA, safety culture remains the primary condition for team, its growth strategy would follow three major lines of action: operational performance, acceptance of activities, and product and service value. Maintain its technology leadership and develop a new culture of innovation With new industrial assets and a competitive mining portfolio, AREVA will be able In its new consolidation scope, AREVA would have recognized technology to take full advantage of the expected market turnaround. leadership in used fuel on a global scale, with large-scale assets and projects. In logistics, the group is present across the entire value chain. It also has cuttingedge technologies in mining and the front end of the cycle, both in terms of competitiveness and in terms of safety and environmental impacts. Armed with this technology base and its plan to preserve skills and expertise, the new AREVA would strengthen its culture of innovation to capture growth drivers and will foster customer innovation. 50 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.3 Overview and strategy of the group 06 6.3.3. OPERATING ORGANIZATION Corporate management EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE (EXCOM) Philippe Knoche Chief Executive Officer. Rémy Autebert Senior Executive Vice President, Asia Region, and Executive Director for reorganization of the international commercial function. Éric Chassard Senior Executive Vice President, Engineering & Projects. Anne-Marie Choho Senior Executive Vice President, Operations Support and Responsible for the company’s transformation project. Guillaume Dureau Senior Executive Vice President, Back End Business Group. Bernard Fontana Chief Operating Officer of AREVA NP and Senior Executive Vice President, Reactors & Sevices Business Group. Stéphane Lhopiteau Chief Financial Officer. François Nogué Senior Executive Vice President, Human Resources. Olivier Wantz Senior Executive Vice President, Mining and Front End Business Groups. Magali Smets Secretary of the Executive Committee. Regional Departments Engineering & Projects Functional Business Groups (BG) (Germany, North America Department Departments and Asia-Paciﬁc) Operational Departments Reactors Renewable Mining Front End Back End & Services Energies BG BG BG BG BG Olivier Olivier Bernard Guillaume Louis-François Wantz Wantz Fontana Dureau Durret Chemistry/ Large Projects* Recycling Bioenergy Enrichment International Fuel* Installed Base* Energy storage** Projects Propulsion Dismantling & Research Wind energy** & Services Reactors** Nuclear Logistics Solar power** Measurement** Manufacturing* Products & Technology* This information is as of December 31, 2015. *Held for sale operations (excluding OL3). **Other operations sold, discontinued or held for sale. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 51 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations 6.4. OPERATIONS 6.4.1. MINING BUSINESS GROUP KEY FIGURES BUSINESSES The four leading businesses of the Mining Business Group are: 2015 2014 mineral exploration: seeking new deposits for the future; p Revenue* (in millions of euros) 1,447 1,297 p mining projects: mine development and construction; Operating income (in millions of euros) 183 (73) p mining operations: extraction of uranium ore using various mining techniques, and ore processing (chemical concentration of natural uranium); Workforce at year end** 3,317 3,819 p site rehabilitation after mining: rehabilitation of mine sites in accordance with * Contribution to consolidated revenue. ** The workforce was restated to reﬂect the change in the ﬁnancial consolidation applicable environmental standards. scope. The group’s mining operations involve uranium which in its natural state contains two main isotopes: more than 99% is non-ﬁssile uranium-238 (238U), while 0.7% is For purposes of information, 1 metric ton of natural uranium corresponds to about ﬁssile uranium-235 (235U). 2,599 pounds of U3O8. Mining operations cover long cycles requiring substantial capital expenditure over 2015 REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA several years before mining operations begin, the ﬁrst deliveries of uranium are made and the ﬁrst income is received. Then cash ﬂow increases before once again 5% falling oﬀ in the ﬁnal years of operation, followed by site rehabilitation. Africa and Middle East 21% France 9% 46% Europe Asia-Paciﬁc (excluding France) 19% North and South America Source: AREVA. 52 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations 06 BUSINESS MODEL OF A URANIUM DEPOSIT, FROM EXPLORATION TO MINING FEASIBILITY* Cost Feasibility ~ 50 million euros Deposit (reserves) Development drilling Pre-feasibility Deposit (resources) Soil geophysics Test driling detailed geochemistry Evidence Aerial geophysics Detailed Geochemistry and geology exploration Large mesh Anomalies exploration Time 3 6 9 12 ~ 15 years Exploration permit Concession or mining agreement * Duration given for information purposes only; may vary considerably depending on context. Source: AREVA. The first phase of exploration consists of detecting surface or subterranean p The in situ recovery technique is used when the containment and permeability indicators using aerial or ground geophysics and surface geological surveys. This properties of the deposit allow the uranium to be dissolved directly in the ground. is followed by test drilling to develop, in case of positive results, an initial estimate In that case, oxidizing solutions are pumped into the ore bed between injection of the deposit’s resources. wells and producing wells. The resulting solution is pumped to the surface and Once the attractiveness of the deposit has been conﬁrmed, the drilling grid is processed in the same manner as for open pit or underground mines. tightened to reﬁne the estimate of resources and conﬁrm mining feasibility, both Mining rehabilitation is an important activity that calls for speciﬁc mining and civil technically and economically (reclassiﬁcation from resource to reserve). engineering techniques and involves many areas of expertise. The purpose of this activity is to minimize the residual environmental impacts of the mining sites. These operations, which require an exploration permit that eventually confers mining rights, take an average of 10 to 15 years. The environmental impacts of mining operations must be monitored and limited throughout the development and production cycle. Once the technical and economic feasibility of mining projects has been demonstrated, mining facilities are built and uranium ore is mined in an open pit, an underground mine, or by in situ recovery (see Glossary), depending on the OPERATIONS AND HIGHLIGHTS characteristics of the deposit. Key events in 2015 in the Mining Business Group (BG) were as follows: p Whether for open pit or underground mines, the extracted ore is milled and leached, usually with acidic solutions. Leaching may be static (heap leaching) p in accordance with the memorandum of understand signed by the State of Niger or dynamic. In the processing plant, the uranium is extracted from the solutions and AREVA in 2014, the Imouraren site was mothballed with the expectation of its using solvent extraction techniques or by ﬁxation on ion exchange resins. The future restart. All demobilization activities and implementation of the restructuring puriﬁed uranium is then precipitated and dried to produce a uranium concentrate plan were completed in 2015; called “yellowcake”. This product is packaged and shipped to the conversion p in June, the State of Niger and AREVA signed a second ﬁnancing agreement plant of the customer’s choice. for the agricultural development project in the Irhazer-Tamesna-Aïr region. This milestone conﬁrms the development of buildings and activities for regional crop irrigation. This agreement, in the amount of 14 million euros, falls under a memorandum of understanding between the State of Niger and AREVA signed on December 1, 2006 and conﬁrmed via a strategic partnership agreement between the two parties of May 26, 2014; 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 53 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations p in June, the Mineral Resources Authority of Mongolia granted three exploration By controlling its production costs and the level of its capital expenditure, the Mining permits for the Dulaan Uul, Umnut and Zuuvch Ovoo uranium deposits located business turned in good operating and ﬁnancial performance in 2015, despite a in Dornogovi Province; context of falling prices. p in September, Cameco and AREVA oﬃcially celebrated the production startup In 2015, AREVA produced 8,070 metric tons of uranium in joint venture share of the Cigar Lake mine and the McClean Lake mill during a ceremony held at (equity share of production) corresponding to 10,456 metric tons on a ﬁnancial the site in the North Saskatchewan region of Canada attended by Bill Boyd, consolidation part: Saskatchewan Minister of Energy, and several local community representatives. p Somaïr produced 2,509 metric tons of uranium, for an AREVA share of The Cigar Lake mine and the McClean Lake mill produced 11.3 million pounds 1,591 metric tons (on a 100% basis); in 2015; p Cominak produced 1,607 metric tons of uranium, for an AREVA share of p in September, AREVA published its Responsible Growth Report on a dedicated 546 metric tons (on a 100% basis); website for the ﬁrst time (http://www.rse-mines.areva.com). After having been audited by an independent third party, the 2014 report received a score of A+, p Katco produced 4,109 metric tons of uranium for an AREVA share of 2,095 metric the highest score according to the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative. tons (on a 100% basis); p McArthur River/Key Lake produced 2,221 metric tons of uranium (AREVA’s share); p Cigar Lake produced 1,612 metric tons of uranium (AREVA’s share). 2015 PRODUCTION IN METRIC TONS OF URANIUM (MTU) Financial consolidation share 2015 Country Site MTU Type (1) Canada McArthur River 2,221 UG Canada Cigar Lake 1,612 UG Canada McClean Lake 3 n.d. Total Canada 3,835 France Hérault Mining Division 2 n.d. Total France 2 Kazakhstan Katco 4,109 ISR Total Kazakhstan 4,109 Niger Cominak (2) UG Niger Somaïr 2,509 OP Total Niger 2,509 TOTAL 10,456 (1) Type of operation: ISR: In Situ Recovery; OP: Open Pit; UG: Underground; n.d.: not deﬁned. (2) Cominak has been consolidated under the equity method since January 1, 2014. Source: AREVA. MANUFACTURING AND HUMAN RESOURCES The Mining business has staﬀ in several countries. The uranium production sites are located in three countries: Canada, Niger and Kazakhstan. AREVA’s diversiﬁed portfolio of mining assets and resources is an important factor in security of supply for utilities seeking long-term guarantees of uranium deliveries. As part of the competitiveness plan set up to cope with a context of price deterioration, staﬀ adjustments continued, with a reduction of 13% compared with 2014. 54 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations 06 LEADING SITES OF THE MINING BUSINESS Uranium mines in operation Uranium mines under development Uranium exploration Rehabilitation Headquarters and trading Source: AREVA. Canada mechanical mining methods (raise boring and long hole stoping), and the ground AREVA has been engaged in mining operations in Canada for more than 50 years. is frozen to prevent water infiltration. The mined ore is processed at the Key Lake mill, about 80 kilometers south of the deposit. The mill is operated by Cameco In Canada, AREVA’s production comes from the McArthur River and Cigar Lake Corporation, which holds an 83.33% interest (AREVA holds 16.67%). McArthur mines operated by Cameco Corporation. These sites are located approximately River and Key Lake have a capacity of 7,200 metric tons of uranium per year 700 kilometers north of Saskatoon in Saskatchewan Province. AREVA is conducting (18.7 million pounds of U3O8). a major exploration program in this uranium-rich province and in the Nunavut territory, where it also holds majority interests in several deposits: a 70% interest in Cigar Lake McClean Lake, a 51% interest in Shea Creek, a 69.16% interest in Midwest, and a 64.8% interest in Kiggavik. The ﬁnal environmental impact study for the Kiggavik Cigar Lake is owned by a joint venture consisting of Cameco Corporation (50.025%), project submitted in October 2014 to the Nunavut Impact Review Board (NIRB) was AREVA (37.1%), Idemitsu Uranium Exploration Canada Ltd (7.875%) and Tepco not approved in May 2015 due to the lack of a speciﬁc start date. The NIRB indicated Resources Inc. (5%). The deposit is operated by Cameco. Cigar Lake is the world’s that it would not impose a deﬁnitive ban on the project, saying that the project could richest uranium deposit. The ore is processed in the McClean Lake mill operated be presented for review at a later date once the uncertainties concerning its start by AREVA. date and the development program have been removed. AREVA discovered the deposit in 1981 and helped develop the mining method. In Additional studies are required to determine the development schedules for these view of its location 450 meters below the surface and of the very high-grade uranium deposits, which will depend on uranium market conditions. it contains, the deposit cannot be mined with conventional methods. Freezing techniques are used to strengthen the ground and prevent water inﬁltration. The McArthur River selected mining method involves removing the ore by high-pressure jet boring. All infrastructure drifts are located in more solid rock under the deposit to position McArthur River is operated as a joint venture by Cameco Corporation, which holds equipment, drill the ore body to freeze the ground, and mine it by jet boring. a 69.805% interest (AREVA’s stake is 30.195%). The McArthur River mine has , with Cigar Lake, the world’s largest production capacity. The deposit was discovered Cigar Lake should produce 6,900 metric tons of uranium per year at full capacity in 1988 and mining began in December 1999. (18 million pounds of U3O8). Located more than 600 meters below the surface, and in view of the very highWith 11.3 million pounds of uranium concentrates produced in 2015, production grade uranium it contains, the deposit cannot be mined with conventional methods ramp-up at the Cigar Lake mine reached a production level above that of the The miners are protected from direct contact with the ore by the use of special forecast. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 55 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations McClean Lake Cominak AREVA operates McClean Lake and is a 70% owner alongside Denison Mines Cominak (Compagnie Minière d’Akouta) is 34% owned by AREVA, which operates Ltd, which has a 22.5% stake, and Overseas Uranium Resources Development it. The other shareholders are Sopamin of Niger (31%), Ourd (25%), and Enusa Company Ltd of Japan (Ourd), which owns 7.5%. Industrias Avanzadas SA of Spain (Enusa, 10%). The ore is extracted underground The ﬁrst uranium production at the McClean Lake open pit mine began in 1995, and is then processed in the site’s mill, producing approximately 1,500 metric tons and uranium concentrate production began at McClean Lake’s Jeb mill in 1999. of uranium per year (3.9 million pounds of U3O8). Mining operations were stopped in early 2009. The mill was designed to process very high-grade ore (> 15%); its capacity was raised in order to receive all of the Imouraren project ore from Cigar Lake. Under an agreement signed in 2011 between the partners of Located 80 kilometers south of Arlit, this deposit was discovered in 1966 and Cigar Lake and McClean Lake, the Jeb mill processes all of the ore from the Cigar constitutes one of the largest deposits in the world today (reserves of 174,196 metric Lake mine. The mill was restarted in October 2014 for that purpose, and its ramptons of uranium after recovery). The feasibility study was completed in up to nominal capacity is in step with the ramp-up of mining production (18 million December 2007 and submitted in April 2008. AREVA received the mining permit pounds of uranium concentrates). for the deposit in early January 2009. The Imouraren SA mining company was In 2016, it is planned to obtain the regulatory permit to increase production levels established, with AREVA NC Expansion (86.5% AREVA and 13.5% Kepco/KHNP) of uranium concentrates at the McLean Lake mill, which is currently limited to holding a 66.65% interest and Sopamin owned by the government of Niger holding 13 million pounds. the remaining 33.35%. In view of market conditions, production startup work was suspended. The site, Niger equipment and facilities are currently mothballed, and all demobilization operations Exploration teams from the Commissariat à l’énergie atomique (CEA, the French together with implementation of the restructuring plan were completed in the ﬁrst atomic energy commission) detected uranium in Niger at the end of the 1950s. quarter of 2015. The uraniferous area is located west of the Aïr granitic body. The project will restart when uranium market conditions permit. A strategy committee Close to 2,000 people work at Somaïr and Cominak, excluding subcontractors. set up by the State of Niger and AREVA regularly reviews these conditions. Along with jobs, the operating companies provide health, social and educational services to the local communities in this isolated area. Kazakhstan Cominak and Somaïr have delivered uranium to their customers without interruption Katco was established in 1997 to develop and mine the Muyunkum and Tortkuduk since operations began in the 1970s. deposits in southern Kazakhstan, approximately 250 kilometers north of Shymkent. AREVA also owns the Imouraren project (see below), one of the world’s largest Shareholders include AREVA (51%) and the Kazakh company Kazatomprom (49%), deposits, with 174,196 metric tons of uranium in reserves after application of the the national natural uranium producer of Kazakhstan. ore yield with a grade of 700 ppm. Development of the two mining sites, located approximately 60 kilometers In accordance with the strategic partnership agreement signed by the State of Niger apart, started in April 2004 after the signature of agreements between the two and AREVA on May 26, 2014: shareholders. The in situ recovery (ISR) technology was chosen to solubilize the uranium directly in the rock. p the mining agreements for Somaïr and Cominak were renewed till the end of 2018 in accordance with the Nigerien mining law of 2006 (with neutralization In 2008, Katco received a permit to raise production to 4,000 metric tons of uranium of the value-added tax impact); per year; it has maintained this level since 2013. In 2015, Katco continued studies and work aimed at bringing the South Tortkuduk deposit into production; this p a Joint Strategy Committee was set up. It will determine the schedule for the deposit is located between two deposits currently in production. start of production of Imouraren as a function of the market trend, since current uranium prices do not allow the deposit to be operated proﬁtably; The request to register South Tortkuduk resources and reserves with the State of Kazakhstan is under review and constitutes the ﬁrst development stage of this p AREVA will provide ﬁnancial support to local infrastructure and development deposit. projects: ○ funding of a share of the Tahoua-Arlit road renovations; Namibia ○ ﬁnancing of the construction of an oﬃce building for the mining companies; The Trekkopje deposit is located in Namibia. AREVA has owned 100% of the ○ strengthening of an agricultural development program in the Irhazer Valley property since its acquisition in 2007. In 2012 and 2013, a pilot phase demonstrated of northern Niger. the feasibility of the selected technical solutions and conﬁrmed the production cost objectives. Nonetheless, the deterioration of uranium market conditions prompted Somaïr AREVA to mothball the project in October 2012. The equipment and facilities are Société des mines de l’Aïr (Somaïr, the mining company of the Aïr) was established currently mothballed, and regular maintenance continues to be provided. in 1968. The company is operated by AREVA, which owns 63.4% of the share capital; the remaining 36.6% is held by Société du patrimoine des mines du Niger Mongolia (Sopamin, the Nigerien government’s mining company). For more than 15 years, AREVA has successfully conducted mineral exploration operations in the Sainshand Basin at two sites, Dulaan Uul and Zoovch Ovoo. Somaïr has operated several uranium deposits near the town of Arlit since 1971. The ore is extracted from open pit mines and heap leached or processed mechanically Following an initial feasibility study, mining licenses were granted for the Dulaan at the head end of the Arlit mill. In both cases, the uranium solutions are treated the Uul and Zoovch Ovoo deposits in June 2015 to Cogegobi, the subsidiary that will back end process of the mill. Given the current characteristics of the ore processed, lead AREVA’s exploration activities in Mongolia. capacity is in the range of 2,000 and 2,500 metric tons per year. 56 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations 06 In accordance with nuclear energy law in Mongolia, these permits must be Australia transferred to a new mining company in which the state-owned Mon-Atom company AREVA suspended its drilling work in Australia in the second half of 2015. Targeted overseen by the Commission of State Properties has a 34% interest. The remaining studies will continue in view of the future resumption of work. 66% will be held by AREVA Mongol, itself 66% owned by AREVA and 34% owned by Mitsubishi Corporation. After receiving the necessary permits, the mining company Gabon will begin building and operating the pilot in order to conﬁrm the technical and In Gabon, exploration work resumed a few years ago at AREVA’s former mining economic parameters of the deposit and update the feasibility study. sites continues. AREVA’S EQUITY INTERESTS IN URANIUM PROJECTS Financial Share in JV consolidation** Country Site Type* Operator % % Australia Koongarra n.d. AREVA 100.00% 100.00% Canada Cigar Lake UG Cameco 37.10% 37.10% Canada Dawn Lake n.d. Cameco 23.09% 23.09% Canada Key Lake OP/UG Cameco 16.67% 16.67% Canada Fox Lake n.d. Cameco 21.76% 21.76% Canada Kiggavik-Sissons Schultz OP/UG AREVA 64.80% 64.80% Canada McArthur River UG Cameco 30.195% 30.195% Canada McClean Lake OP AREVA 70.00% 70.00% Canada Midwest OP AREVA 69.16% 69.16% France AREVA Mines n.d. AREVA 100.00% 100.00% Kazakhstan Katco ISR AREVA 51.00% 100.00% Mongolia Zoovch Ovoo ISR AREVA 66.00% 100.00% Mongolia Dulaan Uul n.d. AREVA 66.00% 100.00% Namibia Trekkopje Project OP AREVA 100.00% 100.00% Niger Arlit Concession n.d. AREVA 100.00% 100.00% Niger Cominak UG AREVA 34.00% Niger Imouraren OP AREVA 57.66% 100.00% Niger Somaïr OP AREVA 63.40% 100.00% CAR Bakouma OP AREVA 100.00% 100.00% * Type of operation: ISR: In Situ Recovery; OP: Open Pit; UG: Underground; n.d.: not deﬁned. ** Share of production consolidated in AREVA’s ﬁnancial statements in 2015. Source: AREVA. MARKET AND COMPETITIVE POSITION Supply consists of: p mining production, which amounted to approximately 60,700 metric tons of Market uranium, an increase of 8% compared with 2014 following the restart of the Reactor requirements amounted to approximately 69,000 metric tons of uranium Cigar Lake mine; in 2015 (“gross” demand expressed in natural uranium; source: UxC Q4 2015), p secondary resources estimated to a total of 15,250 metric tons of uranium, slightly up from 2014, led in particular by demand in Asia (e.g. China). according to UxC, coming from materials from used fuel recycling, marketing of uranium inventories of the US (DOE) and Russian governments, re-enriched depleted uranium, and low-enriched uranium of enrichers. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 57 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations WORLD DEMAND AND SUPPLY IN 2015 tU 110,000 100,000 90,000 80,000 Reactor demand 70,000 Demand to be covered by new 60,000 production 50,000 Secondary resources 40,000 Primary production existing mines 30,000 20,000 10,000 0 2015 2020 2025 2030 Source: UxC Q4 2015 Estimated global production in 2015 TOP TEN URANIUM PRODUCING COUNTRIES TOP TEN URANIUM PRODUCERS Rank Producer Production (MTU) %* Rank Producer Available share of production*(MTU) %** 1 Kazakhstan 23,700 39% 1 Kazatomprom 11,700 19% 2 Canada 13,300 22% 2 Cameco 11,000 18% 3 Australia 5,700 9% 3 AREVA 9,400 16% 4 Niger 4,100 7% 4 ARMZ/Uranium One 7,900 13% 5 Russia 3,100 5% 5 BHP Billiton 3,200 5% 6 Namibia 2,900 5% 6 Rio Tinto 2,800 5% 7 Uzbekistan 2,400 4% 7 Navoi 2,400 4% 8 China 1,600 3% 8 CNNC 2,100 4% 9 United States 1,300 2% 9 Paladin 1,400 2% 10 Ukraine 1,000 1% 10 CGNPC 1,300 2% TOTAL TOP 10 59,100 97% TOTAL TOP 10 53,200 88% Other 1,600 3% Other 7,500 12% Global production 60,700 100% Global production 60,700 100% Source: Annual reports from the diﬀerent companies (rounded to the nearest Source: Annual reports from the diﬀerent companies (rounded to the nearest 100 metric tons) and AREVA estimates. 100 metric tons) and AREVA estimates. * Rounded to the nearest bp. * Quantity of uranium likely to be sold/distributed to producers by their respective mining joint ventures. ** Rounded to the nearest bp. In 2015, AREVA produced 9,400 metric tons of uranium (in share of production available to the group). 58 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations 06 URANIUM PRICE INDICATORS 2010-2015 (IN CURRENT US Estimating methods DOLLARS) AREVA’s resources and reserves are estimated based on data gathered by the USD/lb group’s teams or taken from audited reports. An internal group department is in 75 charge of these estimates. The mission of the Resources and Reserves Committee, which reports to Executive Management, is to validate the schedule for updating resources and reserves, to 60 validate the resources and reserves published by AREVA each year, and to ensure that the means, organization, and internal and external estimating methods enable 45 a comprehensive and objective estimate of resources and reserves, in accordance with international practices. 30 In Canada, the group’s reserves are the subject of independent estimates or audit reports by the shareholders of the companies operating the mines. In 2010, AREVA decided to conform to international standards for the classiﬁcation 15 of its resources and reserves. At December 31, 2015, 100% of its resources and 99% of its reserves were in conformance. 0 10 11 12 13 14 15 15 DEFINITION OF RESOURCES n. Ja n. Ja n. Ja Ja n. n. Ja n. Ja c. De Mineral Resources: Concentrations whose form, quantity and grade or quality are Spot such that they present reasonable prospects for economic recovery. The location, Long term quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of the mineral resources are known, estimated, or interpreted based on speciﬁc geological evidence and Sources: UxC, Uranium market outlook Q-4 2015. data. Mineral resources are subdivided into resources that are measured, indicated and inferred. The spot market, which accounts for approximately 15% of uranium supply, Measured Resources: Share of mineral resources for which the characteristics (1) varied between $33 and $40 per pound, ending the year at $34.25 per pound. are known such that they can be estimated with a high level of conﬁdence to enable These relatively low levels reﬂect an imbalance between supply and demand, appropriate application of technical and economic parameters to support production currently oﬀset by opportunistic purchases to cover Western utilities’ medium-term planning and assessment of the economic viability of the deposit. The estimate is requirements, and inventory increases by Chinese utilities. The long-term indicator, based on detailed, reliable information with suﬃcient detail to conﬁrm both the which reﬂects the signature of multi-year contracts for deliveries starting a few years continuity of the geology and the grades. from now, fell in 2015, ending the year at $44 per pound versus $49.50 per pound at year-end 2014. Indicated Resources: Share of mineral resources for which the characteristics (1) are known such that they can be estimated with a suﬃcient level of conﬁdence to With the decline of market indicators since Fukushima, producers have announced enable appropriate application of technical and economic parameters to support numerous project postponements, closures and/or mothballing of producing mines, mining operation planning and assessment of the economic viability of the deposit. and reduced production. This restructuring is expected to continue in the coming The estimate is based on detailed, reliable information with suﬃcient detail to issue years. a reasonable assumption on the continuity of the geology and the grades. Longer term, the market is still expected to grow, with demand 25% higher in 2025 Inferred Resources: Share of mineral resources for which the quantity, than in 2015 according to the World Nuclear Association (WNA), in particular with concentration and grade can be estimated based on geological evidence and the restart of the Japanese reactors and growing reactor requirements from the limited sampling, and which can be reasonably relied upon for assumptions of Chinese nuclear program. Rising demand is expected to raise market prices and geological continuity and grades, without however verifying them. enable new projects to be launched. DEFINITION OF RESERVES Mineral Reserves: Economically and technically recoverable share of measured RESOURCES, RESERVES AND PRODUCTION SITES or indicated resources, as demonstrated by at least one preliminary feasibility study or mining project. The study includes adequate information about mining Uranium and processing operations, metallurgy, the economic aspects and other relevant AREVA has 181,189 metric tons of uranium reserves in its deposits (joint venture factors to demonstrate that mining is proﬁtable at the that time the report was share). written. Mineral reserves include dilution factors and the allowance for mining losses The volume of the best-known resources (measured and indicated resources) is incurred during mining operations. 98,641 metric tons of uranium (joint venture share). The volume of inferred resources Proven Mineral Reserves: Economically and technically recoverable share of available to AREVA is 178,205 metric tons of uranium (joint venture share). measured mineral resources. (1) Tonnage, grade, density, form and physical characteristics. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 59 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations Probable Mineral Reserves: Economically and technically recoverable share of As a reminder, historical estimates of resources for the Midwest deposit in Canada indicated mineral resources and, in some cases, of measured mineral resources. and the Dulaan Uul deposit in Mongolia, which were done before the adoption of international standards, were about 10,000 metric tons of uranium each (joint SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN RELATION TO 2014 (JOINT VENTURE SHARE) venture share). These deposits have good potential but are not priorities and Aside from the depletion of production, the following changes (joint venture share) will require additional work to establish a resource estimate that conforms to occurred: international standards. p Fox Lake: Preliminary estimate by Cameco of inferred resources at the Fox Lake deposit totaling 5,700 metric tons of uranium for AREVA’s share (21.8%). 60 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations 06 MINERAL RESERVES IN THE GROUND IN METRIC TONS OF URANIUM (MTU) (YEAR-END 2015 ESTIMATES) Proven Probable Total reserves Metal (after application Ore Grade Metal Ore Grade Metal Ore Grade Metal Recovery of yields) Country Site Kt ‰U MTU Kt ‰U MTU Kt ‰U MTU % MTU Canada Cigar Lake 226 186.01 42,056 376 114.94 43,183 602 141.64 85,240 98.50% 83,961 Canada Key Lake 67 4.26 287 67 4.26 287 98.70% 283 Canada McArthur River 1,195 81.59 97,521 200 159.67 31,919 1,395 92.78 129,440 98.70% 127,757 Canada McClean 90 3.01 271 1 43.20 22 91 3.23 293 96.00% 281 Canada Total 1,579 88.75 140,136 576 130.40 75,123 2,155 99.89 215,260 212,283 Kazakhstan Katco 15,245 0.72 10,929 15,245 0.72 10,929 84.15 9,197 Kazakhstan Total 15,245 0.72 10,929 15,245 0.72 10,929 9,197 Niger Cominak 771 3,30 2,545 2,337 3.32 7,761 3,108 3.32 10,306 93.10% 9,595 Niger Imouraren 306,048 0.70 213,722 306,048 0.70 213,722 81.51% 174,196 Niger Somaïr 831 0.89 741 3,229 1.43 4,603 4,060 1.32 5,344 83.45% 4,459 Niger Total 1,602 2.05 3,286 311,614 0.73 226,086 313,216 0.73 229,372 188,250 TOTAL 3,181 45.09 143,422 327,435 0.95 312,138 330,616 1.38 455,560 409,729 Source: AREVA. Share in JV Country Site MTU Canada Cigar Lake 31,150 Canada Key Lake 47 Canada McArthur River 38,576 Canada McClean 197 Canada Total 69,970 Kazakhstan Katco 4,690 Kazakhstan Total 4,690 Niger Cominak 3,262 Niger Imouraren 100,439 Niger Somaïr 2,827 Niger Total 106,529 TOTAL 181,189 For reserves, this share is expressed in concentrates, i.e. after taking into account mining and milling recovery. Source: AREVA. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 61 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations MINERAL RESOURCES IN THE GROUND IN METRIC TONS OF URANIUM (MTU) (YEAR-END 2015 ESTIMATES) Proven Probable Ore Grade Metal Ore Grade Metal Country Site Kt ‰U MTU Kt ‰U MTU Canada Cigar Lake 3 51.75 140 18 64.49 1,129 Canada Dawn Lake 184 37.46 6,885 Canada Fox Lake Canada Kiggavik 10,418 4.70 48,953 Canada McArthur River 62 32.53 2,017 5 25.94 122 Canada McClean 82 30.23 2,479 242 14.13 3,424 Canada Midwest 463 4.81 2,227 Canada Total 147 31.60 4,635 11,329 5.54 62,740 Kazakhstan Katco 6,310 1.03 6,510 Kazakhstan Total 6,310 1.03 6,510 Mongolia Zoovch Ovoo Mongolia Total Namibia Trekkopje Project Namibia Total Niger Arlit Concession Niger Cominak Niger Imouraren 108,668 0.58 62,584 Niger Somaïr 21,195 1.43 30,183 Niger Total 129,863 0.71 92,767 CAR Bakouma CAR Total Gabon Bagombe Gabon Total TOTAL 147 31.60 4,635 147,502 1.10 162,017 * Average grade after dilution of the ore to be leached. (1) Katco is waiting for approval of the registration of 6,510 MTU of measured and indicated resources and 6,250 MTU of inferred resources in the State’s records, expected to be received in 2016. Source: AREVA estimates. Mining site rehabilitation Since the start of the group’s mining operations, several hundred million euros have been spent on facility dismantling and rehabilitation of mining sites in France, Gabon, the United States and Canada. The purpose of rehabilitation is to ensure that residual environmental impacts are as low as reasonably achievable. 62 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations 06 Measured + indicated AREVA share Inferred AREVA share JV share measured Inferred share Ore Grade Metal + indicated Ore Grade Metal in JV Kt ‰U MTU MTU Kt ‰U MTU MTU 20 62.78 1,268 470 285 139.29 39,670 14,717 184 37.46 6,885 1,590 46 8.44 385 89 387 67.74 26,195 5,700 10,418 4.70 48,953 31,722 731 2.82 2,059 1,334 67 32.06 2,139 646 344 65.45 22,528 6,802 324 18.21 5,903 4,132 38 10.07 382 267 463 4.81 2,227 1,540 9 180.65 1,662 1,149 11,476 5,87 67,375 40,100 1,839 50.49 92,880 30,059 6,310 1,03 6,510 3,320 24,004 0.86 20,596 10,504 6,310 1.03 6,510(1) 3,320 24,004 0.86 20,596(1) 10,504 525,000 0.10* 50,000 33,000 525,000 0.10 50,000 33,000 250,000 0.10 26,000 26,000 250,000 0.10 26,000 26,000 12,845 1.59 20,403 20,403 348 2.72 947 322 108,668 0.58 62,584 36,085 4,394 0.66 2,879 1,660 21,195 1.43 30,183 19,136 13,844 1.64 22,653 14,362 129,863 0.71 92,767 55,221 31,431 1.49 46,882 36,747 17,974 2.03 36,475 36,475 17,974 2.03 36,475 36,475 2,000 2.71 5,420 5,420 2,000 2.71 5,420 5,420 147,649 1.13 166,652 98,641 852,248 0.33 278,253 178,205 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 63 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations Site surveillance continues after rehabilitation, in particular monitoring of air quality, RELATIONS WITH CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS surface water and groundwater quality, bio-indicators and the food chain. The In 2015, the group sold around 13,000 metric tons of uranium, in slight increase monitoring provided under post-closure management plans for the mine sites is compared to 12,600 metric tons of uranium in 2014. of variable duration, depending on the pace of improvement and the stabilization of chemical and radiological parameters. These plans are discussed with national The backlog amounted to 9.115 billion euros at the end of 2015. The backlog is administrations and local stakeholders. This period is specific to each site’s diversiﬁed among customers in diﬀerent uranium-consuming regions. characteristics as well as to local stakeholder expectations. Experience to date indicates that this period is generally not less than 10 years. For sites located in Suppliers emerging countries and/or countries where there are strong expectations of local The sold uranium comes from the mineral resources of the companies in which economic support, AREVA also leads societal initiatives designed to generate AREVA has an equity interest, or from uranium bought on the market. income and create jobs for communities aﬀected by mine closures. Development outlook and challenges In a post-Fukushima environment, and despite a slower pace of growth in demand, AREVA intends to remain a key supplier of natural uranium. Its objective is to continue to optimize the competitiveness of its existing sites and to develop its portfolio of projects by conducting the necessary studies in order to be able to launch new capital expenditure. In this way, AREVA intends to strengthen its position in the uranium market while remaining one of the most competitive producers. 6.4.2. FRONT END BUSINESS GROUP To optimize the opportunities for synergy available in the French nuclear industry, p in the second stage, the UF4 is converted through ﬂuorination into uranium and in application of IFRS 5, the Fuel operations of the Front End Business Group hexafluoride (UF6), a chemical compound that exists in gaseous form at were classified as “operations held for sale” belonging to AREVA NP. In the relatively low temperature. The ﬂuorine used in this process is produced through new AREVA, the footprint of the Front End Business Group will be limited to the electrolysis of anhydrous hydroﬂuoric acid. These operations are carried out in Chemistry and Enrichment operations. AREVA’s plant at the Tricastin site in the Drôme and Vaucluse departments of southern France. 6.4.2.1. CHEMISTRY-ENRICHMENT Malvési Acid Hydroﬂuorination* Key ﬁgures Dissolution* (HF) Mine U0 3 UF4 concentrates 2015 2014 (powder) Puriﬁcation (powder) (powder) and efﬂuent management Revenue* (in millions of euros) 1,097 988 Workforce at year end** 3,012 3,331 Pierrelatte * Contribution to consolidated revenue. Fluorination* ** The workforce was restated to reﬂect the change in the ﬁnancial consolidation UF4 UF6 scope. (F) (powder) (gas at 56 °C and atmospheric (HF electrolysis*) pressure) Businesses Conversion of natural uranium (U3O8) into uranium hexaﬂuoride * Purely chemical operations (no change to the uranium’s isotopic composition). (UF6) Source: AREVA. The Chemistry business’s primary activity is to convert natural uranium (U3O8) into Enrichment of natural uranium in uranium-235 uranium hexaﬂuoride (UF6). All enrichment processes – the necessary next step in nuclear fuel fabrication – currently function with uranium in the chemical form of UF6. Enrichment operations consist of increasing the uranium-235 content of natural uranium from its initial 0.7% to the assay speciﬁed by the customer, ranging from Uranium concentrates shipped from the mine for conversion are owned by the 3 to 5%, depending on the type and operating mode of the reactor. Molecules of electric utility customer. They are converted in a two-stage process: gaseous uranium hexaﬂuoride (UF6) undergo isotopic separation to achieve the p in the ﬁrst stage, the uranium is converted into uranium tetraﬂuoride (UF4). This desired enrichment assay. AREVA supplies the enrichment service to the customer, involves dissolving the mine concentrates in acid, then purifying them to produce with the latter retaining ownership of its material. UO3 powder. This powder is then hydroﬂuorinated with hydroﬂuoric acid, which An enrichment plant’s production is expressed in separative work units (SWU). converts it into UF4. These operations are carried out in AREVA’s plant at the This unit is proportionate to the quantity of uranium processed and is a measure Malvési site in the Aude department of southern France; 64 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations 06 of the work required to separate the ﬁssile uranium-235 isotope. The SWU is a The conversion of depleted uranium hexaﬂuoride into an oxide generates an ultrastandard international unit of measurement for enrichment services and sales, and pure, aqueous, 70% hydroﬂuoric acid, which is marketed. is independent of the separation technology used. AREVA earns a return from its internationally recognized expertise in depleted uranium deﬂuorination through technology sales agreements with world-class Implementation of a new, more eﬃcient enrichment technology companies. AREVA’s know-how enables customers to store this reusable material that uses less energy safely and to produce hydroﬂuoric acid that can be marketed to the chemical Following the shut-down of Eurodif’s gaseous diﬀusion enrichment plant in 2012, industry. AREVA’s know-how led to the signature of contracts for the sale and AREVA invested in the new Georges Besse II plant and has now deployed the installation of deﬂuorination lines with Tenex and Urenco. centrifuge enrichment technology, which meets increasingly stringent nuclear safety, environmental protection and competitiveness requirements. Recycling of uranium from used fuel treatment By using this new technology, the Georges Besse II plant consumes 50 times less After a reactor residence time of nearly four years, uranium still represents electricity than that consumed by the gaseous diﬀusion process. Another advantage approximately 95% of the used nuclear fuel’s content. The uranium is recovered is its modular construction, enabling rapid ramp-up of production and adjustment through treatment operations performed at the AREVA La Hague plant (see of production capacity to market demand. Section 6.4.4.1. Recycling) and is shipped in the form of liquid uranyl nitrate to be converted chemically into a stable oxide powder. Uranium from used fuel treatment At the same time, the PRISME program, designed to reduce the remaining (reprocessed uranium, or RepU) may then be reconverted into uranium hexaﬂuoride radioactivity in Eurodif’s gaseous diﬀusion enrichment plant in preparation for and re-enriched for reuse in the fabrication of fresh fuel, in which case it is called its dismantling, continues according to the projected schedule. The most critical enriched recycled uranium (ERU). phase, consisting of removing the majority of the uranium present, was completed in October 2015. AREVA also ﬁled a dismantling permit application at the end of Other ﬂuorine derivatives March 2015. The know-how needed for conversion, particularly in the ﬁeld of uranium ﬂuorination, CENTRIFUGATION CONCEPT has served to develop ﬂuorination activities such as the production of chlorine triﬂuoride, used to clean enrichment barriers from the Eurodif plant, which was Feed shut down permanently in 2012. Depleted Enriched uranium uranium Manufacturing and human resources The Front End BG’s Chemistry-Enrichment operations are split between two industrial sites in France, i.e. Malvési and the integrated platform of Tricastin: the Malvési plant produces UF4 (annual capacity of about 14,000 metric tons); 238 U F6 p UF6 is produced at the Tricastin site (annual capacity of about 14,000 metric tons); U F6 235 p p UF6 is enriched at the Georges Besse II plant at the Tricastin site operated by Société d’Enrichissement du Tricastin (SET) (annual capacity of 7.5 million SWU after completion of the project); p depleted uranium is deﬂuorinated in the W Plant at the Tricastin site (annual capacity of about 13,000 metric tons); p uranyl nitrate is converted into oxide in the TU5 facility at the Tricastin site (annual capacity of about 1,250 metric tons); p the Tricastin integrated platform also pools all of the logistical, laboratory, waste and eﬄuent treatment, and equipment repair resources in the Department of Source: AREVA. Industrial Services, enabling all of the site’s plants to be served more eﬃciently Centrifugation process takes advantage of the diﬀerence in the atomic weight of and in a more cost-eﬀective manner. 235 U and 238U to separate those two isotopes in the UF6. Integration of the Tricastin platform was completed in 2013 with the pooling of The centrifugal force concentrates the heaviest particles at the cylinder walls, support functions and the creation of industrial services for the entire site. With this creating isotopic separation. The gas enriched in the lighter isotope, located closer integration, AREVA will reap the beneﬁts of bringing together on a single platform all to the center of the bowl, ﬂows towards the top of the machine, while the gas with of the operations related to the transformation of uranium, such as UF6 shipments the heavier isotope ﬂows towards the bottom. The enriched and depleted products between the diﬀerent plants, at a lower cost and under better safety conditions. The are recovered at either end of the machine. personnel employed in the facilities are certiﬁed for the use of hazardous chemicals and for the special aspects of uranium work. Conversion of depleted uranium hexaﬂuoride into an oxide Uranium enrichment generates uranium hexafluoride (UF6) depleted in the uranium-235 isotope. This depleted uranium is converted into a stable, insoluble, non-corrosive uranium oxide that can be safely stored pending reuse, either in its depleted state or after a new enrichment stage. Very few deﬂuorination facilities in the world are able to convert depleted uranium hexaﬂuoride into an oxide on a production scale. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 65 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations AREVA is the majority owner of SET. Six partners own a total of 12% of the CONVERSION PRICES (LONG-TERM AND SPOT) company’s capital (5% held by GDF Suez, 2.5% by Kansai Electric Power together USD / kgU of UF6 with Sojitz, 2.5% by Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co. Ltd, 1% by Kyushu Electric 20 Power and 1% by Tohoku Electric Power), demonstrating our utility customers’ dedication to this major project. 18 AREVA holds a 50% interest in the Enrichment Technology Company (ETC) 16 alongside Urenco. ETC manufactures the centrifuges used for uranium enrichment. 14 Relations with customers and suppliers 12 10 Customers 8 In 2015, AREVA made deliveries to more than 35 customers across the globe, mostly in Europe, Asia and the United States. The number and volume of transactions 6 remained stable in relation to 2014, but the transaction volume is distinctly lower 4 than pre-Fukushima volumes, taking into account the already high level of coverage of utility requirements. 2 The enrichment market is structured around multiyear commitments. The backlog 0 for enrichment operations represents more than 40 utility customers, primarily in 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 15 n. n. n. n. n. n. n. n. n. n. n. c. the United States, Europe and Asia, corresponding to the supply of an average of Ja Ja Ja Ja Ja Ja Ja Ja Ja Ja Ja De about 60 reactors worldwide each year. CV EU Spot CV NA Spot Suppliers CV EU LT CV NA LT The risk of supply interruptions for the chemical reagents needed for its production operations is minimized by contracting with suppliers based in Europe and in the Source: UxC. rest of the world. COMPETITIVE POSITION IN CONVERSION Market and competitive position With nominal production capacity of 14,000 metric tons of UF6 in 2015, AREVA is a major global player in conversion services. Its main competitors are TVEL in CONVERSION MARKET Russia, Converdyn in the United States and Cameco in Canada. The State-owned Annual global demand for conversion in 2015 is estimated at about 58,400 metric China National Nuclear Corporation (CNNC) still has limited capacity, but strong tons of natural UF6, including 18,800 metric tons in Western and Central Europe growth potential for the future. (Euratom area), 6,800 metric tons in Russia and Eastern Europe, 18,000 metric tons in North America, and 13,200 metric tons in Asia. China’s conversion requirements The current capacities of AREVA’s competitors are thus estimated as follows: are rising quickly, largely contributing to the growth in global demand for these p 12,500 metric tons for TVEL; services. According to the World Nuclear Association (WNA), Chinese demand p 15,000 metric tons for Converdyn; for UF6 will be around 11,400 metric tons in 2020 (Source: 2015 WNA Report, Reference Scenario). p 12,500 metric tons for Cameco; and p 4,000 metric tons for CNNC. The market has seen a recent decrease due to surplus capacity in the conversion market, but the gap between spot and long-term indicators reﬂects the perception of It should be noted, however, that most of the plants do not operate at their nominal a weak long-term conversion market linked to the need to replace aging production capacity. The plants in the Western countries have operated at an average of 60% of plants. their nominal capacity over the past 10 years, mainly due to outages for maintenance and safety upgrades. AREVA’s production was close to 90% of its nominal capacity during that same period. 66 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations 06 ENRICHMENT MARKET SPOT AND LONG-TERM SWU PRICES FROM 2005 TO 2015 Global annual demand for enrichment is estimated at more than 47.3 million SWU (IN CURRENT US DOLLARS) in 2015 (source: WNA 2015). Market growth will remain limited in volume, but will USD also be relatively steady, essentially driven by Asia, where nuclear power programs 180 are growing faster than in the other three major regions of the world. 160 The Fukushima accident triggered a drop in spot market indicators due to reduced demand in Japan and Germany and a drop in long-term indicators, particularly until 140 Japan announces the restart of its reactors. 120 The market is traditionally regulated by geopolitical considerations, but they have less and less impact. In Europe, the Euratom Supply Agency monitors the supply 100 of uranium and enrichment services within the framework of the Corfu Declaration. 80 In the United States, since the US Congress amended the Suspension Agreement in 2008, the Russian supplier Rosatom is allowed to supply up to 20% of the US 60 utilities’ requirements starting in 2014 and concluded several contracts with these 40 customers. However, Rosatom’s competitors are still unable to access the Russian uranium 20 enrichment market. 0 COMPETITIVE POSITION IN ENRICHMENT Ja n. 05 n. Ja 06 n. Ja 07 n. Ja 08 n. Ja 09 n. Ja 10 n. Ja 11 n. Ja 12 n. Ja 13 n. Ja 14 n. Ja 15 c. De 15 Estimated installed Spot SWU LT SWU Operator capacity Process Source: UxC. Georges Besse II (France) 7.4 million SWU/year Centrifugation Rosatom (Russia) 26.0 million SWU/year Centrifugation Outlook and development goals Urenco (UK, Germany, One of the strategic objectives for the Chemistry-Enrichment operations is to bolster Netherlands, USA) 18.9 million SWU/year Centrifugation AREVA’s position as a major player in the global uranium conversion market. It will CNNC (China) 5.1 million SWU/year Centrifugation continue to beneﬁt from the integration of the group’s Front End operations and Other (Japan, Brazil) 0.6 million SWU/year Centrifugation its physical proximity to Europe’s enrichment plants. TOTAL (2015) 58.0 MILLION SWU/YEAR To achieve this goal, AREVA decided in 2007 to replace its uranium conversion Source: AREVA estimates based on available data. production capabilities by investing in a new conversion plant at the Malvési and Tricastin sites; known as the Comurhex II project, both sites are concerned. AREVA, Urenco and Rosatom are the leading players in the enrichment market. The new plant will have a full production capacity of 15,000 metric tons, with The Georges Besse II plant achieved 7.4 million SWUs per year of installed capacity the possibility of increasing capacity later to 21,000 metric tons if, and only if, at the end of 2015 and is now close to its nominal capacity of 7.5 million SWUs, market conditions permit. At this point, Comurhex II is the only new conversion which will be reached in 2016. plant project to be launched in the world. It will replace the existing capacity of On September 30, 2014, the US bankruptcy court approved the reorganization Comurhex I. The Comurhex II plant is designed to oﬀer maximum security of supply plan of Usec Inc., which has been operating under the name of Centrus Energy to our customers. In addition, it meets the most recent safety standards, particularly Corp. since the fourth quarter of 2014. While Centrus is still a market player, no in terms of its ability to withstand earthquakes and ﬂooding. Comurhex II also direct production is planned before the construction of the American Centrifuge received triple ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certiﬁcation. Recently, the Plant (ACP), but recent budget reductions and construction schedule forecasts plant demonstrated its energy eﬃciency innovations when it received ISO 50001 conﬁrm delays until at least 2020. Urenco, whose shareholders are German, British certiﬁcation for an electrolysis facility used to heat the buildings. and Dutch, announced that its installed capacity in Europe and the United States With Comurhex II, the environmental footprint will decrease considerably: reached 18.9 million SWU per year in 2015. p 75% reduction in ammonia eﬄuents, 50% reduction in nitric acid and ﬂuorine, In former USSR countries, for historical reasons, demand is chieﬂy met by Rosatom, and 60% reduction in potassium hydroxide, thanks to the Isoﬂash process; whose enrichment plants are split among four combines: Angarsk, Zelenogorsk, 90% reduction in the annual consumption of water. p Seversk and Novouralsk. All of these plants use centrifugation technology. In 2015, the Comurhex II project continued after reaching major milestones in 2014: GE-Hitachi has drastically reduced ﬁnancing for its laser enrichment project. p at the Malvési site, new drum emptying, dissolution and concentration facilities entered production, and qualiﬁcation continued of UF4 produced with the new thermal denitration process, which will replace chemical denitration; p at the Tricastin site, construction continued on utilities and the functions of ﬂuorination and eﬄuent treatment. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 67 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations In 2015, the nuclear safety authority ASN approved AREVA’s request to extend the PRINCIPAL STAGES IN LIGHT WATER REACTOR FUEL ASSEMBLY operation of the Comurhex I production plant until the end of 2017. This will reduce FABRICATION the duration of the non-production phase, with integrated startup of Comurhex II at both sites slated for the end of 2018. Enriched UF6 Fuel The backlog in the enrichment business oﬀers more than 10 years of visibility. Given Pellets Cladding Rod fabrication assembly Reconversion the known operating period of current reactors, the conversion and enrichment of enriched markets should see a growth in volume. The sharp upturn in demand in Asia should UF6 into UO2 largely oﬀset a decline in demand in Europe. Upper rod assembly For the coming years, the goal of the Enrichment business is to successfully ramp Rods up production at the Georges Besse II plant in order to reach full production capacity Top nozzle in 2016, and to strengthen the proﬁtability of the investments made with operational Skeleton and commercial levers. Guide thimble Components Mixing grid 6.4.2.2. FUEL Fuel rod To optimize the opportunities for synergy available in the French nuclear industry, Guide Grids Nozzles Bottom nozzle and in application of IFRS 5, the Fuel operations of the Front End Business Group thimbles were classiﬁed as “operations held for sale” belonging to AREVA NP. Source: AREVA, PWR reactor system. Businesses Reactor safety is a function of several requirements: The Fuel business designs, fabricates and markets fuel assemblies and provides p containment, in the nuclear safety sense, of radioactive products under both fuel-related services for power generating stations with light water reactors normal and accidental operating conditions; (commonly called PWR for pressurized water reactors and BWR for boiling water p control of the chain reaction; and reactors). In addition to conventional enriched natural uranium oxide fuel (UO2), the Fuel business markets MOX fuel (a mixture of uranium and plutonium oxides) and p cooling of the reactor core. enriched recycled uranium fuel (ERU – see Glossary) containing ﬁssile materials Fuel assemblies contribute to reactor safety by sealing fissile materials and from the used fuel recycling process. The Back End Business Group’s Recycling radioactive ﬁssion products inside zirconium alloy cladding, which forms the primary Operations department fabricates the MOX fuel (see Section 6.4.4. Back End containment barrier. Business Group). Once unloaded from the reactor, the fuel assembly must continue to provide containment for the ﬁssile materials and ﬁssion products, allow for residual heat dissipation and fuel handling, even after having been stored for relatively long periods, and allow for treatment when the closed fuel cycle has been chosen. The number of assemblies periodically replaced simultaneously (every 12 to 24 months) constitutes a fuel reload. The Fuel business has expertise in every aspect of the fuel design and fabrication process, from the production of zirconium and its alloys to fabrication of the ﬁnal fuel assembly. A large number of high-level scientiﬁc and technical skills must be brought together to achieve ﬂawless design and fabrication quality, an absolute requirement. The Fuel business has three major areas of expertise: p fuel design: This brings into play neutronic, thermohydraulic and mechanical design codes and databases built on lessons learned from many years of reactor operations. Fuel designs are referenced in reactor operating license applications, making the fuel designer one of the utility’s most important partners in its relations with its national or local safety authority; p zirconium and zirconium alloy production: This draws on expertise in chemical and metallurgical processes and technologies; p fuel assembly fabrication: This requires knowledge of chemistry, powder metallurgy, various assembly techniques, including advanced welding, mechanical systems and machining, and numerous methods for non-destructive examination and physico-chemical analyses. The Fuel business also manufactures zirconium-based products and semi-ﬁnished products which may be sold to some competing fuel assembly fabricators. In addition, the Fuel business markets fuel-related engineering services, fabrication services and onsite fuel-related services. 68 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations 06 Operations and highlights p satisfactory fuel performance in the reactor at nominal power; Production plant streamlining and performance improvement continues. p compatibility with fuel assemblies already in the reactor, recognizing that the reactor core is refueled in sections; and In the United States, the operational excellence program is being ﬁnalized for the Richland site’s pelleting operations. p fuel transportability and the ability to store the fuel safely after irradiation. In Europe, the ﬁnal MOX fuel assembly fabrication campaign was carried out at Suppliers the Dessel site; meanwhile, demolition of the ﬁrst nuclear building took place as part of the site dismantling program. The Lingen site in Germany submitted its After declining slightly in 2013, the market for zircon sand and zirconium dioxide periodic safety reassessment report and is pursuing an optimization plan aimed (the base material for the extraction of zirconium metal in the Jarrie plant) remained at strengthening its competitiveness. At the Romans plant in France, repairs of the stable in 2014 and 2015, at the lower threshold of proﬁtability for the market. Most eﬄuent treatment station were ﬁnished and work began on the construction of the of the zirconium dioxide supplies (approximately 75%) are secured under multinew crisis command center in connection with the plant’s safety commitments. year contracts. Concerning the zirconium operations, a transformation plan was launched to The price of nickel, a component of inconel alloys, fell in the ﬁrst part of the year improve overall performance. In addition, the CAST joint venture in China with compared with 2014; the drop was sharper in the second half-year due to the SGTC (a subsidiary of the Chinese nuclear group CNNC) performed its ﬁrst cladding slowdown in China’s metal consumption. The price of carbon black lost ground tube deliveries to CJNF, a subsidiary of CNNC, in China. in 2015, in the wake of oil prices, to which it is pegged. The group’s supplies of other key components and materials – such as magnesium Manufacturing and human resources and niobium or the components needed to manufacture rod cluster control The Fuel business is structured into three entities, with facilities in Europe and the assemblies (plate cutting, silver-indium-cadmium bars) and stainless steel tubing – United States: are secured with annual and multi-annual contracts. p a Business Line which combines the Products & Technology, Fuel Design, The price of electricity was signiﬁcantly secured in 2015 with the establishment Contracts and Services organizations, and which also includes the development of a ﬁve-year group agreement. Prices for industrial gases, including nitrogen and of fuel-related service proposals and the supply chain; hydrogen, were up slightly in 2015. Nitrogen prices and requirements have been a department of Components operations, which includes all of the zirconium hedged. There is no longer any scarcity in the helium market (as was observed p products manufacturing processes, from zircon ore to ﬁnished products. It has in 2014); the price for helium was secured in 2015 through a group contract. ﬁve plants in France, each specialized in one aspect of zirconium metallurgy or The subcontractor expense for grid plate cutting is stabilized over the 2015 to 2017 forming, as well as a grid manufacturing plant in Germany and two joint ventures, period, whereas there is a downward trend for control rod drive mechanism one in Japan and the other in China; components. p a Fuel operations department organized into six production sites, one in the United States and ﬁve in Europe, which mainly supply US and European utilities. Market and competitive position In Japan, a joint-venture production site serves the Japanese market. The Fuel business’s target market is that of fuel assemblies for light water reactors (LWR). These reactors represent most of the world’s operating reactors and are Relations with customers and suppliers divided into two groups: pressurized water reactors (PWR) and boiling water reactors (BWR). Customers Approximately 79% of the requirements for light water reactors (excluding VVERs) Sales contracts are generally signed for multiple years and for one or more reactors are supplied mainly by AREVA, Toshiba-Westinghouse (1) and Global Nuclear Fuel of the same utility. These contracts may include services such as shipping and (GNF) (2). As of the end of 2015, AREVA had supplied a total of 224,898 assemblies. handling, technical support for fuel loading and unloading operations, fuel The Fuel business remains number one in Europe despite the closure of the German inspection during scheduled outages, and even in-core repair of defective fuel rods reactors, most of which it served, and it is the leading challenger in the US market. or assemblies at the utility’s reactor site. Given their importance for the customer’s It is also a long-standing technology partner of key nuclear companies in China. operations, the contracts normally include warranties. These warranties are provided It should be noted that AREVA does not serve the VVER fuel segment, for which for: TVEL remains the majority supplier. p fuel integrity under all normal operating conditions and up to the contractual burnup (see Glossary); (1) Toshiba-Westinghouse, including NFI and the share of fuel subcontracted to Enusa in France. (2) GNF including GNF-A (USA), GNF-J (Japan) and the share of fuel subcontracted to Genusa in Europe. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 69 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations MARKET SHARE OF LIGHT WATER REACTOR FUEL SUPPLIERS, Outlook and development goals EXCLUDING VVER REACTORS, IN 2015 The principal objective of the Fuel business is to ensure fuel reliability. Beyond this major requirement, the Fuel business is pursuing eﬀorts to improve its operating 11% performance, whether in design and fabrication or in terms of nuclear safety, Others industrial safety and environmental impacts, with excellence as its objective. 10% In keeping with its technology orientation, innovation is key to the Fuel’s business’s GNF 36% Westinghousedevelopment. For example, the lead assemblies of ATRIUM™11 next-generation Toshiba fuel (BWR) were loaded in 2015 in Duke’s Brunswick reactor and TVA’s Browns Ferry reactor, while GAIA (PWR) fuel was loaded in Duke’s Harris reactor in the United States, supported by six major US utilities – Duke, Dominion, Exelon, Fenoc, 13% PSEG and Southern Company – through a Technical Advisory Board created for CNNC the deployment of this new generation of fuel design. In China, AREVA is building on more than 20 years of cooperation to pursue its development, directly or through joint ventures. In 2015, development projects were actively pursued with Chinese players in the Front End. 30% AREVA The streamlining of its production plants and the development of partnerships in Asia, and the deployment of a new generation of products combined with a very Source: NAC (Fuel Trac, 2015 edition); average data for 2015 +/1 year, based on the fresh fuel loaded in the comprehensive range of fuel services will enable the Fuel business to optimize reactors each year. its position in an evolving market and to secure its market share by expanding its Considering that a number of the world’s power plants were taken oﬄine or shut commercial positions in all regions. down (in Japan, Germany and the United States), and despite the growth of nuclear power in China, the fuel market remained stable at less than 6,500 metric tons of heavy metal (uranium or plutonium contained in the fuel assemblies) and at approximately 6,000 metric tons excluding the VVERs. There will be no noticeable increase in fuel demand until a suﬃcient number of new power plants have been commissioned. 6.4.3. REACTORS & SERVICES BUSINESS GROUP To optimize the opportunities for synergy available in the French nuclear industry, p the Propulsion and Research Reactors Business Division: nuclear for defense and in application of IFRS 5, the Large Projects, Installed Base, Manufacturing, and civilian applications; and Products and Technology activities of the Reactors & Services Business p the Nuclear Measurements Business Division: design and manufacturing of Group were classiﬁed as “operations held for sale” belonging to AREVA NP. The radioactivity detection and measurement systems; Nuclear Measurements and Propulsion and Research Reactors activities, for which p the Manufacturing Business Division: manufacturing of components of the discussions are in progress, are also classiﬁed in the “operations held for sale” nuclear steam supply system and of nuclear safety instrumentation and control category. systems; p the Products and Technology Business Division: conceptual designs, R&D, OVERVIEW product certiﬁcation and management, design authority and licensing. The Reactors & Services Business Group designs and builds the two leading reactor In terms of installed capacity, AREVA supplied a signiﬁcant share of the global technologies currently used around the world to produce electricity – pressurized ﬂeet of pressurized water reactors (PWR). PWRs represent nearly two-thirds of the water reactors (PWR) and boiling water reactors (BWR) – as well as naval propulsion world’s nuclear generating capacity. Reactors designed by AREVA are located in and research reactors. It also oﬀers products and services for the modernization, key regions of the world: Western Europe, South America, China, South Korea and inspection and servicing of all types of nuclear reactors. South Africa. Its main competitors are Toshiba-Westinghouse, General Electric, KHNP of South Korea, and Rosatom of Russia in the new builds ﬁeld, and Mitsubishi The activities of the Reactors & Services Business Group are organized into proﬁt Heavy Industries, the General Electric and Hitachi team, and Toshiba-Westinghouse centers (business divisions), cost centers (operations divisions) and horizontal in the installed base ﬁeld. operating functions: The group’s German teams also have solid experience in boiling water reactors p the Large Projects Business Division: management and execution of large (BWR), for which General Electric is the global leader. The use of BWRs is more nuclear reactor projects; limited than that of PWRs. BWR power plants are in service in the United States, p the Installed Base Business Division: solutions and services for existing and Germany, Northern Europe, Spain and Switzerland in particular. future nuclear reactor ﬂeets; 70 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations 06 STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK p continuously improve the competitiveness of new reactor projects in terms of both costs and schedule, particularly by optimizing execution planning. The Reactors & Services Business Group’s objective is to assert itself as one of the world’s leading nuclear companies by aiming for long-term profitable growth founded on the complementarity between a strong installed base and the OPERATIONS AND HIGHLIGHTS construction of new power plants, and on performance in project execution. To achieve this objective, the Reactors & Services Business Group draws on its Reactors under construction construction projects in Finland, France and China. AREVA is currently building China the world’s ﬁrst generation III reactors, where its advance positions it favorably on all markets, in particular in the United Kingdom, where the group is already In 2015, the Taishan construction project met important milestones and entered engaged in detailed discussions for the construction of two EPR reactors at the the testing phase. Hinkley Point site. All of the documentation needed for testing prior to fuel loading was submitted to The United States is also important for the Reactors & Services Business Group’s the customer TNPJVC in March 2015. growth, as it remains the world’s largest installed base despite the nuclear market This year, unit 1 focused on planning and on launching preliminary tests: slowdown. AREVA has conquered considerable market share in that country, both in maintenance services to the installed base and in engineering services. p the main control room was ﬁnalized for commissioning; p numerous systems tests were conducted, including the backup diesel generator In Asia, which continues to have the highest business growth potential, AREVA and the reactor pumps; is concentrating its commercial eﬀorts on China, Japan, South Korea and India. p the ﬁrst overall tests were carried out successfully and a major milestone was The group has been in China for more than 25 years, where it is building the ﬁrst two met in September (“nuclear circuit cleaning” operation), the last milestone before EPR nuclear islands at Taishan in Guangdong Province after winning the contract undertaking “cold tests” at the end of the year. at the end of 2007. In India, AREVA signed major framework agreements at the end of 2010 concerning the construction of two EPR reactors. Installation of electro-mechanical systems in unit 2 continued at a brisk pace: To achieve its development and performance goals, the Reactors & Services p all of the steam generators were introduced into the building; Business Group is pursuing ﬁve major strategic lines of action: p the primary cooling loop was completed. p secure the proﬁtability of the Large Projects business; Finland p increase the proﬁtability of the services activities and be a major player in EDF’s “Grand Carénage” program; The project met major milestones in 2015: p develop innovative, diﬀerentiating solutions; p the instrumentation and control system tests progressed according to schedule, enabling STUK to validate tests performed on the TXP cabinets (operational p reinforce AREVA’s industrial footprint in China; platform), thus giving the green light for their complete transfer to the site in p respond to the utilities’ heightened sensitivity to prices by being competitive. August 2015, three weeks ahead of schedule; At the same time, it is paving the way for the reactors of the future by participating p delivery of the TXP cabinets to the site allowed wiring work to be deployed, in international research and development programs on generation IV fast neutron including cabinet connection. Once this work has been completed by the reactors and high temperature reactors (see Section 11.1.4. Future directions in construction teams, in situ testing of the instrumentation and control system will technology), for which the group has a strong base of expertise from past eﬀorts start at the beginning of 2016. in France, the United States and Germany. France 6.4.3.1. LARGE PROJECTS Work continues at the Flamanville 3 EPR reactor: p installation of the primary coolant system moved forward considerably with the Businesses introduction of the last three steam generators. It is planned to complete the The missions of the Large Projects Business Division are to: primary coolant system at the beginning of 2016; p in September, the Flamanville 3 teams started introducing the vessel internals p submit structured, comprehensive oﬀers for reactor projects in support of the into the reactor building; Marketing and Sales teams; p the pace of auxiliary system installation rose sharply in 2015; p carry out construction projects by assuming responsibility for executing reactor projects, i.e., engineering, procurement, construction and commissioning; p the last safety instrumentation and control system cabinets were delivered in June 2015; their installation and connection are in progress in order to transfer p manage purchasing and procurement for the construction projects; the systems to testing. p provide project services (standard project schedule, project management oﬃce, In September 2015, EDF announced the optimization of the management of the cost estimating, contract management, risks and opportunities, industrial and Flamanville 3 EPR project as well as a new master schedule. operational plan) to the proposal and project teams; and 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 71 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations Brazil plan for a possible call for tenders and attended diﬀerent seminars, for which they signed a “Statement of Participation”. In June, AREVA decided to temporarily reduce its activities on the Angra 3 nuclear reactor of Eletrobrás Eletronuclear (ETN), located in the Brazilian state of Rio de United Kingdom Janeiro. The agreement signed by AREVA and ETN in 2013 covers the supply of engineering services and components, in addition to the reactor’s instrumentation EDF and CGN signed a Strategic Investment Agreement for the construction and and control system. operation of two EPR reactors for the Hinkley Point C power plant in Somerset, in southwestern England. This temporary reduction is due to a delay in the ﬁnancing of the remainder of the activities to be carried out to complete the project. AREVA will resume all of Under this agreement, EDF will have a 66.5% interest in Hinkley Point C and CGN its project-related activities as soon as ETN has ﬁrmed up a long-term ﬁnancing will have a 33.5% interest. EDF is contemplating involving other investors in the solution. project in due course, although its initial interest will not fall below 50%. AREVA submitted an oﬀer for its contribution to the project. The draft contract is New Build projects being ﬁnalized in parallel with the conduct of engineering activities under a precontractual agreement. South Africa The South African government plans to build 9,600 MWe of nuclear generating Turkey capacity by 2030. The ﬁrst unit is expected to be operational in 2023. In March, in connection with the project to build the new Atmea1 reactor, the AREVA is preparing its application to respond to the call for tenders which could be President of Turkey and the Turkish parliament ratiﬁed the intergovernmental issued in 2016. AREVA will participate as a member of the French team. The South agreement signed with Japan in 2013 and the agreement between the Turkish African government is supposed to send the call for tenders to the governments of government and the Turkish-French-Japanese consortium (EUAS, Engie, Itochu countries whose technology corresponds to South Africa’s requirements. and MHI) forming the Project Company. PJCO and the Engineering, Procurement and Construction Team (EPC), including Saudi Arabia MHI and AREVA, started a feasibility study to assess the adequacy of the proposed Saudi Arabia plans to build several sets of reactors for generating capacity of construction site and is also working on planning and analysis of the project’s 17.6 GWe by 2040. In June of 2015, the Ministry of Foreign Aﬀairs and the King ﬁnancial and contractual framework. Abdullah City for Atomic and Renewable Energy (K.A.CARE) signed a letter of intent to launch a feasibility study for the construction of two EPR reactors in Saudi Arabia. Manufacturing and human resources The next stage will be to create a regulatory authority and a legal framework for the The Large Projects Business Division’s teams are located in France, Germany, construction and operation of nuclear reactors in Saudi Arabia, with the cooperation Finland, China and Brazil. of the Finnish nuclear safety authority STUK, which has been appointed to provide support to K.A.CARE. Relations with customers and suppliers The Large Projects Business Division’s customers are utilities from all over the United States world, including both well-established companies and newcomers to the market. AREVA informed the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) in February of its The entity offers reactor solutions that are synergistic with the group’s other decision to suspend the review of the request for certiﬁcation and for a license to businesses, such as the Manufacturing and Installed Base Business Divisions. design the EPR reactor. It also works closely with the Mining, Front End and Back End Business Groups. Finland Market and competitive position TVO decided not to ﬁle a construction license request for Olkiluoto 4. The Finnish Projects for the construction of generation III reactors designed by AREVA are government’s decision in principle, approved by the Parliament, expired at the currently among the most advanced in the world. Its competitors are Westinghouse/ end of June 2015. Toshiba, General Electric of the United States, Hitachi of Japan, Mitsubishi of Japan, FAAE of Russia, AECL of Canada, KHNP of South Korea and Rosatom of Russia. India Despite a slowdown due to the Fukushima accident, reactor construction is still In 2015, AREVA signed a contract with NPCIL for pre-engineering studies on the a market with substantial growth prospects (see Section 6.1.2 for a discussion of Jaitapur EPR project and a contract with the engineering company Larsen & Toubro nuclear power markets). to examine areas for cooperation in connection with the project. The objective is to continue preparations for certiﬁcation of the EPR reactor in India by the Indian Outlook and development goals safety authority and to ﬁnalize the project’s ﬁnancial and economic conditions in In addition to these activities, and with the objective of always oﬀering high-quality particular as well as its technical speciﬁcations. services and assistance, the entity set up a program to optimize and improve the EPR reactor’s competitiveness. This program, established jointly by AREVA and Poland EDF and endowed with shared resources, illustrates the Large Projects Business Poland wishes to include nuclear power in its energy mix and is considering the Division’s decision to bring together under a single leadership all optimization installation of 6 GWe of nuclear generating capacity by 2035. The technology activities undertaken by the two groups since 2008 to harvest operating experience could be selected in 2018. and evolve the concept to reduce costs and secure project execution. A new government was formed in Poland in October 2015. PGE started the environmental impact study process in November. AREVA worked with EDF to 72 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations 06 6.4.3.2. INSTALLED BASE Safety Alliance program In 2015, the group won a series of supply contracts for passive autocatalytic Businesses recombiners and ﬁltered containment venting systems for China, Spain and South The Installed Based Business Division oﬀers: Korea. These new contracts will help maintain the group’s position as a major player products and services to maintain, upgrade and extend the operating period in the worldwide market. p of reactors in service; Manufacturing and human resources p solutions and products for the installation and commissioning of new reactors; For historical reasons, the Installed Base Business Division’s teams are located p equipment, including heavy components, mobile components, and large forgings mostly in France, the United States and Germany, but also in China, Sweden, Spain, and castings. Canada, Slovakia, South Africa and elsewhere. These decentralized units are staﬀed The Installed Base Business Division’s portfolio of solutions and services is with highly qualiﬁed specialists and oﬀer personalized, localized service to their designed to improve facility availability and productivity while reinforcing reactor customers to help them comply with national regulations. safety conditions. In addition, the Business Division has workshops in Europe and the United States for oﬀsite maintenance, to develop its equipment and to store its tools, as well as three Operations and highlights facilities dedicated to personnel training and instruction, one in France co-owned by Key highlights of 2015 include the following: the EDF group and AREVA (Cetic), one in Germany, and one in the United States. Germany Relations with customers and suppliers AREVA won a contract to perform scheduled unit outage services at the nuclear power plants of Isar 2, Brokdorf and Grohnde in Germany. Customers Customers include power companies on ﬁve continents – Europe, North America, United States South America, Asia and Africa – where the Installed Base Business Division AREVA won a contract valued at several million dollars to manufacture and deliver maintains and modernizes more than 250 reactors. a replacement vessel head to a US utility. As part of the contract, AREVA will also Changes in the energy environment, the pressures of deregulation and the supply control rod drive mechanisms. consequences of the Fukushima accident all weigh on the utilities’ proﬁtability. AREVA won a contract for unit outage and maintenance services for ﬁve nuclear Their objective is to optimize their costs and increase the operating period of their power plants in the United States representing several tens of millions of dollars power plants while ensuring an optimum level of safety. over three years. Suppliers AREVA developed a major innovation allowing US nuclear power plant operating periods to be extended. This process, called cavitation peening, will be used for the Orders to suppliers represent a large share of the Installed Base’s cost structure. very ﬁrst time in the vessels of the Byron and Braidwood reactors. They concern: AREVA signed several contracts with US utilities for strategic cybersecurity p subcontracted labor for scheduled unit outages and design activities; engineering services and expertise. These services will enable the group’s p the supply of products or equipment such as instrumentation and control systems customers to improve the digital protection systems of their nuclear power plants or parts and tooling to replace steam generators in the framework of component replacement or power plant modernization activities. France Market and competitive position In the summer of 2015, the group completed the replacement of three steam generators for unit 3 of the Blayais power plant operated by EDF. The reactor was As part of its services to the installed base, AREVA brings solutions for all types of connected to the grid on September 5. reactor technologies, whether: In August, AREVA completed the delivery of the four steam generators for unit 2 of p PWRs, including Russian-designed VVERs; the Paluel nuclear power plant for its customer EDF as part of the “Grand Carénage” p BWRs; (major retroﬁts) program. p CANDU pressurized heavy water reactors (CANada Deuterium Uranium). AREVA is adapting its capacities to “Grand Carénage” challenges. In this regard, Outages are scheduled for these reactors every 12 to 24 months for fuel reloading, the group inaugurated the extension of the Tooling Decontamination and Servicing for servicing and maintenance, and sometimes to replace heavy components or Center (CEDOS) in Sully-sur-Loire. install capital items to improve their performance and extend their operating period while ensuring a maximum level of safety. Sweden The market is led in particular by activities related to power plant aging, such as Our customer OKG ended the project to modernize unit 2 of Oskarshamn, leading upgrades to prolong the operating period of power plants, engineering work, and to the demobilization of AREVA’s teams. This decision puts an end to a complex programs to enhance safety. project which had an unfavorable impact on the group’s ﬁnancial statements. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 73 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations More generally, in services to the installed base, AREVA and Toshiba-Westinghouse Engineering of nuclear facilities and major scientiﬁc research are the two major players, followed by the team of General Electric and Hitachi of instruments for complex facilities (research reactors, scientiﬁc Japan, and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (MHI) of Japan. research facilities and industrial facilities) Other large local companies may be present at the regional level, such as KPS The Propulsion and Research Reactors Business Division oﬀers engineering in South Korea, SNC Lavalin in Canada, Tecnatom in Spain and numerous other solutions for the design, construction and commissioning of complex facilities to specialized companies in every country with nuclear power plants, in particular customers in the defense and civilian nuclear industries. the subsidiaries of utilities in China for example. In some segments – most notably For example: non-destructive examination and general maintenance – the competition is rising, particularly in Europe and the United States. At the global level, services to nuclear p its teams can take charge of the engineering and construction of a research power plants represent an increasingly competitive market. reactor; The nuclear equipment market is divided into two segments: the component p the Business Division is also responsible for the supply of certain equipment maintenance and replacement market, and the new builds market. related to the construction of the Mégajoule Laser in Bordeaux and now provides support to the teams assisting the CEA as prime contractor; Outlook and development goals p it plans to be charged with the design of the small modular reactor (SMR) as Like the global energy market, the Installed Base Business Division’s outlook part of a new Franco-British consortium steered by EDF. remains relatively stable, but mixed: while growth is shaping up in China, it remains a challenge in other countries. However, operators want to continue to operate Fabrication and sale of research reactor fuel and medical their reactor ﬂeets, particularly in the United States, in France with EDF’s “Grand targets Carénage” program and in the United Kingdom. CERCA’s operations mainly involve the fabrication and sale of fuel elements for To increase business volume, the Installed Base Business Division is pursuing a research reactors and of fuel targets made with enriched uranium. The molybdenum strategy of localization beyond its traditional domestic markets (France, Germany extracted after the irradiation of certain targets is used for medical applications. and the United States), with a particular focus on Asia, Central Europe, Eastern Europe and South Africa. At the same time, AREVA’s Installed Based continues to Design of electronics and instrumentation and control systems perfect its work tools and raise productivity. The Propulsion and Research Reactors Business Division oﬀers high-tech electronics and instrumentation and control systems to customers in the defense, nuclear and aerospace industries through its subsidiaries ELTA and AREVA Expansion. 6.4.3.3. PROPULSION AND RESEARCH REACTORS Operations and highlights Businesses Highlights of 2015 include: Nuclear energy supply systems for naval propulsion Defense nuclear segment: The core business of the Propulsion and Research Reactors Business Division is the p for the Barracuda program: completion of installation of the nuclear steam supply design, manufacturing and maintenance of naval nuclear propulsion reactors for the system block in the ﬁrst submarine of the series (the Suffren) in Cherbourg and French Navy, and the supply of related fuel, services and equipment. This business of the power plant module in the second submarine of the series (the Duguay meets stringent safety, reliability and availability requirements. It is a strategic activity Trouin) in Nantes; for France’s nuclear deterrence. p for operating activities: The market consists of nuclear-powered vessels and related testing and production ○ land-based test reactor (RES): continuation of systems tests with the completion facilities. This market requires mastery of key methodologies and technologies, of hydraulic strength tests of the primary and secondary cooling systems; such as systems architecture, project management, digital safety systems, safety ○ completion of fabrication of the ﬁrst reload for the Charles de Gaulle aircraft analysis, thermohydraulics and neutronics, and integrated logistical support. Nuclear carrier; reactors designed by the Propulsion and Research Reactors team have powered several of the French Navy’s submarines and aircraft carriers during all of the ﬂeet’s Civilian nuclear segment: operating missions for 40 years. p for the Jules Horowitz Reactor program (RJH): The Business Division also meets propulsion-related requirements: control systems, ○ signature of a tripartite agreement between the CEA, AREVA SA and monitoring systems, and acoustic discretion of systems and facilities and their AREVA TA on July 20 establishing rules for continuation of the program components. It has unique experience as a designer and facilities operator for together with an AREVA SA support mechanism to limit the group’s ﬁnancial the CEA. In addition to reactor design and related fuel design and fabrication, the risk from now to the end of the work; Business Division provides support to the operator of onboard reactors in the form ○ completion of eight detailed design reviews, including those relating to the of training, services and maintenance. reﬂector and all mechanisms; p for the EPR reactors: ○ Flamanville 3 and Taishan 1 and 2: delivery to the site of all equipment for the in-containment refueling water system tank (IRWST); 74 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations 06 ○ Hinkley Point C: continuation of early studies of the non-computerized safety In the civilian nuclear ﬁeld, the Business Division’s mission is to develop its operations system (NCSS) and of the engineering of the analogue instrumentation and by capitalizing on its experience and references in design and engineering meeting control system of the Unicorn platform. demanding requirements in terms of safety and availability, focusing on: p the design and construction of low-power reactors and nuclear facilities devoted Manufacturing and human resources to research and medical applications, and the supply of the related fuel; The Propulsion and Research Reactors Business Division has five main p engineering services for power reactor systems and equipment, particularly in manufacturing and engineering locations in France: the ﬁeld of instrumentation and control. p Saclay: support functions and project operations; As part of the refocusing of its activities in the nuclear ﬁeld, the Business Division p Aix-en-Provence: mainly engineering activities; continued its program of divestment of non-nuclear activities by combining p Cadarache: in-service support to and operation of onboard reactors; the electronic equipment design and manufacturing activities for the nuclear Toulouse: electronic equipment design and manufacturing (ELTA and AREVA and transportation market of its subsidiary ELTA in a new organization, AREVA p Expansion subsidiaries); Expansion, with the remaining activities for the aerospace market to be sold outside the group in 2016. p Romans: fabrication of fuel for nuclear research reactors and medical targets (AREVA NP entity). On December 17, consistent with AREVA’s strategy of refocusing on cycle activities, AREVA announced that the group and its shareholders have begun discussions It is also based in the ports of Toulon, Brest and Cherbourg, and near the DCNS on the sale of AREVA TA while preserving the integrity of its operations. Based on Indret in Nantes and the CEA in Bordeaux. the scenario currently being examined, the State would become the direct majority shareholder alongside other existing shareholders interested in this. This proposal is Relations with customers and suppliers in the preliminary stage. It will require dialogue with the social bodies and approval The principal customers of the Propulsion and Research Reactors Business Division by AREVA’s governing bodies and the competition authorities. are: p Defense sector: the CEA, the Direction générale de l’armement (DGA, the French defense procurement agency), and DCNS (French naval defense company); 6.4.3.4. NUCLEAR MEASUREMENTS p Civilian nuclear sector: CEA and the Institut Laue-Langevin (ILL) of France, Businesses ANSTO of Australia, JAEA of Japan, NRG of the Netherlands, SCK-CEN of Belgium, TUM of Germany and NECSA of South Africa. Under the Canberra trademark, the Nuclear Measurements Business Division designs, manufactures and markets equipment and systems to detect and measure The principal suppliers to the Propulsion and Research Reactors Business Division radioactivity for the protection of employees and the general public. Applications are: include industrial nuclear facility monitoring, waste characterization, laboratory p Defense sector: DCNS, AREVA NP, TECHNOPLUS INDUSTRIES, SPX-CLYDE measurements, radiation protection and nuclear safeguards. Its products and full UNION; range of services meet customer requirements for nuclear safety, occupational p Civilian nuclear sector: SEIV, ENDEL-ENGIE, COMEX, SOGETI. safety and monitoring of their customers’ production operations. Market and competitive position Operations and highlights The Propulsion and Research Reactors Business Division operates in the defense The transformation plan led by AREVA calls for the group to refocus on its core market, primarily in naval nuclear propulsion and defense facilities, exclusively in businesses. To this end, AREVA began the process of selling its subsidiary Canberra, France. resulting in the selection of the oﬀer from Mirion-Charterhouse on December 24, 2015. The objective is to ﬁnalize the transaction by the end of 2016. It is also positioned in France and abroad in low-power reactors for research and medical applications, whether for new construction, for services to the installed Manufacturing and human resources base, or for the supply of targets and fuel. The Nuclear Measurements Business Division has ﬁve manufacturing sites in the Its main competitors for its civilian activities are other major constructors such as United States, France, Belgium and Canada, as well as sales oﬃces and service Invap, Rosatom and Kaeri, and technology and systems engineering companies facilities in those same countries as well as in Japan, the United Kingdom, Germany such as Tractebel, Westinghouse, Nukem and Babcock. and Russia. In addition, the entity has a global network of sales agents and service The Propulsion and Research Reactors Business Division also provides power centers. reactor expertise and solutions for AREVA in the energy market. Relations with customers and suppliers Outlook and development goals The Business Division initiated a process to refocus on its nuclear operations, based Customers on a two-pronged model. The Nuclear Measurements Business Division’s traditional customers are In the defense nuclear segment, the Business Division plans to keep its design, divided among a large number of diversiﬁed segments: nuclear fuel fabricators, construction, maintenance, dismantling and fuel supply activities for nuclear nuclear power generators, radiochemical laboratories, environmental monitoring propulsion reactors, as well as its engineering activities for defense facilities, making laboratories, and laboratories of national and international agencies for oversight sure to maintain its expertise at the highest level of excellence. and regulation. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 75 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations Suppliers p AREVA won a contract valued at several million dollars to manufacture and deliver a replacement vessel head and control rod drive mechanisms to a US utility. Canberra buys from local and international suppliers. Depending on the raw materials or the equipment involved, purchase contracts are awarded to regional p For its customer Electrabel, the group ﬁnished the delivery of new reactor vessel or national suppliers, including low-cost countries for standard supplies. heads for unit 3 of the Tihange nuclear power plant and for Doel 4 in Belgium. Market Manufacturing and human resources The group is a major player in the global nuclear measurements market, with a Heavy equipment market share of approximately 20%. The market is estimated at 900 million euros The Creusot plant in France’s Saône-et-Loire department has production capacity per year. for forged and machined parts. Its production resources consist mainly of Outlook and development goals machining facilities and a forge equipped with two presses (9,000 metric tons and 11,300 metric tons). In recent years, capital spending programs have been The Nuclear Measurements Business Division continues to pursue cost control carried out to increase the production capacity of the sites. At the same time, the eﬀorts, improving its competitiveness and its ability to withstand revenue ﬂuctuations. capital spending program deployed at the Industeel steel works (ArcelorMittal group) These eﬀorts aim to provide Canberra with the necessary ﬂexibility to adapt to enabled AREVA’s dedicated supplier to manufacture larger and better quality ingots changes in the Japanese market, which is becoming a market for solutions and in a shorter period of time. services, particularly in the ﬁeld of dismantling. In the medium term, the entity also plans to expand in the radiation monitoring systems ﬁeld, whether for reactor ﬂeet The Chalon/St-Marcel plant near Chalon-sur-Saône, France, is dedicated to the replacements and the United States or for new builds. manufacturing of heavy nuclear equipment. The main building covers a surface area of 39,000 m2 and has a hoisting capacity of 1,000 metric tons. 6.4.3.5. MANUFACTURING Mobile equipment The Jeumont plant (2) in northern France manufactures mobile equipment for the Businesses nuclear island. Established in 1898, it specializes in the design and manufacture The Manufacturing Business Division designs and manufactures mainly: of reactor coolant pump sets and control rod drive mechanisms, as well as the large forgings, castings and machined parts used in the manufacture of replacement parts for this equipment. The Jeumont plant has a reactor coolant p heavy components for the nuclear island and in process industries such as pump set test center in Maubeuge. petrochemicals; AREVA is also present in China through the AREVA Dongfang Joint Venture formed p heavy components: reactor vessels, vessel heads and vessel internals, steam between AREVA and the DEC group to manufacture Jeumont-designed reactor generators, pressurizers and support structures (1), which are the main coolant pump sets for the Chinese market. components required to manufacture a nuclear steam supply system; Instrumentation and control systems p mobile components: reactor coolant pump sets (pump, motor and sealing system) for the primary cooling system and control rod drive mechanisms that The Karlstein plant industrializes and assembles in-core instrumentation systems regulate the functioning of the reactor core; as well as specialized mechanical equipment. It also designs and assembles the valve malfunction prevention system. p nuclear safety instrumentation and control systems (TELEPERM™ XS, in-core instrumentation and monitoring/diagnostic systems). The Erlangen site assembles instrumentation and control system cabinets for the TELEPERM™ XS safety instrumentation and control system. It also develops and Operations and highlights manufactures diagnostic systems and automated control systems. p The Chalon St-Marcel plant performed the hydraulic test of the vessel head for the Flamanville 3 EPR in December 2015. This is an important milestone which Market and competitive position followed the authorization given to AREVA by the nuclear safety authority ASN to implement its supplemental testing program to demonstrate that the FA3 Heavy equipment reactor vessel head and bottom have suﬃcient strength. ASN also authorized the The nuclear forgings market has long been split between Creusot Forge and its continuation of vessel head manufacturing operations (welding of instrumentation leading competitor, the Japanese company Japan Steel Works (JSW), which supply adaptor closures, paneling, thermal insulation, etc.). a large part of the Western world’s demand for forged products. Competition has p AREVA launched a quality improvement initiative at its Creusot, Saint-Marcel increased since 2006, with large capital projects in Germany, Italy, South Korea, and Jeumont equipment manufacturing plants. Detailed procedures and a China and India. schedule have been deﬁned for this action plan and were sent to the nuclear safety authority at the beginning of 2016. (1) Equipment used to support and hold the main components of the primary cooling system. It also reduces the vibration to which the components are subjected during earthquakes or accident conditions. (2) Previously called JSPM. 76 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations 06 The market for heavy components is characterized by substantial international Research and development competition made up of six leading companies: Toshiba-Westinghouse, Doosan, This entity coordinates R&D teams responsible for key technologies and products MHI, Ensa, Mangiarotti (formerly Ansaldo, bought out by Toshiba-Westinghouse) supporting PWR and BWR reactors. It is also responsible for the development and Babcock & Wilcox. The EDF group has also opened up the competition for of new systems and technologies for next-generation reactors, in particular high the manufacture of replacement steam generators. AREVA is able to respond to temperature reactors and fast breeder reactors. customer requirements for all engineering and project management services. In 2015, the preliminary design study for the Astrid reactor nuclear island and AREVA is one of the major players in the French market. instrumentation and control system was ﬁnished as part of the partnership contract signed with the Commissariat à l’énergie atomique et aux énergies alternatives. The Mobile equipment collaboration with Japan decided at the intergovernmental level took the form of The leading competitors in the mobile components market are Toshibathe collaboration of MHI/Mitsubishi Fast Breeder Reactor Systems Inc. (MFBR) in Westinghouse, MHI, Curtis Wright, KSB and Andritz. certain engineering work. An agreement for the next phase involving basic design Power plant operating lifetime extension and optimization of maintenance strategies was signed in late 2015 with the Commissariat à l’énergie atomique. are two important issues for operators, who are becoming more demanding in The key objectives of development activities in Products and Technology, which terms of performance improvement, reliability and maintenance costs for reactor support the Large Projects and Installed Base activities, were as follows: coolant pumps. p upgrade reactor demonstration methods and software used to draw up safety analysis reports, consistent with the latest requirements from the regulatory Instrumentation and control systems authorities. For example, they include neutronic calculations of core power and The leading competitors in the instrumentation and control system market are accident behavior analyses (e.g. loss of coolant). These two speciﬁc topics are Toshiba-Westinghouse, Rolls Royce and GE. illustrated by the development of the Arcadia and Cathare software and methods For safety instrumentation and control system products, the group’s strategy is to in preparation for upcoming large projects such as the EPR NM and the ten-year keep the design and development work in-house and to subcontract a share of inspections of the EDF ﬂeet; the manufacturing work. p development and continuous improvement of reactor components and products, from the vessel and steam generators to a variety of valves. This R&D has made As regards sensitive in-core instrumentation products, the goal is to master the entire progress in incorporating new safety requirements and understanding equipment value chain in order to ensure the overall performance of the systems developed. behavior during its service life (up to 60 years). In particular, programs aimed at excellence in industrial production quality were reinforced, in collaboration with Outlook and development goals the R&D teams of the plants and subcontractors; The Manufacturing Business Division’s primary mission concerns PWRs of all p productivity gains and responsive engineering studies, and value gains for our types. The nuclear equipment market is divided into two segments: the component customers: signiﬁcant progress has been made in reducing certain calculation maintenance and replacement market, and the new builds market. times and in deﬁning new products and services for the installed base (catalogue With the global energy market in a down cycle, workload prospects for the of Value Alliance and Forward Alliance solutions). manufacturing plants are also down, particularly in the Creusot facilities and to a lesser extent in the Jeumont plant. The load forecasts for the Saint-Marcel Design Authority heavy component manufacturing site are being upheld through 2018 with the The entity is the authority when it comes to the Business Group’s products (reactor manufacturing of replacement steam generators for EDF’s 1300 MWe reactors models and products and services oﬀered by the Installed Base Business Division). and prospects for the manufacturing of primary equipment for the Hinkley Point For reactors, it ensures the consistency of the models under construction or EPR in Great Britain. development. For the products and services of the Installed Base Business Division, The production sites’ main challenges are to improve industrial safety, increase it provides independent veriﬁcation of the technical risk assessment. quality levels and achieve productivity gains. The objective remains to deliver primary The Design Authority also works on instrumentation and control system architecture cooling system components for nuclear reactors to the requisite standards of quality, with a horizontal unit to deﬁne instrumentation and control system models and on time and at a competitive cost. recommend a strategy. The Generic Detailed Design (GDD) project for the Atmea1 reactor designed 6.4.3.6. PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGY by AREVA and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, launched in 2012, also falls under the responsibility of the Design Authority. This phase of the design ended in late Businesses April 2015, as planned. It was followed by a post-GDD phase, which ran until the end of 2015, enabling analysis of a few open points. The success of this The Products and Technology Business Division ensures the certiﬁcation (licensing) development illustrates the strong spirit of partnership between the European and and technical performance of its products and supplies advanced products and Japanese teams working on the design. It also points to the leading role that the technologies oﬀering high performance levels. Activities range from monitoring Atmea1 reactor plays in the portfolio of generation III products oﬀered by AREVA, changes in regulations to certiﬁcation, and include identiﬁcation of their impacts as demonstrated by exchanges with the Turkish and Vietnamese authorities for the on reactor design for new builds or for power plants in operation. construction of reactors in those countries. During the ﬁrst half of 2015, Products and Technology coordinated the conceptual design for the EPR NM project. In the second half, the operating division and Septen of EDF served as the joint design authority for the EPR NM project. This function consists of issuing advice and recommendations on the technical conﬁguration of the ERP NM reactor to the EPR NM project manager. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 77 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations Technical Center the RCC-M mechanical construction code) received a positive score from ASN The Technical Center brings a wide range of skills, test facilities and laboratories to and will strengthen the group’s position as a leading “manufacturer”, under the the development and testing of advanced solutions and methods. meaning of the order. The Technical Center’s facilities are located in Erlangen and Karlstein, Germany, Instrumentation and Control Systems and Electrical Products in Le Creusot and Chalon/St-Marcel in France, and in Lynchburg, Virginia in the Working cooperatively with representatives of the Reactors & Services Business United States. Among other missions, the American center tests the resistance of Group’s stakeholders, the Instrumentation and Control and Electrical Products entity equipment to major earthquakes. develops technology-based products in the ﬁeld of electrical systems and nuclear instrumentation and control systems to meet the needs of new builds projects and Certiﬁcation (Licensing) of the installed base. It handles their qualiﬁcation and their long-term operating cycle. This entity is in charge of relations with the nuclear safety regulators. In the French regulatory context, it is also responsible for relations with the French Manufacturing and human resources nuclear safety authority ASN for assessment of pressurized nuclear equipment The technical units are comprised of international teams and have experimental conformity, in accordance with the ESPN order of December 12, 2005. To meet and engineering facilities in France (Paris, Chalon, Le Creusot and Montpellier), ASN requests for justiﬁcations and demonstrations to be provided in connection Germany (Erlangen, Oﬀenbach and Karlstein) and the United States (Lynchburg, with this regulation, AREVA has put in place determining actions to evolve its Charlotte and Cranberry). practices. Internal and external work within the AFCEN association (publisher of 6.4.4. BACK END BUSINESS GROUP KEY FIGURES 3% 0% Asia-Paciﬁc Africa and Middle East 2015 2014 15% North and Revenue* (in millions of euros) 1,593 1,531 South America Operating income (in millions of euros) (184) (495) Workforce at year end** 11,050 11,265** * Contribution to consolidated revenue. 13% Europe ** The workforce was restated to reﬂect the change in the ﬁnancial consolidation (excluding France) scope. 69% 2015 REVENUE BY BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHICAL AREA France 8% Source: AREVA. 16% International projects Nuclear Logistics OVERVIEW The Back End Business Group, which represents 38% of the group’s revenue and whose backlog is discussed in Section 9, oﬀers eﬃcient solutions for the responsible management of nuclear materials, facilities and waste. 20% It is organized into four operating departments: Recycling Operations, Nuclear Dismantling and Services Logistics Operations, Dismantling and Services Operations, and International Operations. 56% Recycling The Back End Business Group’s mission is to: Source: AREVA. p provide recycling solutions and in particular to recycle used fuel for reuse in the reactor; p develop storage systems and organize and supervise the transportation of nuclear materials and waste; p dismantle nuclear facilities at the end of the operating period and oﬀer industrial operator services and services to operating power plants. 78 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations 06 The Business Group is also contributing to the development of recycling around challenge for the future of the nuclear industry. The reversibility of a nuclear site the world by drawing on its unique know-how. The Business Group plays a key is the foundation for the long-term acceptance of nuclear power. Due to the size role in reducing the nuclear industry’s environmental footprint and in increasing and complexity of the facilities to be decontaminated and dismantled, dismantling its public acceptance. and cleanup operations represent major projects requiring the processing of The Back End Business Group’s technology and industrial lead have enabled it to large volumes of concrete and steel, asbestos removal, etc., sometimes in diﬃcult be a major player in markets for the back end of the nuclear cycle and to comply conditions. The feasibility of the operations has been demonstrated by projects with the highest standards of nuclear safety and occupational safety. carried out over the past 15 years around the world. Responsible management of the end of the lifecycle Positioning of activities Power companies can manage their used fuel in one of two ways: The Back End Business Group’s operating departments are organized into three interrelated areas of activity: p recycling: this solution meets the objectives of natural resource conservation and environmental impact limitation. After removal from the reactor and cooling The Recycling business uses processes allowing its customers to recycle used in a storage pool, the fuel is treated to recover materials that still have energy fuel into fresh fuel and to package ﬁnal waste in standardized containers in a safe potential in order to fabricate fresh fuel. Uranium and plutonium, which represent and stable manner. 95 to 96% of the materials contained in the used fuel, are thus recycled into new The Nuclear Logistics business designs and manufactures casks and other fuels called MOX (fuel containing a mixture of uranium and plutonium oxides) specialized equipment for the transportation and/or storage of nuclear materials and ERU (enriched recycled uranium fuel). Final waste, which represents 4 to and waste from the front end and back end of the cycle, and of sources used for 5% of the materials, is incorporated into glass and packaged for safe and stable scientiﬁc purposes. It also oﬀers solutions to organize and carry out shipments disposal in a geologic repository. Countries such as France, the Netherlands, of nuclear materials and waste and, as needed, manages the related equipment. Russia, China and Japan have opted to recycle their used fuel; The Dismantling and Services business oﬀers comprehensive nuclear services p direct disposal: the used fuel is stored temporarily in pools or at dry storage in France. It operates waste treatment facilities, decontamination facilities and sites. Storage is not a lasting solution and must be followed by deep geologic facilities undergoing dismantling; provides logistics for maintenance at nuclear disposal. For the medium term, direct disposal solutions for used fuel are under power plants; and performs specialized maintenance. It designs and supervises assessment as a component of national nuclear waste management policies. nuclear site dismantling and rehabilitation after production or manufacturing has However, these solutions are not available on an industrial scale today. The been discontinued, for purposes of site reuse. direct disposal policy is currently being implemented in two countries: Sweden The International Projects Department brings the technical and industrial and Finland. know-how developed in the Back End Business Group’s facilities to international Used fuel recycling contributes to the conservation of natural uranium resources and markets, together with dismantling know-how. In particular, it designs and builds to non-proliferation, and it facilitates radioactive waste management by considerably new recycling plants in partnership with foreign countries seeking to acquire their reducing its volume and radiotoxicity. Waste is packaged in universal canisters own production capability. designed speciﬁcally to trap contamination over very long periods of time. The sustainability of nuclear power programs requires the implementation of a used STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK fuel management policy accepted by all stakeholders. Many countries are planning to recycle their used fuel or are interested in doing so. Some countries seeking to The Back End Business Group maintains the highest level of nuclear safety and deploy large-scale nuclear power programs are turning to recycling technology as occupational safety in its activities while minimizing its environmental impacts by an important factor in energy self-suﬃciency. Some of them, such as China, even aiming for zero waste. want to have their own facilities when warranted by their power programs. The Back End Business Group has strong industrial expertise that builds on Recycling is also a response to non-proliferation issues. AREVA can oﬀer utilities continuous improvement and technology development. Its six objectives are to: global services consisting of removing the used fuel from the power plant and p reestablish competitiveness by focusing as a priority on the cost basis of the producing the corresponding recycled fuel, returning to the customer country only plants; ﬁnal waste that does not contain materials subject to International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards. p continue to innovate selectively to optimize and prolong the plant operating period and to develop new oﬀers; Recycling allows utilities to constitute reserves of nuclear materials that could be p support EDF in the replacement of its reactor ﬂeet using MOX and promote used in future generation IV reactors. the use of treatment and recycling to increase the use of the French facilities; In addition to managing used fuel for the long term, the dismantling and cleanup support the development of international treatment and recycling platforms; p of legacy nuclear facilities demonstrates the reversibility of nuclear power: as for any industrial activity, a nuclear site has a controlled service life. After rehabilitation, p strengthen AREVA’s position in the logistics markets; it can be returned to use for new operations. The success of the dismantling and p develop dismantling operations in France and internationally (fuel cycle plants rehabilitation of former nuclear facilities is a major technical, societal and industrial and reactors) and become the leader in critical dismantling operations. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 79 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations 6.4.4.1. RECYCLING The plant has two production lines, UP2-800 and UP3, which have a combined licensed capacity of 1,700 metric tons of used fuel per year, corresponding to the Key ﬁgures generation of 600 TWh per year of electricity. In 2015, following a technical review process that lasted ﬁve years, the standing 2015 2014 group of experts of the nuclear safety authority (ASN) stressed the considerable work carried out by the operator and gave a favorable opinion on the continued Revenue* (in millions of euros) 815 857 operation of UP3 (INB 116 regulated nuclear facility). Workforce at year end 4,863 5,125 In 2015, the La Hague plant treated 1,205 metric tons of used fuel and produced * Contribution to consolidated revenue. 1,081 canisters of vitriﬁed waste. In addition, the commission for the public inquiry into the request to extend storage Businesses capacity for French vitriﬁed waste at INB 116 rendered a favorable decision in After nuclear fuel has been used in a light water reactor, 95 to 96% of its content June 2015. This decision is pursuant to the inquiry held from April 13 to May 18, consists of recyclable materials: 1% is plutonium and 94 to 95% is uranium. The ﬁrst 2015 in the towns surrounding the site concerning the proposed extension of step in fuel recycling is to separate these reusable materials from the ﬁnal waste. The storage capacity by an additional 12,000 canisters. latter is packaged in universal waste canisters for safe storage and transportation. The package is designed for high durability and containment performance for AREVA Melox purposes of geologic disposal. Following the treatment stage, the reusable materials The AREVA Melox site is the global market leader for the fabrication of recycled are recovered for recycling. Depending on the utility’s strategy, the recycled, renuclear fuel, or MOX. enriched uranium from used fuel treatment, also called RepU, may be recycled in the form of enriched recycled uranium fuel (ERU), or stored in stable form, constituting In 2015, Melox produced 124.6 metric tons of MOX fuel for French and foreign a uranium stockpile. The plutonium is used to fabricate another type of fuel, MOX, customers and met all of its delivery commitments for the year. of which AREVA is the world’s leading producer. In the international market, this was the year that saw the end of fabrication for German customers, while fabrication for the Netherlands continued. Operations and highlights Concerning the technology, the Melox process has successfully undergone two The treatment and recycling framework agreement deﬁnes the terms of industrial changes with the startup of a second powder blending line and the qualiﬁcation cooperation in treatment and recycling between AREVA and EDF for the years of a new type of uranium powder. to come. In application of that framework agreement, AREVA and EDF laid the foundations for the 2013-2015 period. In keeping with the French recycling policy, AREVA Temis a new contract for the 2016-2023 period is in the process of being signed. This agreement includes the transportation, treatment and recycling of used nuclear fuel. AREVA Temis develops and oﬀers a selection of technical skills and know-how for In particular, the agreement provides for an extension of the contract term from ﬁve all high added-value projects in the nuclear, aeronautic and defense industries. In years to eight years (2016-2023) and conﬁrms EDF’s choice of the recycling option. particular, the company provides automated systems, designs and manufactures mechanical equipment in specialty metals, and produces ﬁber-reinforced concrete In 2015, as part of its facilities’ review, the Recycling business continued to containers. implement the action plans submitted to the nuclear safety authority ASN in June 2012. These measures are intended to strengthen nuclear safety in the event AREVA Temis is established in ﬁve sites located near the AREVA La Hague and of extreme circumstances at the La Hague and Melox sites. AREVA Melox production sites. In 2015, AREVA Temis began an initiative to strengthen its commercial prospects Manufacturing and human resources outside the subsidiaries of the AREVA group. The Recycling business has two main industrial sites, the AREVA La Hague site in northern France and the Melox site in southern France. Market and competitive position The installed capacity of the La Hague and Melox plants along with AREVA’s The world market for used fuel recycling is tightly controlled by strict technical and cumulative experience rank the group number one worldwide in recycling. regulatory requirements. The market’s main features are: The Recycling business also draws on the skills of the AREVA TEMIS entity. p demanding emissions and environmental impact requirements; p a concentrated industry with a limited number of suppliers of recycling services; AREVA La Hague p a very high level of technological expertise required; The La Hague site provides the ﬁrst stage of recycling operations: recyclable p capital-intensive operations; and materials and waste in used fuel from French and foreign power plants and research services under multiyear contracts. p reactors are ﬁrst separated, and then these recyclable materials and ﬁnal waste are packaged in a safe and stable form. 80 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations 06 Outlook and development goals In used fuel storage, the Nuclear Logistics business continues to grow, delivering In 2016, the Recycling business’s objectives are to: a record number of heavy casks to customers in Europe in 2015. In particular, at the end of 2015, AREVA TN delivered the ﬁrst TN24E cask to its German customer. p continue to sell and supply recycling solutions in France and internationally; In the United States, the Nuclear Logistics business continued its expansion with p promote recycling technology abroad; the delivery of several dozen NUHOMS® onsite used fuel storage casks and several p develop innovative oﬀers to strengthen nuclear and occupational safety in used new signiﬁcant orders. A number of service contracts were also signed this year fuel management; to load the Nuhoms systems and place them in service. In addition, an agreement p participate in the creation of appropriate infrastructure for its foreign partners. was signed with WCS, the waste storage specialist in the United States, to provide development and licensing of the centralized used fuel site at their site in Texas. 6.4.4.2. NUCLEAR LOGISTICS Manufacturing and human resources The Nuclear Logistics activity carries out nearly 6,000 shipments each year. It is Key ﬁgures based in several regions of the world: p in Europe, the business oﬀers expertise in every aspect of logistics, designs casks 2015 2014 and manages the transportation of radioactive materials; its subsidiaries LMC and Mainco carry out road transportation projects (LMC) and provide industrial Revenue* (in millions of euros) 288 247 logistics services (Mainco); Workforce at year end 1,197 1,246 p in the United States, the entity and its subsidiary CHT design, manufacture and * Contribution to consolidated revenue. sell storage casks to US nuclear utilities. They are also active in the front end of the nuclear cycle. Its operations are based at three sites, in Columbia, Maryland, Businesses Aiken, South Carolina, and Greensboro, North Carolina; The Nuclear Logistics business, known by the trade name of AREVA TN, has two p in Japan, its entity provides engineering studies, transportation, and the sale and main business lines: maintenance of fuel casks for Japanese power companies; p design and project management of the manufacturing of casks and specialized p in Niger, the Nuclear Logistics business conducts shipments of mining equipment to ship and/or store nuclear materials and waste; concentrates; p organization of nuclear materials and waste shipments and supply chain p in China, the entity operates in all of its business areas. management as needed, including that of the related equipment. The Nuclear Logistics business has the necessary resources to manufacture It works both in the front end and the back end of the nuclear cycle for commercial shipping and storage casks. It owns transportation equipment, including casks customers as well as for research reactors and laboratories. It was also tasked with and road equipment, and operates road, rail and sea terminals. the supervision of transportation operations for the group and its customers to To accomplish its mission of supervising the group’s transportation operations, ensure that they are carried out according to the highest safety standards. the business has an organization that minimizes risks and establishes appropriate The Nuclear Logistics business also supplies nuclear fuel storage rack solutions for action plans to manage any emergency at any location. Its real-time transportation power plant cooling pools as well as neutron shield systems for reactors. tracking center provides it with a continuous stream of information on transportation operations. Operations and highlights In the front end of the nuclear cycle, the Nuclear Logistics business continues to Relations with customers and suppliers open up new maritime shipping lanes to China, in particular from Canada and Customers are nuclear operators seeking solutions for the shipment of radioactive from Niger. An important contract was signed for shipments of natural uranium in materials and for materials storage and supply chain management. Customers of North America in 2014-2015. In September 2015, AREVA TN teams completely the diﬀerent entities of the Nuclear Logistics Operations Department include the updated the logistics base in Niger. majority of the world’s utilities, research reactor operators, fuel cycle companies, In the back end of the cycle, a memorandum of understanding was signed in the and nuclear research centers, institutes and laboratories. ﬁrst part of 2015 whose objective is to create a joint venture with Chinese partners in The business has developed a diversiﬁed international network of partners and nuclear transportation and logistics. AREVA TN will bring know-how, experience and suppliers for all of its shipments and key components. skills to the deployment of a used fuel transportation and logistics system in China. In 2015, several shipments of used fuel and nuclear waste were carried out for Market and competitive position French, Swiss, Italian and Dutch customers. In June 2015, AREVA TN performed The Nuclear Logistics business is active at the international level in every stage of the last MOX fuel shipment for its German customers. At the end of 2015, AREVA the nuclear fuel cycle. successfully carried out its ﬁrst shipment of vitriﬁed waste for its Australian customer. Business in Nuclear Logistics continued to be brisk, with as usual close to 200 used fuel shipments between EDF’s power plants and AREVA’s recycling plant at La Hague. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 81 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations The business of nuclear materials transportation and of nuclear materials storage/ p services to nuclear operators: nuclear logistics and on-site support, facility shipping cask design is characterized by the diversity of materials involved, the maintenance, and radiation protection expertise and measurements. international and competitive nature of the markets, and the strict and changing These operations involve nuclear facilities that are currently in operation and regulatory framework, which diﬀers according to each transportation mode and which must ensure the best nuclear safety performance at all times while each country. complying with increasingly strict safety requirements, asset preservation, Sales were evenly distributed among France, Europe, North America and Asia. planning for the future and cost control. The Nuclear Logistics business oﬀers comprehensive management of the logistics Operations and highlights chain and has strengthened its position in securing supplies to the nuclear sites. In 2015, D&S won several important contracts, underpinning its ranking as a market Activities related to the front end of the fuel cycle are deployed around the globe. In major player in dismantling and services to nuclear operators in France. recent years, the Nuclear Logistics business strengthened its position in this market, in particular with shipments for AREVA’s uranium mines and fuel fabrication plants, Commercially, D&S won several contracts from the CEA, EDF and ANDRA, drawing support from solid partners. particularly in the ﬁeld of dismantling and waste management. In the back end of the fuel cycle: For example, D&S was the winning bidder to the CEA for radiological cleanliness and waste management at a former nuclear facility in Saclay. p in Europe, EDF continues to be the leading shipper of used fuel to the La Hague recycling plant, followed by other international power companies that have opted The industrial partnership with the CEA for the Marcoule site was also renewed for recycling and certain research reactors; in 2015. D&S signed a series of contracts for the 2016-2020 period in several work areas, in particular to act as industrial operator of various facilities at the site. All of p in the United States, the Nuclear Logistics business is leading market player in the services follow on from cleanup and dismantling operations conducted by D&S the dry storage of used fuel; at the site for the CEA since 2005. p in Asia, the Nuclear Logistics business is mainly present in Japan, where it carries Other signiﬁcant contracts won by D&S include the call for bids from EDF to out fuel and nuclear waste shipments between Europe and Japan. It also supplies dismantle the internals of the Superphénix reactor vessel. The D&S teams will thus storage racks to nuclear reactors in China. be the ﬁrst to dismantle this type of equipment in a reactor of more than 1,000 MWe Outlook and development goals in France. The Nuclear Logistics business continues to develop internationally to strengthen Manufacturing and human resources its position as a leading player in its business areas. The D&S Operations Department provides services to practically all of the French nuclear sites operated by AREVA, CEA, EDF and Andra. Its personnel are present 6.4.4.3. DISMANTLING AND SERVICES (D&S) at all sites to ensure the quality of the services provided, in compliance with the budget, schedule, and nuclear and occupational safety requirements. Key ﬁgures It has expertise in the vast majority of techniques for low-, mediumand high-level eﬄuent and waste processing, volume reduction and safe packaging. 2015 2014 D&S has operated the Triade environmentally regulated facility (see Glossary) since 1994, which maintains machinery and equipment used in controlled areas, Revenue* (in millions of euros) 325 306 recertiﬁes equipment, dismantles tooling and processes waste. Facilities are made Workforce at year end 4,408 4,333 available to customers so that they can maintain their tools and equipment in a * Contribution to consolidated revenue. secure environment. In 2015, D&S led projects to retrieve legacy waste and dismantle legacy facilities Businesses operated by AREVA and owned by the group. These include the UP2 400 facilities D&S oﬀers customers a broad range of services covering two main areas: at the La Hague plant, the ATPu plutonium technology facility and the LPC chemical puriﬁcation laboratory at the Cadarache site, the SICN sites of Annecy and Veurey, p nuclear facility dismantling operations across the entire value chain: cleanup, the Eurodif uranium enrichment plant at Tricastin, and the Miramas site. legacy waste retrieval and processing, eﬄuent treatment, facility operations and dismantling, land reclamation and building repurposing. In addition, D&S brings its customers unique operating experience from the group’s Numerous facilities built in the 1950s and 1960s have reached the end of their implementation of its end-of-lifecycle obligations in France. operating period. Their dismantling and the rehabilitation of their host sites, in particular to allow new projects to be located there, represent a major industrial Relations with customers and suppliers challenge. The D&S business operates facilities that have been shut down, To improve the cost-competitiveness of its projects, D&S has set up a process for provides design studies and project management, and carries out dismantling dialogue with its suppliers to strengthen their visibility on the future workload over operations; the short and medium terms and to work on improving performance. 82 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations 06 Market and competitive position p in the United States, under the US Plutonium Disposition Program, a MOX fuel The French dismantling and services market is driven by new requirements of fabrication facility is under construction for the US Department of Energy (DOE) customers who turn to the group for its know-how. D&S is a leading player in France. to recycle US defense plutonium (the MFFF project). As one of the two members of the consortium in charge of this project, AREVA is providing its know-how For facility dismantling, the net present value of provisions for the three main in engineering and technology. The facility is currently under construction, with contracting authorities – CEA, AREVA and EDF – is approximately 30 billion civil works completed in 2013 and several process equipment items already euros. The market will grow signiﬁcantly in the coming years, led by the ramp-up of installed (approximately 50%). This project directly supports the Non-Proliferation dismantling programs, although the general economic situation sometimes leads to Agreement signed by the United States and Russia in 2000 and has substantial a reconsideration of the some project schedules. D&S is a major player in this eﬀort. bipartisan support in the US Congress. In 2015, construction activities continued with an exceptional occupational safety record, with more than 23 million hours Outlook and development goals worked without a lost time injury. In addition, at the Idaho National Laboratory, D&S’s ambition is to assert its position as a leading player in the French market and AREVA completed the design of a low-level waste disposal site and began to showcase its know-how to support the development of dismantling operations construction in June 2015. At the Hanford site, AREVA has just ﬁnished the abroad. D&S personnel worked on international projects in 2015, particularly in studies for a facility cleanup and dismantling project. AREVA is participating in China, where they participated in the steam generator decontamination for the the project to operate the Hanford storage tanks as the principal subcontractor Ling Ao power plant. of Washington River Protection Solutions (WRPS). Within this framework, AREVA The D&S business will grow by continuing to expand its offering of activities participated in the execution of a project involving the retrieval and transfer of supported by in-house expertise, and by developing partnerships. The high-level liquids and sludges. In addition, AREVA is conducting several technical competitiveness of D&S also depends on its investment in technology innovation studies in support of US utilities that have shut down some of their reactors; to serve its customers. In this regard, two new intervention robots developed by p in Japan, the group has had a major technical assistance program with its D&S – the RIANA™ multipurpose platform and the DORICA™ ﬂyover investigation customers since 1987. This partnership culminated in the construction of a drone – were presented in 2015. used fuel treatment plant at the Rokkasho-Mura site by Japan Nuclear Fuel Limited (JNFL), with support from AREVA. The plant is currently on hold pending a review of its report on compliance with new safety regulations for cycle facilities 6.4.4.4. INTERNATIONAL PROJECTS issued by the Nuclear Regulation Authority (NRA). In 2015, AREVA and JNFL continued their partnership with the extension of the operating support contract Key ﬁgures for the reprocessing plant. In addition, the partners signed two agreements for the J-MOX mixed oxide fuel fabrication plant currently under construction. AREVA is 2015 2014 thus in a preferred partner position to support the restart of back-end operations as soon as an agreement has been reached between JNFL and the NRA; Revenue* (in millions of euros) 164 121 p in the United Kingdom, the government and the Nuclear Decommissioning Workforce at year end 582 561 Authority (NDA) announced in January 2015 their decision to change the * Contribution to consolidated revenue. management model for the Sellafield site. Consequently, Sellafield Ltd is to become a wholly owned subsidiary of the NDA on April 1, 2016, and the Businesses management and operation contract held by AREVA and its partners will be ended. The engineering and operating know-how developed by AREVA at its French sites is without equivalent in the world. All countries with nuclear operations must deﬁne In addition, as part of a consortium, AREVA was selected by Sellaﬁeld at the end and implement solutions to manage the back end of the cycle. The International of 2014 for the design and construction of an intermediate-level waste packaging Projects business oﬀers its assistance to customers for the operation of existing facility at Sellaﬁeld. At the end of 2015, following a change in the management sites or for the construction of new facilities to secure their management of the back strategy for this waste, Sellaﬁeld determined that it no longer needed that facility end of the nuclear cycle and related waste management. and ended the contract. Elsewhere, AREVA had commercial successes with the NDA in the form of an umbrella agreement in partnership with Atkins to Numerous facilities built in the 1950s and 1960s have reached the end of their supply engineering services to various NDA sites, and an umbrella agreement operating period. Their dismantling and the rehabilitation of the sites that host them for services related to the dismantling of Sellaﬁeld facilities in partnership with is a major industrial challenge, especially to allow new projects, whether nuclear or other suppliers. Moreover, AREVA continued its collaboration with the NDA to conventional, to be located at these sites. propose the CONVERT solution to manage the plutonium inventory and its reuse in the form of MOX fuel. Operations and highlights AREVA continued its discussions with the NDA on the solution oﬀered by the The group is involved in projects in several key countries: group to manage the existing plutonium inventory in the United Kingdom and p China conﬁrmed its intention of supporting the development of its nuclear power submitted several reports: program with a high-capacity treatment and recycling plant. AREVA submitted p in Spain, phase 2 of the engineering contract for the design of a centralized used a proposal for this project to the utility CNNC in 2015. AREVA would design fuel and waste disposal center (the ATC project) was ﬁnalized. AREVA’s services the plant and provide assistance to CNNC for its construction and startup. allowed the customer Enresa to accelerate the submittal of the preliminary safety Negotiations are in progress; analysis report for the ATC facility and associated facilities comprised of an irradiated fuel examination laboratory and a shipping cask maintenance shop. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 83 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations Manufacturing and human resources decontaminate soil, and to develop scenarios for the dismantling of the damaged The International Projects Department oﬀers customized solutions to its clients and reactors. Tepco expressed its interest in drawing on AREVA’s experience via cleanup implements them by drawing on its industrial and human resources, located mainly solutions proposed by Anadec. at the La Hague and Melox sites in France, in the United States and in Germany. For France, the La Hague, Melox and Marcoule sites and the Engineering & 6.4.4.5. WASTE MANAGEMENT METHODS Projects Department provide teams of experts whose role is to bring technical support for the preparation of international bids and to implement the projects of Businesses the operating department. Customers are provided training materials to assist them In operating and dismantling its fuel cycle facilities, AREVA represents only a small in the operation of their recycling facilities. fraction of the national radioactive waste inventory. This is due to the design and Internationally, the International Projects Department has a commercial and implementation of eﬀective solutions for the safe, optimized and comprehensive technical network in direct contact with its customers. In the United Kingdom, management of the radioactive waste chain. AREVA assumes responsibility for operating managers and engineering specialists were embedded at the Sellaﬁeld its waste by continually adopting solutions aimed at reducing their overall impact site to provide their expertise in site operations. An Engineering & Operations entity and by setting aside assets to secure long-term funding for the related expenses. is being staﬀed for this purpose. Specialists are also available in the United States Optimization of a waste management method covers waste generation (aiming for and in Germany. In Japan, a team is available at all times at the Rokkasho-Mura site, minimization at the source), management of waste ﬂows, sorting, packaging (with bringing expertise and experience from the La Hague plant to the operator, JNFL. or without prior processing), storage, shipment and disposal. The diversity of the group’s operations and businesses, which cover the entire nuclear fuel cycle from Relations with customers and suppliers the uranium mine to used fuel recycling, the multiplicity of the related industrial Relying on its local presence in the United Kingdom, Japan and the United States, sites, and the variety of resulting primary waste have led AREVA to develop unique the International Projects Department maintains close partnership relations with its technical, industrial and organizational know-how. Backed by more than 40 years customers. Its involvement in several international teams brings customers a wide of waste management experience, AREVA’s solution integration skills allow an variety of world-class skills. optimum technical and economic balance to be reached in the deployment of comprehensive waste management methods. Market and competitive position This unique know-how is brought to its customers through tailor-made solutions China, the United Kingdom and Japan are preferred customers, having opted in for the management of all or part of the waste they generate. favor of the closed fuel cycle. The International Projects Department is able to oﬀer solutions to all nuclear operators seeking to implement their back end projects, in The management of radioactive waste must meet a number of safety, industrial and particular in European countries and in the United States. societal challenges, and AREVA is in constant contact with the various players and stakeholders involved, particularly at the national level. It is an active contributor to The International Projects Department is also responsible for oﬀering solutions the development of the national radioactive materials and waste management plan for the construction of new storage and disposal facilities in international markets. (PNGMDR) led by the Ministry of Ecology, Sustainable Development and Energy, In dismantling, more than a hundred of the world’s nuclear power plants have represented by the General Directorate of Energy and Climate and by ASN. Under reached the end of their operating period. Added to these are dozens of research this plan, an exhaustive inventory of the diﬀerent radioactive waste management facilities and fuel fabrication and recycling plants. Reclaiming these shut-down sites methods is drawn up, gaps between them are identiﬁed, and areas for improvement for future use adds up to a signiﬁcant market. The biggest markets are in Europe and performance improvement actions to be taken are deﬁned. and the United States. Japan is a special case because of the Fukushima accident and its related dismantling requirements. In the United Kingdom, although business Operations and highlights is currently slow, the market represents signiﬁcant potential and is a priority for the group. Signiﬁcant growth is expected in Germany in a few years due to the shutdown Operations of eight of its power plants in 2011. In 2015, AREVA packaged more than 10,000 m3 of waste, including approximately 70% in the very-low-level waste category, 25% in the short-lived lowand mediumOutlook and development goals level waste category, and 5% in the other categories (including long-lived mediumIn the recycling ﬁeld, the department is still in technical negotiations with CNNC and high-level waste). Waste categories are described in Appendix 3 of the for the construction of a used fuel treatment and recycling plant in China. The Reference Document. construction of the MFFF will also be a major goal for the department. Comprehensive waste management methods, including ﬁnal disposal, are now In the dismantling ﬁeld, the strategic objective is to consolidate its position as a operational for 90% of the waste generated each year in France. In 2015, AREVA major player in the management of dismantling projects and to bring solutions also renewed its contract to transfer short-lived lowand medium-level waste (SL/ to its customers, particularly in the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany LMLW) to Andra for purposes of ﬁnal disposal. This contract covers the 2015and Japan. 2019 period and supplements the contract signed in 2014 related to the transfer In the United States, the objective of International Projects Department is to maintain of very-low-level waste. its activity with the US Department of Energy, particularly at the Hanford and In addition to adapting its production plants, AREVA continued to pursue its Savannah River sites, despite the budget restrictions imposed on this government objectives of optimizing the performance of waste operations notably through waste agency. In addition, the group wants to strengthen its presence with operators which reduction at the source, implementation of advanced waste characterization, sorting have recently announced the closure of some of their power plants. and decontamination solutions, waste volume reduction through the use of highLastly, in Japan, the department continued to develop industrial solutions, in performance facilities, and packaging as early in the chain as possible. particular for soil decontamination. In 2014, AREVA and the Japanese company These optimizations help minimize the environmental footprint of the group’s ATOX created a joint venture called Anadec dedicated to the joint development of operations and contribute to the company’s economic performance: in 2015, they innovative solutions focused primarily on the rehabilitation of the Fukushima site and resulted in a reduction of operating expenses for waste management in relation region. The Japanese Ministry of Energy selected three innovative projects proposed to 2014. by AREVA to decontaminate Fukushima harbor, to develop ﬁltration barriers and 84 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations 06 Optimization and innovation sites, the long-term management of waste and materials, the overall consistency of waste management methods, and the management of certain speciﬁc waste Innovation is a key to adapting existing waste management methods for improved for which management methods have yet to be identified. Alongside Andra, overall performance, just as it is central to the creation of new waste management AREVA, EDF and the CEA continued their cooperation in 2015 on technical and methods. economic optimization of the Cigéo project for long-lived medium and high-level AREVA is in the process of expanding its current range of waste packages, which waste disposal. The majority of the waste to be sent to Cigéo is processed and include the use of vitrification, cementation, encapsulation and compaction packaged by AREVA. technologies. In particular, AREVA is developing an innovative incineration/vitriﬁcation process Manufacturing and human resources called PIVIC aimed at processing and packaging alpha-contaminated organic waste AREVA has considerable experience in the management of all waste categories, in a single stage. More than 140,000 metric tons of metals could be recovered and from the lowest level to the highest level, and has all of the related operational skills recycled in connection with the dismantling of the Georges Besse I enrichment and R&D resources. Though the center of gravity for the group’s operations in plant. AREVA has begun feasibility studies on the melting process to decontaminate radioactive waste and materials management is found in the Back End Business these materials which could result in activity levels that are below radiation protection Group, the footprint for these operations encompasses all of the group’s operations. thresholds. In response to legal and regulatory requirements, particularly in For implementation of the waste management methods, AREVA draws on: connection with implementation of the 2013-2015 PNGMRD, AREVA submitted some twenty reports to the competent administrative authorities dealing with a p the operating entities of the diﬀerent production or mining sites; range of topics, including the management of legacy situations and former mining p the group’s Radioactive Materials and Waste Department (RMWD). 6.4.5. RENEWABLE ENERGIES OPERATIONS AND HIGHLIGHTS oﬀer was received. Discussions conducted in 2015 with potential buyers did not result in an agreement. A decision was made in December 2015 in favor The strategy followed since 2013 for the transformation and streamlining of the of early terminaison of the only project in execution in that business, and an renewables businesses continued in 2015. Two approaches were selected, agreement to achieve this was signed with the customer, leading to the de facto depending on the business: discontinuation of all operating activity. The organizational footprint of Solar p AREVA is remaining active in the most promising businesses, but through Energy will gradually be dismantled over the course of 2016 in compliance partnerships in order to share investments and benefit from the partners’ with all contractual commitments; expertise. This approach concerns the Wind Energy and Hydrogen Electrolysis p due to diﬃcult market conditions, mainly in Europe, and an integrator/lead businesses; contractor model that is far from AREVA’s main expertise, it was decided in March p the less promising businesses, or those for which the Business Group’s 2015 to sell the Bioenergy business if possible. This initiative was unsuccessful, competitive position is not suﬃciently established, will be terminated upon and it was subsequently decided to exit this business with diﬀering schedules the completion of ongoing projects, in compliance with AREVA’s contractual depending on the geographic entity: commitments. This approach concerns the Solar Energy and Bioenergy ○ because of a weak market and no opportunity to sell the business, it was businesses. decided in April 2015 to terminate the Bioenergy Europe operations following The implementation of this strategy resulted in a series of decisions for each of the the end of the construction of ongoing projects and AREVA’s other contractual Business Group’s businesses: obligations, particularly as concerns warranties for operating projects. The p the Wind Energy operations were contributed to the Adwen joint venture created personnel involved, located in France and Germany, were covered by a in partnership with the Spanish onshore wind specialist Gamesa. AREVA and redeployment or departure plan, in compliance with local procedures Gamesa each hold a 50% interest in the joint venture. Final agreements creating (particularly through a “Employment Preservation Plan” for employees in the joint venture and liesing the transaction were signed on March 9, 2015; France); p the Hydrogen Electrolysis operations were contributed to the AREVA H2Gen ○ following inconclusive discussions with potential buyers in 2015, the decision joint venture held by AREVA, French company Smart Energies and the French was made on February 22, 2016 to terminate the Bioenergy Asia and Environment and Energy Management Agency ADEME (with funding related to Bioenergy Brazil operations. Termination of these operations will be carried the “Future Investments Program”). The joint venture was created on May 20, out gradually in 2016 as a function of the schedules for completion of ongoing 2014 and had its ﬁrst full year of operation in 2015; projects and in compliance with AREVA’s contractual commitments; p energy storage operations other than hydrogen electrolysis (fuel cells and ﬂow ○ due to the non-emergence of the market and the need for further signiﬁcant batteries) were transferred to AREVA’s Research, Development and Innovation investments, the development of biomass torrefaction technology was Department for continued development in the framework of R&D partnerships; terminated in September 2015 after an unsuccessful search for a buyer. The personnel involved, who are located in France, were covered by a redeployment p as was announced in August 2014, the Solar Energy business was to be or redundancy process as part of an “Employment Preservation Plan”. terminated following the completion of ongoing projects, or sold if a full takeover 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 85 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations KEY FIGURES Operations and highlights Due to the decisions described above and in application of IFRS 5, the Wind Energy, Bioenergy Europe Solar Energy and Energy Storage businesses made no contribution to the Business Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements in 2015. In 2015, the main operating activity of the Bioenergy Europe entity was the continuation of the turnkey construction of the Commentry biomass cogeneration Despite the decisions to terminate or sell the Bioenergy business, it is still included power plant for the independent French energy producer Neoen. Completion of in consolidated statements in 2015. This is because, the discontinuation of the construction is planned in June 2016. The power plant will generate 15 MWe of business will not be completely eﬀective until ongoing projects are completed and electrical power and 50 MWe of thermal power. the entity’s sites are closed. The Bioenergy Europe entity was unable to secure any new orders since the The Business Group’s consolidation scope thus remains the same as in 2014. signature of the Commentry contract in November 2012, and this diﬃcult market IFRS 5 had already been implemented for the Wind Energy, Solar Energy and trend continued in 2015. The future prospects for the market in Europe are highly Energy Storage businesses because plans for disposals and for the creation of uncertain. The market is already relatively saturated, the regulatory framework and joint ventures had already begun for these businesses. tariﬀ structure have deteriorated in several countries, and the industry is biomass overall plant engineer supply diﬃculties and a high biomass costs. 2015 2014 In addition to this diﬃcult market situation, the business model of the Bioenergy entity as overall plant engineer and lead contractor (Engineering, Procurement, Revenue* (in millions of euros) 22 52 and Construction contractor), with no proprietary technology, is far from the AREVA Operating income (in millions of euros) (59) (32) group’s core expertise focused on process engineering and proprietary technology Workforce at year end** 162 216 supply. In addition, most of the competitors in the segment have a wider oﬀer than * Contribution to consolidated revenue. AREVA’s: ** The workforce was restated to reﬂect the change in the ﬁnancial consolidation p they either offer services that go beyond power plant construction alone, scope. including operations and maintenance; p or they also supply one or more components of the power plant in addition to 2015 REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA engineering and lead contractor services. In this context, it has proven diﬃcult for AREVA to maintain a competitive oﬀer in 41% this geographic area, where the market is also very limited, explaining the absence North and 40% of new orders since 2012. South America France In view of this situation, and in the more general context of the group’s refocusing on its core businesses, it was decided in 2015 to terminate the Bioenergy Europe business after completion of the Commentry project and in compliance with AREVA’s contractual obligations, in particular as concerns warranties for operating power plants. Starting in June 2015, the staﬀ of the entity’s two sites in France and Germany was gradually reduced. In France, employees were covered by an Employment Preservation Plan with possibilities for redeployment in the group or 19% departure with support measures. In Germany, an equivalent plan was deployed Asia in compliance with local procedures. Source: AREVA. Bioenergy Asia In 2015, the Bioenergy Asia entity completed the turnkey delivery of the 9.9-MWe 6.4.5.1. BIOENERGY Nakhon Patom biomass power plant in Thailand. The entity also provided turnkey construction of a 12-MWe biomass power plant on the Island of Luzon in the 2015 2014 Philippines, with startup slated for the third quarter of 2016. Both of these power plants are fueled with biomass from agricultural waste, mainly rice husks and Revenue* (in millions of euros) 22 52 bagasse. Workforce at year end 162 216 Unlike the European market, the Asian market for bioenergy could enjoy promising * Contribution to consolidated revenue. future growth, mainly in Southeast Asia (Thailand, Cambodia, the Philippines and Indonesia). These countries beneﬁt from widely available agricultural waste Businesses (bagasse, rice husks, palm oil waste, etc.), which is an attractively priced fuel for The Bioenergy Business Unit oﬀers integrated technology solutions for the design, biomass power plants. construction and start-up of biomass power plants. It also oﬀers solutions for the However, projects in Southeast Asia are most frequently small capacity plants construction of biomass torrefaction units for “green coal” production. Its principal (often less than 10 MWe) devoted exclusively to electricity production, not steam. customers are in Europe, South America and Asia. Carbon-neutral biomass power Generally, projects are ordered by small local operators and not by large regional or plants convert organic residues (wood, bagasse, straw, etc.) into energy. international power companies. AREVA is not accustomed to this type of customer, which is not well suited to the group’s sales network. In addition, the business model of the Bioenergy entity in this region as overall plant engineer and lead contractor, with no proprietary technology, is far from AREVA’s process engineering skills. 86 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations 06 Faced with a potentially promising market but a customer type and business model 6.4.5.2. SOLAR ENERGY unsuited to AREVA’s expertise, the decision was made in 2015 to look for a buyer better matched to value this business and ensure its development. However, after a The Solar Energy entity deploys its concentrated solar power solutions (CSP) based period of discussions with several partners in 2015, no agreement was reached with on Compact Linear Fresnel Reﬂector (CLFR) technology. a potential buyer. Consequently, it was decided on February 22, 2016 to terminate The solar entity’s principal operating activity in 2015 was the completion of the these operations. Shutdown will be gradual in 2016 and in compliance with construction of a concentrated solar power plant in the state of Rajasthan, India, AREVA’s contractual commitments, particularly as concerns warranty obligations for customer Reliance Power, one of India’s leading private energy operators. In on completed projects. December 2015, an agreement was reached between AREVA and Reliance in anticipation of the termination of the project and to oﬃcially record the transfer of the Bioenergy Brazil solar ﬁeld in as-is condition to Reliance along with responsibility for the maintenance In 2015, the operating activities of the Bioenergy Brazil entity were concentrated and operation of the power plant. This agreement was eﬀectively executed on on two projects: February 22, 2016, releasing both parties from their respective obligations. As a result of this termination and the absence of any orders in the backlog, this p completion of the construction of the Vista Allegre project for customer Energisa, decision marks the end of AREVA’s involvement in any solar energy operation and which began production on June 30, 2015; the termination of that business. p the start of engineering activities and component orders for the construction As a reminder, in view of the very unfavorable market situation, AREVA had decided of the 150-MWe Campo Grande power plant for the customer Atico/Bolt, for in August 2014 to terminate this business at the completion of engiering projects, which the order had been signed in September 2014. However, in light of the unless a full takeover bid was received in the short term. Unfortunately, detailed customer’s diﬃculties to secure project ﬁnancing due to the Brazilian economic discussions conducted in 2015 with potential buyers did not result in an agreement. situation (project funding stopped by the public bank BNDES), AREVA notiﬁed Consequently, it was decided to terminate these operations completely. the customer in October 2015 of the project’s suspension. The suspension was executed in accordance with the terms of the contract in order to preserve AREVA’s economic interests and commitments to its suppliers. 6.4.5.3. WIND ENERGY Like the Asian market, the Brazilian biomass market has better development potential than in Europe. More than 70% of the biomass power plant projects Operations and highlights consume bagasse, which is agricultural waste from the production of sugar and ethanol. Due to the very low cost of this widely available resource, biomass is the Creation of the Adwen joint venture with Gamesa most competitive thermal energy in Brazil. Final agreements for the creation of the Adwen joint venture and the closing of the In addition, as in the other regions, the business position of the Bioenergy entity transaction were signed on March 9, 2015. Adwen is held in equal shares by AREVA as a plant engineer and lead contractor, with no proprietary technology, is far from and Gamesa. By combining their strengths, AREVA and Gamesa will enable the AREVA’s core process engineering skills. In addition, this model presents speciﬁc joint venture to become a major player in the global oﬀshore wind market. risks in Brazil, where contract terms are often unfavorable to lead contractors. From the start, the joint venture was awarded contracts by several customers, In view of this context, a buyer or partner better able to develop this business including Iberdrola (1), which selected the 5-MWe AD 5-135 turbine for the Wikinger was sought in 2015. This search was unsuccessful and it was therefore decided oﬀshore wind farm in Germany and the 8-MWe AD 8-180 turbine for the Saint-Brieuc on February 22, 2016 to terminate this business. The phase-out will be gradual, oﬀshore wind farm in France. based on the schedule for the completion of AREVA’s contractual commitments, particularly as concerns warranty obligations on operating power plants. Operations and highlights of the Adwen joint venture In the summer of 2015, Adwen ﬁnished the progressive start-up of its ﬁrst two Biomass torrefaction large-scale projects in the German North Sea: the oﬀshore wind farms of Trianel AREVA had chosen to invest in the biomass torrefaction technology in 2012 with Borkum and Global Tech 1. the objective of entering the market for torreﬁed biomass (“green coal”) co-ﬁring in On July 17, 2015, Adwen completed the start-up of 40 5-MWe AD 5-116 turbines coal-ﬁred power plants. However, detailed studies conducted in 2015 concluded installed at the Trianel Borkum wind farm in the North Sea, 45 kilometers oﬀ the that green coal would not be signiﬁcantly more attractive in this market than the raw coast of Borkum Island and close to the Alpha Ventus pilot site, where 6 Adwen biomass pellets (“white pellets”) currently used by the power companies. turbines have been in operation since 2009. Trianel Borkum will cover the annual However, other less mature markets could be interested in torreﬁed biomass, for electricity requirements of close to 200,000 German households. example for residential heating, collective heating and fabrication of particle boards. On September 2, 2015, operations progressively began for the Global Tech I wind However, these new markets are far removed from AREVA’s traditional markets. farm, which has 80 5-MWe AD 5-116 turbines. With a capacity of 400 MWe, Global Moreover, the emergence of these markets for torreﬁed biomass remains uncertain Tech I is one of the largest oﬀshore wind projects completed in Germany. It is also due to the absence of operating experience with the use and actual performance the furthest from the German coastline, 100 kilometers away. For this operation, of green coal in these processes. Adwen mobilized up to 4 vessels and 400 people. The wind farm will produce the Given this situation, coupled with the decision to refocus on the group’s core equivalent of the average annual consumption of 445,000 households. businesses, the decision was made in September 2015 to terminate this business The manufacturing of the components for the 70 AD 5-135 wind turbines earmarked after an unsuccessful search for a potential buyer. The employees involved, who for Iberdrola’s Wikinger wind farm in the Baltic Sea is slated to begin in the ﬁrst are based in Bordeaux, were covered by an “Employment Preservation Plan” with quarter of 2016 in Adwen’s German plants. The blades will be manufactured in possibilities for redeployment in the group or departure with support measures. Stade and the nacelles will be assembled at the Bremerhaven site, which has been upgraded to optimize the production of 5and 8-MWe wind turbines. (1) Iberdrola holds 20% of the capital of Gamesa. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 87 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations In France, where the joint venture’s project pipeline has reached 1.5 GWe, Adwen is The market for hydrogen production by electrolysis, traditionally focused on pursuing commitments initiated by AREVA for the deployment of a comprehensive industrial applications, is evolving with the opening of hydrogen vehicle refueling wind turbine industrial base. Adwen signed a contract with the consortium stations. Other applications, such as “power-to-gas”, oﬀer additional promissing consisting of Egis, Auxitec and Enia Architectes for project management of its two prospects for this business. plants to be built on land in the Port of Le Havre, where blades and nacelles will be manufactured for its wind turbines. Under the terms of the contract, the consortium Transfer of other energy storage operations to the Research, will prepare the design studies and detailed layout drawings of the plants together Development and Innovation Department with the application for a license and construction permit. Adwen’s 8-MWe AD 8-180 On January 1, 2015, energy storage operations other than PEM electrolysis were turbine, devoted to the French projects, will be manufactured in the Le Havre plants transferred to AREVA’s Research, Development and Innovation Department to starting in 2018, in accordance with the schedule for the start-up of the Saint-Brieuc, speed up their development under joint technology programs. These activities Dieppe Le Tréport and Yeu-Noirmoutier projects. relate to two main programs: On October 23, 2015, the Ailes Marines consortium consisting of Iberdrola, Eole Res and Caisse des Dépôts ﬁled the necessary license applications for the Saint-Brieuc Development of continuous ﬂow battery technology wind farm project. The Dieppe, Le Tréport and Yeu Noirmoutier projects were the In 2014, AREVA Energy Storage launched a joint R&D development program with subject of public debates held in the spring and summer of 2015. The contracting Schneider Electric and ENStorage to develop a new energy storage solution: the authority, which brings together Engie, EDPR and Neoen Marine, conﬁrmed in continuous ﬂow battery. This technology combines hydrobromic acid and hydrogen December 2015 that it planned to pursue both projects based on the principal to produce and store electricity. conclusions of the public debates. System design, manufacturing of peripherals and containerization were carried In the United Kingdom, Adwen has a dedicated sales team and is participating in out successfully throughout 2015. On-site delivery to the Port of Marseille-Fos, major ongoing tenders, in particular for Round 3 development projects. ﬁnal assembly, testing and the start of energy storage cycles are planned for the Development of the AD 8-180 wind turbine is in the ﬁnal phase involving a series ﬁrst half of 2016. of validation and testing stages, including a crucial stage that will begin in the ﬁrst quarter of 2016 with tests of the turbine drive system on the IWES Dynalab test Ongoing development of fuel cells via partnerships bench in Bremerhaven, Germany. Installation of the ﬁrst AD 8-180 prototype, with The key objective of the Myrte project in Corsica is to design hydrogen-based energy the ﬁrst installation to occur on land to conduct the qualiﬁcation test sequence, is storage to manage intermittent renewable energies and integrate them into the scheduled to take place by the end of 2016. power grid. The project reached the ﬁnal stage with the operation of the complete system in real operating conditions. In late 2015, the hydrogen line of the facility had operated a total of 6,300 hours, injecting 43 MWh of electrical energy into the 6.4.5.4. ENERGY STORAGE grid, and 4,000 kilograms of hydrogen had been produced by the electrolyzers. In 2016, operation of the installation will continue for purposes of technical and Hydrogen electrolysis with PEM technology economic optimization. AREVA H2Gen, a joint venture created in May 2014 by its shareholders AREVA As part of the HyResponse Project – a European training project on hydrogen Stockage d’Énergie, Smart Energies and the French Environment and Energy risks for ﬁrst responders (ﬁre departments, industrial companies, etc.) – AREVA is Management Agency (Ademe), had its ﬁrst full year of operation in 2015. The joint designing and building a 2,500 m2 operational training platform on land owned by venture designs and manufactures proton exchange membrane (PEM) hydrogen the national school of ﬁreﬁghter oﬃcers (ENSOSP). Finished in December 2015, electrolyzers. AREVA and its partners aim to turn it into a global leader in the the platform will be used to train more than 70 ﬁrst responders from 18 countries hydrogen production market using electrolysis technology. The company is based in 2016 using 50 scenarios involving high-pressure gaseous hydrogen as well as in France. In 2015, it inaugurated an engineering and electrolyzer production site natural gas for vehicles and liqueﬁed petroleum gas. in Ulis. 88 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.4 Operations 06 6.4.6. OTHER OPERATIONS 6.4.6.1. ENGINEERING & PROJECTS ORGANIZATION (E&P) Activities The integrated model created by AREVA to carry out its projects successfully is AREVA Med’s ambition is to develop eﬀective targeted therapies to ﬁght cancer founded on the know-how of close to 5,000 professionals in the Engineering & and the company has three main goals: Projects team, a staﬀ unparalleled in size in the nuclear ﬁeld. Backed by 50 years p produce high-purity lead-212 to meet clinical development needs; of experience in nuclear engineering and major projects, the Engineering & extend the reach of innovative lead-212 treatments through clinical development; p Projects Organization (E&P) is actively contributing to the success of AREVA’s integrated business model. The objective of this crosscutting organization, which p provide lead-212 to the scientiﬁc community (academic and pharmaceutical among others designed and built AREVA’s main plants, is to guarantee the reliable, partners). safe and competitive performance of AREVA customer facilities. Its international AREVA Med built the Maurice Tubiana Laboratory in Bessines-sur-Gartempe, in the teams are armed with standardized tools, methods and procedures that capitalize Limousin region, to produce highly pure lead-212 for clinical development needs. on operating experience from more than 3,000 projects led every year in every Production began in 2013. In 2015, to extend its industrial footprint, AREVA Med aspect of the fuel cycle: mining, enrichment, fuel fabrication, reactors, used fuel launched the construction of a new production unit near Dallas, Texas in the United recycling and dismantling operations. Depending on the risk-sharing requirements States. Dubbed the domestic distribution and production unit (DDPU), it will also of its customer in the Business Groups, the Engineering & Projects Organization house the operations of its subsidiary Macrocyclics and will be operational in the commits to completing turnkey projects or work packages under cost-plus or second quarter of 2016. ﬁxed-price contracts, either as a sole contractor or as an integrator of diﬀerent In 2012, AREVA Med entered into a strategic alliance with Roche to create a new partners on a local or international level. To that end, and to support AREVA’s advanced platform for alpha radio-immunotherapy. This alliance focuses its eﬀorts customers in integrating local resources into the projects while ensuring the global on the development of treatments for cancers with high unmet medical needs. As competitiveness of AREVA’s oﬀering, the Engineering & Projects Organization part of their partnership, Roche and AREVA Med built a joint research laboratory develops strategic partnerships with engineering ﬁrms and construction companies called ARCoLab (AREVA Med Roche Common Laboratory). Located in France across the globe. (Limousin region), this lab has been operational since 2013 and partners’ eﬀorts The project execution capabilities of the Engineering & Projects Organization have continued in 2015. together with the technical expertise of its teams, who are familiar with the In 2015, AREVA Med also signed a new partnership with RadioMedix to co-develop technologies developed by the group as well as with those of its competitors, a new alpha therapy treatment against neuroendocrine tumors. give AREVA a major advantage. Skills management, adjusting the skills mix to meet market demand, and oﬀering attractive careers are the core mission of In 2012, AREVA Med launched the ﬁrst Phase 1 clinical trial with lead-212, targeting Engineering & Project’s four centers of competence in project management, intra-abdominal HER-2 expressing cancers (such as ovarian cancer). Patient design and engineering, construction and testing, and inspection. They also draw enrolment for this unprecedented clinical trial was completed in 2014; complete on AREVA’s global network of experts, who contribute to the success of the projects scientiﬁc results have been fully analysed in 2015 and will be published in 2016. by developing innovative technologies, transferring know-how and training technical Finally, in 2015, the CARAT project (Consortium pour des Applications en Radio contributors to the projects. Alpha Thérapie) aiming at developing a French sector of excellence in nuclear medicine using lead-212 received about 10 million euros in ﬁnancing under the French future investment program managed by the Commissariat Général à 6.4.6.2. AREVA MED l’Investissement (CGI). Coordinated by AREVA Med, CARAT unites the companies EVEON and Triskem International, the Limoges university hospital, the CRIBL Alpha therapy laboratory at Limoges university and Subatech. AREVA Med is the medical subsidiary of AREVA. It was created in 2009 to develop innovative therapies to ﬁght cancer. Based on an R&D program started in 2005, AREVA Med developed a unique process for producing high-purity lead-212 (212Pb), a rare isotope. AREVA Med’s lead-212 is currently the focus of promising research projects in nuclear medicine, and new cancer treatments are currently being developed. This innovative approach is also known as radioimmunotherapy when combined with the use of an antibody. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 89 07 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE SIMPLIFIED ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE GROUP AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 AREVA (SA) 100% 100% 83.58% 100% 100% 100% AREVA NC (SA) AREVA NP (SAS) AREVA TA (SA) AREVA Mines (SA) AREVA Business AREVA ÉNERGIES Support (SAS) RENOUVELABLES (SAS) 34% 59.65% 100% 66% 50% EURODIF (SA) 100% AREVA Inc. ELTA (SA) CFMM (SA) (USA) ADWEN Offshore 100% 86.51% SL AREVA NC (Spain) SOCATRI (SARL) Expansion (SAS) 100% AREVA GmbH (Germany) 66.65% 100% IMOURAREN TN INTERNATIONAL (SA) (SA) (Niger) 50% CNNC AREVA Shangai Tubing Cie Ltd. (CAST) 100% AREVA Resources (China) Southern Africa 88% SET (SAS) (Société (URAMIN Inc.) d’enrichissement du tricastin) 50% ATMEA (SAS) 100% AREVA Resources Canada Inc. 66% CORYS (SAS) ETC Ltd. (Enrichment 51% 50% KATCO Technology (Kazakhstan) Company Ltd.) (UK) 63.4% SOMAIR (SA) (Niger) 100% AREVA MED (SAS) 34% COMINAK (SA) (Niger) AFRICA 100% AREVA TEMIS (SAS) ASIA FRANCE EUROPE 100% STMI (SA) NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA Indirectly held The organization chart above reﬂects in particular the main consolidated companies of the group at December 31, 2015 appearing in Note 36 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. The percentages mentioned for each entity correspond to the share of interest in the capital. 90 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 08 8.1. PRINCIPAL SITES OF THE GROUP 91 8.2. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES THAT MAY AFFECT 8.1.1. Corporate 91 THE ISSUER’S USE OF PROPERTY, PLANT 8.1.2. Mining Business Group 92 AND EQUIPMENT 96 8.1.3. Front End Business Group 93 8.1.4. Reactors & Services Business Group 94 8.1.5. Back End Business Group 95 8.1.6. Renewable Energies Business Group 95 8.1.7. Engineering & Projects 96 8.1.8. Scheduled investments 96 8.1. PRINCIPAL SITES OF THE GROUP Pursuant to Appendix I, point 8 of European Commission Regulation no. 809/2004 The group’s principal worldwide plant sites at December 31, 2015 are listed below. of April 29, 2004 and recommendation 146 of the European Securities and Markets The primary criterion for listing sites is the size of the operation conducted there. It Authority (ESMA), information is provided hereunder on the real estate properties should be noted that several diﬀerent operations are performed at some of these and rentals used by the group in connection with its operations. sites. 8.1.1. CORPORATE Existence Lease/full of encumbrances Surface Location Type of asset ownership on the real estate area Tour AREVA, 1 place Jean Millier – Paris-La-Défense (92) France Oﬃces (registered oﬃce) Lease No 93,457 m2 33, rue La-Fayette – Paris (75) France Oﬃces Lease No 13,312 m2 1-5, rue du Débarcadère – Colombes (92) France Oﬃces Lease No 13,477 m2 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 91 08 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 8.1 Principal sites of the group 8.1.2. MINING BUSINESS GROUP Existence of encumbrances Location Type of asset Lease/Full ownership on the real estate Surface area Products manufactured Arlit Oﬃces + production and Long-term concession/ Niger storage facilities Full ownership No 146.55 ha Uranium concentrates Akokan Oﬃces + production and Long-term concession/ Niger storage facilities Full ownership No 17.34 ha Uranium concentrates Imouraren Long-term concession/ Niger Mining site Full ownership No 20,000 ha Under development Trekkopje Long-term concession/ Namibia Mining site Full ownership No 37,367 ha Care and maintenance Trekkopje Land: 20 ha Namibia Desalination plant Full ownership No Building: 12,945 m2 Seawater desalination McClean Long-term concession/ Canada Mill + base camp Full ownership No 4,600 ha Uranium concentrates Bessines/ Gartempe Oﬃces + production and Research laboratory and (France) storage facilities Full ownership No 162.7 ha U308 storage Muyunkum Oﬃces + production and Long-term concession/ Kazakhstan storage facilities Full ownership No 72.2 ha Eluates Tortkuduk Oﬃces + production and Long-term concession/ Eluates + uranium Kazakhstan storage facilities Full ownership No 103.43 ha concentrates (U3O8) 92 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 8.1 Principal sites of the group 08 8.1.3. FRONT END BUSINESS GROUP Existence of encumbrances Lease/full on the real Location Type of asset ownership estate Surface area Products manufactured Tricastin (26) Plant and Full ownership No Land: 625.64 ha Conversion of UF6, deﬂuorination and denitration France (nuclear regulated, storage areas Building: 109.24 ha of TU5, TU2 and depleted UO2, related services security regulated, (eﬄuent treatment, equipment maintenance), environmentally regulated storage and enrichment services facility) Malvési (11) France (nuclear regulated, environmentally regulated Land: 144.68 ha facility) Mill Full ownership No Building: 31,192 m2 UF4 conversion services Romans-sur-Isère (26) France (regulated nuclear Land: 32.6 ha facility) Mill Full ownership No Building: 59,789 m2 PWR fuel assemblies Paimbœuf (44) France (environmentally Land: 64,366 m2 regulated facility) Mill Full ownership No Building: 18,170 m2 Zirconium tubes for fuel assemblies Jarrie (38) France (environmentally Full ownership/ Land: 10.13 ha regulated facility) Mill Lease No Building: 41,813 m2 Zirconium sponge Rugles (27) France (environmentally Land: 73,491 m2 regulated facility) Mill Full ownership No Building: 12,630 m2 Zirconium products Ugine (73) France (environmentally Land: 56,465 m2 Intermediate products in zirconium and titanium regulated facility) Mill Full ownership No Building: 33,550 m2 Plug rods Lyon (69) France Oﬃces Lease No Building: 8,146 m2 Engineering Dessel Land: 10.39 ha Belgium (nuclear facility) Mill Full ownership No Building: 17,851 m2 Site undergoing dismantling Richland Washington – United States Land: 134.42 ha Powder and pellet production (UO2, Gad & BLEU), (nuclear facility) Mill Full ownership No Building: 36,900 m2 Assemblies and various components. Lingen Land: 44.13 ha Germany (nuclear facility) Mill Full ownership No Building: 14,260 m2 Fuel assemblies for BWRs and PWRs 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 93 08 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 8.1 Principal sites of the group 8.1.4. REACTORS & SERVICES BUSINESS GROUP Existence of encumbrances Lease/full on the real Location Type of asset ownership estate Surface area Products manufactured Saint-Marcel (71) France (environmentally Land: 18.54 ha Heavy components (reactor vessel, vessel head, regulated facility) Mill Full ownership No Building: 56,814 m2 steam generator, pressurizer) Jeumont (59) France (environmentally Land: 92,057 m2 Reactor coolant pump sets, control rod drive regulated facility) Mill Full ownership No Building: 40,408 m2 mechanisms Maubeuge (59) France (nuclear regulated, Services related to contaminated component environmentally regulated Land: 96,390 m2 maintenance: reactor coolant pump assembly facility) Mill Full ownership No Building: 11,429 m2 & testing Le Creusot (71) Forgings and machining of large parts for the France (environmentally Plant, oﬃces, Full ownership/ Land: 12.48 ha nuclear and petrochemicals industries Technical regulated facility) workshop Lease No Building: 73,131 m2 center testing Chalon-sur-Saône (71) Oﬃces, Cedem, France (environmentally Cemo, Cetic Full ownership/ Land: 25.41 ha Robotics, tooling, decontamination, storage regulated facility) (50/50 JV with EDF) Lease No Building: 60,606 m2 of tooling (contaminated/decontaminated) Cadarache (13) Production plant, Land: 15.31 ha France (INBS) oﬃces CEA host site No Building: 53,954 m2 Nuclear fuel Aix-en-Provence (13) Land: 10.6 ha France Oﬃces Full ownership No Building: 12,053 m2 Design/Engineering Saclay (91) Full ownership/ Land: 1.5 ha France Oﬃces Lease No Building: 7,298 m2 Design/Engineering Loches (37) France (environmentally Production and Land: 16,844 m2 regulated facility) services site Full ownership No Building: 4,800 m2 Standard products Lyon (69) France Oﬃces Lease No Building: 14,079 m2 Engineering JV 50 JSPM/ 50 Dongfang Deyang Electric Land: 36,729 m2 Sichuan, China Mill Machinery No Building: 16,116 m2 Reactor coolant pumps Lynchburg Virginia – United States Oﬃces, hot facilities, Full ownership/ Land: 99,636 m2 Decontamination (nuclear facility) Training Center Lease No Building: 23,172 m2 Hot maintenance facility Meriden Connecticut – United Production and States services site Full ownership No Building: 16,200 m2 Standard products, systems Canberra Oak Ridge Production and Land: 9,915 m2 Tennessee – United States services site Full ownership No Building: 3,160 m2 Crystal growth Olen Production and Land: 9,400 m2 Belgium services site Full ownership No Building: 2,494 m2 Standard detectors 2 Harwell Production and Land: 8,665 m United Kingdom services site Lease No Building: 2,262 m2 Standard products, systems Erlangen Robotics/tooling, Technical Center – testing, Germany Oﬃces, facilities Lease No Building: 69,715 m2 Engineering 94 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 8.1 Principal sites of the group 08 8.1.5. BACK END BUSINESS GROUP Existence of encumbrances Lease/full on the real Location Type of asset ownership estate Surface area Products manufactured La Hague (50) Land: 384.2 ha France (regulated nuclear facility) Plant site Full ownership No Building: 771,097 m² Used fuel treatment Valognes (50) Oﬃces, Land: 39,023 m2 France Warehouse Full ownership No Building: 12,900 m2 Oﬃces and transportation warehouse Saint-Sauveur-le-Vicomte (50) Full ownership/ Land: 27,094 m2 France Oﬃce, workshop Lease No Building: 9,638 m2 Machining and mechanical fabrication Cadarache (13) France (regulated nuclear facility) Plants, oﬃces Full ownership No Building: 4,995 m2 Site undergoing dismantling Miramas (13) France Land: 31.3 ha (environmentally regulated facility) Mill Full ownership No Building: 19,910 m2 Site undergoing cleanup Marcoule (30) Land: 11.47 ha France (regulated nuclear facility) Plants, oﬃces Full ownership No Building: 60,012 m2 MOX fabrication Bollène (84) France Land: 19,483 m2 Machine maintenance, (environmentally regulated facility) Mill Full ownership No Building: 9,644 m2 waste processing, equipment recertiﬁcation 8.1.6. RENEWABLE ENERGIES BUSINESS GROUP Existence of encumbrances Lease/full on the real Location Type of asset ownership estate Surface area Products manufactured Aix-en-Provence (13) Land: 1,230 m2 France Oﬃces, Plant Lease No Building: 835 m2 Fuel cells Chennai India Oﬃces Lease No Building: 1,142 m2 Oﬃces 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 95 08 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 8.2 Environmental issues that may aﬀect the issuer’s use of property, plant and equipment 8.1.7. ENGINEERING & PROJECTS Existence of Lease/Full encumbrances on Location Type of asset ownership the real estate Surface area Products manufactured Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines (78) France Oﬃces Lease No Building: 27,472 m2 Engineering Lyon (69) France Oﬃces Lease No Building: 8,921 m2 Engineering 2 Erlangen Land: 27,500 m Germany Oﬃces Lease No Building: 53,632 m2 Engineering Offenbach Germany Oﬃces Lease No Building: 27,580 m2 Engineering 8.1.8. SCHEDULED INVESTMENTS Please refer to Section 5.2. Investments, and to the appropriate sections of Chapter 6. Business overview for more detailed information on scheduled investments by Business Group. 8.2. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES THAT MAY AFFECT THE ISSUER’S USE OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Please refer to Section 4. Risk factors. 96 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT ANALYSIS OF AND COMMENTS ON THE GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE 09 9.1. OVERVIEW 97 9.2.2. Summary data by business segment 102 9.1.1. Business trends 97 9.2.3. Comparabilité des comptes 104 9.1.2. Key features of AREVA’s business model 98 9.2.4. Backlog 105 9.1.3. Highlights of the period 98 9.2.5. Statement of income 105 9.2.6. Cash ﬂow 107 9.2. SITUATION AND ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY 9.2.7. Balance sheet items 110 AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES BY BUSINESS 9.2.8. Business review 112 SEGMENT DURING THE YEAR 99 9.2.1. Summary of key data 101 9.3. EVENTS SUBSEQUENT TO YEAR-END CLOSING FOR 2015 115 9.1. OVERVIEW The following comments are based on ﬁnancial information for ﬁnancial years 2014 AREVA’s information by business segment is presented for each operating Business and 2015 and must be read in conjunction with AREVA’s consolidated ﬁnancial Group (Business Group), which is the level at which information is examined by the statements for the years ended December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015. These group’s governance bodies, as per the requirements of IFRS 8. comments were drafted based on the group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union on December 31, 2015. 9.1.1. BUSINESS TRENDS CHANGE IN THE GROUP’S CONSOLIDATION SCOPE MARKET TRENDS The reorientation of the group’s operations will translate in particular into the sale Recurring activities represent approximately 95% of AREVA’s consolidated revenue of a majority share of AREVA NP to EDF and by the refocusing of AREVA on Government programs, particularly in China, India, the United Kingdom and the management of the nuclear fuel cycle. Consequently, the operations of AREVA NP United States, provide considerable stimulus to the nuclear market. (excluding the OL3 contract), Nuclear Measurements, and Propulsion and Research In 2015, AREVA’s markets in nuclear power were aﬀected by: Reactors are treated as “operations sold, discontinued or held for sale” in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, pursuant to the IFRS 5 accounting rule. The p a reduction of long-term price levels in the natural uranium market and a drop Wind Energy and Solar Energy operations are also recognized according to IFRS 5, in spot and long-term price levels in the conversion and enrichment markets; the group having continued to restructure its Renewables operations in 2015. p delays in the schedule for restart of Japanese reactors, notwithstanding the restart of the ﬁrst two units in the second half of 2015; p revised schedule assumptions for the start of export contracts in recycling and international projects (Back End). 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 97 09 ANALYSIS OF AND COMMENTS ON THE GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE 9.1 Overview 9.1.2. KEY FEATURES OF AREVA’S BUSINESS MODEL The group’s continuing operations will be represented by three Business Groups facilities which must be kept in operational readiness through regular and heavy – Mining, Front End and Back End – supplemented by the “Corporate and other capital expenditure ﬁnanced by customers through long-term contracts. In addition, operations” segment. the Business Group provides industrial know-how to international projects involving The Mining Business Group is characterized by relatively long contract terms. This the creation of or support to other treatment and recycling platforms. In parallel, multiyear contractual approach is necessary given the signiﬁcant amount of capital the Business Group continues to deploy know-how in the dismantling and cleanup expended to develop new mines, which are operated over very long periods of time. of nuclear sites. The Front End Business Group, which covers the operations of uranium chemistry The Corporate and other operations segment includes, in addition to the and enrichment, is also characterized by multiyear contracts equivalent to an Corporate functions, the Olkiluoto 3 EPRreactor construction project in Finland average backlog of more than 5 years (depending on customer requests, contracts (OL3) and the Bioenergy operations, the latter being based on a mature technology may cover a period of more than 15 years for Enrichment and contain standard and a fragmented market. The group supplies turnkey design, construction and price escalation clauses). commissioning services to customers for biomass power plants. The Back End Business Group manages all of the operations associated with used nuclear fuel recycling and value development of nuclear facilities through their cleanup and dismantling, and oﬀers transportation solutions for each segment of the nuclear cycle. It is characterized by multiyear contracts with a limited number of customers. The Back End Business Group’s operations are carried out in industrial 9.1.3. HIGHLIGHTS OF THE PERIOD The information provided in this section concerns the group as a whole. Highlights construction, fuel assembly and services to the installed base. AREVA will related to contracts recorded over the period are described in business segment retain a strategic interest in the company through a shareholders’ agreement; review. ○ this plan should also allow discussions between EDF and AREVA aimed at reducing the risks of large projects in progress carried out by AREVA NP, in CONCERNING BUSINESS STRATEGY AND CAPITAL the interests of all participants in the French nuclear industry; EXPENDITURES ○ combining of the design, project management and marketing operations for new reactors of EDF and AREVA in a specialized company; p On March 4, during the publication of the group’s ﬁnancial results for 2014 showing a net loss of 4.8 billion euros and negative equity, AREVA announced: ○ a capital increase in which the French State will participate. p On June 29, AREVA announced that it had begun the process of selling its ○ the development of a strategic road map with three objectives: refocus on core nuclear processes, redeﬁne the partnership with EDF and reinforce the Canberra subsidiary, which specializes in nuclear measurement systems and development of the group’s presence in China; instrumentation. p On July 30, during the publication of its half-year 2015 results, AREVA conﬁrmed ○ the implementation of a competitiveness plan targeting 1 billion euros in savings by 2017; ﬁnancing requirements of approximately 7 billion euros which could be covered by several internal sources of ﬁnancing, the implementation of a program of asset ○ the establishment of dialogue between management and employees; sales, and additional measures to strengthen liquidity and equity. Moreover, in ○ the preparation of a ﬁnancing plan for 2015-2017 by the time the half-year addition to the measures in the ﬁnancing plan, the group announced the need ﬁnancial statements are published. for a signiﬁcant capital increase to give AREVA a ﬁnancial proﬁle enabling it to p On March 9, AREVA and Gamesa signed ﬁnal agreements and closed the deal reﬁnance all of the company’s medium-term requirements. to create Adwen, a joint venture in the ﬁeld of oﬀshore wind. p On October 19, AREVA announced the signature of a proposed agreement p On April 14, following the AREVA GmbH Supervisory Board meeting, AREVA on employment by the CFDT, CFE-CGE, FO and UNSA-SPAEN labor unions. announced that it was opening discussions between management and labor p On October 20, AREVA announced the presentation by management of on a plan to transfer operations from the Oﬀenbach site (700 employees) to the documents describing the reorganization plans for the new AREVA and Erlangen and Karlstein sites by mid-2016. AREVA NP, together with their impacts on employment, to the Works Committees p On May 7, AREVA announced the opening of negotiations with the labor unions and Central Works Committees. on the social components of its competitiveness plan. The group is aiming for p On November 2, AREVA and its Chinese partner CNNC signed a memorandum a reduction of its payroll expenses of some 15% in France and 18% for the of understanding in Beijing on possible cooperation involving an equity group as a whole. component and an industrial component. p On June 3, the President of the French Republic announced a series of guidance p On December 24, AREVA announced that, following analysis of oﬀers, the for the redeﬁnition of the French nuclear industry, including the following points AREVA Board of Directors had selected the Mirion-Charterhouse oﬀer to acquire in particular: its subsidiary Canberra. ○ subject to the signature of a global strategic partnership agreement with AREVA, EDF would become the majority shareholder of the joint AREVA NP IN THE FIELD OF GOVERNANCE subsidiary, which brings together the industrial operations of reactor p Highlights regarding changes in the group’s governance are mentioned in Section 14.1. Board of Directors. 98 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT ANALYSIS OF AND COMMENTS ON THE GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE 9.2 Situation and activities of the company and its subsidiaries by business segment during the year 09 IN THE COMMERCIAL ARENA p On April 21, AREVA announced the continuation of its quality analyses at the Creusot forge. p The group’s commercial highlights are mentioned in Section 9.2.8. Business Review. p AREVA and EDF reached an agreement in June 2014 on the main ﬁnancial terms of the treatment and recycling contract for the 2013-2020 period. On May 27, 2015, AREVA and EDF agreed on the application of this agreement to the years IN THE NUCLEAR FIELD 2013-2015. Discussions concerning an agreement for the 2016-2023 period p On January 30, during the visit to China of Manuel Valls, Prime Minister of France, ended in December 2015 and the contract was formally signed on February 5, AREVA and CNNC signed a memorandum of understanding to establish a joint 2016 following approval by the governing bodies of each group. venture in nuclear logistics and transportation. p On June 26, AREVA announced that it had decided to temporarily reduce its p On February 18, AREVA announced the suspension of the design certiﬁcation activities at the Angra 3 nuclear reactor of ETN in Brazil. This temporary reduction process for the US EPR reactor. is due to a delay in the ﬁnancing of the remainder of the activities to be carried out to complete the project. As soon as ETN has ﬁrmed up a long-term ﬁnancing p On April 7, AREVA and EDF informed the nuclear safety authority ASN (Autorité solution, AREVA will resume all of its project-related activities. de sûreté nucléaire) of a new testing campaign starting in April 2015 for qualiﬁcation of the Flamanville EPR vessel closure head and bottom head. This p On June 30, on the occasion of the visit to France of the Prime Minister of China, campaign follows chemical and mechanical tests carried out on a representative AREVA signed three agreements with CNNC, CGN and EDF pursuant to the piece of the closure and bottom heads. joint statement of the Prime Ministers of France and China on increasing FrancoChinese cooperation on civilian nuclear energy. p On April 10, on the occasion of the visit to France of Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of India, AREVA signed two industrial agreements with Indian partners, p On December 15, AREVA presented its quality improvement plan for its signaling progress on the Jaitapur EPR project. equipment manufacturing plants to the College of the Nuclear Safety Authority during a hearing. 9.2. SITUATION AND ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES BY BUSINESS SEGMENT DURING THE YEAR In accordance with IFRS 5, the statement of income and the statement of cash p a 2015-2017 ﬁnancing plan. ﬂows for the year ended December 31, 2014 were restated to present pro forma information using a consolidation scope comparable to that of the year ended Discussions with EDF for the sale of AREVA NP December 31, 2015; net income from operating activities whose disposal is AREVA and EDF continue their discussions for the sale of at least 75% of AREVA NP under negotiation is presented on a separate line, “net income from discontinued to EDF. operations”. p The two companies signed a preliminary memorandum of understanding on The following operations meet the criteria of IFRS 5 for classiﬁcation as “discontinued July 29, 2015 presenting the principal terms and conditions of the project with operations” at December 31, 2015: a view to ﬁnalizing deﬁnitive agreements. p AREVA NP (excluding the OL3 project); p The next milestone was met during the AREVA Board of Directors meeting p Nuclear Measurements; of January 27, 2016, which was favorable to the convergence of negotiations entered into with EDF concerning the valuation of AREVA NP’s operations and p Propulsion and Research Reactors; gave the Chief Executive Oﬃcer authority to ﬁnalize the negotiations. AREVA p Solar Energy; reached an agreement with EDF on an indicative value of 2.5 billion euros for p Wind Energy. 100% of the share capital at the closing date of the transaction, excluding the Details on adoption of the IFRS 5 accounting rule are given in Section 9.2.3 and in OL3 project, with a price supplement mechanism as a function in particular of Note 9 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. AREVA NP’s performance over the 2017-2018 period, and which could reach a maximum amount of 350 million euros. This proposal is likely to be adjusted The year of 2015 saw the implementation of measures announced on March 4, upwards or downwards as a function of the ﬁnancial statements drawn up at 2015 during the publication of the financial statements for the year ended the closing date of the transaction. December 31, 2014, and guidance for the transformation of the French nuclear industry announced on June 3, 2015 by the President of the French Republic. ○ AREVA would keep a strategic interest in AREVA NP of at least 15%, with which governance rights would be associated suited to AREVA’s status as a Important milestones were met in 2015 and in the ﬁrst weeks of 2016, in particular strategic minority shareholder. for the following items: ○ Finalization of the transaction remains subject in particular to (i) the favorable p advanced discussions with EDF for the sale of at least 75% of AREVA NP’s share outcome of verifications in progress concerning the compliance of the capital, excluding the OL3 contract; Flamanville 3 reactor vessel and (ii) the deﬁnition of procedures for transferring p refocusing of AREVA on nuclear fuel cycle operations with the announced the OL3 contract from AREVA NP to AREVA SA. termination or sale of operations that are not part of its core business; ○ The parties’ objective is to carry out this transaction in 2017, after consultation p a competitiveness plan aiming for 1 billion euros in cost reductions by 2017, with the employee representative bodies, receipt of regulatory authorizations including a restructuring plan; and the lifting of the other conditions precedent of the transaction. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 99 09 ANALYSIS OF AND COMMENTS ON THE GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE 9.2 Situation and activities of the company and its subsidiaries by business segment during the year In this context, AREVA considers that the sale of a controlling interest in AREVA NP to Liquidity situation and business continuity EDF is highly probable and that the conditions for implementing IFRS 5 accounting At December 31, 2015, the liquidity risk was covered for the year of 2016 by: rules concerning operations held for sale have been met. The OL3 project is not part of the scope held for sale (see Section 20.2, Note 9). p a positive gross cash position of 0.8 billion euros (versus 1.7 billion euros at December 31, 2014). Gross cash was maintained at this level through a Refocusing on nuclear fuel cycle operations combination of optimization actions taken during the year (strengthened cash management, implementation of the competitiveness plan, factoring transactions The sale, termination or transformation into a joint venture of operations that are and the sale of tax credit receivables). These cash optimization measures will not part of the new AREVA’s core business, refocused on the nuclear fuel cycle, continue in 2016; have been announced or carried out in 2015: p an unused balance of conﬁrmed lines of credit in the approximate amount of p Oﬀshore Wind: On March 9, 2015, AREVA and Gamesa ﬁnalized the creation 2.1 billion euros, including a syndicated line of credit and bilateral lines of credit. of the Adwen joint venture; Since December 31, 2015: p Solar Energy: Discussions with potential buyers were not successful, and the last project in execution was the subject of an agreement with the customer on p as it announced on January 27, 2016, AREVA drew the full amount of these January 16, 2016 to terminate the contract; lines of credit, including a syndicated line of credit and bilateral lines of credit totaling 2.045 billion euros, on January 4 and 5, 2016; p Nuclear Measurements: Following a call for oﬀers issued in June 2015 aimed at selling its subsidiaries Canberra Industries Inc. and Canberra France S.A.S., p a bridge loan of 1.1 billion euros provided by a banking pool was negotiated which specialize in nuclear measurement instrumentation and systems, AREVA and will supplement these resources to ensure the group’s business continuity. selected the Mirion proposal on December 24, 2015; At December 31, 2015, current ﬁnancial debt totaled 1.440 billion euros, consisting p AREVA TA: The principle of an acquisition by the Agence des participations de in particular of: l’État of a majority interest in AREVA TA was announced in a press release on p the last installment in the amount of 200 million euros of a loan granted by the December 17, 2015 and conﬁrmed on January 27, 2016. European Investment Bank, paid in January 2016; These operations were classiﬁed under operations sold, discontinued or held for p the scheduled repayment of 964 million euros of a bond issue in September 2016; sale at December 31, 2015, pursuant to IFRS 5 (see Section 20.2, Note 9). p scheduled repayments of the redeemable loan for structured financing of Georges Besse II in the amount of 36 million euros; Restructuring plan p accrued interest on bond issues in the amount of 56 million euros in The group announced a personnel expense reduction target of 18% worldwide September 2016; (15% in France) based on renegotiation of compensation, the organization of working time, and manpower adjustments leading to the elimination of 5,000 to p commercial paper in the amount of 26 million euros; and 6,000 jobs, including 3,000 to 4,000 in France, by the end of 2017. p current bank credit facilities and positive credit balances in the amount of In France, a group agreement was signed on October 19, 2015 between 91 million euros. management and labor. Measures are based on voluntary action. The consultation Beyond 2016, and up to the end of 2018, signiﬁcant debt repayments include procedures with employee representative bodies are in progress and, subject to repayment of the bond issue expiring in October 2017 in the nominal remaining approval by the labor administration, the voluntary departure plans will enter into amount of 798 million euros, reimbursement of the bridge loan of 1.1 billion euros force in early April 2016. in January 2017, assuming it is used in 2016, repayment of the bilateral lines of credit in the amount of 795 million euros in 2017, repayment of the syndicated In Germany, the closing of the Oﬀenbach site and the transfer of the personnel to line of credit in the amount of 1.250 billion euros in January 2018, and a private the Karlstein and Erlangen sites was announced. These activities will be ﬁnalized placement in yen equivalent to 60 million euros in September 2018. Over that in mid-2016. timeframe, business continuity will be ensured by taking the measures set forth Provisions for restructuring were recognized at December 31, 2015 in this regard in the group’s ﬁnancing plan, whose objective of the ﬁnancing plan is to give the (see Section 20.2, Note 24). company the means to implement its transformation plan and to present a ﬁnancial proﬁle enabling it to reﬁnance in the markets on a long-term basis. These measures Capital increase include among others the capital increase, the sale of the majority of AREVA NP The Board of Directors, meeting on January 27, 2016, approved the principle of to EDF, and the other subsidiary sales described in the preceding paragraphs. a capital increase in the amount of 5 billion euros designed to restore a sound balance sheet to the group. On that same day, the President of the French Republic announced that the State, as leading shareholder, would subscribe to this capital increase, to which minority third-party investors would be invited, and would ensure its full success, in compliance with regulations and European procedures applicable to such transactions. 100 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT ANALYSIS OF AND COMMENTS ON THE GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE 9.2 Situation and activities of the company and its subsidiaries by business segment during the year 09 Contract for construction of the Olkiluoto 3 EPR However, the loss at completion of the project was raised by 905 million euros to Over the course of 2015, the Olkiluoto 3 EPR project made progress, meeting reﬂect (i) extra operating costs, (ii) an increase in costs and contingencies for the critical path milestones. test phases, and (iii) the probable outcome of discussions begun with TVO. Discussions have begun with TVO with the objectives of jointly laying the foundations All amounts are expressed millions of euros unless otherwise indicated. Due to for cooperation to complete the project and settle the dispute. All parties consider that rounding adjustments, some totals may not be strictly accurate. Financial indicators preliminary discussions have proceeded positively. If this agreement materializes, the are deﬁned in the Financial Glossary. OL3 contract will be transferred from AREVA NP to AREVA SA within the framework of the restructuring of the French nuclear industry. 9.2.1. SUMMARY OF KEY DATA Change (in millions of euros, except workforce) 2015 2014* 2015/2014 Income Reported revenue 4,199 3,954 +246 Gross margin (288) (579) +291 Percentage of reported revenue ns ns ns Operating income (1,388) (2,115) +727 Net ﬁnancial income (313) (299) -14 Share in net income of joint ventures and associates (21) (14) -7 Net income from discontinued operations (190) (1,678) +1,488 Consolidated net income (2,038) (4,833) +2,795 Comprehensive income attributable to equity owners of the parent (1,825) (5,155) +3,330 Cash ﬂow EBITDA 685 471 +214 Percentage of reported revenue 16.3% 11.9% +4.4 pts Change in operating working capital requirement 246 (76) +322 Net operating Capex (631) (991) +359 Operating cash ﬂow 297 (579) +876 Miscellaneous Backlog 28,990 32,103 -3,113 Net cash (debt) (6,323) (5,809) -514 Equity attributable to owners of the parent (2,516) (691) -1,825 Workforce (end of period, including operations held for sale) 39,761 41,847 -5.0% Dividend per share * Adjusted for adoption of IFRS 5. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 101 09 ANALYSIS OF AND COMMENTS ON THE GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE 9.2 Situation and activities of the company and its subsidiaries by business segment during the year 9.2.2. SUMMARY DATA BY BUSINESS SEGMENT 2015 Corporate and (in millions of euros) Mining Front End Back End other operations Total Income Contribution to consolidated revenue 1,447 1,097 1,593 62 4,199 Operating income 183 101 (184) (1,488) (1,388) Percentage of contribution to consolidated revenue 12.7% 9.2% ns ns ns Cash ﬂow EBITDA 604 389 315 (624) 685 Percentage of contribution to consolidated revenue 41.7% 35.5% 19.8% ns 16.3% Change in operating WCR (63) (197) 300 207 246 Net operating Capex (184) (272) (165) (10) (631) Operating cash ﬂow 351 (78) 450 (425) 297 Miscellaneous PP&E and intangible assets (including goodwill) 3,862 4,330 2,256 114 10,562 2014 Corporate and (in millions of euros) Mining Front End Back End other operations Total Income Contribution to consolidated revenue 1,297 988 1,531 137 3,954 Operating income (73) (497) (495) (1,050) (2,115) Percentage of contribution to consolidated revenue ns ns ns ns ns Cash ﬂow EBITDA 451 245 232 (457) 471 Percentage of contribution to consolidated revenue 34.8% 24.8% 15.2% ns 11.9% Change in operating WCR (29) (62) 25 (8) (76) Net operating Capex (440) (371) (142) (37) (991) Operating cash ﬂow (14) (189) 114 (490) (579) Reactors Renewable (in millions of euros) Mining Front End & Services Back End Energies Corporate Total Miscellaneous PP&E and intangible assets (including goodwill) 4,244 5,730 2,299 2,246 48 85 14,653 102 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT ANALYSIS OF AND COMMENTS ON THE GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE 9.2 Situation and activities of the company and its subsidiaries by business segment during the year 09 SUMMARY OF REVENUE BY REGION AND BUSINESS GROUP Change (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 2015/2014 France 1,660 1,587 +4.6% Mining 252 220 +14.5% Front End 274 313 -12.7% Back End 1,098 957 +14.7% Corporate and other operations 36 96 -62.6% Europe (excluding France) 703 648 +8.4% Mining 225 188 +19.6% Front End 258 170 +51.7% Back End 209 283 -26.2% Corporate and other operations 11 7 +50.5% North and South America 833 213 +2.5% Mining 273 260 +4.9% Front End 318 326 -2.6% Back End 236 205 +14.8% Corporate and other operations 6 21 -69.3% Asia-Paciﬁc 906 859 +5.5% Mining 620 598 +3.6% Front End 232 166 +39.4% Back End 46 81 -43.6% Corporate and other operations 8 12 -37.5% Africa and Middle East 98 48 +106.5% Mining 77 30 +152.7% Front End 16 12 +33.1% Back End 5 5 -5.7% Corporate and other operations 1 ns TOTAL 4,199 3,954 +6.2% Additional information on Germany and Japan at December 31, 2015: Percentage of the group’s (in millions of euros) Revenue by customer location consolidated revenue Germany 76 2% Japan 375 9% Additional information on Germany and Japan at December 31, 2014: Percentage of the group’s (in millions of euros) Revenue by customer location consolidated revenue Germany 147 4% Japan 382 10% 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 103 09 ANALYSIS OF AND COMMENTS ON THE GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE 9.2 Situation and activities of the company and its subsidiaries by business segment during the year 9.2.3. COMPARABILITÉ DES COMPTES GENERAL PRINCIPLES p Wind Energy In addition to the discussion and analysis of results reported in the consolidated Adwen’s results are recognized using the equity method as from March 9, 2015, the ﬁnancial statements, the group also presents revenue information on a comparable date of creation of this joint venture. The results from January 1 to March 8, 2015 and basis over consecutive periods, excluding the impact of changes in: the income from deconsolidation are presented in “net income of operations sold”. p consolidation scope; p Solar Energy p exchange rates; and The Solar operations were treated as “discontinued operations” at December 31, 2015, there being no further operations and discussions with potential buyers not p accounting standards and methods. having succeeded. The group provides this additional information to assess changes in the organic p AREVA NP (excluding the OL3 project) growth of its operations. However, this information does not constitute a method of assessing operations under the international accounting standards (IAS) and The scope of AREVA NP operations classiﬁed as “operations held for sale” at international financial reporting standards (IFRS). Excluding exceptions (e.g. December 31, 2015 was determined based on discussions underway between material inability to reconstitute ﬁgures), changes in comparable revenue ﬁgures AREVA and EDF, and may still change. The OL3 project is not part of the scope are calculated as follows: the consolidation scope, exchange rates and accounting held for sale. methods and standards of the prior year are adjusted to reﬂect the consolidation p Nuclear Measurements scope, exchange rates and accounting methods and standards of the current year. In June 2015, AREVA began the process of disposing of its subsidiaries Canberra For example: Industries Inc. and Canberra France S.A.S., which specialize in nuclear measurement p to compare 2015 and 2014 revenue, the group calculates what the 2014 instrumentation and systems. After examining the oﬀers, the AREVA Board of revenue of the diﬀerent operations would have been when average exchange Directors selected the Mirion proposal (supported by the Charterhouse investment rates for 2015 are applied; capital fund) on December 24, 2015. The objective is to ﬁnalize the transaction by the end of 2016. Consequently, the Nuclear Measurements business is treated as p the resulting revenue is then adjusted for the consolidation eﬀect, and the group an “operation held for sale” at December 31, 2015. calculates what the 2014 revenue from the diﬀerent businesses would have been based on the applicable consolidation scope at year-end 2015. p Propulsion and Research Reactors Like for like changes (abbreviated “LFL”) signify “at constant exchange rates and The transformation plan led by AREVA calls for the group to refocus on nuclear cycle consolidation scope”. processes. The Agence des participations de l’État plans to take a majority share of AREVA TA’s capital. The principle of this transaction was conﬁrmed in a press release in December 2015. In that situation, AREVA began the process of disposing FACTORS POTENTIALLY IMPACTING THE COMPARABILITY OF of AREVA TA; the objective is to complete the transaction by the end of 2016. THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Detailed information on the impacts of IFRS 5 is provided in Note 37 to the The following operations meet the criteria of IFRS 5 for classiﬁcation as “discontinued consolidated ﬁnancial statements. operations” at December 31, 2015: Estimated impact of changes in consolidation scope, exchange rate and accounting methods and standards on revenue for ﬁnancial year 2014 The table below presents the estimated impact of changes in exchange rate, the group’s consolidation scope, and valuation methods for 2015 compared with 2014. Changes in 2014 Exchange rate Consolidation valuation Recalculated 2014 (in millions of euros) revenue impact scope impact method revenue Mining 1,297 144 1,441 Front End 988 28 1,016 Back End 1,531 42 1,573 Corporate and other operations 137 (2) (45) 90 TOTAL CONTINUING OPERATIONS 3,954 212 (45) 4,121 104 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT ANALYSIS OF AND COMMENTS ON THE GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE 9.2 Situation and activities of the company and its subsidiaries by business segment during the year 09 9.2.4. BACKLOG Change (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 2015/2014 Backlog 28,990 32,103 -3,113 Mining 9,115 9,539 -424 Front End 10,341 12,496 -2,155 Back End 9,157 9,665 -508 Corporate and other operations 377 402 -26 The group had close to 29 billion euros in backlog at December 31, 2015, compared 6.7 billion euros in 2014, when the treatment and recycling agreement with EDF with 32.1 billion euros at December 31, 2014. This represents nearly seven years was added to the backlog. of revenue. Some 2.5 billion euros in orders were taken in 2015, compared to 9.2.5. STATEMENT OF INCOME 9.2.5.1. REVENUE Change (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 2015/2014 Consolidated revenue 4,199 3,954 +246 Mining 1,447 1,297 +150 Front End 1,097 988 +109 Back End 1,593 1,531 +61 Corporate and other operations 62 137 -75 The group had consolidated revenue of 4.199 billion euros at December 31, 2015, In 2015, revenue in France amounted to 1.660 billion euros, an increase of 4.6% in an increase of 6.2% compared with 2014 (1.9% like for like). Foreign exchange relation to 2014. Revenue from international operations totaled 2.539 billion euros had a positive impact of 212 million euros, mainly in Mining. Consolidation scope over the same period, an increase of 7.3% in relation to 2014. had a negative impact of 45 million euros over the period due to the transfer of the information systems subsidiary Euriware to Capgemini in May 2014. 9.2.5.2. GROSS MARGIN The group’s gross margin amounted to 288 million euros, compared with -579 million euros in 2014. Change (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 2015/2014 Gross margin (288) (579) +291 Percentage of consolidated sales ns ns ns 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 105 09 ANALYSIS OF AND COMMENTS ON THE GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE 9.2 Situation and activities of the company and its subsidiaries by business segment during the year 9.2.5.3. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPPEMENT change is explained by the lower amounts for impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets and for goodwill impairment. The group’s Research and Development expenses represented 112 million euros in 2015, or 2.7% of consolidated revenue. This indicator is down compared Goodwill impairment in 2014 and 2015 is described in Note 10 to the consolidated with 2014, when they totaled 134 million euros, or 3.4% of revenue, due to greater ﬁnancial statements. Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and selectivity in R&D programs. equipment in 2014 and 2015 is described in Notes 11 and 12 respectively to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 9.2.5.4. MARKETING AND SALES, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 9.2.5.6. OPERATING INCOME The group’s marketing, sales, general and administrative expenses totaled The group had an operating loss of 1.388 billion euros in 2015, compared with 216 million euros in 2015, down from 272 million euros in 2014. a loss of 2.115 billion euros in 2014. In 2015, it was impacted by the recognition of exceptional items totaling 1.9 billion euros, compared with 2.1 billion euros In particular, general and administrative expenses totaled 165 million euros in 2015, in 2014, particularly an additional provision for the Cigéo project, an additional loss in contrast to 213 million euros in 2014. In terms of the ratio to revenue for the at completion for the Olkiluoto 3 EPR, and a provision for restructuring connected period, they fell from 5.4% to 3.9%, reﬂecting cost reductions eﬀorts connected with social measures undertaken for the entities concerned of New AREVA. with the performance plan. 9.2.5.7. NET FINANCIAL INCOME 9.2.5.5. OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES The net ﬁnancial loss of 313 million euros in 2015 was down slightly compared Other operating income and expenses represented a net expense of 772 million with the previous period (-299 million euros in 2014). euros in 2015, compared with a net expense of 1.129 billion euros in 2014. This (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Net borrowing costs [(expense)/ income] (185) (185) Other ﬁnancial income and expenses (129) (115) Of which share related to end-of-lifecycle operations 122 30 Of which share not related to end-of-lifecycle operations (250) (145) NET FINANCIAL INCOME (313) (299) 9.2.5.8. INCOME TAX 9.2.5.10. MINORITY INTEREST The net tax expense reached -124 million euros in 2015, compared with a net tax In 2015, minority interests in the group’s net income represented 2 million euros, as expense of -739 million euros in 2014, which included a write-down of previously contrasted with -12 million euros in 2014. This share mainly includes the contribution recognized deferred tax assets (in the amount of 600 million euros). of minority shareholders in the mining and enrichment businesses. 9.2.5.9. SHARE IN NET INCOME OF JOINT VENTURES 9.2.5.11. NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS AND ASSOCIATES OF THE PARENT The share in net income of joint ventures and associates was -21 million euros The net loss attributable to owners of the parent was 2.038 billion euros in 2015, in 2015, compared with -14 million euros in 2014. compared with a loss of 4.833 billion euros in 2014. The net loss after tax of operations sold, discontinued or held for sale in the amount (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 of 190 million euros in 2015, compared with a loss of 1.678 billion euros in 2014, is broken down as follows: ETC 4 (17) p The net loss of AREVA NP (excluding the OL3 contract) amounted to 20 million Adwen (26) euros, compared with a loss of 930 million euros in 2014. It was impacted Other 1 3 by restructuring costs (including provisions) in the amount of 184 million TOTAL (21) (14) euros and by a provision for losses at completion on an export contract in the amount of 41 million euros. An additional provision for losses at completion on a modernization contract in the amount of 155 million euros had been taken in 2014, along with write-downs of capitalized R&D expenses in the amount of 362 million euros and a write-down of previously recognized deferred tax assets in the amount of 338 million euros; 106 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT ANALYSIS OF AND COMMENTS ON THE GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE 9.2 Situation and activities of the company and its subsidiaries by business segment during the year 09 p The net loss in the Wind Energy and Solar Energy operations totaled 296 million p The net loss of the Nuclear Measurements and Propulsion and Research euros, compared with a loss of 642 million euros last year. This change is due Reactors operations was 126 million euros, compared with a loss of 106 million to a reduction of impairment and provisions over the period: euros in 2014, which had been impacted by the recognition of a provision for ○ in the Wind Energy operations, income was aﬀected by 216 million euros contingencies on the Jules Horowitz Reactor construction project. of provisions for additional losses at completion and warranties concerning projects in execution or already executed when Adwen was created; 9.2.5.12. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE ○ in the Solar Energy operations, net income was impacted by previously TO OWNERS OF THE PARENT underlying currency translation diﬀerences in the amount of 78 million euros imposed by the termination of the operations. The agreement signed on Comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent was -1.825 billion euros January 16 to transfer the solar ﬁeld built in Rajasthan, India, in as-is condition in 2015, compared with -5.155 billion euros in 2014. This change is primarily due to the customer eﬀectively ended AREVA’s operational involvement in its solar to the improvement in net income described above. operations. 9.2.6. CASH FLOW 9.2.6.1. CHANGE IN NET DEBT Items contributing to the change in the group’s net debt for the year are presented below. It was calculated according to the French Accounting Board deﬁnition (sum of “cash and cash equivalents” less “current and non-current borrowings”). (in millions of euros) 2015 Reported net debt at beginning of period (December 31, 2014) (5,809) Operating cash ﬂow 297 Cash ﬂow from end-of-lifecycle operations (147) Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities (309) Cash ﬂow net of company operations sold, discontinued or held for sale (181) Income tax paid (140) Impact of the application of IFRS 5 108 Impact of currency translation (70) Other items (73) At December 31, 2015 (NET DEBT)/ NET CASH AT THE END OF THE PERIOD (INCLUDING PUT OPTIONS OF MINORITY INTERESTS) (6,323) CHANGE IN NET DEBT IN 2015 514 The change in net debt for the year ended December 31, 2015 thus amounted to p cash from ﬁnancing activities in the amount of -309 million euros; -514 million euros, compared with -1.340 billion euros in 2014. p cash related to end-of-lifecycle operations in the amount of -147 million euros; Net cash ﬂow from company operations amounted to -590 million euros in 2015, p dividends paid to minority interests of -132 million euros; compared with -1.282 billion euros in 2014. This amount consists mainly of the p tax disbursements of -140 million euros; following items: p partly oﬀset by positive operating cash ﬂow in the amount of 297 million euros. p net cash ﬂow from company operations that were sold, discontinued or held for sale (AREVA NP excluding the OL3 project, Canberra, AREVA TA, Wind Energy and Solar Energy) in the amount of -181 million euros; 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 107 09 ANALYSIS OF AND COMMENTS ON THE GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE 9.2 Situation and activities of the company and its subsidiaries by business segment during the year 9.2.6.2. COMPARATIVE TABLE OF OPERATING CASH FLOWS AND CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS The group analyzes cash ﬂows from operating activities separately from ﬂows relating to end-of-lifecycle operations and other cash ﬂows. RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING CASH FLOWS AND CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS The following table distinguishes operating cash ﬂows from the other cash ﬂows presented in the consolidated statement of cash ﬂows for 2015. End-of-lifecycle (in millions of euros) Operating operations (1) Other (2) Total EBITDA (i) 685 Income from the sale of non-current operating assets and other non-cash operating items (ii) (2) Cash ﬂow from operations after interest and taxes (i + ii) 682 (122) (521) 40 Change in working capital requirement (iii) 246 76 322 Net cash ﬂow from operating activities (i + ii + iii) 928 (122) (444) 362 Cash from (used in) investing activities, net of disposals (iv) (631) (25) (51) (708) Net cash from (used in) ﬁnancing activities (v) (825) (825) Impact of changes in consolidation scope, rates and securities held for trading (vi) 29 29 Net cash generated by operations sold, discontinued or held for sale (vii) 331 331 Cash ﬂow (i + ii + iii + iv + v + vi + vii) 297 (147) (960) (811) (1) Includes expenses for end-of-life-cycle operations incurred on-site and for ﬁnal waste disposal, ﬂows relating to the ﬁnancial asset portfolio earmarked for end-of-life-cycle operations, and ﬂows resulting from the signature of agreements with third parties for the funding by such parties of a share of end-of-life-cycle operations. (2) That is, non-operating ﬂows not relating to end-of-life-cycle operations and primarily corresponding to ﬁnancing ﬂows, including exceptional ﬂows relating to external growth operations, dividends paid, and tax ﬂows. 9.2.6.3. OPERATING CASH FLOW 2015 AND 2014 Change in operating working capital Reported operating EBITDA requirement (WCR) Net operating Capex cash ﬂow (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Mining 604 451 (63) (29) (184) (440) 351 (14) Front End 389 245 (197) (62) (272) (371) (78) (189) Back End 315 232 300 25 (165) (142) 450 114 Corporate and other operations (624) (457) 207 (8) (10) (37) (425) (490) TOTAL GROUP 685 471 246 (76) (631) (991) 297 (579) 108 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT ANALYSIS OF AND COMMENTS ON THE GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE 9.2 Situation and activities of the company and its subsidiaries by business segment during the year 09 EARNINGS BEFORE INCOME TAX, DEPRECIATION NET OPERATING CAPEX AND AMORTIZATION (EBITDA) The group’s net operating Capex totaled 631 million euros in 2015, compared with EBITDA rose in relation to 2014, going from 471 million euros in 2014 to 685 million 991 million euros in 2014. This decrease of 359 million euros is due in particular euros in 2015. to the startup of the Cigar Lake mine in Canada, the mothballing of the Imouraren mining project in Niger, and the reduction of capital expenditure on the Georges Besse II plant, which is nearing completion, having reached 97% of its installed CHANGE IN OPERATING WORKING CAPITAL capacity at the end of 2015. REQUIREMENT (WCR) The change in operating WCR was strongly positive, reaching 246 million euros OPERATING CASH FLOW in 2015 compared with -76 million euros in 2014 (+322 million euros), which is not a normative level. This reﬂects in particular: Operating cash ﬂow rose 876 million euros in relation to 2014 (297 million euros a customer payment in the Back End settling previous services; in 2015 versus -579 million euros in 2014). p p a positive change in WCR on the OL3 project connected with the acceleration of work; 9.2.6.4. CASH FLOWS RELATED TO END-OF-LIFECYCLE p cash optimization actions taken at the group level (factoring transactions, OPERATIONS monetization of tax credit receivables for research and employment In 2015, cash flows for end-of-lifecycle operations totaled -147 million euros, competitiveness, strengthened cash management and implementation of the compared with 12 million euros in 2014. competitiveness plan) whose impact may be maintained but not renewed; p oﬀset in part by increased inventories in the Front End, destined to recur in the future due to the industrial transition at Tricastin. 9.2.6.5. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS The condensed consolidated statement of cash ﬂows is presented below. Change (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 2015/2014 Cash ﬂow from operations before interest and taxes 356 181 +175 Interest expense and taxes paid (316) (273) -43 Cash ﬂow from operations after interest and taxes 40 (92) +132 Change in working capital requirement 322 56 +266 Cash from operating activities 362 (36) +398 Cash used in investing activities (708) (889) +181 Cash from (used in) ﬁnancing activities (825) 116 -941 Changes in securities held for sale 35 (2) +37 Change in Consolidated group, foreign exchange adjustments, etc. (6) 44 -50 Cash from operations sold, discontinued or held for sale 331 740 -409 INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN NET CASH (811) (26) -785 Net cash at the beginning of the period 1,556 1,582 -26 NET CASH AT THE END OF THE YEAR 745 1,556 -811 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES CASH PROVIDED BY FINANCING ACTIVITIES Net cash from operating activities went from -36 million euros in 2014 to 362 million Cash provided by ﬁnancing activities totaled -825 million euros in 2015, a signiﬁcant euros in 2015. This increase reﬂects the combined improvement in cash provided deterioration in comparison with 2014 (116 million euros), when two major ﬁnancing by operations and in the change in the working capital requirement. transactions were completed. CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES Net cash from investing activities amounted to -708 million euros in 2015 compared with -889 million euros in 2014, connected with the maturity of the principal strategic investment projects in progress (Georges Besse II and Cigar Lake in particular). 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 109 09 ANALYSIS OF AND COMMENTS ON THE GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE 9.2 Situation and activities of the company and its subsidiaries by business segment during the year 9.2.7. BALANCE SHEET ITEMS CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Assets Net goodwill 1,272 3,667 Net property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 9,290 10,986 End-of-lifecycle assets (third party share) 178 188 Assets earmarked for end-of-lifecycle operations 6,122 6,015 Investments in joint ventures and associates 100 143 Other non-current assets 573 273 Deferred taxes (assets – liabilities) 112 370 Operating working capital requirement (2,718) (3,133) Assets of discontinued operations 7,076 375 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Equity attributable to owners of the parent (2,516) (691) Minority interests 235 447 Provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations (AREVA share) 6,743 6,797 Provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations (third party share) 178 188 Other current and non-current provisions 5,683 5,975 Net borrowings 6,323 5,809 Liabilities of discontinued operations 5,320 392 Other assets and liabilities 39 (31) TOTAL – CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET 22,005 18,885 9.2.7.1. NON CURRENT ASSETS 9.2.7.2. OPERATING WORKING CAPITAL REQUIREMENT The group’s operating working capital requirement (operating WCR) was Net goodwill negative (resource), at -2.718 billion euros at December 31, 2015, compared with Net goodwill went from 3.667 billion euros at December 31, 2014 to 1.272 billion -3.133 billion euros a year earlier. euros at December 31, 2015, a net decrease of 2.395 billion euros, mainly attributable to the adoption of IFRS 5 for new operations, in particular those of AREVA NP. In addition, the goodwill of the Bioenergy operations was written down 9.2.7.3. NET CASH DEBT in full in 2015, in the amount of 26 million euros. The group’s net ﬁnancial debt totaled 6.323 billion euros at December 31, 2015, compared with 5.809 billion euros at December 31, 2014. The increase in net Net property, plant and equipment and intangible assets debt is mainly attributable to negative net cash ﬂow from operating activities Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) and intangible assets went from 10.986 billion (-590 million euros). euros at December 31, 2014 to 9.290 billion euros at December 31, 2015, a net decrease of 1.696 billion euros. Other non-current assets “Other non-current assets” went from 273 million euros in 2014 to 573 million euros in 2015, essentially due to an increase in loans to associates, including in particular a shareholder loan granted to Adwen in the amount of 227 million euros. 110 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT ANALYSIS OF AND COMMENTS ON THE GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE 9.2 Situation and activities of the company and its subsidiaries by business segment during the year 09 RECONCILIATION BETWEEN NET CASH REPORTED IN THE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS AND NET CASH (DEBT) REPORTED IN THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Change (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 2015/2014 Net cash per statement of cash ﬂows 745 1,556 -811 Short-term bank facilities and non-trade current accounts (credit balances) 91 122 -31 Net cash from (used in) operations held for sale (32) (9) +41 Financial instruments and margin calls 217 0 +217 Borrowings (7,344) (7,494) +150 NET CASH (DEBT) (6,323) (5,809) -514 SCHEDULE OF BORROWINGS Change (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 2015/2014 Interest-bearing advances from customers 96 93 +3 Borrowings from lending institutions and commercial paper 894 1,259 -365 Bond issues 5,974 5,994 -20 Short-term bank facilities and other credit balances 91 122 -31 Financial derivatives 235 5 +230 Other ﬁnancial liabilities (including ﬁnance lease obligations) 55 22 +33 TOTAL BORROWINGS 7,344 7,494 -150 9.2.7.4. EQUITY Equity attributable to owners of the parent totaled -2.516 billion euros at December 31, 2015, compared with -691 million euros at December 31, 2014. This change mainly reﬂects the eﬀect of comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent for 2015 in the amount of -1.825 billion euros. The group did not pay dividends to its shareholders in 2015 for 2014. 9.2.7.5. ASSETS AND PROVISIONS FOR END-OF-LIFECYCLE OPERATIONS The change in the balance sheet from December 31, 2014 to December 31, 2015 with regard to assets and liabilities for end-of-lifecycle operations is summarized in the table below. (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Assets End-of-lifecycle assets 500 533 AREVA share (to be amortized in future years) 322 345 Third-party share 178 188 Assets earmarked for end-of-lifecycle operations 6,122 6,015 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations 6,921 6,985 Provisions to be funded by AREVA 6,743 6,797 Provisions to be funded by third parties 178 188 At December 31, 2015, earmarked assets covered 95% of the provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations. The change in assets and provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations is described in Note 13 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 111 09 ANALYSIS OF AND COMMENTS ON THE GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE 9.2 Situation and activities of the company and its subsidiaries by business segment during the year 9.2.7.6. CAPITAL EMPLOYED AND RETURN ON AVERAGE CAPITAL EMPLOYED (ROACE) Given the major change in scope of consolidation between 2014 and 2015, capital employed and ROACE at December 31, 2015 was not signiﬁcant. The data reported at December 31, 2014 are presented hereunder for the record. CAPITAL EMPLOYED The following table shows the determination of average capital employed by year: December 31, 2014 (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 reported Net intangible assets NA 2,266 Goodwill NA 3,667 Net property, plant and equipment NA 8,719 Prepayments and borrowings funding non-current assets NA (1,293) Operating working capital requirements, excluding advances to fund non-current assets NA (1,830) Provisions for contingencies and losses NA (5,965) Total capital employed NA 5,564 AVERAGE CAPITAL EMPLOYED OVER THE PERIOD NA 6,611 Note: The method used takes into account a deﬁnition of capital employed after deduction of all provisions for contingencies and losses. RETURN ON AVERAGE CAPITAL EMPLOYED (ROACE) The following table presents changes in the group’s ROACE by year: December 31, 2014 (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 reported Average capital employed NA 6,611 Net operating income NA (1,761) ROACE NA -26.6% 9.2.8. BUSINESS REVIEW 9.2.8.1. MINING Change Change 2015/2014 (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 2015/2014 like for like Backlog 9,115 9,539 -4.4% Contribution to consolidated revenue 1,447 1,297 +11.6% +0.4% EBITDA 604 451 +33.8% Percentage of contribution to consolidated revenue 41.7% 34.8% 6.9 pts Operating income 183 (73) +350.3% 2015 performance Mining revenue amounted to 1.447 billion euros at December 31, 2015, an increase The Mining business had 9.115 billion euros in backlog at December 31, 2015. of 11.6% in relation to 2014 (+0.4% like for like). This change was chieﬂy due to a positive foreign exchange impact of 144 million euros over the period, the growth of volumes sold (+3.9%) having been oﬀset by the slight downturn in the average contract sales price for uranium. 112 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT ANALYSIS OF AND COMMENTS ON THE GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE 9.2 Situation and activities of the company and its subsidiaries by business segment during the year 09 EBITDA in Mining increased, reaching 604 million euros in 2015 compared with of the Imouraren mine in Niger, which will start up when uranium market conditions 451 million euros in 2014 due to a more favorable resource production cost permit. In 2014, operating income had been impacted by a partial write-down of (production mix) over the period and to the impacts of the competitiveness plan. the Mining CGU goodwill in the amount of 200 million euros and by write-downs Operating income in Mining totaled 183 million euros, compared with a loss of of Somaïr and Trekkopje assets in the amount of 100 million euros. 73 million euros in 2014, an increase of 256 million euros. It was aﬀected by impairment in the amount of 194 million euros taken on certain dedicated assets 9.2.8.2. FRONT-END Change Change 2015/2014 (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 2015/2014 like for like Backlog 10,341 12,496 -17.2% Contribution to consolidated revenue 1,097 988 +11.1% +8.0% EBITDA 389 245 +59.2% Percentage of contribution to consolidated revenue 35.5% 24.8% +10.7 pts Operating income 101 (497) +120.2% 2015 performance EBITDA in the Front End was 389 million euros in 2015, compared with 245 million The Front End had 10.341 billion euros in backlog at December 31, 2015, a euros in 2014. This strong upturn is explained by higher production volumes, reduction of 2.155 billion euros in relation to December 31, 2014. In fact, despite particularly in the enrichment operations, together with cost reductions connected a signiﬁcant order uptake in the amount of 604 million euros during the year, with the competitiveness plan launched at the beginning of the year. corrections were made to the backlog for quantities to be taken by customers in Operating income in the Front End totaled 101 million euros, compared with a loss consequence of the downturn in market indicators. of 497 million euros in 2014, an increase of 598 million euros. In 2014, it included Front End revenue totaled 1.097 billion euros, an increase of 11.1% year on year impairment in the amount of 599 million euros for the Comurhex II project. In 2015, (+8.0% like for like). This change is due to an increase in enrichment volumes and operating income was impacted by write-downs of inventories and by provisions U3O8/UF6 sold internationally. Foreign exchange had a positive impact of 28 million for contingencies in the amount of 198 million euros connected with the decline euros over the period. of market indicators over the period. 9.2.8.3. BACK-END Change Change 2015/2014 (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 2015/2014 like for like Backlog 9,157 9,665 -5.3% Contribution to consolidated revenue 1,593 1,531 +4.0% +1.2% Recycling 815 857 -4.9% -4.9% Dismantling & Services 325 306 +6.3% +6.3% Nuclear Logistics 288 247 +16.5% +5.9% International Projects 164 121 +35.5% +18.6% EBITDA 315 232 +35.8% Percentage of contribution to consolidated revenue 19.8% 15.2% 4.6 pts Operating income (184) (495) +62.9% 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 113 09 ANALYSIS OF AND COMMENTS ON THE GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE 9.2 Situation and activities of the company and its subsidiaries by business segment during the year 2015 performance The recorded an operating loss of 184 million euros in 2015, an improvement in The Back End had 9.157 billion euros in backlog at December 31, 2015. The order comparison with 2014 (-495 million euros), which had reﬂected the temporary uptake for the year was 1.227 billion euros. negative impact of the treatment and recycling agreement with EDF (105 million euros) and additional provisions for end-of-lifecycle obligations in the amount of Revenue in the Back End came to 1.593 billion euros, an increase of 4.0% in 289 million euros. In 2015, it was aﬀected in particular by an additional provision relation to 2014 (+1.2% like for like), due in particular to an upturn in the International of 250 million euros for the Cigéo project, including an impact on operating income Projects operations and to a positive foreign exchange impact of 42 million euros. of 208 million euros after factoring in the order of January 15, 2016 from the Ministry The Back End recorded EBITDA of 315 million euros, an increase compared of Ecology, Sustainable Development and Energy setting a target cost for that project with 2014 (232 million euros), due in particular to the results of the competitiveness of 25 billion euros at 2011 economic conditions. plan. 9.2.8.4. CORPORATE AND OTHER OPERATIONS (1) Change Change 2015/2014 (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 2015/2014 like for like Backlog 377 402 -6.4% Contribution to consolidated revenue 62 137 -54.8% -31.7% EBITDA (624) (457) -36.4% Operating income (1,488) (1,050) -41.7% 2015 performance In 2015, it was impacted by: Corporate and other operations had 377 million euros in backlog at December 31, p an additional loss at completion of 905 million euros for the Olkiluoto 3 EPR. This 2015. additional loss reﬂects in particular (i) extra operating costs, (ii) increased costs EBITDA in Corporate and other operations, which now includes the OL3 project, and contingencies for the test phases, and (iii) the probable impact of discussions amounted to -624 million euros compared with -457 million euros in 2014. This begun with the customer to jointly lay the foundations for cooperation necessary change is explained by a higher level of activity on the Olkiluoto 3 EPRproject, to the completion of the project and to the settlement of the dispute; in accordance with the critical path deﬁned in 2014. Over the course of 2015, p a provision in the amount of 180 million euros related to estimated legal and important project milestones were met, most notably as concerns platform tests ﬁnancial restructuring costs; of the instrumentation and control systems and delivery of the cabinets, enabling p social restructuring costs (including provisions) of approximately 254 million on-site tests to start in the ﬁrst half of 2016. euros, in particular for social measures taken in the entities of the continuing Corporate and other operations had an operating loss of 1.488 billion euros operations; in 2015, compared with a loss of 1.050 billion euros in 2014, which had included p impairment of goodwill and intangible assets in the amount of 34 million euros an additional loss at completion for the OL3 project of 720 million euros as well as in Bioenergy. goodwill impairment in Bioenergy in the amount of 14 million euros. (1) Includes the Corporate, AREVA Med and Bioenergy operations and the OL3 project. 114 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT ANALYSIS OF AND COMMENTS ON THE GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE 9.3 Events subsequent to year-end closing for 2015 09 9.3. EVENTS SUBSEQUENT TO YEAR-END CLOSING FOR 2015 In early January 2016, AREVA started to use conﬁrmed lines of credit in the amount of 2.045 billion euros made available by its banking pool. The lines of credit now drawn represent 795 million euros maturing in 2017 and 1.250 billion euros maturing in January 2018. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 115 10 CAPITAL RESOURCES For information on cash-ﬂow and equity, please refer to Sections 9.2.6 Cash flow and 9.2.7. Balance sheet data. 116 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS, PATENTS AND LICENSES 11 11.1. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 117 11.2. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 124 11.1.1. Key ﬁgures 117 11.2.1. Patents and know-how 124 11.1.2. Overall organization of research 11.2.2. Trademarks 125 and development 118 11.2.3. Legal activities 125 11.1.3. Partnerships 119 11.2.4. In 2016 125 11.1.4. Future directions in technology 120 11.1. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 11.1.1. KEY FIGURES Research and development expenses are capitalized if they meet the capitalization Research and development expenses, excluding operations meeting the criteria criteria established by IAS 38 and are recognized as research and development set by IFRS 5 for classiﬁcation as “operations sold, discontinued or held for sale” expenses if they do not. In the income statement, research and development at December 31, 2015 and excluding mining research and mineral exploration, expenses appear below gross margin and represent non-capitalizable expenses represented 77 million euros in 2015, 1.82% of the contribution to revenue. This incurred exclusively by the group; the expenses relating to programs funded wholly indicator is down compared with 2014, when Research and Development expenses or partly by customers, together with projects carried out in partnerships where excluding mineral exploration and mining studies at constant consolidation scope AREVA has commercial rights of use of the results, are recognized in the cost of were 97 million euros, or 2.45% of revenue. sales. All research and development costs, whether capitalized or expensed during the period, are combined to determine the group’s total research and development expenditure. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 117 11 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS, PATENTS AND LICENSES 11.1 Research and Development Percentage Percentage (in millions of euros) 2015 of sales 2014 (1) of sales Research and development recognized as expenses under gross margin, after RTC (2) 112 2.66% 134 3.4% Of which expenses for mineral exploration and mining studies 35 38 Research and development recognized as expenses under gross margin, excluding expenses for mining studies and mineral exploration, after RTC (1) 77 1.82% 97 2.45% CIR (2) 29 29 Research and development recognized as expenses under gross margin, excluding expenses for mining studies and mineral exploration, before RTC (1) 106 2.52% 126 3.19% Capitalized research and development costs 40 0.95% 65 1.65% TOTAL 146 3.47% 192 4.85% Number of registered patents 33 (1) Pursuant to IFRS 5, research and development expenses at December 31, 2014 were restated to present pro forma data at comparable consolidation scope at December 31, 2015. (2) Research tax credit. Taking into account capitalized development costs, the total Research and p development of advanced tools, methods and products to support the design Development expenditure was 146 million euros in 2015, or 3.47% of revenue for and services provided to operators; the period, down from 2014, when it represented 4.85% of revenue. p evaluation of advanced concepts such as fast neutron reactors (support for the This amount reﬂects continuing long-term projects, including: CEA’s Astrid demonstrator project) and small modular reactors (SMR); p development and modernization of production capabilities in the front end of p performance improvement in equipment manufacturing; the cycle and the development of advanced fuel; p preliminary design of new treatment and recycling plant processes, and p launch of a basic design study in partnership with EDF for an optimized EPR maintenance and performance improvement at existing plants; reactor to meet requirements for the replacement of EDF’s ﬂeet (“EPR NM” p development of new shipping casks for nuclear materials and waste; project); p development of methods and tools to support dismantling activities. p completion of detailed generic design studies for the Atmea1 reactor in In addition, the EPR reactor certiﬁcation initiative in the United States was suspended, partnership with MHI; but could resume in the event of positive signs from the market. p development of advanced instrumentation and control products and systems for new power plants or the renovation of existing power plants; 11.1.2. OVERALL ORGANIZATION OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AREVA has a single Research and Development function shared by all subsidiaries. R&D projects cover a broad spectrum of technological ﬁelds, from uranium ore By functioning in integrated mode, the group is able to share best practices across extraction to renewable energy production. All R&D projects help to improve existing all entities and boost the eﬀectiveness of research and development in areas as products, services and processes, or to create new ones. wide-ranging as technology management, knowledge and expertise management, intellectual asset protection, innovation, and leadership of a portfolio of research and development projects. It also helps initiate and ultimately manage and fund projects AREVA’S INNOVATION INITIATIVE at the corporate level when they serve several group subsidiaries or are longer term. InnovAction project The R&D project portfolio is a key contributor to controlling operational performance, as it facilitates the management of investments, the allocation of resources, and The internal “InnovAction” project relies on an extensive network of contacts within planning. Management of the overall R&D project portfolio was redeﬁned to meet the operational and functional entities to achieve a common goal: “Transform our the following goals: employees’ innovative ideas into drivers for performance and diﬀerentiation, and to catalyze new activities for AREVA.” p align the projects with the strategy deﬁned by the group; InnovAction is organized around ﬁve major goals: p rank the R&D projects to facilitate selection and decision-making; p reinforce our culture of innovation; p achieve eﬃcient overall budget control and allocate resources based on priorities; p encourage employees to propose innovative ideas and help them to develop p provide a comprehensive view of the R&D project portfolio to facilitate internal them; and external communications. p speed up the time-to-market for innovative technical and non-technical solutions to boost development and ensure business continuation; 118 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS, PATENTS AND LICENSES 11.1 Research and Development 11 p help develop disruptive technology solutions and new businesses for AREVA; businesses may be able to propose innovative solutions. They can also oﬀer p strengthen AREVA’s ties with external partners – laboratories, small businesses, solutions unprompted by any bidding process. Proposed solutions are reviewed start-ups, venture capital funds, etc. – to develop innovative solutions. by a panel of the group’s experts. The project’s main actions are to: At the end of 2015, some 15 AREVA challenges were posted, more than 850 small and medium businesses registered on the dedicated portal and submitted more p involve our customers more in our innovation processes (e.g. customer than 200 innovative solutions, and a hundred of them made the short list for workshops on unmet needs); evaluation. Some ﬁfteen contracts were signed at the end of 2015 and areas of p create networks of employees engaged in innovation (network coordination, collaboration have already been identiﬁed, such as assistance for inspection and collaborative platforms, etc.); measurement in diﬃcult-to-access areas using indoor drones, virtual-on-actual p strengthen the processes for generating and capturing innovative ideas (training projection, an inﬂatable robotic arm, a miniature wireless sensor, etc. Another area sessions, suggestion boxes, etc.); of collaboration is in work planning and worker assistance with a contactless threep foster the incubation of ideas through to their implementation (business dimensional examination tool for complex shapes, a hybrid laser welding head, incubators); knowledge collection and transmission, connected neon and other innovations. p deploy tools to forge ties with external partners (AREVA Innovation PME, venture Expertise capital funds, etc.). The AREVA Experts appointment campaign was conducted in 2015, as it is every Focus on the Open Innovation initiative, an AREVA portal for two years. small and medium business innovation The corps of AREVA experts representing the group’s scientiﬁc and technical The AREVA Innovation PME initiative seeks to foster collaborative innovation knowledge, whose importance will grow in the future, now has 1,105 members, between AREVA and small and medium businesses and start-ups in France (PME: 25 more than in 2013. In 2015, a total of 276 experts were appointed or promoted. petites et moyennes entreprises). Working with the group’s employees, AREVA The experts are divided into 3 levels, depending on the inﬂuence they exert from Innovation PME identiﬁes and evaluates the best innovation solutions developed their operating entity to the international scientiﬁc community, and into 14 areas by small and medium businesses and start-ups that may be able to meet certain of expertise covering most engineering sciences and techniques (materials, challenges facing AREVA and its customers. AREVA Innovation PME is built on a engineering calculations, biology, facility operations, etc.). win-win approach for small and medium businesses and start-ups, for the French industrial ecosystem, and for AREVA. Today, AREVA has: A website devoted to innovation (www.innovationpme.areva.com) was created to p 755 Level 1 experts; give small and medium businesses a broader view of AREVA requirements for p 318 Level 2 senior experts; innovation. AREVA puts challenges on the website for which small and medium p 32 Level 3 fellows. 11.1.3. PARTNERSHIPS AREVA is positioned as an international group with a solid base of operations on p in Poland: the Warsaw University of Technology (WUT) together with EDF, the three major continents. Scientiﬁc and technical partnerships reﬂecting the group’s CEA and Andra; international dimension will be a cornerstone of its continued growth. p in Germany: the University of Zittau and the Karlsruhe, Rossendorf and Julich The Research and Development Department works closely with the regional research centers; Research and Development Centers in France, Germany and the United States p in the United States: the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), the on the following main tasks: California Institute of Technology (CalTech), the Universities of Florida and p developing and ensuring long-term partnerships with major research Berkeley (Center for Advanced Engineering and Research), the Universities of organizations by ﬁnding the best external partners for the group’s research and Idaho, Texas and Virginia, and the Department of Energy’s national laboratories development projects, and drawing up cooperative programs; (Sandia, Idaho, etc.); p providing support for the group’s internal research and development initiatives p in China: Tsinghua University in Beijing and Xi’An Jiaotong University; by identifying additional appropriate external partners; p in Russia: the Kurchatov, VNIINM and Khlopin research institutes; p reviewing external research and development capabilities and the possibilities p in Australia: the Ian Wark Research Institute and the University of South Australia; for participating in externally funded cooperative projects (government agencies, p in India: IIT Bombay and the University of Jadavpur in Calcutta. European Commission, etc.). Via the CEA (representing the French parties), AREVA is a participant in the AREVA already has a broad network of partnerships with the world’s leading Generation IV International Forum (GIF), a US initiative. The multilateral agreement research laboratories, in particular: signed by several countries in 2005 provides a framework for international p in France: the CEA’s research centers at Saclay, Cadarache, Grenoble and collaboration on research and development dedicated to Generation IV nuclear Marcoule, EDF’s research and development laboratories, the French national reactor concepts. AREVA is keenly interested in this initiative, alongside its French, scientiﬁc research center CNRS, the institute for radiological protection and European and international partners, especially as concerns fast spectrum reactors, nuclear safety IRSN, and engineering schools and universities (Chimie Paris, which push the envelope of resource conservation. AREVA is participating in design Mines ParisTech, the Ecoles Centrales, the University of Montpellier, the French studies and R&D for the Astrid fast neutron reactor under the agreement signed national institute of applied sciences INSA Lyon, etc.); between France and Japan in May 2014. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 119 11 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS, PATENTS AND LICENSES 11.1 Research and Development 11.1.4. FUTURE DIRECTIONS IN TECHNOLOGY The group’s research and development programs seek to develop competitive R&D ACTIVITIES IN THE FRONT END FIELD power generation technologies with low CO2 emissions meeting our customers’ Research and development eﬀorts for the Front End Business Group focus in requirements. The programs’ main goals are to continuously improve nuclear safety, particular on modernizing production plants in the conversion and enrichment reduce capital costs and operating costs, and minimize environmental impacts. operations to improve safety and productivity and reduce the environmental footprint They include resources for responsible waste management, conservation of natural of the processes, and on optimizing nuclear fuel performance. resources and the development of future generations of technologies in the nuclear energy ﬁeld. Development and modernization of production resources in A summary of 2015 research and development projects and results is presented the front end of the fuel cycle below. Natural uranium conversion facilities around the world that have been operating for several decades will probably see their maintenance costs increase over the short R&D ACTIVITIES IN MINING term and experience availability problems. R&D in the mining operations covers the four key areas: geological prospecting, To guarantee conversion services to its current and future customers under mining techniques, ore processing, and the post-mining period and the environment. enhanced control conditions, AREVA invested in a new plant, Comurhex II. At the In ore processing, for example, R&D covers all of the techniques that AREVA uses Malvési site, following the startup of the new Isoﬂash denitration process last year, for dynamic ore processing, heap leaching, and in-situ leaching. A signiﬁcant share startup of the new Comurhex II units continues. Experiments on volume reduction of the research and innovation eﬀort was also devoted to mineral operations based of eﬄuents also began. on the in situ recovery method (ISR). R&D in the ﬁeld of conversion concerns the development of a new process that The mining business also carries out research in partnership with research would eliminate the nitric dissolution and solvent puriﬁcation stages. Such a process organizations and other companies to assess the technical feasibility of extracting would oﬀer signiﬁcant advantages in terms of environmental footprint. uranium from so-called “unconventional” resources, such as phosphates. As part of the Enrichment Technology Company (ETC), the AREVA-Urenco joint The economic recovery of metals and rare earths – byproducts of uranium ore – venture, new improvements to the centrifugation enrichment technology are is another area for research. gradually being integrated into the plants. Mineral exploration and outlook Improving nuclear fuel performance AREVA continued its mineral exploration efforts in 2015. However, due to AREVA has ongoing, ambitious research and development programs to adapt deteriorating market conditions, AREVA will concentrate on targets with the most its products to its customers’ requirements in the areas of mechanical, thermalpotential over the next few years. hydraulic and thermo-mechanical performance up to high burnup levels. At the same time, the group continues to improve fuel reliability and to guarantee the Near term highest level of safety. Research and development is being carried out to: The ﬁrst action items are to accelerate development work near active mining sites, p adapt to changes in operating conditions, both for the cladding or structural conduct exploration for projects under development, and plan new exploration materials (new alloys for better resistance to corrosion and deformation) and campaigns in uranium-rich provinces identiﬁed by the group. the fuel itself (advanced microstructures to reduce the release of ﬁssion gases In addition to Canada, particularly the Athabasca basin, a historical uraniumat high burnups); producing region that is still among the most promising, AREVA is pursuing p develop new fuel assemblies, and in particular study new, more accident-tolerant exploration programs in countries in which the group is a producer (Canada, Niger fuel concepts; and Kazakhstan) as well as in Mongolia, Gabon and Australia. p respond to questions from safety authorities about fuel performance in accidental situations, keeping in mind the changing post-Fukushima nuclear safety Mediumand long-term outlook benchmarks; Teams of geologists, mining engineers, chemists and economists are working on p work with scientiﬁc partners, in particular the CEA, to improve the modeling of selecting, preparing and developing emerging and previously identiﬁed projects, physical phenomena occurring in the fuel during irradiation, and to integrate particularly in Africa, North America, Central Asia and Australia. These projects will these models into advanced simulation software. be launched when the technical, economic and regulatory conditions are right. AREVA continues to develop a new generation of more robust fuel assemblies with enhanced performance and safety margins for boiling water reactors (BWR) and pressurized water reactors (PWR), called Atrium™11 and Gaia respectively: p following the ﬁrst AtriumTM11 test assemblies, now in their third irradiation cycle in the core of the Gundremmingen reactor in Germany (RWE), irradiation continues on other demonstration assemblies loaded into the Leibstadt reactor in Switzerland (AXPO) in 2013 and the Olkiluoto 1 reactor in Finland (TVO) in 2014; 120 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS, PATENTS AND LICENSES 11.1 Research and Development 11 p the ﬁrst Gaia test assemblies delivered to the Vattenfall power company in Research reactor Sweden completed their third irradiation cycle in the Ringhals 3 reactor core; AREVA continued to set up its conﬁguration program (nuclear safety conﬁguration p work to supply Gaia test assemblies to the 14ft EDF reactor at the end of 2017 plan, development or adaptation of design codes and drawings for research reactors (N4, 1,300 MWe) continued in 2015; with the CEA’s support) as backup to its proposals for international research reactors p rollout of the Gaia and Atrium™11 technologies in the United States began with to countries wishing to invest in R&D or nuclear education, and for the production the loading of demonstration assemblies by two utilities in the United States of medical isotopes. in 2015. In a worldwide post-Fukushima environment of enhanced accident-tolerant fuel Generation IV sodium-cooled fast reactors (SFR) (EATF) development, AREVA is exploring potentially innovative solutions with its To support sustainable development and the international initiative on Generation IV partners the CEA, DOE, EDF, EPRI and the operator of the Goesgen power plant reactors, AREVA continued its cooperation with the CEA on design studies for the in Switzerland. nuclear island of the Generation IV demonstration reactor, Astrid (Advanced Sodium Technological Reactor for Industrial Demonstration). This is a sodium-cooled fast reactor (SFR) that will be used for technology and industrial demonstrations. R&D ACTIVITIES IN THE REACTORS & SERVICES FIELD The second phase of the preliminary design of the Astrid reactor ended in late 2015 Widening the range of light water reactors and supporting with the submittal of the preliminary design report and the nuclear safety design their deployment basis documents. Under the agreement between France and Japan on the development of the sodium-cooled fast reactor technology and the Astrid reactor, EPR reactor AREVA, as a French industrial company, is a stakeholder in the implementation agreement with JAEA, CEA, AREVA, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (MHI) and its Work carried out in partnership with EDF to optimize the EPR reactor design’s subsidiary MFBR. An extension to the agreement with the CEA was signed at the economic performance was ﬁnished in 2014. This paves for the way for deﬁnition end of 2015 to continue cooperation on the basic design of Astrid over the 2016of an optimized design basis which the proposal and project teams may use to 2019 period, with a milestone for design basis validation set for the end of 2017. deﬁne adaptations needed to meet customer speciﬁcations. In partnership with EDF, this basis was used to deﬁne a version suited to the utility’s requirements for High temperature reactor (HTR) ﬂeet replacement, leading to the launch in early 2015 of the basic design for the new version, called the “EPR NM”, which features certain simpliﬁcations (single AREVA is validating its experience with this type of reactor by participating in the US containment, etc.). The certification process with the US Nuclear Regulatory Department of Energy’s Next Generation Nuclear Plant (NGNP) project. The goal Commission (NRC) has been suspended in view of the lack of market prospects of that project is to design a commercial high temperature reactor to be used for in the United States. The procedure could resume if positive signs are received the co-generation of industry.al process heat and electricity. AREVA also continues from the market. to follow through with its commitments with regard to European HTR projects. Atmea1 reactor International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER) AREVA is developing the Atmea1 reactor within the framework of Atmea, a Following a contract awarded by the Iter organization, construction was started joint venture established in 2007 by AREVA and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries on a prototype module of the ﬁrst Iter wall panel. The panel is a highly technical (MHI). This 1,100 MWe pressurized water reactor (PWR) combines the knowcomponent made of beryllium tiles directly facing the plasma and therefore how of both companies. Atmea1 is designed for medium capacity power grids. subjected to intense heat ﬂow. Following validation of the reactor’s design basis in 2012 by the French nuclear safety authority ASN, the joint detailed generic design was completed by the two Increasing the cost-competitiveness of our products and companies in 2015, providing a model ready for construction in 2015 depending methods and matching them to operator requirements on construction prospects (see Sinop site in Turkey). AREVA continues to improve products and services for operators of all types of nuclear power plants (PWRs as well as BWRs, VVERs and CANDU reactors), SMR (Small Modular Reactor) particularly in the following areas: AREVA continued work on the pre-conceptual design of a small capacity power p safety control and instrumentation systems (TELEPERM® XS), measurement reactor. This modular, integrated reactor is in the 100-150 MWe range. The ongoing and diagnostic products, safety-related sensors and backup electrical systems; design combines solutions used for high capacity PWRs and innovative design p services to operators to extend operating periods (diagnostics and demonstration bases in terms of technologies, industrial optimization, construction and operating of the service period of components and structures, component maintenance ﬂexibility. Potential sources of funding and partnerships for the development of this and replacement, techniques to increase the resistance of components to external technology continue to be reviewed together with AREVA’s customary partners. events or for in situ repair, such as the cavitation peening process successfully Also noteworthy was AREVA’s selection by NuScale Power in connection with implemented in the United States); the line of related products is presented to its 50 MWe modular reactor project supported by the DOE to carry out a certain the utilities in the Forward Alliance catalogue; number of studies and tests in AREVA’s technical centers and to design and supply p safety reviews (10-year reviews, supplementary safety assessments) and products the fuel for this reactor. to improve nuclear safety (complete range of all types of reactor containment ﬁlters, hydrogen risk management, improved cooling safety for the core or the used fuel storage pools, new leak-proof systems for primary coolant pump seals, instrumentation and situation management tools, etc.): the line of related products is presented to the utilities in the Safety Alliance catalogue; 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 121 11 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS, PATENTS AND LICENSES 11.1 Research and Development p value creation for reactor operators: increased availability, maintenance Equipment and process design and development are making good progress, automation and eﬃciency, increased power or performance, ﬂexibility and load in particular to adapt the facilities to the treatment of new types of fuel (highfollowing, new products that give customers increased operational savings and burnup UOx fuels, MOX fuels, fuels from research reactors, etc.). This technology performance as well as enhanced worker safety such as dose reduction: the line development will enable AREVA to diversify its commercial oﬀering and further of related products is presented to the utilities in the Value Alliance catalogue; broaden the range of products that may be treated. p increased performance of non-destructive examinations and in situ work; Research also focuses on reducing ﬁnal waste volumes, on waste packaging p optimization of the design, manufacturing and assembly of replacement technologies, and on work supporting Andra demonstrations of the performance of components; the geological repository under construction for waste from treatment and recycling operations. p products providing customers with better measurement performance and operational savings, as well as enhanced worker safety; A program to develop a new thermal treatment technology for long-lived waste p development of new radiation monitoring systems (RMS), systems providing continues in partnership with Andra and the CEA. The initial technology tests on a comprehensive control around the reactor designed to monitor eﬄuents and to full-scale mockup were successful. make power plant operation safer, continued development of Canberra’s range R&D also continues on the cold crucible technology in commercial operation at of advanced radiological protection and nuclear measurement systems. La Hague to ensure a fully optimized industrial tool and to broaden the range of solutions processed. Participating in advanced research programs In addition, R&D is being carried out on the development of models, particularly in AREVA participates in diﬀerent European projects or projects cofounded by the the ﬁeld of vitriﬁcation, to optimize laboratory-scale and full-scale testing programs. French national research agency ANR in the ﬁelds of safety enhancement (with IRSN) and assessment of the potential of innovative reactors with the French Improving used fuel shipping and storage national scientiﬁc research center CNRS (molten salts, etc.), and it contributes to the development of nuclear generators for European solar system exploration missions AREVA develops casks for the shipment of nuclear materials and waste. The with the European Space Agency and the French national space study center CNES. development work keeps up with changes in regulations and in the materials being shipped (higher burnups, new designs, etc.). The new products are also designed AREVA’s nuclear measurement subsidiary Canberra develops products and to improve and reinforce services relating to the shipment and storage of radioactive provides expertise by participating in major international research projects: detection materials and waste. and measurement of weak nuclear particle interaction to better understand the model of fundamental matter. The TN®G3 is still under development and will eventually replace the current TN®12/13 shipping casks. These new casks will ship used fuel that has a higher burnup and a shorter cooling time, giving our customers greater ﬂexibility. R&D ACTIVITIES IN THE FRONT END FIELD To support the development of used fuel storage solutions, in particular in the United States, a new Extended Optimized Storage (EOS) canister is being developed. Its Developing sustainable solutions for the back end of the fuel optimized design helps meet greater utility demand for disposal capacities. cycle These new product designs are based on the development and qualiﬁcation of Supporting and adapting manufacturing and production new materials and their use to fulﬁll the functions of containment, neutron and facilities radiation protection, heat dissipation and protection against the risk of cask drops. The La Hague industrial platform consisting of the La Hague and MELOX plants Proposing management solutions for nuclear facilities at is the culmination of more than 30 years of industrial research and development. the end of their operating lives – Cleanup, Dismantling and It attains the highest levels of performance for treatment and recycling facilities Decommissioning (D&D) worldwide. Research and development programs are deﬁned based on these facilities and operating experience from the daily operation of these plants, with Research and development programs in this ﬁeld seek solutions that will enhance the goal of continuously improving the platform’s performance and ﬂexibility. nuclear and occupational safety or improve performance in every phase of a project, from initial characterization to facility decommissioning, whether those operations Programs are in progress to anticipate plant aging (corrosion, plugging), meet are carried out at AREVA’s facilities or those of its customers. They are designed new post-Fukushima regulatory requirements, and optimize intervention means for to gain a competitive advantage over strong competitors in this segment, in France hostile environments in order to increase the eﬀective production time of the plants. and internationally. In that frame of reference, R&D programs enabled new, faster and more eﬃcient preventive rinsing procedures for head-end equipment at the La Hague plant which They also seek to position AREVA in new businesses, in particular for the treatment are now routinely implemented. Ongoing eﬀorts seek to optimize rinsing operations of waste that is diﬃcult to package and for which there is currently no disposal in other facilities and to save time from the start. method, where a number of solutions for its stabilization, encapsulation, destruction, decontamination and recycling are being developed: mercury waste, asbestos waste, organic waste that cannot be processed in the Centraco incinerator, acidic waste, reagent waste, powdery waste, etc. 122 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS, PATENTS AND LICENSES 11.1 Research and Development 11 In the ﬁeld of nuclear safety, tests of the all-stainless cleanable ﬁltration unit continue, R&D ACTIVITIES IN THE RENEWABLES FIELD with the objective of ﬁnding a deﬁnitive solution to the ﬁre hazard in ventilation The strategy followed since 2013 for the transformation and streamlining of the systems during hot cutting. To limit bodily injuries such as repetitive strain injuries renewables businesses continued in 2015. Two approaches were selected, and operator fatigue, which constitute a risk for operating safety, assistance depending on the business: equipment was selected and will be tested in real conditions shortly. p the most promising businesses continue, but through partnerships in order In the investigation ﬁeld, AREVA continues to industrialize its Manuela tool used to to share investments and beneﬁt from the partners’ expertise. This approach reconstruct coupled radiological and spatial maps. New investigation machines, concerns the Wind Energy and Hydrogen Electrolysis businesses; both on land (modular Riana™ platform) and in the air (Dorica™ drone) were developed and delivered to the customer CEA at Marcoule. p the less promising businesses, or those for which the Business Group’s competitive position is not sufficiently established, will be discontinued or Development work continues on solutions to manage contaminated soils, in sold upon the completion of ongoing projects, in compliance with AREVA’s particular radiological sorting and decontamination, with prospects in Japan (land contractual commitments. This approach concerns the Solar Energy and around Fukushima), China and Belgium for soils contaminated with cesium or Bioenergy businesses. uranium. The knowledge and know-how acquired via R&D on mineral exchangers supported the positioning of the permeable reactive barriers solution proposed with Wind Energy a partner. The results drew Tepco’s attention and could lead to a feasibility study for full-scale tests at the Fukushima site. Final agreements for the creation of the Adwen joint venture and the closing of the transaction were signed on March 9, 2015. Adwen is held in equal shares by The integration of digital tools into operations related to the management of AREVA and Gamesa. By uniting their strengths, AREVA and Gamesa will enable the nuclear facilities at the end of their operating period or undergoing dismantling joint venture to become a leading player in the global oﬀshore wind market while is an important area for improvement in the industrialization of these activities. contributing to the development of this fast growing segment, in particular through Illustrations is include the development of a product lifecycle management tool expertise, innovation and investment in R&D to develop reliable and competitive (PLM) to manage the conﬁguration of the facilities undergoing dismantling, the use technologies for the future. of touch tablets to monitor projects or to collect items of operating experience, and the development of tools to simulate the operation of equipment. Adwen is developing a comprehensive portfolio of products and services to provide solutions targeting the requirements of each project: p the AD 8 MWe, an 8 MWe technology platform initiated by AREVA and developed CROSSCUTTING RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES by Adwen, will be mass-produced in 2018. With 1 GWe of projects now awarded and unrivaled energy production, this showcase product is destined to play a Improving fuel and reactor design tools leading role in the market; AREVA puts considerable eﬀort into its modeling tools and design codes, both on p a 5-MWe technology platform with two immediately available, interrelated its own and in collaboration with the CEA. These projects prioritize the development products: the AD 5-135 and the AD 5-132 wind turbines. The AD 5-135 turbine, of advanced physical models that make use of expanding computer modeling previously called the M5000-135, is the AREVA turbine for which the installed capabilities. They are designed to cover the state of the art in terms of knowledge on base of 650 MWe will soon rise to 1 GWe with the installation of the Wikinger PWR and BWR extended validity ranges, to broaden the architectures for modular project in the Baltic Sea. The AD 5-132 turbine, a competitive turbine formerly applications, and to develop the human-engineered graphical interfaces used. Such called the G132 developed by Gamesa, rounds out the product portfolio; evolutions help to improve the accuracy of code-based predictions, reduce cask and reload design costs, and improve design quality. The ultimate goal of this research p development of the AD 8-180 wind turbine is in the ﬁnal phase involving a is to design and validate fuels and reactors that deliver even better performance. series of validation and testing stages, including a crucial stage that began in December 2015 for tests of the turbine drive system on the IWES Dynalab test Understanding and forestalling aging bench in Bremerhaven, Germany. Installation of the ﬁrst AD 8-180 prototype will begin in the summer of 2016 at the Smola site in Norway operated by Statkraft, AREVA carries out large-scale research and development programs with the CEA the largest producer of renewable energies in Europe. and EDF to gain a better understanding of and greater control over the aging of equipment and materials in the reactor environment, where radiation, pressure, high Energy storage temperatures and mechanical loads are factors. The end result will be more accurate On January 1, 2015, energy storage operations other than PEM electrolysis were predictions of materials capabilities and solutions for extending the operating period transferred to AREVA’s Research, Development and Innovation Department to of reactors and reactor components that meet the needs of power generation speed up their development under joint technology programs. These activities companies. relate to two main programs. Development of continuous ﬂow battery technology In 2014, AREVA Energy Storage launched a joint R&D development program with Schneider Electric and ENStorage to develop a new energy storage solution: the continuous ﬂow battery. This technology combines hydrobromic acid and hydrogen to produce and store electricity. The prospects for technical performance, cost 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 123 11 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS, PATENTS AND LICENSES 11.2 Intellectual property reduction and market opportunities have been conﬁrmed, and European ﬁnancing than 50 scenarios involving very high-pressure gaseous hydrogen (700, 350 and was secured for the development of a 150-kW pilot. 200 bars) as well as natural gas for vehicles (200 bars) and liqueﬁed petroleum System design, manufacturing of peripherals and containerization were carried gas (20 bars). out successfully throughout 2015. On-site delivery to the Port of Marseille-Fos, ﬁnal assembly, testing and the start of energy storage cycles are planned for the R&D ACTIVITIES BY THE ENGINEERING & PROJECTS ﬁrst half of 2016. ORGANIZATION: SUPPORTING THE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES OF AREVA’S BUSINESS GROUPS Ongoing development of fuel cells via partnerships Engineering & Projects (E&P) is a key partner in the Business Groups’ research and The key objective of the Myrte project in Corsica is to design hydrogen-based energy development programs. Speciﬁcally, E&P brings in the expertise and engineering storage to manage intermittent renewable energies and integrate them into the skills needed in the phases that precede the industrial roll-out of processes and power grid. The project reached the ﬁnal stage with the operation of the complete products resulting from the Business Groups’ R&D: feasibility and preliminary system in real operating conditions. Major results at the end of 2015 worthy of note studies for innovative installations, ﬁnal development and qualiﬁcation of simulation are 6,300 cumulative hours of operation of the H2 line, 43 MWh of electrical energy tools and of processes, products and equipment for use in AREVA’s facilities or its produced by the fuel cells injected into the power grid, and 4,000 kilograms of H2 customers’ facilities, and operational support. produced by the electrolyzers. In 2016, the installation’s operation will continue for purposes of technical and economic optimization of this storage method. The Beaumont-Hague development and testing laboratory (HRB), an E&P technical center located near the La Hague recycling plant, houses the activities for the two As part of the HyResponse Project (2013-2016, 1.8 million euros) – a European main divisions: Technology, which develops speciﬁc tools and response scenarios training project on hydrogen risks for ﬁrst responders (ﬁre departments, industrial and also develops and qualiﬁes mechanical equipment; and Chemistry, which companies, etc.) – AREVA is designing and building a 2,500 m2 operational deals with a broad range of topics, including the development and qualiﬁcation of training platform on land owned by the French national school of ﬁreﬁghter oﬃcers chemical engineering equipment and of waste treatment/packaging processes (ENSOSP). Finished in December 2015, the operational training platform will be (cementation, vitriﬁcation, drying, etc.), for AREVA’s diﬀerent Business Groups. used to train more than 70 ﬁrst responders from 18 countries in 2016 using more 11.2. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Intellectual property, licenses, patents, trademarks and technical expertise in for developing and managing AREVA’s technology assets. This is also the key to general play an important part in the group’s daily operations and thus in the negotiating successful technology transfer and process license agreements, now production and protection of AREVA products, services and technology. Protecting standard practice for large-scale international projects. the group’s knowledge and unique know-how requires a comprehensive system 11.2.1. PATENTS AND KNOW-HOW Several years ago, AREVA set the goal of building a portfolio of patent rights In addition to the patent portfolios, AREVA has elected to maintain the conﬁdentiality consistent with its strategies and right-sized in terms of both quality and quantity, of some of its technology innovations. Accordingly, the group owns and uses in keeping with the group’s research and development eﬀorts. valuable know-how recognized for its technical excellence that contributes to Today, the group has a portfolio of some 8,000 patents derived from more than AREVA’s leadership in its businesses and bolsters the group’s technical and 1,300 inventions pertaining to the nuclear fuel cycle, nuclear reactors, renewable commercial oﬀering. energies and related services. The group in its consolidation scope registered 33 new patents in 2015 (91 patents registered including operations held for sale). 124 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS, PATENTS AND LICENSES 11.2 Intellectual property 11 11.2.2. TRADEMARKS AREVA owns several trademarks. The best known are the AREVA brand name, Actions taken in this regard – advertising, websites, brochures, sponsorships and the ﬁgurative mark and the semi-ﬁgurative mark . press relations – help strengthen the group’s brand awareness in France and abroad These trademarks designate all of the group’s operations and are protected in all and position AREVA as a leading brand in the energy sector. With respect to the countries in which the group conducts its operations. trademark defense policy, in particular on the Internet, the Arbitration and Mediation Center of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) has emphasized the As the group’s activities develop, it ﬁles for new trademarks. well-known nature of the AREVA brand. The communication program undertaken to support and accompany the group’s AREVA identiﬁes its products and protects them with registered trademarks (e.g. development is based on deployment of the AREVA trademarks and . the mark ). 11.2.3. LEGAL ACTIVITIES In 2015, AREVA entered into several research and development and partnership AREVA endeavors to protect its intellectual property rights in all agreements with agreements in international markets for which balanced and proﬁtable intellectual third parties, particularly license agreements and technology transfer contracts, to property strategies were devised in the interests of the group as well as of its optimize the management of its intellectual property and prevent unauthorized use. partners. To protect its industrial property rights, AREVA’s policy is both proactive and reactive. 11.2.4. IN 2016 The group intends to pursue, strengthen and organize its intellectual property marketing strategies, and with the goal of making intellectual property a fundamental initiative to support the growth of its research and development eﬀorts and the tool of the group’s strategy. development of new partnerships, in keeping with the group’s industrial and 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 125 12 TREND INFORMATION 12.1. CURRENT SITUATION 126 12.2. FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES 126 12.1. CURRENT SITUATION Please refer to Section 6.1. The markets for nuclear power and renewable energies, which deals in particular with the current economic situation and how it aﬀects the group’s operations. 12.2. FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES AREVA anticipates net cash ﬂow from company operations in 2016 in the range of -2.0 billion euros and -1.5 billion euros. This sharp decline is explained by the impact of the remedial measures taken, by expenses to be incurred on the large projects, and by the unfavorable change in WCR. This range takes into account the uncertainties related to operating contingencies and to the implementation of the contemplated capital structuring plans. 126 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT PROFIT FORECASTS 13 Not applicable. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 127 ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BODIES 14 AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 14.1. BOARD OF DIRECTORS 128 14.2. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 137 14.1.1. Composition of the Board of Directors 128 14.1.2. Personal information on the members 14.3. LEGAL INFORMATION, CONFLICTS OF of the Board of Directors 133 INTEREST AND SERVICE CONTRACTS 138 14.1.3. Change made during the period 136 14.4 TRANSACTIONS ON THE COMPANY’S SHARES CARRIED OUT BY OFFICERS 138 On January 8, 2015, AREVA’s General Meeting of Shareholders decided to This section reports on the composition of the Board of Directors set up on transform the company’s governance, composed of a Supervisory Board January 8, 2015. Information on the composition of the Supervisory Board and and an Executive Board, into a single structure with a Board of Directors. It of the Executive Board appears in the 2014 Reference Document (Section 14 also changed the company’s articles of association to implement the new and Appendix 1). provisions of order no. 2014-948 of August 20, 2014 on governance and transactions involving the capital of publicly owned companies. 14.1. BOARD OF DIRECTORS 14.1.1. COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Following the change of governance and in accordance with article 15 of the articles appointed by the Annual General Meeting of shareholders on the proposal of the of association, the company is governed by a Board of Directors comprised of twelve French State pursuant to order no. 2014-948 of August 20, 2014 and of decree members, including three members elected by company personnel, one director no. 2014-949 of August 20, 2014. representing the French State appointed by ministerial order and two directors AREVA directors all have French nationality. 128 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BODIES AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 14.1 Board of Directors 14 First name, last name, age, powers or Terms in progress/principal duties exercised Terms expired exercised outside the company duties exercised in the company outside the company during the last ﬁve years Directors appointed (or coopted (2)) by the General Meeting of Shareholders on January 8, 2015 Philippe Varin 1 Director of EDF (1); 1 Chairman of the Managing Board of Peugeot SA; Age 63 1 Director of Saint-Gobain (1); 1 Chairman of the Board of Directors of Peugeot Director 1 Chairman of the Cercle de l’Industrie; Citroën Automobiles SA; Chairman of the Board of Directors 1 Special envoy of the Minister of Foreign Aﬀairs and 1 Chairman of the Board of Directors of GEFCO SA; Chairman of the Strategy and International Development to ASEAN countries. 1 Director of Banque PSA Finance SA; Investments Committee 1 Director of Faurecia SA; 1 Director of PCMA Holding BV; 1 Director of BG Group Plc. Daniel Verwaerde (2) 1 Chairman of the CEA; 1 Director of Sodern. Age 61 1 Chairman of the Board of Directors of CEA; Director 1 Managing Director of SCI Richard; Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors 1 Managing Director of SCI Guillaume; Member of the Strategy and Investments 1 Managing Director of SCI Mathilde. Committee Member of the End-of-Lifecycle Obligations Monitoring Committee Member of the Ad Hoc Committee Sophie Boissard 1 CEO of the Korian Group (1) since 01.26.2016; 1 General Manager in charge of organizing SNCF Age 45 1 Director of Sanef; Immobilier; Director 1 Chairman of the ICF Habitat Group (SNCF) 1 Chairman of SNCF Participations; Chairman of the Audit and Ethics (term expired 01.25.2016); 1 Director of GIAT Industries; Committee 1 Chairman of Espaces Ferroviaires (SNCF) 1 Director of AREP; Member of the Nominating and (term expired 02.01.2016); 1 Chairman and Chief Executive Oﬃcer of A2C; Compensation Committee 1 Director of eurostar International Limited (SNCF) 1 Vice Chairman of the Union des Transports Member of the Ad Hoc Committee (term expired 05.28.2016). publics. Claude Imauven 1 Chief Operating Oﬃcer of Saint-Gobain 1 Chief Executive Oﬃcer and Director of BPB Age 58 (since 01.01.2016); Limited; Director 1 Director of Banque CIC Est; 1 Chairman of the Board of SG Rakennustuotteet Chairman of the Nominating and 1 Director of Artelia Holding SAS; Oy; Compensation Committee 1 Chairman of the Board of Directors 1 Director of Inversiones BPB Chile Ltda. Member of the Strategy and of the Institut Mines-Télécom (EPSCT) Investments Committee (since 02.15.2016); Member of the Ad Hoc Committee 1 Chairman of Saint-Gobain Matériaux de Construction SAS and Saint-Gobain Produits pour la Construction SAS (Saint-Gobain) (term expired 12.31.2015); 1 Director and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Saint-Gobain PAM (Saint-Gobain) (term expired 12.31.2015); 1 Director and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Saint-Gobain Isover (Saint-Gobain) (term expired 12.31.2015); 1 Member of the Supervisory Board and Chairman of Saint-Gobain Weber (Saint-Gobain) (term expired 12.31.2015). (1) Publicly traded company. (2) Mr. Daniel Verwaerde was appointed to the Board of Directors and named as its Vice Chairman on February 2, 2015, replacing Mr. Bernard Bigot, who had been appointed to these functions on January 8, 2015. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 129 14 ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BODIES AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 14.1 Board of Directors First name, last name, age, powers or Terms in progress/principal duties exercised Terms expired exercised outside the company duties exercised in the company outside the company during the last ﬁve years Philippe Knoche 1 Chairman, Chief Executive Oﬃcer 1 Chairman of the Board of Directors of AREVA Inc. Age 47 and director of AREVA NC (AREVA); (AREVA). Director 1 Chairman of the Board of Directors Chief Executive Oﬃcer of AREVA Mines (AREVA) (since 02.18.2016); 1 Chairman of AREVA NP SAS (AREVA); 1 Member of the Supervisory Board of AREVA GmbH (AREVA); 1 Chairman of the Board of Canberra Industries Inc. (AREVA); 1 Permanent representative of AREVA SA to the Board of Directors of AREVA TA (term expired 02.11.2016) (AREVA); 1 Member of the Executive Board of AREVA (term expired 01.08.2015). Christian Masset 1 Secretary General of the Quai d’Orsay 1 Member of the Board of the l’Institut Age 59 (Ministry of Foreign Aﬀairs and du monde arabe (Arab World Institute); Director (proposed by the French State) International Development); 1 Director of Agence pour l’enseignement Member of the Strategy and 1 Director of EDF (1) du français à l’étranger ; Investments Committee 1 Director of École Nationale d’Administration; 1 Director of France expertise international; 1 Director of the Institut Français; 1 Director of the Institut Français; 1 Director of the Agence nationale des titres 1 Director of the Agence française sécurisés (national agency for secure de développement identity documents); (French Development Agency); 1 Director of the Commission de récolement 1 Director of the France-Israel Foundation; des dépôts d’œuvres d’art (commission for veriﬁcation of registered works of art); 1 Director of the Établissement de préparation et de réponse aux urgences sanitaires (health emergency planning and response institution) ; 1 Director of France Médias Monde ; 1 Member of the Comité de l’énergie atomique (French atomic energy board) Denis Morin 1 Director of Budget at the French Ministry 1 Director of EDF. Age 60 of Economy and Finance; Director (proposed by the French State) 1 Director of SNCF (1). Member of the Audit and Ethics Committee (1) Publicly traded company. 130 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BODIES AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 14.1 Board of Directors 14 First name, last name, age, powers or Terms in progress/principal duties exercised Terms expired exercised outside the company duties exercised in the company outside the company during the last ﬁve years Pascale Sourisse 1 Senior Executive Vice President of 1 Member of the collective body of Age 53 International Development, Thales group (1); Thales Security Solutions & Services SAS; Director 1 Director of Vinci (1); 1 Chairman of Sitac SAS (formerly 181 Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee 1 Director of Renault (1); Centelec SAS); Chairman of the End-of-Lifecycle 1 Chairman of Thales International SAS 1 Member of the Board of Directors of Obligations Monitoring Committee and Thales Europe SAS (Thales); the Institut Télécom; Member of the Audit and 1 Director of the Agence nationale 1 Chairman and Chief Executive Oﬃcer of Ethics Committee des fréquences (French frequency agency); Thales Communications & Security SAS; 1 Director of the Agence nationale 1 Chairman of Thales Services SAS; de la recherche (French national 1 Member of the Supervisory Board of research agency); Thales Alenia Space SAS; 1 Chairman of the Board of École 1 Member of the Board of Gifas; de Télécom Paris Tech; 1 Member of the Board of Directors of DCNS; 1 Permanent representative of Thales 1 Chairman of Thales Canada Inc. Canada; as Director of Odas. 1 Director of Thales UK Ltd. (United Kingdom); 1 Director of Thales Electronics Ltd. (United Kingdom); 1 Member of the Supervisory Board of Thales Netherland BV (Netherlands); 1 Director of Thales USA Inc. (USA); 1 Director of ADI Engineering & Vehicles Pty Ltd (Australia); 1 Director of ADI Group Holdings Pty Ltd (Australia); 1 Director of ADI Group Pty Ltd (Australia); 1 Director of ADI Lithgow Pty Ltd (Australia); 1 Director of ADI Munitions Pty Ltd (Australia); 1 Director of Australian Defence Industries Pty Ltd (Australia); 1 Director of Thales Australia Holdings Pty Ltd (Australia); 1 Director of Thales Underwater Systems Pty Ltd (Australia). 1 Director of Thales Training & Simulation Holdings Pty Ltd (Australia) 1 Director of ATM Pty Ltd (Australia) 1 Director of Australia Corporate Finance Pty Ltd (Australia) 1 Director of Australia Finance Pty Ltd (Australia) 1 Permanent representative of Thales as Director of Sofresa (1) Publicly traded company. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 131 14 ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BODIES AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 14.1 Board of Directors First name, last name, age, powers or Terms in progress/principal duties exercised Terms expired exercised outside the company duties exercised in the company outside the company during the last ﬁve years Director appointed by the French State by ministerial order of January 7, 2015 Alexis Zajdenweber 1 Director of Eramet (1); 1 Director of La Monnaie de Paris. Age 39 1 Member of the Supervisory Board Director (representing the French State) of ERDF; Member of the Audit and Ethics Committee 1 Director of the French Geological Member of the Strategy and Survey (BRGM). Investments Committee Member of the End-of-Lifecycle Obligations Monitoring Committee Member of the Nominating and Compensation Committee Directors representing the employees elected on October 31, 2014 Françoise Pieri 1 Integrated management system specialist 1 None. Age 48 (AREVA NC). Director (representing the employees) Member of the Audit and Ethics Committee Jean-Michel Lang 1 Expert to the head of the department 1 Member of the Board of Directors of MELOX. Age 53 that handles product quality deviations Director (representing the employees) (AREVA NC). Member of the End-of-Lifecycle Obligations Monitoring Committee Member of the Nominating and Compensation Committee Odile Matte 1 Project administrator at AREVA TA; 1 None. Age 56 1 Director elected by the employees Director (representing the employees) of AREVA TA (AREVA); Member of the Strategy and Investments 1 Managing Director of SCI Les Cèdres. Committee (1) Publicly traded company. Pursuant to article 18 of the company’s articles of association, the Board of Directors who serves as a member of the company’s general economic and ﬁnancial control appointed Mr. Pascal Faure and the CEA, represented by Mr. Christophe Gégout, board. They may also attend meetings of committees reporting to the Board of as censors (2) in order to assist the Board in exercising its duties and attend its Directors. meetings without voting rights. Mr. Pierre Charreton, General Counsel and Chief Administrative Oﬃcer of AREVA, Pursuant to article 3 of the decree no. 83-1116 of December 21, 1983, as amended, served as Secretary of the Board of Directors. Mrs. Malak Tazi, Legal Director of the following persons also attend the meetings of the Board of Directors in an Governance, Companies and Securities & Finance, served as Deputy Secretary advisory capacity: the Director General for Energy and Climate at the Ministry of of the Board of Directors. Energy, Mr. Laurent Michel, who serves as Government Commissioner, and the representative of the head of the “Atomic Energy” control mission of the general economic and ﬁnancial control department, represented by Mr. Christian Bodin, (2) Renewal on February 2, 2016. 132 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BODIES AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 14.1 Board of Directors 14 14.1.2. PERSONAL INFORMATION ON THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Members appointed by the Shareholders/coopted CLAUDE IMAUVEN by the Board of Directors Born September 6, 1957 in Marseille, France, Mr. Claude Imauven is a graduate of École polytechnique and holds the rank of Ingénieur in the Corps des mines. He PHILIPPE VARIN began his career in 1983 at the French Ministry of Industry, where he held several management positions in public administration, especially as part of the Minister’s Born August 8, 1952 in Reims, France, Mr. Philippe Varin is a graduate of staﬀ (Foreign and Industry). Polytechnique and of École des mines of Paris. His career at Saint-Gobain began in 1993 with the Flat Glass Division, where he He joined the Péchiney group in 1978 as a researcher and subsequently ﬁlls a was Vice President of Industrial Policy and subsequently Vice President of Industry number of management positions within the group (management control, strategy, and Finance. In 1996, he was appointed General Delegate for Spain, Portugal and project direction) before being appointed in 1995 as Director of the Rhenalu Division Morocco. Returning to France in 1999, he joined the Pipe activity as Chief Operating then Chief Executive Oﬃcer of the aluminum segment and member of the group’s Oﬃcer of Pont-à-Mousson SA. In 2001, he became Chairman and CEO of that Executive Committee in 1999. company and President of the Pipe activity. In 2003, he joined the Anglo-Dutch steel group Corus as Chief Executive Oﬃcer. From April 2004 to the end of 2015, Mr. Claude Imauven was Senior Vice President He was Chairman of the European Steel Association (Eurofer) from 2006 to 2008. of Saint-Gobain and President of the Construction Products Sector. He was appointed Chairman of the Executive Board of PSA Peugeot Citroën in Mr. Claude Imauven is Oﬃcier in the Ordre national du Mérite. June 2009 and left the group in June 2014. Mr. Claude Imauven has been Chief Operating Officer of Saint-Gobain since Mr. Philippe Varin is Chevalier in the Ordre national du Mérite, Oﬃcier in the Ordre January 1, 2016. national de la Légion d’Honneur, and Commander of the British Empire. He has been a member of the Board of Directors of AREVA since January 8, 2015. He has chaired the Board of Directors of AREVA since January 8, 2015. PHILIPPE KNOCHE SOPHIE BOISSARD Born February 14, 1969 in Strasbourg, France, Mr. Philippe Knoche is a graduate of Born July 11, 1970 in Paris, France, Mrs. Sophie Boissard is an alumnus of École polytechnique, where he received a Master’s of Science in Materials Science; École normale supérieure of Paris (1989) and a graduate of the Institute d’études he also holds a degree from École des mines. politiques of Paris (1992) and of École nationale d’administration. He began his career in 1995 in Brussels as a case handler for the European She occupied various positions in the public sector, at the Conseil d’État from 1996 Commission’s Antidumping Department. to 2004 (reporting judge), at the Ministry of Labor and Employment as the Minister’s Chief of Staﬀ, in the oﬃce of the Prime Minister (Center for Strategic Analysis) and In 1998, he joined the Consortium de Réalisation as Assistant to the Chairman of at the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Industry from 2007 to 2008 (member of the Supervisory Board. the Minister’s cabinet). He joined the AREVA group in 2000 as Senior Vice President in charge of Corporate In 2008, Mrs. Sophie Boissard joined the Executive Committee of the SNCF group to Strategy. He became Executive Vice President of the Treatment Business Unit create and develop Gares & Connexions, a business involving the management and in 2004 and, in 2006, Director of the Olkiluoto 3 project. In 2010, he took the helm development of train stations, then, in 2014, SNCF Immobilier, a division devoted to of the Reactors & Services Business Group as Senior Executive Vice President and the development of property and land assets. She was also in charge, from 2012 became a member of the group’s Executive Committee. to 2014, of strategy and development for the SNCF Group, where she focused in In July 2011, Mr. Philippe Knoche was appointed to the Executive Board and named particular on diversiﬁcation of the Group’s operations, particularly internationally, Chief Operating Oﬃcer in charge of nuclear operations. strategic partnerships and innovation, and, in France, leadership for the plan to merge with RFF. He has been a member of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Oﬃcer of AREVA since January 8, 2015. Mrs. Sophie Boissard is Chevalier in the Ordre national du Mérite. Mrs. Sophie Boissard has been Chief Executive Oﬃcer of the Korian Group since January 26, 2016. Mrs. Sophie Boissard was a member of the Supervisory Board of AREVA from 2011 to 2015. She has been a member of the Board of Directors of AREVA since January 8, 2015. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 133 14 ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BODIES AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 14.1 Board of Directors CHRISTIAN MASSET DENIS MORIN Born January 23, 1957 in Sète, France, Mr. Christian Masset is an alumnus of École Born December 15, 1955 in Paris, France, Mr. Denis Morin is a graduate of École nationale d’administration and a graduate of the Institute d’études politiques of Paris des hautes études commerciales de Paris (HEC) and of Institut d’Études Politiques and of École supérieure des sciences économiques et commerciales (ESSEC). of Paris and an alumnus of École nationale d’administration, “Solidarity” class. Mr. Christian Masset began his career with the Political Aﬀairs Directorate of the He began his career at the Department of Budget in 1983, continuing there as Ministry of Foreign Aﬀairs in 1984. In 1987, he was names First Secretary to Technical Advisor to the Minister Delegate of the Budget Michel Charasse in 1988 the Embassy of France in London before joining, in 1989, the Economic Aﬀairs then as Deputy Chief of Staﬀ to the Minister of the Budget Martin Malvy in 1992. Directorate of the Ministry of Foreign Aﬀairs in Paris. From 1991 to 1994, he was In 1993, he was appointed Under-director of Employment, Training and Social First Counsellor to the Embassy of France in Pretoria then, from 1994 to 1997, Security at the Department of the Budget. Counsellor to the Permanent Representation of France to the European Union. From 1997 to 1999, he was appointed Technical Advisor to the Cabinet of the From 1997 to 2000, he held the positions of Chief of Staﬀ to Martine Aubry and Minister of Foreign Aﬀairs. Christian Sautter, of Deputy Chief of Staﬀ to Dominique Strauss-Kahn and of Advisor to Elisabeth Guigou. Mr. Masset was Minister-Counsellor to the Embassy of France in Rome from 1999 to 2002, the Deputy Permanent Representative of France to the European Union From 2001 to 2007, he joined the Cour des Comptes (Court of Audit) as Senior from 2002 to 2007, and then Director of Economic and Financial Aﬀairs at the Auditor to the 6th Chamber in charge of social security. Ministry of Foreign Aﬀairs. In 2009, he was named Director General of Globalization, From April 2007 to October 2009, he held the positions of deputy to the Delegate Development and Partnerships. In that capacity, he held the oﬃce of Chairman of General of the Technical Center of Pension Funds (CTIP), Senior Auditor to the the Board of Directors of the Agence pour l’enseignement du français à l’étranger 1st chamber of the Cour des Comptes, and chargé de mission to the Secretary [agency for French education abroad] and of the France cooperation international General of Social Ministries. public interest grouping. In October 2009, he became Director Elect and subsequently Director General He was Ambassador of France to Japan from January 2012 to July 2014. of the Agence regional de santé (ARS, the regional health agency) in the RhôneMr. Christian Masset is Chevalier of the Ordre national de la Légion d’honneur and Alpes region. Chevalier of the Ordre national du Mérite. In October 2011, he was named Section President to the ﬁrst Chamber of the Since August 1, 2014, Mr. Christian Masset has been Secretary General of the Cour des Comptes, and rapporteur-general of the Inter-chamber Group, in charge Ministry of Foreign Aﬀairs and International Development. of public ﬁnances. The Shareholders appointed him as a member of the Board of Directors on In October 2012, he was appointed Secretary General of the Social Ministries before January 8, 2015 on the proposal of the French State. becoming Chief of Staﬀ for Madame Touraine. Mr. Denis Morin has been Director of Budget at the French Ministry of Economy and Finance since November 27, 2013. Mr. Denis Morin was appointed to the Board of Directors on January 8, 2015 by the Shareholders, on a proposal from the State. PASCALE SOURISSE Born March 7, 1962 in Nantes, France, Mrs. Pascale Sourisse is a graduate of École polytechnique and École nationale supérieure des télécommunications (ENST). She began her career in management positions with France Telecom, JeumontSchneider and the Compagnie Générale des Eaux, as well as with the Ministry of Industry. She joined Alcatel in 1995 as Vice President, Planning and Strategy of Alcatel Space. In 1997, she was appointed Chairman and CEO of SkyBridge. In 2001, she became President and CEO of Alcatel Space, and in 2005 President and CEO of Alcatel Alenia Space. In 2007, she joined Thales as a member of the Executive Committee Senior Vice President of the Space Division and President and CEO of Thales Alenia Space. In 2008, she was appointed Senior Vice President of the Land & Joint Systems Division of Thales and, in February 2010, she became Senior Vice President of the Defense & Security C41 Systems Division. Until 2012, she was also President and CEO of Thales Communications & Security and President of Thales Services. Mrs. Pascale Sourisse is Oﬃcier of the Ordre national de la Légion d’honneur and a Commander of the Ordre national du Mérite. In February 2013, Mrs. Pascale Sourisse was appointed Senior Executive Vice President, International Development of the Thales group. She has been a member of the Board of Directors of AREVA since January 8, 2015. 134 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BODIES AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 14.1 Board of Directors 14 DANIEL VERWAERDE Members of the Board of Directors representing the employees Born August 17, 1954 in Sedan, France, Mr. Daniel Verwaerde is an engineer and graduate of École centrale of Paris and auditor of the 32nd session of the Centre des hautes études de l’armement (CHEAr). JEAN-MICHEL LANG He joined the Commissariat à l’énergie atomique (CEA) in 1977 as an engineerBorn March 30, 1962 in Metz, France, Mr. Jean-Michel Lang holds a two-year mathematician and worked until 1996 on the development of numerical methods technical degree in health and safety and senior technician’s certiﬁcate in radiation and major weapons simulation software. In the capacity, he directed the Applied protection. Mathematics Department responsible for them at the CEA from 1991 to 1996. From 1985 to 1990, he was a radiation protection technician at a regulated nuclear In 1996, following France’s signature of the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, he was in facility. charge of implementing the Simulation program, based on three components: From 1991 to 1993, he was radiation protection zone oﬃcer at a regulated nuclear numerical simulation theoretical physics and experimental physics, in particular facility. with the Megajoule laser built near Bordeaux. From 1994 to 1999, he was radiation protection manager in a production building. In July 2000, he was appointed Director of the CEA DAM/Ile-de-France Center in Bruyères-le-Châtel, home of the teams engaged in weapons design, numerical From 1999 to 2000, he was the manager of the technical, environmental and simulation and monitoring of non-proliferation treaties and eﬀorts. In 2002, he methods oﬃce of the radiation protection department. launched he Ter@tec project aimed at promoting numerical simulation in France From 2001 to 2008, he was a technician in charge of the treatment of product and developing the European IT industry. quality deviations. In January 2004, he became Director of Nuclear Weapons at the CEA’s Defense Since 2008, Mr. Jean-Michel Lang has the status of expert to the head of the Applications Department. In that capacity, he was responsible for French nuclear department that handles product quality deviations (AREVA NC). weapons projects in the Simulation program. Mr. Jean-Michel Lang was elected by the employee electoral college on October 31, On April 3, 2007, he was appointed Director of Defense Applications. In addition 2014 as director representing the employees. to weapons and simulation programs, he was in charge of nuclear propulsion programs, strategic materials supply, and nuclear non-proliferation activities entrusted to the CEA. ODILE MATTE Mr. Daniel Verwaerde has taught at École centrale of Paris since 1981, where he Born September 16, 1959 in Algrange, France, Mrs. Odile Matte did master’s-level teaches numerical analysis, becoming Professor in 1991. accounting and ﬁnance studies. Mr. Daniel Verwaerde is Oﬃcier in the Ordre national de la Légion d’honneur and In May 2000, she joined Technicatome, which later became AREVA TA, as a Chevalier in the Ordre national du Mérite. management controller of quality for defense-related projects. He was appointed Chairman of the Commissariat à l’énergie atomique et aux Based at the engineering oﬃce in Aix-en-Provence, she was a director representing énergies alternatives by decree dated January 29, 2015 and Chairman of the Board the employees to the AREVA TA Board of Directors for 12 years. of Directors of the CE on April 3, 2015. She has also been a member of the Supervisory Board of the AREVA fonds Mr. Daniel Verwaerde was appointed member and Vice Chairman of the Board of monétaire group savings plan since 2007. Directors of AREVA on February 2, 2015, replacing Mr. Bernard Bigot, who had Mrs. Odile Matte is currently a project administrator with AREVA TA and was elected been appointed to that function on January 8, 2015. by the management personnel electoral college during the elections of October 31, 2014 as director representing the employees. Member representing the French State, appointed by ministerial order FRANÇOISE PIERI ALEXIS ZAJDENWEBER Born September 21, 1967 in Saint-Just d’Ardèche, France, Mrs. Françoise Pieri was a secretary with the Testing Department of SGN from 1987 to 1989. Born May 18, 1976 in Paris, France, Mr. Alexis Zajdenweber is a graduate of the Institut d’études politiques of Paris. He is an alumnus of École Nationale From 1990 to 2010, she held various secretarial positions at Socatri. d’Administration (ENA). Since October 2010, Mrs. Françoise Pieri has been an integrated management His career has been entirely with the Treasury Directorate of the Ministry of Economy system specialist with AREVA NC. and Finance, with particular responsibility for cases involving the regulation of Mrs. Françoise Pieri was elected by the employee electoral college during the ﬁnancial services (banks, ﬁnancial markets, insurance), corporate ﬁnancing and elections of October 31, 2014 as director representing the employees. anti-money-laundering eﬀorts. He also worked at the Permanent Representation of France in charge of relations with the Directorate General for Competition of the European Commission. Before joining the Agence des participations de l’État, he was an advisor to Pierre Moscovici, Minister of Economy and Finance, in charge of ﬁnancial services and the ﬁnancing of the economy. Mr. Alexis Zajdenweber was appointed representative of the French State to the AREVA Board of Directors as from January 8, 2015 by ministerial order of January 7, 2015. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 135 14 ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BODIES AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 14.1 Board of Directors 14.1.3. CHANGE MADE DURING THE PERIOD A single change was made to the composition of the Board of Directors in 2015, which was the appointment of Mr. Daniel Verwaerde to the Board of Directors and to the position of Vice Chairman of the Board on February 2, 2015, replacing Mr. Bernard Bigot, who had been appointed to that function on January 8, 2015. First name, last name, age, powers Terms in progress/principal duties Terms expired exercised outside or duties exercised in the company exercised outside the company the company during the last ﬁve years Bernard Bigot 1 Director-General of Iter Organization (since 1 Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Institut Age 65 03.05.2015); national de recherche pédagogique. From January 8, 2015 to February 2, 2015: 1 Chairman of the Fondation de la Maison de la Director chimie ; Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors 1 Chairman of the Université de Lyon Foundation (since 12.08.2015); 1 Vice Chairman of the Fondation Jean Dausset – Centre d’études du polymorphisme humain ; 1 Vice Chairman of the Association Laboratoires des energies du Sud Rhône-Alpes ; 1 Chairman of the Association de l’École supérieure de chimie électronique of Lyon (CPE) and of its Board of Directors; 1 Chairman of the Board of Directors of École nationale supérieure d’electricité et de mécanique/Université de Lorraine School of Energy; 1 Director representing the French State, on behalf of the minister of Industry, to the Board of Directors of AREVA NC (AREVA) (term expired 03.16.2015). 136 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BODIES AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 14.2 Executive oﬃcers 14 14.2. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS Under the provisions of article L. 225-51-1 of the French Commercial Code, the Executive management procedures are described in Section 3.6 of the report of Board of Directors opted to dissociate the duties of Chairman of the Board of the Chairman of the Board of Directors on governance, internal control procedures Directors and Chief Executive Oﬃcer, with Mr. Philippe Varin performing the duties and risk management (Appendix 1). of Chairman of the Board and Mr. Philippe Knoche performing the duties of Chief The Chief Executive Oﬃcer is supported by an Executive Committee in which all Executive Oﬃcer. of the group’s businesses are represented. The dissociation of these duties is intended to establish a clear distinction between The committee examines and discussions all matters pertaining to the group’s the strategic direction, decision-making and control duties of the Chairman of the operations and strategy. In principle, it meets each week. Board and the operational and executive duties of the Chief Executive Oﬃcer. It is also intended to improve the functioning of the Board through the presence of a person dedicated to chairing it, and the balanced distribution of powers limiting the isolation of a single executive and promoting dialogue among peers. As of the date of ﬁling of this Reference Document, the composition of the Executive Committee is as follows: Name Title Rémy Autebert Senior Executive Vice President, Asia Region, Executive Director for the reorganization of the international commercial function Eric Chassard Senior Executive Vice President, Engineering & Projects Anne-Marie Choho Senior Executive Vice President of Operations Support, responsible for the corporate transformation project Guillaume Dureau Senior Executive Vice President, Back End Business Group Bernard Fontana Chief Operating Oﬃcer of AREVA NP and Senior Executive Vice President of the Reactors & Services Business Group Stéphane Lhopiteau Chief Financial Oﬃcer François Nogué Senior Executive Vice President, Human Resources Olivier Wantz Senior Executive Vice President, Mining and Front End Business Groups Magali Smets is Secretary of the Executive Committee. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 137 14 ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BODIES AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 14.3 Legal information, conﬂicts of interest and service contracts 14.3. LEGAL INFORMATION, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND SERVICE CONTRACTS As of the date of this Reference Document and to the best of AREVA’s knowledge: p no member of the Board of Directors or senior management has been convicted there are no potential conﬂicts of interest concerning AREVA between the duties of fraud over the past ﬁve years. None of these members participated in any p of the members of the Board of Directors and the company’s senior management bankruptcy, receivership or liquidation proceeding in an executive capacity on the one hand, and their private interests or other duties on the other. The Board during the past ﬁve years, and none was indicted and/or oﬃcially sanctioned of Directors’ rules of procedure include a procedure for preventing conﬂicts of by a statutory or regulatory authority, including professional organizations oﬃcially interest applicable to all directors. appointed. Over the past ﬁve years, no court has barred any of these members from becoming a member of an administrative, executive or supervisory body In addition: of a securities issuer, nor from participating in the management or business p the company has set up a speciﬁc procedure to prevent and settle situations operations of an issuer; which might generate conﬂicts of interest for the Chairman of the Board of p no member of the Board of Directors or senior management has been retained Directors due to his service as a director on the Board of Directors of EDF; as a corporate oﬃcer or board member of a major shareholder, customer or p as part of the negotiations between EDF and AREVA concerning the proposed supplier pursuant to an arrangement or an agreement; strategic and industrial partnership between the two groups, the Chairman of p no service agreement contemplating any beneﬁt has been concluded between the Board of Directors decided to suspend his participation in the EDF Board AREVA or any of its subsidiaries and any member of the Board of Directors or of Directors in order to devote himself to his duties as Chairman of the Board senior management. of Directors of AREVA; p Mr. Christian Masset, who also sits on the EDF Board of Directors, indicated in a letter addressed to the Chairman of the AREVA Board of Directors that he would take the customary measures to avoid any potential conﬂict of interest when the AREVA Board and its committees deal with relations between AREVA and EDF. 14.4 TRANSACTIONS ON THE COMPANY’S SHARES CARRIED OUT BY OFFICERS Oﬃcers and similar persons (1) of companies whose shares are admitted for shareholders in its annual report. No transaction on AREVA shares was declared trading on a regulated market must declare transactions carried out on the to the AMF or to the company during the 2015 ﬁnancial year by members of the company’s shares to AMF and to the company (2) within ﬁve days of completion Board of Directors or of the company’s Executive Committee. of the trade when the total amount of transactions carried out over the calendar year exceeds 5,000 euros. In addition, the AREVA Board of Directors must report above-mentioned transactions declared in the last financial year to the (1) In AREVA, persons “similar to oﬃcers” are members of the company’s Executive Committee. (2) Article L. 621-18-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code. 138 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 15 15.1. COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS 139 15.2. STOCK OWNED BY OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS 148 15.1.1. Compensation of members of the Executive Board until the change of governance 139 15.3. AUDIT FEES 148 15.1.2. Compensation of members of the Supervisory Board until the change of governance 142 15.1.3. Compensation of the Chief Executive Oﬃcer 144 15.1.4. Compensation of the Chairman and members of the Board of Directors since the change of governance 145 On January 8, 2015, AREVA’s General Meeting of shareholders decided to change the company’s governance from one of a Supervisory Board and an Executive Board into one with a single Board of Directors (See Section 14 and Appendix 1 of this Reference Document). 15.1. COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS The compensation of AREVA’s oﬃcers and directors is determined in accordance The components of compensation are subject to the approval of the Minister of with the provisions of the French Commercial Code and the Afep-Medef Code of Economy pursuant to the decree no. 53-707 of August 9, 1953, as amended, on Governance to which AREVA defers (see Appendix 1 of this Reference Document). State control of national public sector companies and certain organizations serving Until the change of governance, the Supervisory Board set compensation for an economic or social purpose. the Chairman and the members of the Executive Board on the proposal of the In addition, as provided in article 3 of the decree, the gross annual compensation Nominating and Compensation Committee, and the shareholders set the amount of oﬃcers and directors is capped at 450,000 euros. of attendance fees paid to and subsequently divided among the members of the In accordance with applicable regulations, the tables below include the Supervisory Board. compensation and beneﬁts of any kind paid to each of the oﬃcers and directors Since the change of governance, the Board of Directors sets the compensation for in 2014 and 2015 by AREVA. No compensation or beneﬁts are paid to said oﬃcers the Chairman and the Chief Executive Oﬃcer on the proposal of the Nominating and directors by companies controlled by AREVA. and Compensation Committee, and the shareholders set the amount of attendance fees paid to and subsequently divided among members of the Board of Directors. 15.1.1. COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD UNTIL THE CHANGE OF GOVERNANCE Until the change of governance, the compensation of the members of the Executive Only Messrs. Olivier Wantz and Pierre Aubouin beneﬁted from annual variable Board had consisted of a ﬁxed component and, for some members, a variable compensation for the duration of their terms, capped respectively at 60,000 euros component. and 120,000 euros, subject to the achievement of quantitative and qualitative In 2015, the gross fixed annual compensation of Messrs. Philippe Knoche, objectives which were not identiﬁed in 2015 due to the change of governance on Olivier Wantz and Pierre Aubouin was unchanged in relation to 2014, at January 8, 2015. 420,000 euros, 360,000 euros and 300,000 euros respectively, prorated for the remaining duration of their terms until the change of governance. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 139 15 COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 15.1 Compensation of oﬃcers and directors With regard to the company’s ﬁnancial situation, no variable component to which Messrs. Philippe Knoche and Pierre Aubouin did not have employment contracts the former members of the Executive Board may possibly have been entitled was for the duration of their terms, nor did Mr. Luc Oursel, who died on December 3, paid for 2014. 2014. Mr. Olivier Wantz elected to have his employment contract suspended while AREVA does not have any system for performance-based share allotments, or any he served as a member of the Executive Board. stock option or stock purchase plan, either for employees or for oﬃcers. 15.1.1.1. SUMMARY OF COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS OF EXECUTIVE BOARD MEMBERS (euros) Compensation Compensation Compensation Compensation AREVA directors and oﬃcers due in 2014 (1) paid in 2014 (2) due in 2015 (3) paid in 2015 (4) Luc Oursel, Chief Executive Oﬃcer 417,718 415,658 (5) NA NA (6) Philippe Knoche, Chief Operating Oﬃcer 420,000 420,976 9,846 9,846 Olivier Wantz, Senior Executive Vice President, Mining Business Group 360,000 415,650 8,524 8,524 Pierre Aubouin, Chief Executive Financial Oﬃcer 300,000 412,260 (7) 7,043 7,043 (1) Sum total of compensation due for the year, including the variable component, if applicable, regardless of the date of payment. (2) Sum total of compensation paid during the year, including the variable component for the previous year, if applicable, paid in 2014. (3) Sum total of compensation due until the change of governance on January 8, 2015, including the variable component, if applicable. (4) Sum total of compensation paid until the change of governance, i.e. January 8, 2015. With regard to the company’s ﬁnancial situation, no variable component to which the former members of the Executive Board may possibly have been entitled was paid for 2014. (5) Sick leave beginning October 17, 2014 (impact of the payment of daily Social Security allowances) and death on December 3, 2014. (6) The diﬀerence of 976 euros was reversed. (7) The diﬀerence of 300 euros for ﬁxed compensation was reversed. 15.1.1.2. SUMMARY OF COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS OF EACH EXECUTIVE BOARD MEMBER (euros) Summary of compensation and beneﬁts for Luc Oursel 2014 2015 (1) (2) AREVA directors and oﬃcers Amounts due Amounts paid Amounts due Amounts paid Fixed compensation 413,206 (3) 411,146 (4) NA NA Variable compensation NA NA NA NA Exceptional compensation NA NA NA NA Attendance fees NA NA NA NA Non-cash beneﬁts (company car) 4,512 4,512 NA NA TOTAL 417,718 415,658 NA NA (1) Sum total of compensation due for the year, including the variable component, regardless of the date of payment. (2) Sum total of compensation paid during the year, including that paid for the previous year. (3) In view of Mr. Oursel’s death on December 3, 2014. (4) Sick leave beginning October 17, 2014 (impact of the payment of daily Social Security allowances) and death on December 3, 2014. Exceptional compensation in the amount of 112,500 euros, equivalent to one quarter of his 2014 gross annual compensation, was allocated to Mr. Luc Oursel by the Supervisory Board on December 17, 2014, to be paid to his widow in 2015. This consideration was approved by ministerial decision on January 12, 2015. 140 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 15.1 Compensation of oﬃcers and directors 15 (euros) Summary of compensation and beneﬁts for Philippe Knoche 2014 2015 (1) AREVA directors and oﬃcers Amounts due (2) Amounts paid (3) Amounts due (2) Amounts paid (3) Fixed compensation 417,060 417,060 9,478 9,478 Variable compensation NA NA NA NA Exceptional compensation NA NA NA NA Attendance fees NA NA NA NA Non-cash beneﬁts (company car) 2,940 3,916 (4) 368 368 TOTAL 420,000 420,976 (5) 9,846 9,846 (1) Until the change of governance, i.e. January 8, 2015 (see Section 15.1.3.1 for the full year of 2015). (2) Sum total of compensation due for the year, regardless of the date of payment. (3) Sum total of compensation paid during the year, including that paid for the previous year. (4) Adjustment of the company vehicle beneﬁt in kind in May 2014. (5) The diﬀerence of 976 euros was reversed. (euros) Summary of compensation and beneﬁts for Olivier Wantz 2014 2015 (1) AREVA directors and oﬃcers Amounts due (2) Amounts paid (3) Amounts due (2) Amounts paid (3) Fixed compensation 354,360 354,360 8,053 8,053 (4) Variable compensation 0 55,650 0 0 Exceptional compensation NA NA NA NA Attendance fees NA NA NA NA Non-cash beneﬁts (company car) 5,640 5,640 471 471 TOTAL 360,000 415,650 8,524 8,524 (1) Until the change of governance, i.e. January 8, 2015. (2) Sum total of compensation due for the year, including the variable component, if applicable, regardless of the date of payment. (3) Sum total of compensation paid during the year, including that paid for the previous year. (4) With regard to the company’s ﬁnancial situation, no variable component to which the former members of the Executive Board may possibly have been entitled was paid for 2014. (euros) Summary of compensation and beneﬁts for Pierre Aubouin 2014 2015 (1) (2) (3) AREVA directors and oﬃcers Amounts due Amounts paid Amounts due (2) Amounts paid (3) Fixed compensation 296,400 296,700 (4) 6,743 6,743 (4) (5) Variable compensation 0 111,960 0 0 Exceptional compensation NA NA NA NA Attendance fees NA NA NA NA Non-cash beneﬁts (company car) 3,600 3,600 300 300 TOTAL 300,000 412,260 7,043 7,043 (1) Until the change of governance, i.e. January 8, 2015. (2) Sum total of compensation due for the year, including the variable component, if applicable, regardless of the date of payment. (3) Sum total of compensation paid during the year, including that paid for the previous year. (4) The diﬀerence of 300 euros was reversed. (5) With regard to the company’s ﬁnancial situation, no variable component to which the former members of the Executive Board may possibly have been entitled was paid for 2014. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 141 15 COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 15.1 Compensation of oﬃcers and directors 15.1.1.3. SEVERANCE AND NON-COMPETITION PAYMENTS Mr. Philippe Knoche was appointed Chief Executive Officer of AREVA in the framework of the new governance. Severance payments Mr. Olivier Wantz’s employment contract was reactivated. No severance and non-competition payments were made to the members of the Mr. Pierre Aubouin was covered by an employment contract until he left the group Executive Board at the end of their terms, related to the change in method of on July 8, 2015. governance. Compensation or beneﬁts due or that may be due Supplemental in the event of termination or change in duties, Employment contract retirement beneﬁts including payments relative to a non-competition clause Executive oﬃcers YES NO YES NO YES NO Luc Oursel, Chairman of the Executive Board NA NA NA NA NA NA Philippe Knoche, COO X X X (1) Olivier Wantz, SEVP Mining X (2) X X Pierre Aubouin, SEVP Finance X (3) X X (1) Exceptions apart (cf. section 15.1.3.2). (2) Employment contract suspended during the term and reactivated at the end of his term. (3) Mr. Pierre Aubouin was covered by an employment contract from the end of his term until he left the group on July 8, 2015. Non-competition payments 15.1.1.5. UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE The Supervisory Board did not grant any payment to members of the Executive Effective December 1, 2011, the company subscribed to an unemployment Board in consideration of a non-competition clause. insurance plan sponsored by Medef and underwritten by Garantie sociale des chefs et dirigeants d’entreprise (GSC) in favor of oﬃcers and directors without an employment contract. Membership guarantees 12 months of severance payments 15.1.1.4. PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS to the oﬃcers and directors, with a payment level of 70% of net revenue from The company did not subscribe to any supplemental retirement plan with employment received for the calendar year preceding the membership in the case deﬁned beneﬁts for the members of the Executive Board. They participated in the of tax brackets A and B, and 55% for tax bracket C. Insurance coverage is subject supplemental retirement plans applicable to the company’s executive employees. to a waiting period of 12 months. AREVA pays 65% of the insurance premium and the beneﬁciary pays 35%. 15.1.2. COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD UNTIL THE CHANGE OF GOVERNANCE The members of the Supervisory Board received attendance fees during their The Supervisory Board decided on January 8, 2015 to distribute attendance fees in terms, except for the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, the representatives of the amount of 2,000 euros per eligible member of the Supervisory Board and per the French State, and Messrs. Béhar, Bigot and Gégout (the latter representing the meeting, provided the member was eﬀectively present (physically or by electronic CEA), who had waived them. means). For members residing outside Europe, that sum was doubled in the event In addition, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board received gross ﬁxed annual of the member’s physical presence at the meetings. compensation of 120,000 euros for these duties. In accordance with article 3 of the decree no. 53-707 of August 9, 1953, these The General Meeting of shareholders of January 8, 2015 set the maximum total decisions were approved by ministerial decision on April 7, 2015. amount of attendance fees allocated to the members of the Supervisory Board * at 50,000 euros for the period beginning January 1, 2015 and ending January 8, 2015. * For the total amount of attendance fees and their distribution for 2014, please refer to the 2014 Reference Document (Section 15.1.2). 142 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 15.1 Compensation of oﬃcers and directors 15 15.1.2.1. SUMMARY OF ATTENDANCE FEES PAID DURING THE YEAR Members of the Supervisory Board (1) 2014 (2) 2015 (3) Sophie Boissard 48,400 2,000 François David 44,000 0 Agnès Lemarchand 42,000 (4) 2,000 Jean-Michel Lang 48,000 2,000 Françoise Pieri 48,800 2,000 Philippe Pinson 45,600 2,000 Guylaine Saucier 76,400 2,000 TOTAL 353,200 12,000 (1) List of members of the Supervisory Board who received attendance fees. (2) Attendance fees allocated in 2014, including the balance for December 2013. (3) Attendance fees allocated in 2015 until the change of governance on January 8, 2015. (4) In 2014, Mrs. Agnès Lemarchand received an adjustment for her presence during a Supervisory Board meeting held in 2013. 15.1.2.2. SUMMARY OF COMPENSATION PAID TO MEMBERS with the CEA, which controls AREVA. They received no attendance fees from OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD DURING THE YEAR AREVA for their services as members of the Supervisory Board. Bernard Bigot (GROSS COMPENSATION AND ATTENDANCE FEES) received no compensation from AREVA for his service as Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board; Pursuant to applicable regulations, the following information is provided: p the total gross compensation of Jean-Michel Lang, Françoise Pieri and Philippe p the total gross compensation of Pierre Blayau corresponds to the contractual Pinson, members elected by company personnel in 2012, corresponds to the compensation that had been paid by AREVA for his service as Chairman of the compensation (including proﬁt-sharing) paid by the AREVA subsidiary that Supervisory Board. He did not receive attendance fees; employed them during their terms and to the attendance fees for their services p the total gross compensation of Bernard Bigot, Christophe Béhar and Christophe as members of the Supervisory Board. At their request, their attendance fees may Gégout (the latter representing the CEA) corresponds to the compensation be paid by AREVA to the labor organizations to which they belong. (including bonuses and exceptional payments) paid by the CEA for their duties (euros) 2014 2015 (1) Gross Attendance Total gross Gross Attendance Total gross Supervisory Board compensation fees compensation compensation fees compensation (a) (b) (c = a + b) (a) (b) (c = a + b) Pierre Blayau 120,000 120,000 10,000 10,000 Bernard Bigot 236,274 236,274 77,002 77,002 Christophe Béhar (2) 156,205 156,205 NA NA Sophie Boissard 48,400 48,400 2,000 2,000 François David 44,000 44,000 Christophe Gégout 169,810 169,810 18,298 18,298 Agnès Lemarchand 42,000 42,000 2,000 2,000 Jean-Michel Lang 46,356 48,000 94,356 1,083 2,000 3,083 Françoise Pieri 46,074 (3) 48,800 94,874 975 2,000 2,975 Philippe Pinson 133,653 45,600 179,253 2,869 2,000 4,869 Guylaine Saucier 76,400 76,400 2,000 2,000 Philippe Varin (4) -(5) -(5) (1) Period from January 1 to 8, 2015. (2) Resigned November 26, 2014. (3) Excluding the 13th month, taken in time. (3) Coopted by the Supervisory Board on November 26, 2014. (4) Philippe Varin did not receive attendance fees for 2014 and 2015. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 143 15 COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 15.1 Compensation of oﬃcers and directors 15.1.3. COMPENSATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 15.1.3.1. COMPENSATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE AREVA does not have any system for performance-based share allotments, or any OFFICER share option or stock purchase plan, either for employees or for oﬃcers. For 2015, the gross ﬁxed annual compensation of Mr. Philippe Knoche did not Mr. Philippe Knoche does not have an employment agreement. change in comparison with 2014, remaining at 420,000 euros by decision of the The table below shows Mr. Philippe Knoche’s compensation from January 1, 2015, Board of Directors meeting on April 29, 2015, on the recommendation of the including the period up to January 8, 2015, in his capacity as a member of the Nominating and Compensation Committee of April 23, 2015. This compensation Executive Board. was approved by ministerial decision on May 19, 2015. Mr. Philippe Knoche holds 100 shares of the company. Mr. Philippe Knoche does not receive variable compensation. (euros) Summary of compensation and beneﬁts for Philippe Knoche 2014 (1) 2015 (2) AREVA directors and oﬃcers Amounts due (3) Amounts paid (4) Amounts due (3) Amounts paid (4) Fixed compensation 417,060 417,060 417,060 417,060 Variable compensation NA NA NA NA Exceptional compensation NA NA NA NA Attendance fees NA NA NA NA Non-cash beneﬁts (company car) 2,940 3,916 (5) 2,940 3,375 TOTAL 420,000 420,976 (6) 420,000 420,435 (7) (1) Compensation for his service as a member of the Executive Board. (2) Compensation due for the year, regardless of the date of payment or the status of Mr. Philipp Knoche. (3) Compensation due for the year, regardless of the date of payment. (4) Sum total of compensation paid during the year, including that paid for the previous year. (5) Adjustment of the company vehicle beneﬁt in kind in May 2014. (6) The diﬀerence of 976 euros was reversed. (7) The diﬀerence of 435 euros was reversed. 15.1.3.2. SEVERANCE AND NON-COMPETITION PAYMENTS Compensation or beneﬁts due or that may be due Employment Supplemental in the event of termination or change in position, contract retirement beneﬁts including payments related to a non-competition clause Executive director Yes No Yes No Yes No Name: Philippe Knoche Oﬃce: Chief Executive Oﬃcer Date of start of term: X X X (1) January 8, 2015 Date of end of term: 2019 Annual General Meeting (1) Exceptions below apart. Severance payments The above-mentioned severance payment would be paid only in the event of the On the recommendation of the Nominating and Compensation Committee dated dismissal of Mr. Philippe Knoche, except in the event of dismissal for just cause, April 23, 2015, the Board of Directors decided at its meeting of April 29, 2015 that in particular in the event of a change of control or strategy, and will be subject to Mr. Philippe Knoche is entitled to a severance payment in a maximum amount performance conditions as follows: equal to twice the cumulative amount of his annual compensation on the day his p the severance payment will be automatically made if the rate of achievement of duties terminate. quantitative and qualitative objectives was more than 60% on average for the If Mr. Philippe Knoche (i) wishes to exercise his right to retire shortly after the end two previous accounting years; of his term, regardless of the reason, even if constrained to do so, or (ii) occupies p if the rate of achievement of quantitative and qualitative objectives was less than another function within the group, he shall not be entitled to a severance payment. 60% on average for the two previous accounting years, the Board of Directors will assess the performance of the party concerned with regard to circumstances which aﬀected the company’s business during the accounting year. 144 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 15.1 Compensation of oﬃcers and directors 15 Meeting on May 21, 2015, the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the of the payment due in return for a non-competition clause shall be set by the Board Nominating and Compensation Committee meeting on that same day, decided on of Directors in accordance with common practices. said objectives for 2015 as follows: Any non-competition payment must ﬁrst be approved by the Board of Directors in p 60% are quantitative objectives to be met, which are a function of net cash accordance with article L. 225-42-1, paragraph 5 of the French Commercial Code ﬂow, the competitiveness plan, the Olkiluoto 3 EPR reactor and Safety-Healthand approved by the Minister of the Economy in application of the above-mentioned Security objectives; decree no. 53-707 of August 9, 1953. p 40% are qualitative objectives to be met concerning the ﬁnancing plan, to relations with EDF and to the Flamanville EPR reactor. 15.1.3.3. PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS The principle of the severance payment, subject to the achievement of the performance criteria, was authorized by ministerial decision on May 19, 2015 and The company did not subscribe to any supplemental retirement plan with deﬁned approved by the Combined General Meeting of shareholders of May 21, 2015. beneﬁts for the CEO. He participates in the supplemental retirement plans applicable to the company’s executive employees. All severance payments shall first be approved by the Board of Directors in accordance with article L. 225-42-1, paragraph 5 of the French Commercial Code and approved by the Minister of the Economy pursuant to the above-mentioned 15.1.3.4. UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE decree no. 53-707 of August 9, 1953. The company subscribed to an unemployment insurance plan sponsored by Non-competition payments Medef and underwritten by Garantie sociale des chefs et dirigeants d’entreprise (GSC) in favor of the Chief Executive Oﬃcer. Membership guarantees 12 months The Board of Directors may decide to grant to Mr. Philippe Knoche a payment in of severance payments to the oﬃcers, with a payment level of 70% of net revenue return for a non-competition clause. The amount of that payment shall be deducted from employment received for the calendar year preceding the membership in from the amount of the severance payment made, if any, to Mr. Philippe Knoche the case of tax brackets A and B, and 55% for tax bracket C. Premiums for this under the above conditions. In the absence of a severance payment, the amount insurance are paid 70% by AREVA and 30% by the beneﬁciary. 15.1.4. COMPENSATION OF THE CHAIRMAN AND MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS SINCE THE CHANGE OF GOVERNANCE 15.1.4.1. COMPENSATION OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE Directors meeting on April 29, 2015 on the recommendation of the Nominating BOARD OF DIRECTORS and Compensation Committee of April 23, 2015. This compensation was approved by ministerial decision on May 19, 2015. For 2015, the gross ﬁxed annual compensation of Mr. Philippe Varin as Chairman of the Board of Directors was set at 120,000 euros by decision of the Board of Mr. Philippe Varin does not receive variable compensation. (euros) Summary of compensation and beneﬁts of Philippe Varin 2014 2015 (1) AREVA directors and oﬃcers Amounts due Amounts paid Amounts due (2) Amounts paid (3) Fixed compensation NA NA 120,000 120,000 Variable compensation NA NA NA NA Exceptional compensation NA NA NA NA Attendance fees NA NA NA NA Beneﬁts in kind NA NA NA NA TOTAL NA NA 120,000 120,000 (1) Compensation as from January 8, 2015, eﬀective date of his term as Chairman of the Board of Directors. (2) Compensation paid for the year, regardless of the payment date. (3) Sum total of compensation paid during the year. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 145 15 COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 15.1 Compensation of oﬃcers and directors 15.1.4.2. SEVERANCE AND NON-COMPETITION PAYMENTS Mr. Philippe Varin is not entitled to severance or non-competition payments. Compensation or beneﬁts due or that may be due Employment Supplemental in the event of termination or change in position, contract retirement beneﬁts including payments related to a non-competition clause Executive director Yes No Yes No Yes No Name: Philippe Varin Oﬃce: Chairman of the Board of Directors Date of start of term: X X X January 8, 2015 Date of end of term: 2019 Annual General Meeting 15.1.4.3. COMPENSATION OF THE MEMBERS OF THE 2/ Amounts paid for meetings of Board Committees (and the Select BOARD OF DIRECTORS Committee), provided the member was physically in attendance: The members of the Board of Directors receive attendance fees for their service. a) 3,000 euros per meeting for the chairman of the Audit and Ethics Committee; In accordance with the wish they expressed to the Board, the Board of Directors b) 2,500 euros per meeting for the chairman of the Strategy and Investments decided that Messrs. Philippe Varin, Philippe Knoche and Daniel Verwaerde will Committee; not receive attendance fees for 2015. c) 2,500 euros per meeting for the chairman of the Nominating and Compensation At the request of Jean-Michel Lang, Françoise Pieri and Odile Matte, directors Committee; elected by company personnel, their attendance fees are paid by AREVA to the d) 2,500 euros per meeting for the chairman of the End-of-lifecycle Obligations labor organizations to which they belong. Monitoring Committee; The General Meeting of shareholders of January 8, 2015 set the maximum total e) 2,500 euros per meeting for the chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee (1); amount of attendance fees allocated to the members of the Board of Directors f) 1,500 euros per meeting for each member of a committee (except for the at 610,000 euros for the period beginning as from January 8, 2015 and ending committee chairman and excluding the Select Committee of the Strategy and at the end of the 2015 accounting year. In accordance with article 3 of decree Investments Committee); no. 53 707 of August 9, 1953, these deliberations were approved by ministerial decision on April 7, 2015. g) a ﬂat annual fee capped at 10,000 euros for each of the members of the Strategy and Investment Committee’s Select Committee tasked with reviewing major For the year 2015, to ensure that a majority of the compensation received by each sales proposals (including the chairman of said committee). The Committee Board member is linked to a variable component, the distribution of attendant fees must meet at least four times for the payment to be made. The member must was done according to the rules hereunder by the Board of Directors on February 2, physically attend all meetings of the committee to receive payment. In the event 2015, and on July 29, 2015 as concerns the Ad Hoc Committee (1). of the member’s absence, the calculation of attendance fees will be prorated The members of the Board of Directors are entitled to ﬁxed compensation for their based on the member’s presence at committee meetings held during the year. duties as directors and to variable compensation based on their eﬀective attendance For members residing outside France, the amounts indicated in points 1 b) and 2 at Board meetings and, if applicable, at meetings of the committees (or the Select above are doubled when the member physically attends the meetings. Committee) of which they are members. Also, the Board may allocate additional attendance fees to directors residing outside France in consideration of their travel The fee is paid within 45 days of year-end closing. requirements. A director who participates in a meeting of the Board of Directors or a committee 1/ Amounts for meetings of the Board: meeting (or the Select Committee) by teleconference or videoconference receives a fee equal to half of the fee paid to a director residing in France an participating a) a ﬂat annual fee of 10,000 euros in consideration of the responsibilities related in the meeting in person. to the term; this sum may be withheld in the event of repeated absences; As an exception, only one director fee is paid for two meetings when the Board of b) 1,500 euros per meeting, provided the member was physically in attendance. Directors meets both before and after a General Meeting of Shareholders. (1) The Ad Hoc Committee was created in and by the Board of Directors on June 5, 2015 in connection with the establishment of the ﬁnancing plan and with the restructuring to be carried out in the group. 146 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 15.1 Compensation of oﬃcers and directors 15 15.1.4.4. SUMMARY OF ATTENDANCE FEES PAID DURING THE YEAR Members of the Board of Directors (1) 2014 (2) 2015 (3) Sophie Boissard NA 99,250 Claude Imauven NA 75,584 Jean-Michel Lang NA 25,000 Christian Masset NA 34,000 Odile Matte NA 37,750 Denis Morin NA 20,500 Françoise Pieri NA 50,500 Pascale Sourisse NA 91,000 Alexis Zajdenweber NA 85,917 TOTAL NA 519,501 (1) List of members of the Board of Directors who received attendance fees. (2) The members of the Board of Directors did not receive attendance fees for their service as directors in 2014, given that they took up their duties as from January 8, 2015 during the change of governance. For the amounts of attendance fees and the compensation received for 2014 by the members of the Board of Directors who were members of the Supervisory Board in 2014, please refer to table 15.1.2.2 summarizing the compensation of the members of the Supervisory Board paid during the accounting period (gross compensation and attendance fees). (3) Amounts of attendance fees allocated in 2015 as from the change of governance on January 8, 2015. 15.1.4.5. SUMMARY OF COMPENSATION PAID TO MEMBERS duties with the CEA, which controls AREVA. Daniel Verwaerde does not receive OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS DURING THE YEAR any attendance fees from AREVA for his duties as director or any compensation (GROSS COMPENSATION AND ATTENDANCE FEES) for his duties as Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors; Pursuant to applicable regulations, the following information is provided: p the total gross compensation paid to Jean-Michel Lang, Françoise Pieri and Odile Matter, members elected by company personnel in 2015, corresponds p the total gross compensation of Philippe Varin corresponds to the contractual to the compensation (including proﬁt-sharing) paid by the AREVA subsidiary compensation that had been paid by AREVA for his service as Chairman of the that employed them during their terms and to the attendance fees paid for their Board of Directors. He does not receive any attendance fees; services as members of the Board of Directors. At their request, their attendance p the total gross compensation of Daniel Verwaerde corresponds to the fees are paid by AREVA to the labor organizations to which they belong. compensation (including bonuses and exceptional items) paid by the CEA for his (euros) 2014 (1) 2015 Gross Attendance Total gross Gross Attendance Total gross Board of Directors compensation fees compensation compensation fees compensation (a) (b) (c = a + b) (a) (b) (c = a + b) Sophie Boissard NA NA 99,250 99,250 Claude Imauven NA NA NA 75,584 75,584 Philippe Knoche NA NA NA 420,435 -(2) 420,435 Jean-Michel Lang NA NA NA 44,729 25,000 69,729 Christian Masset NA NA NA 34,000 34,000 Odile Matte NA NA NA 72,187 37,750 109,937 Denis Morin NA NA NA 20,500 20,500 Françoise Pieri NA NA NA 44,777 50,500 95,277 Pascale Sourisse NA NA NA 91,000 91,000 Philippe Varin NA NA (3) NA 120,000 -(2) 120,000 Daniel Verwaerde (4) NA NA NA 177,272 -(2) 177,272 Alexis Zajdenweber NA NA NA 85,917 85,917 (1) The members of the Board of Directors did not receive attendance fees for their service as directors in 2014, given that they took up their duties as from January 8, 2015 during the change of governance. For the amounts of attendance fees and the compensation received for 2014 by the members of the Board of Directors who were members of the Supervisory Board in 2014, please refer to table 15.1.2.2 summarizing the compensation of the members of the Supervisory Board paid during the accounting period (gross compensation and attendance fees). (2) Messrs. Philippe Varin, Philippe Knoche and Daniel Verwaerde did not receive attendance fees for their respective duties on the Board of Directors in 2015. (3) Mr. Philippe Varin did not receive attendance fees for 2014. (4) Mr. Daniel Verwaerde was appointed member and vice chairman of the Board of Directors on February 2, 2015, replacing Mr. Bernard Bigot, who had been appointed to that function on January 8, 2015. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 147 15 COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 15.2 Stock owned by oﬃcers and directors Pursuant to article 6 of order no. 2014-948 of August 20, 2014, the attendance Concerning the Representative of the State appointed pursuant to article 4 of the fees allocated on a proposal from the French State, to directors appointed by the order of August 20, 2014, all compensation received by him for serving his term Shareholders and with the status of public employee of the State are paid into the is paid into the State budget. State budget. 15.2. STOCK OWNED BY OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS Until the change of governance, the CEA had lent 10 shares to each member of the Stock options allowing subscription or acquisition of shares Supervisory Board, except for members representing the French State. for no consideration Mr. Pierre Aubouin, member of the Executive Board till January 8, 2015, holds The AREVA group does not presently have a stock option plan. No bonus issue of 1,000 AREVA shares. shares was undertaken or authorized. Mr. Philippe Knoche, Chief Executive Oﬃcer, holds 100 AREVA shares. 15.3. AUDIT FEES The fees listed in the table below include the fees relative to discontinued operations and exclude the fees relative to companies consolidated using the proportionate consolidation method. 2014 Fees 2015 Fees (in thousands of euros) EY Audit Mazars Other Total EY Audit Mazars Other Total Statutory Auditors Issuer 465 510 0 975 588 637 0 1,225 Subsidiaries 2,113 2,241 712 5,066 2,258 2,272 692 5,222 Other reviews and services directly linked to the Statutory Auditors’ mission Issuer 125 40 0 165 80 23 0 103 Subsidiaries 3 125 13 141 250 295 9 554 Sub-total 2,706 2,916 725 6,347 3,176 3,228 701 7,105 Other services rendered by the networks to fully consolidated subsidiaries Legal, tax, labor 464 26 0 480 175 0 0 175 Other 200 0 0 200 0 0 0 0 Sub-total 664 26 0 690 175 0 0 175 TOTAL 3,370 2,942 725 7,037 3,351 3,228 701 7,280 For ﬁnancial year 2015, the other services concern work performed abroad by ﬁnancial statements, the review of AREVA SA environmental, social and societal members of the network of statutory auditors relative to the preparation of tax information, and tax and social services on the other. returns on the one hand, and the contractual audit of the combined AREVA NP 148 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FUNCTIONING OF CORPORATE BODIES 16 16.1. FUNCTIONING OF EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 149 16.4. REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON GOVERNANCE AND 16.2. FUNCTIONING OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 150 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES 150 16.3. FUNCTIONING OF THE COMMITTEES ESTABLISHED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 150 16.5. REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS PREPARED IN APPLICATION OF ARTICLE L. 225-235 OF THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL CODE 151 On January 8, 2015, AREVA’s General Meeting of Shareholders decided to This section reports on the functioning of the Board of Directors and of transform the company’s governance, composed of a Supervisory Board and the executive management set up on January 8, 2015. Information on the an Executive Board, into a single structure with a Board of Directors. functioning of the Supervisory Board and of the Executive Board appears in the 2014 Reference Document (Section 16 and Appendix 1). 16.1. FUNCTIONING OF EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT The Chief Executive Oﬃcer is responsible for the company’s executive management The Chief Executive Oﬃcer reports on major events in the group at each meeting and represents the company in its relations with third parties. of the Board of Directors. Full powers are vested in him to act on behalf of the company in all circumstances, The Chief Executive Oﬃcer is supported by an Executive Committee in which all except for powers attributed by law to the Board of Directors and to the Shareholders, of the group’s businesses are represented. and as stipulated in the company’s own rules of governance. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 149 16 FUNCTIONING OF CORPORATE BODIES 16.2 Functioning of the Board of Directors As of the date of ﬁling of this Reference Document, the composition of the Executive Committee is as follows: Name Title Rémy Autebert Senior Executive Vice President, Asia Region, Executive Director for the reorganization of the international commercial function Eric Chassard Senior Executive Vice President, Engineering & Projects Anne-Marie Choho Senior Executive Vice President of Operations Support, responsible for the corporate transformation project Guillaume Dureau Senior Executive Vice President, Back End Business Group Bernard Fontana Chief Operating Oﬃcer of AREVA NP and Senior Executive Vice President of the Reactors & Services Business Group Stéphane Lhopiteau Chief Financial Oﬃcer François Nogué Senior Executive Vice President, Human Resources Olivier Wantz Senior Executive Vice President, Mining and Front End Business Groups Magali Smets is Secretary of the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee and the Chief Executive Oﬃcer rely on three coordination and steering committees (see Appendix 1, Section 4.2.1. Organization of AREVA). 16.2. FUNCTIONING OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Information concerning the functioning of the Board of Directors appears in Section 3.2 of the report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors on governance and internal control and risk management procedures (Appendix 1 of this Reference Document). 16.3. FUNCTIONING OF THE COMMITTEES ESTABLISHED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Information concerning the functioning of the committees instituted by the Board of Directors appears in Section 3.5 of the report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors on governance and internal control and risk management procedures (Appendix 1 of this Reference Document). 16.4. REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES The report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors on governance AND internal control and risk management procedures appears in Appendix 1 of this Reference Document. 150 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FUNCTIONING OF CORPORATE BODIES 16.5 Report of the statutory auditors prepared in application of article L. 225-235 of the French Commercial Code (1) 16 16.5. REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS PREPARED IN APPLICATION OF ARTICLE L. 225-235 OF THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL CODE (1) Article L. 225-235 of the French Commercial Code provides, among other things, that the statutory auditors shall present their observations on the chairman of the Board of Directors’ report on internal control procedures. These observations may be consulted in Appendix 2 of this Reference Document. (1) Statutory auditors’ report prepared in accordance with article L. 225-235 of the French Commercial Code on the report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of AREVA with respect to internal control procedures related to the preparation and treatment of ﬁnancial and accounting information. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 151 17 EMPLOYEES 17.1. EMPLOYMENT 153 17.5. TRAINING 158 17.1.1. Total workforce and distribution by gender, age 17.5.1. Training policies 158 and geographical area 153 17.5.2. Total hours of training 159 17.1.2. Staﬃng and layoﬀs 154 17.1.3. Compensation and trends 155 17.6. EQUAL TREATMENT 159 17.6.1. Measures in favor of gender equality 160 17.2. ORGANIZATION OF WORK 156 17.6.2. Measures in favor of employment and integration 17.2.1. Organization of working hours 156 of persons with disabilities 160 17.2.2. Absenteeism 156 17.6.3. The ﬁght against discrimination 160 17.3. LABOR RELATIONS 156 17.7. PROMOTION AND COMPLIANCE WITH 17.3.1. Organization of dialogue between management THE STIPULATIONS OF FUNDAMENTAL and employees, in particular procedures for AGREEMENTS OF THE INTERNATIONAL information, consultation and negotiation with LABOR UNION 161 personnel 156 17.7.1. Respect for the freedom of association 17.3.2. Status of collective bargaining agreements 157 and the right to collective bargaining 161 17.7.2. Elimination of discrimination related to 17.4. HEALTH AND SAFETY 157 employment and occupation 161 17.4.1. Health and occupational safety conditions 157 17.7.3. Elimination of forced or compulsory labor 161 17.4.2. Status of agreements on health 17.7.4. Eﬀective abolition of child labor 161 and occupational safety signed with labor unions or employee representatives 158 17.4.3. Frequency and severity rates of occupational injuries and accounting of occupational diseases 158 The kick-oﬀ of a new performance plan, the conclusion of management-labor (compensation, jobs, etc.) were set up beginning in the second quarter negotiations on staﬀ reductions, particularly in France and Germany, and of 2015. Detailed dialogue between management and employees began with the transformation of the group’s organizations left their mark on 2015. The employee representatives in order to determine procedures for operational year was largely devoted to explaining the group’s economic and ﬁnancial implementation of the human resources component of the transformation situation to stakeholders and to sharing the group’s recovery challenges plan and in particular the approximately 18% reduction in personnel expenses with management and employees. The first cost reduction measures worldwide (over the 2015-2017 period). 152 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT EMPLOYEES 17.1 Employment 17 17.1. EMPLOYMENT 17.1.1. TOTAL WORKFORCE AND DISTRIBUTION BY GENDER, AGE AND GEOGRAPHICAL AREA The group employs 39,761 people at December 31, 2015 (excluding asset sales in progress), versus 41,847 employees at the end of December 2014. Distribution of employees by businesses within the group’s consolidation scope 2015 2014 Projects 1,597 1,781 Mining 3,536 3,892 Chemistry/Enrichment 3,012 3,331 Recycling 4,863 5,125 Dismantling 4,408 4,333 Logistics 1,197 1,246 International Projects 582 561 Renewable Energies 162 216 Corporate functions 1,689 1,628 Subtotal New AREVA 21,046 22,113 Installed Base 4,714 4,645 Manufacturing 1,854 1,939 Fuel 3,591 3,892 Products and Technologies 635 660 Large Projects 318 294 Engineering and Projects 3,410 4,195 Corporate and other cross-business functions 1,513 1,386 Sub-total AREVA NP 16,035 17,011 Propulsion and Research Reactors 1,733 1,751 Nuclear Measurements 947 972 TOTAL 39,761 41,847 Some 95% of the group’s workforce was divided among ﬁve countries: France, (45.5%). Blue collar workers represented 14% of the workforce at December 31, Germany, the United States, Kazakhstan and Niger. 2015. As of the end of December 2015, 22.2% of the group’s worldwide engineers Engineers and managers represent more than one third of the workforce (40.5%), and management staﬀ were women, an increase of 0.45 percentage point from while technical and administrative personnel account for a little less than half the previous year. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 153 17 EMPLOYEES 17.1 Employment Distribution of employees by gender Percentage calculated based on active permanent employees 2015 2014 Women (global) 21.4% 21.1% Men (global) 78.6% 78.9% Women in executive positions 18% 16% Women in governance bodies (Executive Board and Supervisory Board) 31.5% 33% Women in management positions 22.2% 21.7% Women in non-management positions 20.8% 20.8% Distribution of employees by age group Less than age 21 0% 0.1% 21 to 30 years 11.4% 13.2% 31 to 40 years 27.6% 27.1% 41 to 50 years 25.6% 25.8% 51 to 60 years 30.2% 29.1% More than age 60 5.2% 4.6% Distribution of employees by geographical area France 68.0% 67.0% Europe (excluding France) 13.2% 13.7% North and South America 11.3% 11.3% Africa and Middle East 3.0% 4.1% Asia-Paciﬁc 4.4% 4.0% Distribution of employees by occupational category Engineers and management staﬀ 40.5% 40.0% Technical and administrative personnel 45.5% 45.6% Skilled workers 14.0% 14.4% 17.1.2. STAFFING AND LAYOFFS Consistent with the commitment in its 2015-2017 performance plan, AREVA’s total possible by the replacement of a little less than half of the employees departing. global workforce in 2015 was reduced by 2,318 employees in 2015, including 1,118 Thus, hiring thus slowed considerably in relation to 2014 (1,018 permanent in France (net decrease excluding asset disposals), while the number of employees employment contracts), in addition to 710 redundancies. The workforce stabilized with permanent full-time employment contracts fell 2,109. This reduction was made at 39,537 employees at the end of 2015. 2015* 2014 Number of external hires (total external hires of permanent and temporary staﬀ) 1,735 2,611 Number of layoﬀs 710 352 * Excluding asset disposals. The group worked to secure its skills in France through its campaign “AREVA from March to May. Through this campaign, the number of work-study employees work-study spring” composed of six job fairs organized in every French region in France was kept at more than 1,200. 154 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT EMPLOYEES 17.1 Employment 17 17.1.3. COMPENSATION AND TRENDS The compensation policy under which employees are paid around the world is In the United States, most employees (except for those of a few entities and those based on four pillars: compensate performance, adhere to budget, ensure internal eligible for the variable compensation program) participate in the group’s ﬁnancial equity and observe external competitiveness while taking into account the group’s performance under the All Employee Incentive Program (AEIP). Proﬁts generated economic and ﬁnancial situation. by the group at the regional level are redistributed to the employees if objectives In France, total compensation is broken down into: are met. The amount of this incentive varies according to a regional and collective safety objective and based on each individual’s performance. p ﬁxed compensation: base salary, seniority beneﬁts, etc.; In China, employees are eligible to participate in the group’s variable compensation p variable compensation: linked to speciﬁc jobs (hardship allowances, on-call pay, program. The variable compensation system connects group objectives to individual etc.), to individual performance (bonus/variable component or allowance) or to objectives. collective performance; p beneﬁts: health and insurance beneﬁts that are identical for all companies in France; 17.1.3.2. EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLANS mandatory and optional proﬁt-sharing: based on criteria for rewarding collective AND COLLECTIVE PERFORMANCE p performance. The group establishes collective compensation systems based on economic Compensation is based on industry agreements and collective bargaining indicators and entity-speciﬁc criteria, according to local practices and regulations. agreements. Every year, the budget for wage increases is negotiated with the labor In France, compensation based on collective performance takes the form of unions. In 2015, considering its economic results, the group decided to eliminate performance-related plans and of proﬁt-sharing plans applicable to the group’s salary reviews in most countries, but provided a budget in those countries devoted companies. The sums distributed in 2015 in respect of 2014 represented a total to internal mobility and professional promotion. of close to 131 million euros for the group as a whole. Employees chose to invest In Germany, the compensation of “tariﬀ” employees is negotiated at the regional 73% of the optional proﬁt-sharing remuneration and 76% of the mandatory proﬁtlevel. Fixed compensation for tariﬀ employees consists of the base salary and sharing paid in 2015 in the group’s savings plan. variable components linked to performance. In the United States, compensation is regulated by several state and federal laws. 17.1.3.3. CORPORATE SAVINGS PLANS The most important is the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), which deﬁnes employee AND INVESTMENT VEHICLES classiﬁcations, eligibility for overtime pay, and the minimum wage. Compensation is pegged to the market, including bonuses and variable compensation, which evolve In France, a group savings plan (AREVA GSP) common to all of the group’s entities as a function of the employee’s position in the organization. Collective bargaining was created in 2005. The AREVA GSP consists of a complete range of funds negotiations resulted in the signature of an agreement on compensation and covering all asset categories. It includes a money market fund, a bond fund, an beneﬁts in three entities based in Washington State and California, where labor equity fund, a socially responsible fund and three diversiﬁed funds. A diversiﬁed union representation is strong and inﬂuential. pool of fund managers was sought to optimize investor returns. At December 31, 2015, the funds managed in the AREVA GSP represent more than 866 million euros. In China, compensation is based on market conditions. Every year, AREVA China participates in a salary review organized by an international consulting ﬁrm with In Germany, a retirement plan including an employer fund and an employee fund chairman presence, which examines compensation levels for diﬀerent positions in is oﬀered to employees. In addition, the group’s employees in Germany may save the organization. AREVA also signed a collective bargaining agreement on equal their variable compensation in a dedicated fund. compensation for women and men. In the United States, a 401(K) retirement plan is oﬀered to employees who wish to save for their retirement. AREVA’s contribution to the plan comes to 3% of each employee’s compensation. The company also matches 100% of the employee’s 17.1.3.1. BONUSES AND VARIABLE COMPENSATION contributions for the ﬁrst 5 percentage points of the employee’s contributions. The The group’s variable compensation program, based on both collective ﬁnancial average amount saved by an employee is 9.9% of his/her base salary. performance and individual objectives, is gradually being brought into alignment Close to 93% of AREVA’s employees in the United States decided to contribute to and expanded to include all of the group’s entities around the world. The target the retirement plan in 2015. This percentage is higher than the national average percentages for variable compensation depend on local practices and are structured for all employers in the United States, which is 75%. by level of responsibility. An HR information system tool interfaced with the annual performance interview is used to collect individual objectives. It is used by the majority of the group’s entities 17.1.3.4. EMPLOYEE SHAREHOLDING in Belgium, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Slovakia, the United Kingdom In 2013, the group set up an employee share-ownership operation concerning and the United States. France, Germany and the United States. In all, 14,700 people participated in this In Germany, non-tariﬀ employees are eligible to participate in the group’s variable transaction. compensation program. Tariﬀ employees receive variable pay based on the group’s The employee shareholding operation was not repeated in 2014 and 2015. ﬁnancial objectives. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 155 17 EMPLOYEES 17.2 Organization of work 17.2. ORGANIZATION OF WORK 17.2.1. ORGANIZATION OF WORKING HOURS In the countries in which the group is based, the average number of working hours employees at work. At the end of 2015, almost 600 employees from all of the per week is usually set by law. group’s sites beneﬁted from this new work organization. At the end of 2014, an France and Germany in particular set up initiatives for a better balance between agreement on annualized part-time employment was signed in the AREVA NP work and personal life by oﬀering ﬂexible work hours at the site or work at home. company. Some ﬁfty employees beneﬁtted from this system in 2015; p in the United Kingdom, full-time employees work an average of 37 hours and For example: are not being paid for any overtime. Whilst the company may on occasion be p in Germany, full-time tariﬀ employees work between 35 and 40 hours per week. prepared to allow employees to work at home, this should only be in exceptional A local company-wide agreement governs the work of tariﬀ employees, who circumstances. That ﬂexibility is working is available to staﬀ who have completed have ﬂexible working hours; their probationary period and meet the pre-requisites; p in France, on July 4, 2013, AREVA signed a telecommuting addendum to p in China, the standard work day is 8 hours, and the work week is 40 hours. the group’s agreement on the Quality of Working Life of May 31, 2012. This addendum regulates the use of telecommuting while contributing a better balance between personal and professional life. It helps improve the quality of working life and keep employees on therapeutic part-time and disabled 17.2.2. ABSENTEEISM For the ﬁrst time in 2013, a method to collect and calculate absenteeism was The calculation method used is the average number of calendar days of absence deployed in the group’s largest entities, representing 94% of AREVA’s global per year due to sickness (including pathological pregnancy and therapeutic workforce. part-time, but excluding maternity leave and occupational injuries or commuting accidents) or to care for a sick child, per permanent employee. The deﬁnitions 2015 2014 reﬂect the variety of local practices. France 9.1 8.7 Germany 13.9 13 United States 5.7 5.2 Rest of World 2.8 5 17.3. LABOR RELATIONS 17.3.1. ORGANIZATION OF DIALOGUE BETWEEN MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEES, IN PARTICULAR PROCEDURES FOR INFORMATION, CONSULTATION AND NEGOTIATION WITH PERSONNEL The group’s social relations are founded on mutual respect and dialogue. It is in The three countries of France, Germany and the United States represent 89.7% of that spirit that social partners and executive management meet regularly to talk, the group’s workforce at December 31, 2015 and form a representative sample in negotiate, reach agreements and monitor their implementation. During the year, this respect. Dialogue between management and employees is not organized the these encounters primarily concerned the group’s reorganization following the same way in these diﬀerent countries. Local requirements, and in particular national guidance of the President of the French Republic of June 3, 2015, compensation legislation, call for a customized approach. Dialogue between management and policies, and the proposed Voluntary Departure Plan resulting from the economic employees may take place at the national, regional or company level, whether for diﬃculties encountered by the group. information, consultation or negotiation. 156 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT EMPLOYEES 17.4 Health and safety 17 DIALOGUE BETWEEN MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEES Bringing together 30 titular members, 5 labor representatives of representative labor unions at the group level, and the group’s 5 labor union coordinators, the Europe FWC met several times in 2015, particularly in connection with the consultation information process on optimization of opportunities for synergy oﬀered by the AREVA’s European Works Council (EWC) is comprised of 19 members and nuclear industry. It met in March, April, June, September and December, and its 1 observer. The EWC represents active employees in the seven European Union Guidance and Coordination College met in January, February, March, April, May and countries in which the group is based: Belgium, France, Germany, Slovakia, Spain, November 2015. These meetings provided an opportunity to present and discuss Sweden and the United Kingdom. changes in the strategy, the redeﬁnition of the nuclear industry, organizational In 2015, that body met ﬁve times: on March 6, March 20, April 16, July 2 and changes, and jobs. December 9. The meetings concerned optimization of opportunities for synergy An agreement on jobs was approved by the majority and signed by 4 labor unions. oﬀered by the nuclear industry, planned organizational changes, the performance In early November 2015, voluntary departure plan procedures were launched at plan, changes in the backlog and the partnership in China. The meets were 6 of the group’s companies (AREVA NC SA, AREVA NP SAS, AREVA BS, AREVA generally preceded by meetings of the oﬃcers of the European Works Council. Mines, Eurodif Production and SET). Germany In addition, the commitment to social consensus-building of the group and its labor In Germany, management and labor unions meet regularly to talk about the group’s unions led to the renewal of the group agreement on the Quality of Working Life operations and outlook. on April 2, 2015, and to the inclusion of occupational stress in that agreement. In 2015, the procedure for transferring Oﬀenbach employees to Erlangen was Lastly, development continued of the group’s new independent health department, launched. The procedures of the redundancy plan in progress ended on which was approved by the French Ministry of Labor and Employment in December 31, 2015. September 2013 and established in the October 18, 2012 agreement. The group’s health department now monitors 63% of the group’s employees. France China The French Works Council (FWC), set up in 2011 when the group’s new organization was established, is a body for information, exchange and dialogue In China, the group signs collective bargaining agreements negotiated with the that has a comprehensive, crosscutting view of all of the group’s activities and labor unions. These agreements regularly include a commitment to compliance strategy concerning employment. In this regard, the FWC constitutes a special with labor laws, to equitable compensation and to a work environment that complies venue for discussions with employee representatives. with rules for protecting the health and safety of employees. 17.3.2. STATUS OF COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Please refer to paragraph 17.3.1. 17.4. HEALTH AND SAFETY 17.4.1. HEALTH AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY CONDITIONS Please refer to Appendix 3. HISTORICAL HEALTH DATA Please refer to Appendix 3. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 157 17 EMPLOYEES 17.5 Training 17.4.2. STATUS OF AGREEMENTS ON HEALTH AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY SIGNED WITH LABOR UNIONS OR EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES In France, AREVA signed an agreement on the development of the Quality of with various projects, both at the group level and at the sites (Convergence, Phileas, Working Life on May 31, 2012. This agreement is monitored jointly by the SafetyTricastin Platform, Shared Service Centers). As part of the group’s transformation Health-Security-Quality-Environment Department and the Human Resources plan, 78 charts were integrated in the notes of the Health, Safety and Working Department through quarterly Steering Committee meetings on occupational Conditions Committee (CHSCT) of the 6 group companies concerned by the stress prevention and the Quality of Working Life. For the past two years, during proposed Voluntary Department Plan. At the same time, various occupational the Committee’s conﬁdential meetings with coordinating physicians for the group’s stress prevention tools deployed in the group since 2009 were strengthened and four regions in France, occupational stress prevention and measures taken by the supplemented. sites in France are discussed in qualitative terms, and the strength and relevance In Germany, several initiatives addressing the balance between professional and of the group’s Quality of Working Life initiatives are reviewed in order to support personal life were showcased on the intranet or during special events. Most of the and assess the occupational stress prevention policy. This agreement was renewed measures adopted relate to occupational safety, part-time work, the reconciliation on April 2, 2015. of professional and family life, and conﬂict management. As part of its occupational stress prevention policy, the group set up 34 programs In the United States, several programs were set up to ensure that the work to listen to and counsel all of its employees in France and performed 23 surveys environment is respectful of employees’ personal and family commitments. This is in France covering almost 80% of the workforce enabling it to identify risk factors the case, for example, for diﬀerent forms of part time work (alternative classiﬁcations), and propose occupational stress prevention actions. telecommuting, ﬂex schedules, and vacation arrangements (compensated time oﬀ The ﬁrst meeting of the Quality of Working Life Observatory was held on June 20, and unpaid leave). 2014. It conducted a preliminary assessment of activities undertaken since 2012. The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provides support to employees in all In addition, the group trained 400 members of Management Committees and more matters related to work-life balance. In the same spirit, an Employee Concerns than 1,300 line managers in occupational stress prevention. Special training for the Program (ECP) dedicated to the quality of working life was deployed to prevent human resources position was deployed over the year, and close to 100 people and ﬁght discrimination. were trained in 2015. Employees were invited to answer questionnaires about their overall health and Lastly, as part of the deployment of the Quality of Working Life agreement, a chart well-being and to identify their problems. Support programs designed to improve of the “human impacts of change and reorganizations” was established. The their situation are set up as appropriate and are monitored. chart has been used close to 200 times since September 2012 in connection 17.4.3. FREQUENCY AND SEVERITY RATES OF OCCUPATIONAL INJURIES AND ACCOUNTING OF OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES Please refer to Appendix 3. 17.5. TRAINING 17.5.1. TRAINING POLICIES The Training Department is now organized into four Shared Services Training In the UK, apraisals take place twice a year, in the middle and at the end of the year. Centers (Cotentin, Paris area, Lyon-Alps, Burgundy and Southeast). All of them From this a personal development plan is created. Which proposes how individual share the same system of management and operation. The Training Department training needs should be met. Employees are expected to become full members of is strengthening its priority lines of action with the development of employee a recognized professional institution and to maintain membership of this institution certiﬁcation programs and widespread deployment of digital training for the most whilst employed by the company. The annual fee for retaining membership will be recurrent entity training plans. paid in full by the Company. In Germany, a training program for experts was established in 2014. This 18-month A training governance infrastructure was established in the United States. It oﬀers program consisting of 4 modules oﬀering a wide variety of content aims to develop a defined procedure for a partnership between the North American Training the human resources skills necessary to career management for experts. A Department and the region’s Business Groups. Members of the Training Governance mentoring program was set up to help key talent acquire knowledge and develop Committee include managers and individual contributors representing each of their networks in the companies and at the sites, thus increasing their visibility. the Business Groups. Decisions concerning training and development are made 158 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT EMPLOYEES 17.6 Equal treatment 17 in a collegial manner by the managers and individual contributors, who possess opportunities, thus contributing to AREVA’s future in a fast-changing industry. The the expertise and knowledge necessary to achieve the objectives for the various average number of training hours per employee is 32. It varies by entity. professions. One of the most signiﬁcant results achieved through transformation In China, a yearly training plan is established according to employee training of training in North America is the deployment of the 70:20:10 empirical learning expectations in agreement with the manager through development interviews. model, which incorporates collaboration and training at the workplace into the AREVA University programs, such as the Sales Academy and leadership training, training program. The main characteristics of the empirical learning model are are also deployed in China. the reliance on real work situations for training and the development of selfstarting learners. The goal is to help proactive employees optimize their learning in order to help them face daily professional challenges and seize opportunities for advancement. The state of mind of the self-starting learner allows our employees to respond more quickly and in a more structured manner to challenges and 17.5.2. TOTAL HOURS OF TRAINING In France, more than 929,835 hours of training were dispensed in 2014, for an average of 34 hours of training per employee (to be compared with the objective of 30 hours in the group-wide agreement for France), a decrease of 6.7% compared with 2013. Number of hours of training per permanent employee per year 2015 2014 France NA 34 hrs. Germany 26.5 hrs. 25 hrs. United States 32 hrs. NA The 2015 data for France will be available in April 2016. 17.6. EQUAL TREATMENT In France, an audit was carried out in the ﬁrst quarter of 2014 for the renewal of committed to diversity, membership in Direct Employers (an employment agency AREVA’s Diversity label. The certiﬁcation was conﬁrmed for a four-year period on dedicated to helping recruit minorities, women, veterans and persons with July 6, 2014. In particular, the auditors conﬁrmed the sustainability and maturity disabilities), and participation in training and employment initiatives. of AREVA’s approach to diversity and appreciated its evolutionary nature and its In France, the equal opportunity policy implemented since AREVA’s creation alignment with changes in the group. in 2001 is founded on the European Agreement on Equal Opportunities signed In Germany, to promote diversity in the technical professions, AREVA participated in in November 2006 with the European Metalworkers’ Federation and its 2010 activities aimed at raising interest in technology among young girls. During Women’s amendment. This agreement is embodied in days organized each year at all of Day in Erlangen and the Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics the group’s sites in Europe, whether on gender equality or on the integration of (STEM) Day in Lingen, young girls were able to visit several laboratories and learn persons with disabilities. For its sixth edition, the days merged to make room for a about the manufacturing process. Girls were also given an opportunity to work on a European Day of Employment and Knowledge during the National Week for the research project in a company during the Women Scientists Week held in Erlangen. Employment of Persons with Disabilities in France, dedicated to the wealth and AREVA organized a scientiﬁc competition for the girls in the ﬁeld of instrumentation diversity of internal proﬁles and their career development. This day was held on and control systems. November 20, 2015 in all European countries. In the United States, AREVA is recognized as an Equal Opportunity Employer (EOE). In France, this policy translated into the signature in 2010 and 2012 of group It expresses its commitment to minorities, women, seniors, veterans and people with agreements on the development of the Quality of Working Life, gender equality, disabilities through various measures, such as partnerships with subcontractors the integration of persons with disabilities and “generation” contracts. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 159 17 EMPLOYEES 17.6 Equal treatment 17.6.1. MEASURES IN FAVOR OF GENDER EQUALITY In France, AREVA signed its first group agreement on gender equality on AREVA sets a particularly high value on women’s career development. In addition December 12, 2012. This three-year agreement addresses all of the themes to having women join their teams, AREVA TAkes care to ensure their fair promotion covered by the French law of November 9, 2010: promoting gender equality in for equivalent skills throughout their careers. AREVA has been able to maintain that hiring and employment, guaranteeing equivalent career paths to men and women, coherence, with women accounting for 18.5% of all new hires and 19.4% of all new guaranteeing equivalent compensation and promotions, ensuring equal access management hires as of the end of 2015, 21.4% in the general workforce and 22.2% to training, improving work-life balance, increasing employee awareness, and as managers. As part of its talent building policy, AREVA continues its program to communicating with employees. identify talent, with 98 women identiﬁed as “Best Talent Potential Executive” and The agreement provides for an equal opportunity budget used to oﬀset unjustiﬁed 22.2% women members of the Management Committees and 18% participating compensation gaps at equal levels of responsibility. During the three-year term of in the Executive Committee. the agreement, close to 1.5 million euros was devoted to the reduction of these It should be noted that, in 2013, the group and 16 other major employers signed unjustiﬁed gaps. The agreement allows employees on parental leave to contribute an agreement on gender equality with the Minister of Women’s Rights. to their retirement. It also allows for deployment of an annualized part-time work program. 17.6.2. MEASURES IN FAVOR OF EMPLOYMENT AND INTEGRATION OF PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES Since 2006, AREVA has led a group policy for the development of all talent and for companies in the protected and adapted sector, awareness activities, and job openness to diﬀerence in the workplace. retention. In France, this proactive policy was launched in 2007 with a ﬁrst agreement on Several commitments were made for the duration of the agreement: an objective the employment of persons with disabilities. As a result, the rate of employment of 3.3% of all hires should involve disabled workers, with a minimum of 120 disabled persons with disabilities rose from 2.93% in 2007 to 4.77% in 2014. persons employed, 120 work-study positions for the disabled, and 180 internship A third group agreement for France on the employment of persons with disabilities positions. The agreement also provides that 20 million euros should be dedicated was signed on July 4, 2013 for the 2013-2016 period. It addresses the topics to purchases from companies in the protected sector. of recruitment, integration and training of persons with disabilities, support to 2015 2014 Disabled workers in France NA 4.77% Disabled workers in Germany 4.13% 3.44% The 2015 data for France will be available in April 2016. 17.6.3. THE FIGHT AGAINST DISCRIMINATION Employees have multiple paths of recourse in connection with the group’s antibehaviors. Eight cases proved justiﬁed upon examination. Corrective measures discrimination measures. They may contact their local HR manager, their manager, have been taken. the business ethics advisor or the labor partners. In France, an additional recourse In general, HR processes concern the entire diversity policy and particularly was established: the Alert and Claim System. In France, for all systems combined, veriﬁcation that managerial decisions aﬀecting employees are taken according to management was alerted to 23 instances of discrimination or alleged discriminatory the principle of equal opportunity. 160 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 17.7 Promotion and compliance with the stipulations of fundamental agreements of the International Labor union EMPLOYEES 17 17.7. PROMOTION AND COMPLIANCE WITH THE STIPULATIONS OF FUNDAMENTAL AGREEMENTS OF THE INTERNATIONAL LABOR UNION Together with its Values Charter, AREVA has and implements a process for business The introduction to the AREVA Values Charter notes that the group is a signatory to ethics and respect for human rights and the fundamental conventions of the ILO. the UN Global Compact. It also adheres to the OECD Guidelines for Multinational The Values Charter is updated regularly to include best practices in light of changes Enterprises, the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) and the in the group’s national and international environment. Individual behaviors and Nuclear Power Plant Exporters’ Principles of Conduct published by the Carnegie management activities may be audited for compliance with the Charter, which Endowment. serves as a set of standards and a code of conduct in this regard. 17.7.1. RESPECT FOR THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING In the introduction to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact to which it The third principle is explicitly quoted: “Businesses are asked to uphold the freedom subscribes, AREVA draws inspiration from the International Labor union Declaration of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining”. on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. 17.7.2. ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION RELATED TO EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION AREVA’s action principles for stakeholder relations state, as regards employees, that notices in France. This system supplements other internal, centralized systems to “AREVA’s workforce is constituted without discrimination”. To facilitate the reporting actual or alleged discrimination in the group. Its rules and processes were developed of any discrimination and to comply with the obligations conferred by the Diversity in cooperation with the group’s business ethics advisor. Label, AREVA’s HR Department has deployed a system to deal with complaints and 17.7.3. ELIMINATION OF FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR In accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact, AREVA works for “the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor.” 17.7.4. EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOR In accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact, AREVA works for “the conﬁdentiality and may refrain from executing any instruction in patent conﬂict with eﬀective abolition of child labor.” the Charter, without any risk of retaliation when acting in good faith. By itself, this By explicitly reiterating these tenets, AREVA underscores its commitment to these commitment is a major guarantee of compliance with the values, principles and international values and principles, which every employee is expected to uphold. rules of AREVA’s Values Charter. AREVA’s rules of conduct state that each employee must alert the group in full 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 161 18 PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS 18.1. DISTRIBUTION OF CAPITAL AND VOTING RIGHTS 162 18.4. AGREEMENTS KNOWN TO THE ISSUER THAT COULD, IF IMPLEMENTED, RESULT 18.2. DIFFERENT VOTING RIGHTS 163 IN A CHANGE IN CONTROL OF THE ISSUER 164 18.3. CONTROL OF THE ISSUER 164 18.1. DISTRIBUTION OF CAPITAL AND VOTING RIGHTS As of the date of this Reference Document, AREVA’s share capital amounted to To AREVA’s knowledge, no person that is not a member of an administrative, 1,456,178,437.60 euros, divided into 383,204,852 ordinary shares with a par value executive or supervisory body holds, directly or indirectly, a percentage of AREVA’s of 3.80 euros per share, each with a single voting right. share capital or voting rights that would be subject to disclosure in accordance with the national law applicable to AREVA. 162 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS 18.2 diﬀerent voting rights 18 AREVA’s shareholders for the last three years were as follows: December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Theoretical % of voting rights (1) & number Theoretical % Theoretical % of shares of voting rights (1) of voting rights (1) 54.37% representing CEA 208,349,283 shares (2) 54.37% (3) 61.52% (4) 28.83% representing French State 110,487,336 shares 28.83% (3) 21.68%(4) 4.82% representing Kuwait Investment Authority (KIA) 18,461,538 shares 4.82% 4.82% 3.32% representing Bpifrance Participations SA 12,712,910 shares 3.32% 3.32%(5) 2.24% representing EDF 8,571,120 shares 2.24% 2.24% 0.95% representing Total group 3,640,200 shares 0.95% 0.95% FCPE AREVA France actions salariés, FCPE AREVA International actions 1.23% representing salariés & US-Employee Stock Purchase Plan 4,722,177 shares (6) 1%(6) 0.937% (6) 0% representing Framépargne (employees) 0 shares (7) 0.226% 0.23% 3.99% representing Public 15,326,690 shares 4.02% 4.11% Members of the Supervisory Board (2) NA ns ns 0.19% representing Treasury shares (8) 740,490 shares 0.19% 0.19% 0.05% representing Liquidity contract (8) 193,108 shares 0.04% 0.04% (1) Theoretical voting rights are calculated based on the total number of shares to which a voting right is attached, including shares without voting rights (treasury shares and shares under the company’s control). (2) The members of the Supervisory Board appointed by the Shareholders (other than the CEA) each held 10 shares until January 8, 2015, the date of the change of governance and the date on which said shares were transferred respectively to the CEA. (3) On December 11, 2014, the CEA sold 27,412,875 shares representing 7.15% of AREVA’s share capital to the French State for the amount of 334,300,010.63 euros. (4) On September 19, 2013, the CEA sold 28,179,453 shares representing 7.35% of AREVA’s share capital to the French State for the amount of 357,400,002.40 euros. (5) On July 12, 2013, the CDC transferred its entire interest in AREVA’s share capital to Bpifrance Participations SA. (6) AREVA’s oﬀer of shares to the group’s employees in May 2013 was implemented through a disposal of existing treasury shares bought previously by AREVA for a share purchase program authorized by the shareholders on May 10, 2012 in application of article L. 225-209 of the French Commercial Code. (7) The Framépargne fund merged with FCPE AREVA France actions salariés on August 6, 2015. (8) As provided in article L. 225-210 of the French Commercial Code, shares held directly by the company or through a person acting in his or her own name do not carry voting rights. 18.2. DIFFERENT VOTING RIGHTS At December 31, 2015, AREVA’s share capital consisted exclusively of ordinary Considering the particularity of the company’s shareholding structure and insofar as shares, each with one voting right. this provision fosters and strengthens stable shareholding with a long-term vision, the Article L. 225-123 of the French Commercial Code, stemming from law no.2014-384 articles of association were not changed to suppress the establishment of double of March 29, 2014 aimed at reclaiming the real economy, provides that, in companies voting rights; consequently, the provisions of article L. 225-123 of the Commercial whose shares are admitted for trading on a regulated market, double voting rights Code remain applicable. are henceforth allowed for all fully paid-up shares shown to be registered for two Thus, as from April 3, 2016, a double voting right will be attached to all fully paid-up years in the same shareholder’s name as from the day after the law enters into force, registered shares registered in the name of a single holder for at least two years unless otherwise provided in articles of association adopted after promulgation as from April 3, 2014. of the law. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 163 18 PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS 18.3 Control of the issuer In the event of a capital increase by incorporation of reserves, proﬁts or issue double voting right ceases for any share converted into a bearer share or transferred, premiums, the double voting right will be conferred as soon as bonus registered unless that transfer is the result of a succession, a liquidation of community property shares are issued to a shareholder at the rate of former shares for which the between spouses, or a donation to a spouse or a relative entitled to inherit. shareholder holds that right. It should be noted that, in accordance with the law, the 18.3. CONTROL OF THE ISSUER AREVA is subject to order no. 2014-948 of August 20, 2014 on governance and The Government Commissioner may attend meetings of the Boards of Directors capital transactions for partially state-owned companies. of ﬁrst tier subsidiaries of the company. At December 31, 2015, the decree no. 83-1116 of December 21, 1983, stipulates The deliberations of the Board of Directors become ipso facto enforceable if the that the CEA is obliged to keep more than half of AREVA’s share capital. That decree Government Commissioner or the member of the general economic and ﬁnancial was amended on January 14, 2016 and now requires that the French State, or the control mission does not oppose them in the ﬁve days that follow the Board of CEA, or the other public institutions of the State, or the companies in which they Directors meeting, if he or she attended it, or the receipt of the minutes of the hold a majority share, directly or indirectly, singly or jointly, are required to keep meeting. more than half the capital of the company. As stipulated in the Board of Directors’ rules of procedure, the head of the control This decree also stipulates that the Director General of Energy and Climate performs mission and the Government Commissioner may designate one of their employees the duties of Government Commissioner and that the head of the control mission to represent them at meetings of the committees. to the company. The Government Commissioner and the head of the control mission* attend meetings of the Board of Directors of AREVA and of its committees, in application of decree no. 55-733 of May 26, 1955. 18.4. AGREEMENTS KNOWN TO THE ISSUER THAT COULD, IF IMPLEMENTED, RESULT IN A CHANGE IN CONTROL OF THE ISSUER The Autorité des marchés ﬁnanciers (the ﬁnancial regulator) was informed that a 90 trading days preceding the date of calculation, or (b) the net equity per share, three-year agreement (2014-2016) was signed between the CEA and the French as per AREVA’s ﬁnancial statements at December 31 of the year preceding the State on August 13, 2014 relative to the long-term ﬁnancing of the CEA’s nuclear transaction. expenses. On December 11, 2014, the CEA sold 27,412,875 AREVA shares representing Under the three-year agreement for the 2014-2016 period signed on August 13, 7.15% of AREVA’s share capital to the French State for the amount of 2014, the price per AREVA share acquired by the French State will be the highest 334,300,010.63 euros. of (a) the average closing price per share, weighted for trading volumes, for the * Pursuant to decree no. 55-733 of May 26, 1955. 164 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES 19 19.1. RELATIONS WITH THE FRENCH STATE 165 19.3. RELATIONS WITH PUBLICLY HELD COMPANIES 166 19.2. RELATIONS WITH THE CEA 166 Signiﬁcant transactions with related parties are described in this section. This information is also the subject of Note 29. Related party transactions of Section 20. 19.1. RELATIONS WITH THE FRENCH STATE At December 31, 2015, the French State and the CEA jointly held 83.21% of French State were appointed by the Shareholders, in accordance with the order AREVA’s share capital and voting rights. no. 2014-948 of August 20, 2014 pertaining to the governance and capital As the majority shareholders, they thus have the power to control corporate transactions of publicly owned companies. decisions requiring the approval of the shareholders. In application of the decree In accordance with the decree no. 83-1116 of December 21, 1983, as amended no. 2004-963 of September 9, 2004, as amended, the Agence des participations and decree no. 55-733 of May 26, 1955, the Director General of Energy and Climate de l’État (APE, the state shareholding agency) exercises the responsibilities of the performs the duties of Government Commissioner, and the head of the control French State as shareholder under the executive leadership of the Commissioner mission to the Commissariat à l’énergie atomique et aux énergies alternatives for State shareholdings. The latter, under the authority of the Minister Delegate of performs those of a member of the general economic and ﬁnancial control body the Economy, leads the French State’s shareholding policy from an economic, of the company. industrial and social perspective. The APE makes proposals to the Minister Delegate (For more information, please refer to Section 4. Risk factors, Section 5. Information of the Economy on the French State’s position, as shareholder, as concerns the concerning the issuer, and Section 14. Administrative, management and supervisory company’s strategy, and examines in particular the company’s main ﬁnancing and bodies and executive management.) capital expenditures programs as well as proposed acquisitions and disposals, and commercial, cooperative and research and development agreements. In addition, AREVA is subject to the control of the French Cour des Comptes (government accounting oﬃce), which examines the quality and consistency of its Thus, at December 31, 2015, of the 12 directors of the Board of Directors, one ﬁnancial statements and of its management, in application of articles L. 133-1 and is a representative of the French State and two directors recommended by the L. 133-2 of the French Code of the Financial Courts. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 165 19 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES 19.2 Relations with the CEA 19.2. RELATIONS WITH THE CEA At December 31, 2015, the CEA, a public scientific, technical and industrial and conditions of the ﬁnal settlement of the RJH project situation, based on their organization, held a 54.37% interest in AREVA’s share capital and voting rights. shared view of the “to be done”, of the schedule to completion and of the related At December 31, 2015, the decree no. 83-1116 of December 21, 1983 amended resources to complete the construction of this reactor, with the objective of loading on the Société des participations du CEA (AREVA) stipulates that the CEA is obliged the ﬁrst core in October 2019. to keep more than half of AREVA’s capital. These financial and project governance contract terms and conditions were That decree was amended on January 14, 2016 and now requires that the French transposed into a tripartite memorandum of understanding between the CEA, State, or the Commissariat à l’énergie atomique et aux énergies alternatives, or AREVA and Technicatome (AREVA TA) signed on July 20, 2015. This memorandum the other public institutions of the State, or the companies in which they hold a of understanding is described in Appendix 2 of this Reference document. majority share, directly or indirectly, singly or jointly, keep more than half the capital The CEA and AREVA also have a partnership relationship concerning research of the company. and development for the nuclear operations. For more information, please refer The Chairman of the CEA sits on the Board of Directors of the company, and the to Section 11. Research and Development programs, patents and licenses and to CEA, as legal entity, has appointed him as censor. Section 18. Principal shareholders. On February 26, 2015, the Chairman of the CEA and the Chief Executive Oﬃcer of AREVA SA signed an agreement for the drafting and implementation of the terms 19.3. RELATIONS WITH PUBLICLY HELD COMPANIES The group routinely carries out transactions with publicly held companies, mainly representative bodies and to validation of such a transaction by the competent EDF. authorities. AREVA will retain a strategic interest of at least 15%. In addition, AREVA and EDF have entered into discussions for the sale of at least 75% The nature of the relations with the EDF group and the transactions concluded of AREVA NP’s share capital to EDF. The Board of Directors, meeting on January between the two groups are explained in Section 4.4. Operational risk of Section 4, in 27, 2016, was favorable to the convergence of negotiations entered into with EDF the Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, concerning the valuation of AREVA NP’s operations (2.5 billion euros for 100% of 2015, Note 1.1. Highlights of the period, and in Note 29. Related party transactions AREVA NP’s capital, excluding OL3, with a price supplement mechanism) and gave of Section 20, in Section 6. Business overview, and in Section 22. Major contracts. the Chief Executive Oﬃcer authority to ﬁnalize the negotiations. Completion of the transaction, planned for 2017, remains subject to consultation of the employee 166 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20 20.1. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR 20.4 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 261 THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2015 168 20.4.1. Items of note in the 2015 ﬁnancial statements 261 20.1.1. Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated 20.4.2. Accounting principles and methods 263 Financial Statement 168 20.4.3. Events subsequent to year-end closing 264 20.1.2. Consolidated statement of income 170 20.4.4. Notes to the balance sheet 265 20.1.3. Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position 172 20.4.5. Notes to the income statement 274 20.1.4. Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows 174 20.4.6. Additional information 275 20.1.5. Consolidated statement of changes in equity 175 20.1.6. Operating segments 176 20.5. FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY 283 20.2. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 20.6. INFORMATION ON ACCOUNTS PAYABLE STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED TO SUPPLIERS 284 DECEMBER 31, 2015 180 Introduction 182 20.7. DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION POLICY 284 20.7.1. Payment of dividends 284 20.3 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 255 20.7.2. Dividend data 284 20.3.1 Statutory auditors’ report on the annual 20.7.3. Dividend policy 284 ﬁnancial statements 255 20.3.2 Statement of ﬁnancial position 257 20.8. LEGAL AND ARBITRATION PROCEEDINGS 285 20.3.3 Statement of income 259 Statement of income (continued) 260 20.9. SIGNIFICANT CHANGE IN THE ISSUER’S FINANCIAL OR TRADING POSITION 285 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 167 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.1 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20.1. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2015 20.1.1. STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT This is a free translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking users. The statutory auditors’ report includes information speciﬁcally required by French law in such reports, whether modiﬁed or not. This information is presented below the audit opinion on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph discussing the auditors’ assessments of certain signiﬁcant accounting and auditing matters. These assessments were considered for the purpose of issuing an audit opinion on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements taken as a whole and not to provide separate assurance on individual account balances, transactions or disclosures. This report also includes information relating to the speciﬁc veriﬁcation of information given in the group’s management report. This report should be read in conjunction with and construed in accordance with French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your General Meeting of Shareholders, we hereby report to you, for the year ended 31 December 2015, on: p the audit of the accompanying consolidated ﬁnancial statements of AREVA SA, p justiﬁcation of our assessments; p the speciﬁc veriﬁcation required by law. These consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been approved by the Board of Directors. Our role is to express an opinion on these consolidated ﬁnancial statements based on our audit. I. OPINION ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France; those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated ﬁnancial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures, using sampling techniques or other methods of selection, to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as well as the overall presentation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suﬃcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. In our opinion, the consolidated ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the ﬁnancial position of the Group as at 31 December 2015 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. Without qualifying our opinion, we draw your attention to the matters set out in the following notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements: p Note 1.1 sets out the context of the closing, the AREVA Group’s liquidity situation and the information relating to the application of the going concern principle; p Notes 1.1, 1.3.1.5 and 9, which describe the accounting treatment and the impacts of the transaction under consideration with EDF to transfer a majority share of AREVA NP, as well as the accounting treatment of the discontinued operations (wind power and solar energy activities, nuclear measurements and AREVA TA); p Note 24 describes the reasons that led AREVA to apply paragraph 32 of IAS 11 as from the second half of 2013 and the methods of recognition applicable to the construction contract for the Olkiluoto 3 (“OL3”) EPR. In addition, this note speciﬁes the conditions of completion of this contract, in particular for the end of construction and testing until the reactor is put into service as well as for legal risks; p Notes 1.3.17 and 13 describe the conditions of measurement of the provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations, and their sensitivity to the assumptions used in terms of technical processes, costs, disbursement schedules and inﬂation and discount rates. II. JUSTIFICATION OF OUR ASSESSMENTS In accordance with the requirements of article L. 823-9 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the justiﬁcation of our assessments, we bring to your attention the following matters: p Goodwill, intangible assets, and property, plant and equipment have been tested for impairment according to the principles and assumptions described in Notes 1.3.8, 10, 11 and 12 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. We examined the methods used to perform these tests, and assessed the consistency of the 168 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.1 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 assumptions adopted with the Group’s forecast data, and the approach used to estimate the fair value of some mining assets. We also veriﬁed that the notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements provide appropriate disclosures; p In accordance with IFRS 5, the criteria for the classiﬁcation, recognition and valuation of the activities held for sold or in the process of being sold are described in Note 1.3.1.5 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. We veriﬁed the correct application of this accounting principle and conﬁrmed that Notes 1.1, 9 and 37 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements made appropriate disclosures. p Deferred tax assets were analysed as described in Notes 1.3.22 and 8 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. We examined the methods used to make these estimates and veriﬁed the consistency of the assumptions used to value these deferred tax assets with the Group’s forecast data. We also veriﬁed the appropriateness of the information given in this respect in the notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements; p AREVA recognizes the proﬁt or loss on long-term contracts according to the methods described in Notes 1.3.7, 9 and 24 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. We assessed the data and assumptions on which the estimated income at completion and changes therein are based. We examined the procedures for management’s approval of these estimates and reviewed the calculations made; p Provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations have been measured according to the methods described in Note 1.3.17 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. We reviewed the implementation of these methods, the assumptions used and the cost estimates obtained. We conﬁrmed the appropriateness of the information disclosed in the notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements on this issue. Oﬀsetting these provisions, AREVA recognizes ﬁnancial assets to cover the end-of-lifecycle operations, which include a dedicated portfolio composed of directly held shares and units of equity and bond mutual funds. The portfolio management objectives and measurement principles are described in Note 13 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. We assessed the appropriateness of the methods used and the measurement of the provisions for impairment of the ﬁnancial assets. p The accounting principles relating to employee beneﬁts are described in Notes 1.3.15 and 23 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. We assessed the appropriateness of the methods used and reviewed the measurement of the hedging assets at market value; p Provisions for risks, litigation and contingent liabilities are described in Notes 24 and 34 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. We examined the existing procedures for the identiﬁcation, evaluation and presentation in the accounts of AREVA’s risks, litigation and contingent liabilities. We also veriﬁed that the main disputes identiﬁed during the implementation of these procedures are described appropriately in the notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. p The method and conditions for recording provisions for restructuring are described in Note 24 to the ﬁnancial statements. Our work consisted in analysing the data used, assessing the assumptions made, and verifying that notes 1.1 and 24 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements provide appropriate information; p In the frame of our assessment of the going concern assumption, we examined the Group’s liquidity situation, which is detailed in Notes 1 and 31 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. We acknowledged the cash ﬂow forecasts, the debt schedules, the current credit lines and the related covenants. As referred to in Note 1.2 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, several items referred to in the preceding paragraphs are based on assumptions whose actual results may diﬀer from current estimates. These assessments were made as part of our audit of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements taken as a whole, and therefore contributed to the opinion we formed which is expressed in the ﬁrst part of this report. III. SPECIFIC VERIFICATION As required by law we have also veriﬁed in accordance with professional standards applicable in France the information presented in the Group’s management report. Except for the potential impact of the facts set out in the ﬁrst part of this report, we have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and its consistency with the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Courbevoie and Paris-La Défense, March 31, 2016 French original signed by The Statutory Auditors MAZARS ERNST & YOUNG Audit Cédric Haaser Jean-Louis Simon Aymeric de La Morandière Jean Bouquot 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 169 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.1 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20.1.2. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME (in millions of euros) Note 2015 2014* REVENUE 3 4,199 3,954 Other income from operations 5 5 Cost of sales (4,492) (4,538) Gross margin (288) (579) Research and development expenses (112) (134) Marketing and sales expenses (52) (59) General and administrative expenses (165) (213) Other operating expenses 6 (863) (1,145) Other operating income 6 91 16 OPERATING INCOME (1,388) (2,115) Share in net income of joint ventures and associates 14 (21) (14) Operating income after share in net income of joint ventures and associates (1,409) (2,129) Income from cash and cash equivalents 20 32 Gross borrowing costs (205) (217) Net borrowing costs (185) (185) Other ﬁnancial expenses (477) (453) Other ﬁnancial income 348 338 Other ﬁnancial income and expenses (129) (115) NET FINANCIAL INCOME 7 (313) (299) Income tax 8 (124) (739) NET INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (1,846) (3,167) Net income from operations sold, discontinued or held for sale 9 (190) (1,678) NET INCOME FOR THE PERIOD (2,036) (4,845) Including: Group: Net income from continuing operations (1,853) (3,159) Net income from operations sold, discontinued or held for sale (185) (1,674) NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE PARENT (2,038) (4,833) Minority interests: Net income from continuing operations 7 (8) Net income from operations sold, discontinued or held for sale (5) (4) NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO MINORITY INTERESTS 2 (12) Number of shares outstanding 383,204,852 383,204,852 Average number of shares outstanding 383,204,852 383,204,852 Average number of treasury shares 908,871 857,551 Average number of shares outstanding, excluding treasury shares 382,295,981 382,347,301 Earnings per share from continuing operations (4.85) (8.26) Basic earnings per share (5.33) (12.64) Consolidated net income per diluted share (1) (5.33) (12.64) (1) AREVA has not issued any instruments with a dilutive impact on share capital. * In application of IFRS 5, the 2014 ﬁnancial statements were restated in relation to the data published for the previous year. The impacts of these restatements are detailed in Note 37. 170 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.1 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (in millions of euros) 2015 2014* Net income (2,036) (4,845) Items not recyclable to the income statement 292 (260) Actuarial gains and losses on the employee beneﬁts of consolidated companies 217 (200) Income tax related to non-recyclable items 9 24 Share in non-recyclable items from joint ventures and associates, net of tax 12 (16) Non-recyclable items related to operations sold, discontinued or held for sale, net of tax 55 (68) Items recyclable to the income statement (160) (85) Currency translation adjustments on consolidated companies and other (136) 133 Change in value of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 84 (78) Change in value of cash ﬂow hedges (87) (114) Income tax related to recyclable items (28) 45 Share in recyclable items from joint ventures and associates, net of tax Recyclable items related to operations sold, discontinued or held for sale, net of tax 7 (70) Total other items of comprehensive income (net of income tax) 132 (346) COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (1,905) (5,190) 1 Attributable to equity owners of the parent (1,825) (5,155) 1 Minority interests (80) (36) * In application of IFRS 5, the 2014 ﬁnancial statements were restated in relation to the data published for the previous year. The impacts of these restatements are detailed in Note 37. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 171 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.1 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20.1.3. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ASSETS December 31, December 31, (in millions of euros) Note 2015 2014 NON-CURRENT ASSETS 17,747 21,709 Goodwill on consolidated companies 10 1,272 3,667 Intangible assets 11 1,648 2,267 Property, plant and equipment 12 7,642 8,719 End-of-lifecycle assets (third party share) 13 178 188 Assets earmarked for end-of-lifecycle operations 13 6,122 6,015 Investments in joint ventures and associates 14 100 143 Other non-current assets 15 573 273 Deferred tax assets 8 212 437 CURRENT ASSETS 11,240 8,211 Inventories and work-in-process 16 1,216 2,020 Trade accounts receivable and related accounts 17 941 2,079 Other operating receivables 18 865 1,786 Current tax assets 8 51 85 Other non-operating receivables 81 104 Cash and cash equivalents 19 804 1,686 Other current ﬁnancial assets 20 207 76 Assets of operations held for sale 9 7,076 375 TOTAL ASSETS 28,987 29,920 172 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.1 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY December 31, December 31, (in millions of euros) Note 2015 2014 EQUITY AND MINORITY INTERESTS (1) (2,281) (244) Share capital 21 1,456 1,456 Consolidated premiums and reserves (3,797) (1,756) Actuarial gains and losses on employee beneﬁts (293) (583) Deferred unrealized gains and losses on ﬁnancial instruments 166 204 Currency translation reserves (48) (12) Equity attributable to owners of the parent (2,516) (691) Minority interests 22 235 447 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 14,676 16,527 Employee beneﬁts 23 1,455 2,235 Provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations 13 6,921 6,985 Other non-current provisions 24 238 267 Share in negative net equity of joint ventures and associates 14 59 103 Long-term borrowings 25 5,905 6,870 Deferred tax liabilities 8 100 66 CURRENT LIABILITIES 16,592 13,638 Current provisions 24 3,990 3,473 Current borrowings 25 1,440 624 Advances and prepayments received 26 2,895 4,444 Trade accounts payable and related accounts 941 1,824 Other operating liabilities 27 1,904 2,750 Current tax liabilities 8 39 58 Other non-operating liabilities 27 64 73 Liabilities of discontinued operations 9 5,320 392 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 28,987 29,920 (1) Including other items of total comprehensive income related to discontinued operations not recyclable to the statement of income in the amount of 55 million euros and recyclable to the statement of income in the amount of 7 million euros at December 31, 2015. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 173 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.1 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20.1.4. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (in millions of euros) Note 2015 2014* Net income for the period (2,036) (4,845) Less: income from operations sold, discontinued or held for sale 190 1,678 Net income from continuing operations (1,846) (3,167) (Proﬁt) / loss of joint ventures and associates 21 14 Net amortization, depreciation and impairment of PP&E and intangible assets and marketable securities maturing in more than 3 months 812 1,278 Goodwill impairment losses 26 214 Net increase in (reversal of) provisions 919 723 Net eﬀect of reverse discounting of assets and provisions 253 346 Income tax expense (current and deferred) 124 739 Net interest included in borrowing costs 178 165 Loss (gain) on disposals of ﬁxed assets and marketable securities maturing in more than 3 months; change in fair value (148) (129) Other non-cash items 14 (4) Dividends from joint ventures and associates 1 2 Cash ﬂow from operations before interest and taxes 356 181 Net interest received (paid) (176) (160) Income tax paid (140) (113) Cash ﬂow from operations after interest and tax 40 (92) Change in working capital requirement 28 322 56 NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 362 (36) Investment in PP&E and intangible assets (646) (978) Loans granted and acquisitions of non-current ﬁnancial assets (2,408) (1,174) Acquisitions of shares of consolidated companies, net of acquired cash Disposals of PP&E and intangible assets 8 7 Loan repayments and disposals of non-current ﬁnancial assets 2,338 1,268 Disposals of shares of consolidated companies, net of disposed cash (11) NET CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES (708) (889) Share issues in the parent company and share issues subscribed by minority shareholders in consolidated subsidiaries Treasury shares sold/(acquired) (2) Transactions with minority interests (8) Dividends paid to shareholders of the parent company Dividends paid to minority shareholders of consolidated companies (132) (30) Increase in borrowings (693) 155 NET CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES (825) 116 (Increase) decrease in securities recognized at fair value through proﬁt and loss 35 (2) Impact of foreign exchange movements (6) 44 NET CASH FROM OPERATIONS SOLD, DISCONTINUED OR HELD FOR SALE 9 331 740 INCREASE (DECREASE) IN NET CASH (811) (26) NET CASH AT THE BEGINNING OF THE YEAR 1,556 1,582 Cash at the end of the year 19 804 1,686 Less: short-term bank facilities and non-trade current accounts (credit balances) 25 (91) (122) Net cash from operations held for sale 32 (9) NET CASH AT THE END OF THE YEAR 745 1,556 * In application of IFRS 5, the 2014 ﬁnancial statements were restated in relation to the data published for the previous year. The impacts of these restatements are detailed in Note 37. 174 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.1 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 Net cash taken into account in establishing the Statement of Cash Flows p after deduction of short-term bank facilities and non-trade current accounts consists of: included in short-term borrowings (see Note 25); p cash and cash equivalents (see Note 19), which includes: p net cash from operations held for sale (see Note 9). ○ cash balances and non-trade current accounts, and ○ risk-free investments initially maturing in less than three months, and money market funds; 20.1.5. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Deferred Actuarial unrealized Equity Number of gains and gains and attributable shares and Consolidated losses on losses Currency to equity Total equity investment Share premiums employee on ﬁnancial translation holders of Minority and minority (in millions of euros) certiﬁcates capital and reserves beneﬁts instruments reserves the parent interests interests JANUARY 1, 2014 382,432,527 1,456 3,198 (317) 330 (94) 4,574 408 4,982 Net income for 2014 (4,833) (4,833) (12) (4,845) Other items of comprehensive income (243) (158) 79 (321) (24) (346) Comprehensive income (4,833) (243) (158) 79 (5,155) (36) (5,190) Dividends paid** (31) (31) Treasury shares sold/ (acquired) (107,658) (2) (2) (2) Other transactions with shareholders (119) (23) 32 3 (108) 105 (3) DECEMBER 31, 2014 382,324,869 1,456 (1,756) (583) 204 (12) (691) 447 (244) Net income for 2015 (2,038) (2,038) 2 (2,036) Other items of comprehensive income (see Note 21) 289 (39) (37) 213 (81) 132 Comprehensive income (2,038) 289 (39) (37) (1,825) (80) (1,905) Dividends paid** 0 (133) (133) Treasury shares sold/ (acquired) (53,615) (0) (0) (0) Other transactions with shareholders (2) 1 2 1 (1) 0 1 DECEMBER 31, 2015 382,271,254 1,456 (3,797) (293) 166 (48) (2,516) 235 (2,281) ** Dividend paid per share (in euros) 1 in 2014 from 2013 net income 1 in 2015 from 2014 net income 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 175 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.1 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20.1.6. OPERATING SEGMENTS For all reporting periods, income items from operations sold, discontinued or held Deﬁnition of EBITDA for sale are presented in the statement of income on a separate line, “net income EBITDA is equal to operating income plus net amortization, depreciation and from operations sold, discontinued or held for sale”. Accordingly, this information operating provisions (including provisions for impairment of working capital does not appear in the business segment information below. As a consequence, items), net of reversals. EBITDA excludes the cost of end-of-lifecycle operations the Front End BG presented hereunder does not include the Fuel operations, and performed in nuclear facilities during the year (facility dismantling, waste retrieval the OL3 contract is included in “Other operations”. and packaging). For purposes of greater consistency, AREVA modiﬁed its deﬁnition of EBITDA in ﬁscal year 2014 to exclude all non-cash items of operating income. BY BUSINESS SEGMENT 2015 Income Corporate, other operations and (in millions of euros) Mining Front End Back End eliminations Group total Gross revenue 1,453 1,114 1,928 (295) 4,199 Inter-segment sales (6) (16) (335) 357 Contribution to revenue 1,447 1,097 1,593 62 4,199 EBITDA* 604 389 315 (624) 685 % of gross revenue 41.5% 35.0% 16.4% NA 16.3% * see Note 5. About 30% of the group’s consolidated revenue is with EDF. Balance sheet Corporate, other operations and (in millions of euros) Mining Front End Back End eliminations Group total PP&E and intangible assets (including goodwill) 3,862 4,330 2,256 114 10,562 Assets earmarked for end-of-lifecycle operations 2 1,537 4,761 6,300 Other non-current assets 885 885 Subtotal: Non-current assets 3,864 5,867 7,017 1,000 17,747 Inventories and receivables (excluding tax receivables) 471 1,052 950 628 3,102 Other current assets 1,062 1,062 Subtotal: Current assets 471 1,052 950 1,690 4,164 Assets of operations held for sale 7,076 7,076 TOTAL ASSETS 4,335 6,919 7,968 9,766 28,987 176 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.1 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 2014 (*) * Pursuant to IFRS 5, the segment information for 2014 was restated in relation to the data reported for the previous year. Income Corporate, other operations (in millions of euros) Mining Front End Back End and eliminations Group total Gross revenue 1,304 1,040 1,838 (229) 3,954 Inter-segment sales (7) (52) (307) 366 Contribution to revenue 1,297 988 1,531 137 3,954 EBITDA** 451 245 232 (457) 471 % of gross revenue 34.6% 23.5% 12.6% NA 11.9% ** see Note 5. About 30% of the group’s consolidated revenue is with EDF. Balance sheet Corporate, Shared Services, Engineering Reactors Renewable and (in millions of euros) Mining Front End & Services Back End Energies Eliminations Group total PP&E and intangible assets (including goodwill) 4,244 5,730 2,299 2,246 48 85 14,653 Assets earmarked for end-of-lifecycle operations 2 1,195 51 4,955 6,204 Other non-current assets 852 852 Subtotal: Non-current assets 4,246 6,925 2,351 7,202 48 937 21,709 Inventories and receivables (excluding tax receivables) 669 1,598 1,882 1,046 54 740 5,989 Other current assets 1,847 1,847 Subtotal: Current assets 669 1,598 1,882 1,046 54 2,587 7,836 Assets of operations held for sale 375 375 TOTAL ASSETS 4,915 8,523 4,232 8,247 478 3,524 29,920 BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA 2015 Contribution to consolidated revenue by business segment and customer location Corporate and (in millions of euros) Mining Front End Back End other operations Group total France 252 274 1,098 36 1,660 Europe (excluding France) 225 258 209 11 703 North & South America 273 318 236 6 833 Asia-Paciﬁc 620 232 46 8 906 Africa and Middle East 77 16 5 1 98 TOTAL 1,447 1,097 1,593 62 4,199 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 177 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.1 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 Closing balances of net property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (excluding goodwill) at December 31, 2015 by geographical area and by business segment Corporate and (in millions of euros) Mining Front End Back End other operations Group total France 130 4,169 1,979 109 6,387 Europe (excluding France) 171 2 6 178 North & South America 1,571 44 2 1,617 Asia-Paciﬁc 3 0 1 4 Africa and Middle East 1,103 1,103 TOTAL 2,979 4,169 2,025 117 9,290 Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (excluding goodwill) in 2015 by business segment and by the geographical area of the units Corporate and (in millions of euros) Mining Front End Back End other operations Group total France 2 275 154 11 443 Europe (excluding France) 55 0 0 55 North & South America 105 0 14 0 119 Asia-Paciﬁc 0 0 0 Africa and Middle East 25 25 TOTAL 187 276 169 11 642 Additional information on Germany and Japan at December 31, 2015 Closing balance of net property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (in millions of euros) Revenue by customer location (excluding goodwill) Germany 76 7 Japan 375 2014 (*) * Pursuant to IFRS 5, the segment information for 2014 was restated in relation to the data reported for the previous year. Contribution to consolidated revenue by business segment and customer location Corporate and (in millions of euros) Mining Front End Back End other operations Group total France 220 313 957 96 1,587 Europe (excluding France) 188 170 283 7 648 North & South America 260 326 205 20 812 Asia-Paciﬁc 598 166 81 12 859 Africa and Middle East 30 12 5 48 TOTAL 1,297 988 1,531 137 3,954 178 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.1 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 Closing balances of net property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (excluding goodwill) at December 31, 2014 by geographical area and by business segment Corporate, Shared Reactors & Renewable Services and (in millions of euros) Mining Front End Services Back End Energies Engineering Group total France 150 4,375 720 1,952 9 163 7,369 Europe (excluding France) 296 49 49 2 6 18 420 North & South America 1,680 66 77 30 2 17 1,872 Asia-Paciﬁc 5 1 1 1 8 Africa and Middle East 1,316 1,316 TOTAL 3,447 4,490 847 1,984 18 198 10,986 Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (excluding goodwill) in 2014 by business segment and by the geographical area of the units Corporate and (in millions of euros) Mining Front End Back End other operations Group total France 106 373 141 32 652 Europe (excluding France) 65 0 0 66 North & South America 161 2 5 0 169 Asia-Paciﬁc 0 0 0 0 Africa and Middle East 131 131 TOTAL 463 375 147 33 1,018 Additional information on Germany and Japan at December 31, 2014 Closing balance of net property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (in millions of euros) Revenue by customer location (excluding goodwill) Germany 147 115 Japan 382 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 179 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20.2. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2015 NOTE 1. Highlights of the period, estimates and judgments, NOTE 9. Items related to operations sold, discontinued and accounting principles 182 or held for sale 201 1.1. Highlights of the period 182 Net income and net cash from operations sold, discontinued 1.2. Estimates and judgments 183 or held for sale 201 1.3. Accounting principles 184 Assets and liabilities held for sale 203 Capitalized development expenses 204 NOTE 2. Scope 194 Information on contracts 204 2.1. Consolidated companies and associates (French / Foreign) 194 NOTE 10. Goodwill 205 2.2. 2015 transactions 194 Goodwill impairment tests 205 2.3. 2014 transactions 194 NOTE 11. Intangible assets 207 NOTE 3. Revenue by region 195 NOTE 12. Property, plant and equipment 208 NOTE 4. Additional information by type of expense 195 Mining assets in Niger Imouraren 208 NOTE 5. Reconciliation between operating income Mining assets in Namibia Trekkopje 208 and Ebitda 195 Comurhex II plant 209 NOTE 6. Other operating income and expenses 196 NOTE 13. End-of-lifecycle operations 209 Other operating expenses 196 End-of-lifecycle assets 209 Other operating income 196 Provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations 210 NOTE 7. Net ﬁnancial income 197 Tentative schedule of provision disbursements 212 Assets earmarked for end-of-lifecycle operations 212 NOTE 8. Income tax 197 Analysis of income tax expense 197 NOTE 14. Information on joint ventures and associates 215 Reconciliation of income tax expense and income before taxes 198 Investments in joint ventures and associates 215 Tax rates used in France 198 Share in negative net equity of joint ventures and associates 215 Other permanent diﬀerences 198 Share in net equity of joint ventures and associates 216 Eﬀective tax rate 199 Signiﬁcant joint ventures 216 Deferred tax assets and liabilities 199 Non-signiﬁcant joint ventures 217 Main categories of deferred tax assets and liabilities 199 Non-signiﬁcant associates 217 Deferred tax asset and liability reversal schedule 199 Change in consolidated deferred tax assets and liabilities 200 NOTE 15. Other non-current assets 217 Deferred tax income and expenses by category Available-for-sale securities 218 of temporary diﬀerence 200 Other non-current non-ﬁnancial assets 218 Deferred tax recognized in “other items of comprehensive income” 200 NOTE 16. Inventories and work-in-process 218 Unrecognized deferred tax assets 200 Change in write-downs of inventories and work-in-process 219 180 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 NOTE 17. Trade accounts receivable and related accounts 219 NOTE 28. Cash from operating activities 234 Trade accounts receivable and related accounts (gross) 219 Change in working capital requirement 234 NOTE 18. Other operating receivables 220 NOTE 29. Related party transactions 235 Relations with government-owned companies 235 NOTE 19. Cash and cash equivalents 220 Compensation paid to key executives 236 NOTE 20. Other current ﬁnancial assets 220 NOTE 30. Greenhouse gas emissions allowances 236 NOTE 21. Equity 221 Share capital 221 NOTE 31. Management of market risks 236 Currency translation reserves 221 General objectives 236 Dilutive instruments 221 Foreign exchange risk management 236 Earnings per share 221 Commodity risk 237 Other items of comprehensive income 221 Interest rate risk management 238 Tax impact of other items of comprehensive income 222 Risk from equity investments 240 NOTE 22. Minority interests 222 Counterparty risk 241 2015 223 Balance sheet netting of the fair value of derivatives 241 2014 223 Liquidity risk 241 Credit risk 242 NOTE 23. Employee beneﬁts 224 Market value of ﬁnancial instruments 242 Provisions recognized on the balance sheet 224 Financial assets 226 NOTE 32. Additional information on ﬁnancial instruments 243 Net carrying amount of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations 226 Financial assets and liabilities by category 243 Total expense for the year 227 Net gains and losses on ﬁnancial instruments 247 Change in the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 227 Cash ﬂow hedges 248 Changes in plan assets 228 Lasting impairment of available-for-sale securities 248 Change in provision estimated by the group’s actuaries 228 Unrealized capital losses on available-for-sale securities not NOTE 24. Other provisions 229 recognized through proﬁt and loss 248 Industrial equipment supply contract 229 NOTE 33. Commitments given and received 249 Provision related to the sale of AREVA NP 229 Commitments given 249 Provisions for restructuring and redundancy plans 229 Reciprocal commitments 249 Provisions for losses at completion 229 Provisions for contract completion 230 NOTE 34. Disputes and potential liabilities 250 NOTE 25. Borrowings 231 NOTE 35. Events subsequent to year-end 250 Payment schedule at December 31, 2015 232 Payment schedule at December 31, 2014 232 NOTE 36. Main consolidated companies and associates 251 Bond issues after hedging 233 Guarantees and covenants 233 NOTE 37. Transition of 2014 ﬁnancial statements as reported to restated 2014 ﬁnancial statements 251 Banking covenants 233 Reconciliation of statement of income as reported to restated NOTE 26. Advances and prepayments received 233 statement of income 252 Reconciliation from statement of comprehensive income NOTE 27. Other liabilities 234 as reported to restated statement of comprehensive income 253 Operating liabilities 234 Reconciliation of statement of cash ﬂows as reported to restated Non-operating liabilities 234 statement of cash ﬂows 254 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 181 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 All amounts are presented in millions of euros unless otherwise indicated. Certain totals may include rounding diﬀerences. INTRODUCTION AREVA’s consolidated financial statements for the period January 1 through The AREVA group is fully consolidated by the Commissariat à l’énergie atomique December 31, 2015 were approved by the Board of Directors on February 25, et aux énergies alternatives (see Note 21). 2016. The ﬁnancial statements will be presented to the Annual General Meeting Information for 2013 reported in the 2014 Reference Document ﬁled with the Autorité of Shareholders for approval on May 19, 2016. des marchés ﬁnanciers (AMF) on March 31, 2015, is incorporated by reference. NOTE 1. HIGHLIGHTS OF THE PERIOD, ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENTS, AND ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 1.1. HIGHLIGHTS OF THE PERIOD In this context, AREVA considers that the sale of a controlling interest in AREVA NP to EDF is highly probable and that the conditions for implementing IFRS 5 accounting The year of 2015 saw the implementation of measures announced on March 4, rules relative to operations held for sale have been met. The OL3 project is not part 2015 during the publication of the financial statements for the year ended of the scope held for sale (see Note 9). December 31, 2014, and guidance relative to the transformation of the French nuclear industry announced on June 3, 2015 by the President of the French Refocusing on nuclear fuel cycle operations Republic. Important milestones were met in 2015 and in the ﬁrst weeks of 2016, in particular for the following items: The sale, termination or transformation into a joint venture of operations that are not part of the new AREVA’s core business, refocused on the nuclear fuel cycle, p Advanced discussions with EDF for the sale of at least 75% of AREVA NP’s share have been announced or carried out in 2015: capital, excluding the OL3 contract; p Oﬀshore Wind: On March 9, 2015, AREVA and Gamesa ﬁnalized the creation p Refocusing of AREVA on nuclear fuel cycle operations with the announced of the Adwen joint venture. termination or sale of operations that are not part of its core business; p Solar Energy: Discussions with potential buyers were not successful, and the p A competitiveness plan aiming for 1 billion euros in cost reductions by 2017, last project in execution was the subject of an agreement with the customer on including a restructuring plan; January 16, 2016 to terminate the contract. p The preparation of a 2015-2017 ﬁnancing plan including in particular an increase p Nuclear Measurements: Following a call for oﬀers issued in June 2015 aimed in AREVA’s share capital of 5 billion euros. at selling its subsidiaries Canberra Industries Inc. and Canberra France S.A.S., which specialize in nuclear measurement instrumentation and systems, AREVA Discussions with EDF for the sale of AREVA NP selected the Mirion proposal on December 24, 2015. AREVA and EDF continue discussions for the sale of at least 75% of AREVA NP p AREVA TA: The principle of an acquisition by the Agence des participations de to EDF. l’État of a majority interest in AREVA TA was announced in a press release on p The two companies signed a preliminary memorandum of understanding on December 17, 2015 and conﬁrmed on January 27, 2016. July 29, 2015 presenting the principal terms and conditions of the project with These operations were classiﬁed under operations sold, discontinued or held for a view to ﬁnalizing deﬁnitive agreements. sale at December 31, 2015, pursuant to IFRS 5 (see Note 9). p The next milestone was met during the AREVA Board of Directors meeting of January 27, 2016, which was favorable to the convergence of negotiations Restructuring plan entered into with EDF concerning the valuation of AREVA NP’s operations and The group announced a personnel expense reduction target of 18% worldwide gave the Chief Executive Oﬃcer authority to ﬁnalize the negotiations. AREVA (15% in France) based on renegotiation of compensation, the organization of reached an agreement with EDF on an indicative value of 2.5 billion euros for working time, and manpower adjustments leading to the elimination of 5,000 to 100% of the equity as of the date of execution of the transaction, excluding OL3 6,000 jobs, including 3,000 to 4,000 in France, by the end of 2017. including a price adjustment mechanism up to 350 million euros based on the 2017–2018 performance of AREVA NP. This value will be revised according to In France, a group agreement was signed on October 19, 2015 between the ﬁnancial statements as at the closing date. management and labor. Measures are based on voluntary action. The consultation procedures with employee representative bodies are in progress and, subject to ○ AREVA would keep a strategic interest in AREVA NP of at least 15% with approval by the labor administration, the voluntary departure plans will enter into which governance rights would be associated commensurate with AREVA’s force in early April 2016. status as a strategic minority shareholder. In Germany, the closing of the Oﬀenbach site and transfer of the personnel to the ○ Finalization of the transaction remains subject in particular to (i) the favorable Karlstein and Erlangen sites were announced. These activities will be ﬁnalized outcome of verifications in progress concerning the compliance of the in mid-2016. Flamanville 3 reactor vessel and (ii) the deﬁnition of procedures for transferring the OL3 contract from AREVA NP to AREVA SA. Provisions for restructuring were recognized at December 31, 2015 in this regard ○ The parties’ objective is to carry out this transaction in 2017, after consultation (see Note 24). with the employee representative bodies, receipt of regulatory authorizations and the lifting of the other conditions precedent of the transaction. 182 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 Capital increase Contract for construction of the Olkiluoto 3 EPR The Board of Directors, meeting on January 27, 2016, approved the principle of Over the course of 2015, the Olkiluoto 3 EPR project made progress, meeting a capital increase in the amount of 5 billion euros designed to restore a sound critical path milestones. balance sheet to the group. On that same day, the President of the French Republic Discussions have begun with TVO with the objectives of jointly laying the foundations announced that the State, as leading shareholder, would subscribe to this capital for cooperation to complete the project and settle the dispute. All parties consider that increase, to which minority third-party investors would be invited, and would ensure preliminary discussions have proceeded positively. If this agreement materializes, the its full success, in compliance with regulations and European procedures applicable OL3 contract will be transferred from AREVA NP to AREVA SA within the framework to such transactions. of the restructuring of the French nuclear industry. Liquidity situation and business continuity However, the loss at completion of the project was raised by 905 million euros to reﬂect (i) extra operating costs, (ii) an increase in costs and contingencies for the At December 31, 2015, the liquidity risk was covered for the year of 2016 by: test phases, and (iii) the probable outcome of discussions begun with TVO. p a positive gross cash position of 0.8 billion euros (versus 1.7 billion euros at December 31, 2014). Gross cash was maintained at this level through the Other highlights combination of optimization actions taken during the year (strengthened cash AREVA and EDF reached an agreement in June 2014 on the main ﬁnancial terms management, implementation of the competitiveness plan, factoring transactions of the treatment and recycling contract for the 2013-2020 period. On May 27, 2015, and the sale of tax credit receivables). These optimization actions will continue AREVA and EDF agreed on the application of this agreement to the years 2013in 2016; 2015. Discussions concerning an agreement for the 2016-2023 period ended in p an unused balance of conﬁrmed bilateral lines and syndicated line of credit in December 2015 and the contract was formally signed on February 5, 2016 following the amount of 2.1 billion euros. approval by the governing bodies of each group. Since December 31, 2015: On January 15, 2016, the Ministry of Ecology, Sustainable Development and p as it announced on January 27, 2016, AREVA drew 2 045 million euros on its Energy published an order setting the cost accruing to implementation of longbilateral lines of credit and syndicated line of credit on January 4 and 5, 2016; term management solutions for long-lived mediumand high-level radioactive waste at 25 billion euros. This new cost was reﬂected in AREVA’s ﬁnancial statements p in addition, an interim ﬁnancing in the amount of 1.1 billion euros, negotiated through the recognition of an addition provision of 250 million euros for end-ofwith banks, will ensure the group’s business continuity. lifecycle operations at December 31, 2015. At December 31, 2015, current ﬁnancial debt totaled 1.440 billion euros, consisting in particular of: 1.2. ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENTS p the last installment, in the amount of 200 million euros, of a loan granted by the European Investment Bank, reimbursed in January 2016; To prepare its ﬁnancial statements, AREVA must make estimates, assumptions p the scheduled repayment of 964 million euros of a bond issue in September 2016; and judgments impacting the net carrying amount of certain assets and liabilities, income and expense items, or information provided in some notes to the ﬁnancial p scheduled repayments of the redeemable loan for structured financing of statements. AREVA updates its estimates and judgments on a regular basis to take Georges Besse II in the amount of 36 million euros; into account past experience and other factors deemed relevant, based on business p accrued interest on bond issues in the amount of 56 million euros in circumstances. Depending on changes in these assumptions or in circumstances, September 2016; the group’s future ﬁnancial statements may or may not be consistent with current p commercial paper in the amount of 26 million euros; and estimates, particularly in the following areas: p current bank credit facilities and positive credit balances in the amount of p operating margins on contracts recognized according to the percentage of 91 million euros. completion method (see Notes 1.3.7 and 24), which are estimated by the project Beyond 2016 and up to 2018 year end, signiﬁcant debt repayments include teams following the group’s procedures; the bond issue expiring in October 2017 in the nominal remaining amount of p anticipated cash flows, discount rates and growth assumptions used in 798 million euros, the repayment of the 1.1 billion interim ﬁnancing in January 2017, impairment tests for goodwill and other plant, property and equipment and the repayment of bilateral lines of credit in the amount of 795 million euros in 2017 intangible assets (see Notes 1.3.9, 10, 11 and 12); and the repayment of the syndicated line of credit in the amount of 1.250 billion euros p all assumptions used to assess the value of pension commitments and other in January 2018 and the repayment of a private placement issued in Japanese employee benefits, including future payroll escalation and discount rates, yens of approximately 60 million euros in September 2018. Over that timeframe, retirement age and employee turnover (see Notes 1.3.15 and 23); business continuity will be ensured through the measures set forth in the group’s ﬁnancing plan, whose objective is to give the company the means to implement p all assumptions used to calculate provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations and its transformation plan and to have a ﬁnancial proﬁle enabling it to reﬁnance in the the assets corresponding to the third party share, including: markets on a long-term basis. These measures include among others the capital ○ the estimated costs of these operations, increase, the sale of the majority of AREVA NP to EDF, and the other subsidiary ○ inﬂation and discount rates, sales described in the preceding paragraphs. ○ the schedule of future disbursements, 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 183 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 ○ the operating period of the facilities (see Notes 1.3.17 and 13), p Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 prohibit the use of an amortization method ○ the procedures for ﬁnal shut-down of the facilities; based on the proportionate share of revenue generated by the use of the asset in the case of property, plant and equipment, and allow it only exceptionally for p the assumptions used to value provisions for restructuring and provisions for intangible assets. These amendments have no impact on the AREVA group’s voluntary redundancy plans (see Notes 1.3.16 and 24); ﬁnancial statements, which do not use an amortization method based on the p estimates and judgments regarding the outcome of ongoing litigation and, proportionate share of revenue generated by the use of assets. more generally, estimates regarding all provisions and contingent liabilities of the AREVA group (see Notes 1.17, 24 and 34); IFRS standards published before December 31, 2015 p estimates and judgments relative to the recoverability of trade accounts receivable and not yet approved by the European Union and other accounts receivable (see Notes 1.3.11 and 1.3.12.3); p IFRS 15 – Revenue Recognition was published on May 28, 2014. It will enter p estimates and judgments regarding the material or durable nature of the into force January 1, 2018, subject to its adoption by the European Union. This impairment of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets (see Notes 1.3.12, 13 and 15); standard will replace IAS 11 – Construction Contracts and IAS 18 – Revenue, and their interpretations. p estimates of future taxable income used to calculate deferred tax assets (see Notes 1.3.22 and 8); p IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments was published on July 24, 2014. It will enter into force January 1, 2018, subject to its adoption by the European Union. This p the share in equity and net income of joint ventures and associates that had standard will replace IAS 39. not yet published their year-end ﬁnancial statements as of the date of year-end closing of AREVA’s ﬁnancial statements; A plan to implement IFRS 15 was set up in 2015 in order to measure its impacts on the group’s ﬁnancial statements and information systems; the group has also p the high probability of loss of control of assets and operations classiﬁed as begun to analyze IFRS 9. being “held for sale” within a period of 12 months after the date of closing, in accordance with IFRS 5 (see Notes 1.3.1.5 and 9); 1.3.1. Presentation of the ﬁnancial statements p estimates relative to the proceeds from net sales of assets and operations classiﬁed as “held for sale” (see Note 9). 1.3.1.1 Presentation of the statement of ﬁnancial position The statement of ﬁnancial position makes a distinction between current and non1.3. ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES current assets, and current and non-current liabilities, in accordance with IAS 1. Pursuant to European Regulation 1606/2002 of July 19, 2002, AREVA’s Current assets and liabilities include assets held for sale or for use in connection consolidated ﬁnancial statements were prepared in accordance with International with the operating cycle, or that are expected to be sold or settled within 12 months Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the European Union as of the statement of ﬁnancial position date. from December 31, 2015. They reﬂect International Accounting Standards (IAS) Financial liabilities are reported as current or non-current liabilities based on their and IFRS standards and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations residual maturity at year-end. Committee (IFRIC) and the former Standing Interpretation Committee (SIC). They To simplify the presentation of the statement of ﬁnancial position, AREVA presents all are also consistent with IFRS standards drawn up by the International Accounting headings relating to end-of-lifecycle operations, as deﬁned in Note 13, on separate Standards Board (IASB), insofar as the mandatory adoption date of the standards lines under non-current assets or liabilities, in their full amount. Thus, provisions and amendments published by the IASB and not yet adopted by the European for end-of-lifecycle operations are presented as non-current liabilities; the end-ofUnion at December 31, 2015 is later than said date. lifecycle asset corresponding to the share of third parties in the ﬁnancing of these IFRIC interpretation applicable January 1, 2015 operations is presented under non-current assets. Financial assets earmarked to cover these operations are presented in a separate heading under non-current On June 13, 2014, the European Union published IFRIC 21 – Levies Charged by assets, including all equities and shares of equity funds and bond funds held in Public Authorities, for which it set the mandatory adoption date at the opening date the portfolio, together with cash held on a short-term basis. of the ﬁrst ﬁscal year after its publication, i.e. January 1, 2015. The interpretation concerns the taxes due by an entity to a public authority in application of the Similarly, provisions for employee beneﬁts are presented under non-current liabilities regulation, other than those entering into the scope of IAS 12 – Income Taxes. in their full amount. IFRIC 21 speciﬁes that the obligating event for a tax consists of the last activity Deferred tax assets and liabilities are reported as non-current. rendering it payable. Adoption of this interpretation has the consequence of modifying the recognition method for certain taxes. In particular, taxes that become 1.3.1.2. Presentation of the statement of income payable on a given date, when certain conditions are met, are recognized in their In the absence of detailed guidance in IAS 1, the statement of income is presented in full amount at that date and may not be spread out over time. The impact of the accordance with recommendation 2013-03 of the Autorité des normes comptables adoption of this interpretation had little impact on the AREVA group in 2015. (French national accounting board). Amendments to existing standards applicable as from p Operating expenses are presented by function, split among the the 2016 accounting year following categories: p An amendment to IFRS 8 on aggregations of operating segments requires the ○ cost of sales; disclosure of criteria applied to the aggregation of operating segments by brieﬂy ○ research and development expenses; describing the segments aggregated and the economic indicators on which the ○ marketing and sales expenses; company based its determination that they have similar characteristics. ○ general and administrative expenses; 184 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 ○ other operating income, mainly comprising: p Items not recyclable to the income statement include actuarial gains and losses gains/losses on disposals of property, plant and equipment and arising subsequent to January 1, 2011, the date of retroactive application of intangible assets; amended IAS 19 (see Note 1.3.15). income from the deconsolidation of subsidiaries (except when qualiﬁed as These items are presented before tax. The total tax impact of these items is discontinued operations in accordance with IFRS 5, in which case they are presented on a separate line under “recyclable items” and “non-recyclable items”. presented on a separate line in the statement of income); The share of other items of comprehensive income relating to discontinued reversals of impairment of property, plant and equipment and operations is presented on separate lines of that statement in their total amount intangible assets; after tax, separating items that are recyclable through proﬁt and loss from items ○ other operating expenses, mainly comprising the following items: that are not recyclable. goodwill impairment; The share of other items from comprehensive income relating to associates is costs of restructuring and early employee retirement plans; presented on a separate line in the total amount after tax. However, items that are impairment of and losses on disposals of property, plant and equipment recyclable are not separated from items that are not recyclable, as the amounts and intangible assets; are immaterial. losses from the deconsolidation of subsidiaries (except when they are qualiﬁed as discontinued operations in accordance with IFRS 5). 1.3.1.4. Presentation of the statement of cash ﬂows AREVA presents the income from the research tax credit program in France as a reduction in research and development expenses and presents the income from The statement of cash ﬂows is presented in accordance with IAS 7. AREVA has the competitiveness and employment tax credit as a reduction in payroll expenses adopted the indirect method of presentation, which starts with consolidated net in each expense category by function. income for the period. p As indicated in Note 1.3.2, AREVA presents the share in net income of joint Cash ﬂows from operating activities include income taxes paid, interest paid ventures and associates whose operations are an extension of the group’s or received, and dividends received, except for dividends received from equity operations under a statement of income heading immediately below operating associates, which are reported in cash ﬂows from investing activities. income, and presents a new sub-total entitled “Operating income after share in Cash ﬂow from operations is presented before income tax, dividends and interest. net income of joint ventures and associates”. p Net ﬁnancial income comprises: 1.3.1.5. Operations sold, discontinued and held for sale ○ gross borrowing costs; Operations sold, discontinued and held for sale are presented in the ﬁnancial ○ income from cash and cash equivalents; statements in accordance with IFRS 5. Operations held for sale correspond to distinct, principal business segments within the group for which management has ○ other ﬁnancial expenses, most notably: initiated a disposal plan and an active program to search for buyers, and whose sale lasting impairment and gains or losses on sales of available-for-sale is probable within the 12 months following the end of the accounting year (which securities; may be extended in the event of speciﬁc circumstances). Discontinued operations negative changes in value of securities held for trading; correspond to business segments whose operation was terminated at the date of reverse discounting of provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations and closing of the accounting year. Operations held for sale and discontinued operations employee beneﬁts; are presented as follows in the ﬁnancial statements: ○ other ﬁnancial income, most notably: p the assets and liabilities of operations held for sale are presented in their full dividends received and other income from ﬁnancial assets other than cash amount under speciﬁc headings of the balance sheet; the debts and receivables and cash equivalents; of these operations as concerns the group’s other entities continue to be gains on disposals of available-for-sale securities; eliminated in consolidation. The comparative statement of ﬁnancial position is positive changes in value of securities held for trading; not restated; reverse discounting of end-of-lifecycle assets (third party share); net income from operations held for sale and discontinued operations is returns on retirement plan assets and other employee beneﬁts. p presented under a speciﬁc heading of the statement of income, which includes 1.3.1.3. Presentation of the statement of comprehensive the net income after tax from these operations until the date of their termination or income disposal and the net gain after tax on the disposal itself; the statement of income The statement of comprehensive income explains the transition from net income for the previous year is presented for purposes of comparison and restated in to comprehensive income on a statement separate from the statement of income, identical fashion. This heading also includes the impact on the statement of in accordance with the election made by AREVA to apply amended IAS 1. income of post-disposal price adjustments and warranties granted to the buyer; p net cash flows from operations held for sale and discontinued operations It presents “other items of comprehensive income” as either recyclable or not are also presented under a speciﬁc heading of the statement of cash ﬂows, recyclable to the income statement. which includes cash ﬂows generated by those operations until the date of their p Items recyclable to the income statement include: termination or disposal and the net cash ﬂow after tax generated on the disposal ○ currency translation adjustments on consolidated entities, itself; the statement of cash ﬂows for the previous year, presented for comparison, is restated in identical fashion. This heading also includes the impact of post○ changes in the value of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets, and disposal price adjustments on the statement of cash ﬂows and warranties granted ○ changes in the value of cash ﬂow hedging instruments. to the buyer. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 185 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 1.3.2. Consolidation and equity methods 1.3.4. Operating segments The consolidated ﬁnancial statements combine the ﬁnancial statements for the AREVA presents its business segment information by operating Business Group, year ended December 31, 2015 of AREVA and the subsidiaries which it controls, which corresponds to the level at which performance is examined by the group’s in accordance with the criteria deﬁned in IFRS 10, which are fully consolidated. steering bodies, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 8. The three operating Joint ventures (companies in which AREVA exercises joint control with one or more segments presented are Mining, Front End and Back End. investors and which do not meet the deﬁnition of a joint activity) and associates Information by business segment relates only to operating data included in the (companies in which AREVA exercises a notable inﬂuence on ﬁnancial policy and statement of income and the statement of ﬁnancial position (revenue, EBITDA, management) are consolidated using the equity method. Under the equity method: goodwill, non-current property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, and other the share of the equity of these companies, corresponding to the percentage of operating assets). Financial assets and liabilities and the group’s tax position are p interest held by AREVA plus any goodwill generated during the acquisition of the managed at the corporate level; the corresponding items in the statement of income interest, is recognized as an asset in the consolidated balance sheet; and statement of ﬁnancial position are not allocated to the operating segments. p the share of the net income of these companies, corresponding to the percentage In addition, AREVA reports data by geographical area. AREVA’s consolidated of interest held by AREVA less any impairment of goodwill, is recognized in the revenue is allocated among ﬁve geographical areas based on the destination of consolidated statement of income. goods and services: France, Europe excluding France, North and South America, Asia-Paciﬁc, Africa and the Middle East. In accordance with IAS 28, AREVA ceases to recognize its share of equity and income in joint ventures and associates when their equity is negative, unless AREVA 1.3.5. Business combinations – Goodwill is explicitly or implicitly obliged to ensure the continuity of their operations. Acquisitions of companies and operations are recognized at cost based on the Joint ventures and associates cease to be consolidated using the equity “acquisition cost” method, as provided in IFRS 3 for business combinations method when they are classiﬁed under “non-current assets held for sale” (see subsequent to January 1, 2004 and prior to December 31, 2009, and in IFRS 3 section 1.3.1.5 above). They are then valued at the lowest of their carrying revised for operations subsequent to January 1, 2010. In accordance with the option amount or their fair value, less disposal costs, corresponding to their probable net provided by IFRS 1 for the ﬁrst-time adoption of IFRS, business combinations prior realizable value. to December 31, 2003 were not restated. Intercompany transactions are eliminated. Under the method required by this standard, the acquired company’s assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities meeting the deﬁnition of identiﬁable assets 1.3.3. Translation of ﬁnancial statements and liabilities are recognized at fair value on the date of acquisition, except for of foreign companies discontinued business segments of the acquired entity, as provided in IFRS 5, which The AREVA group’s ﬁnancial statements are presented in euros. are recognized at the lower of fair value less costs to sell and the net carrying amount The functional currency of an entity is the currency of the economic environment in of the corresponding assets. For consolidation purposes, the date of consolidation which that entity primarily operates. The functional currency of foreign subsidiaries of the acquired company is the date at which AREVA acquires eﬀective control. and associates is generally the local currency. However, another currency may Restructuring and other costs incurred by the acquired company as a result of the be designated for that purpose when most of a company’s transactions are in business combination are included in the liabilities acquired, as long as IAS 37 another currency. criteria for provisions are met at the date of acquisition. Costs incurred after the The ﬁnancial statements of foreign companies belonging to the AREVA group are date of acquisition are recognized in operating income during the year in which prepared in the local functional currency and translated into euros for consolidation such costs are incurred or when meeting IAS 37 criteria. purposes in accordance with the following principles: The acquired company’s contingent liabilities resulting from a current obligation p balance sheet items (including goodwill) are translated at the rates applicable on the date of acquisition are recognized as identiﬁable liabilities and recorded at at the end of the period, with the exception of equity components, which are fair value on that date. kept at their historic rates; AREVA did not apply the “total goodwill” method authorized by amended IFRS 3 p income statement transactions and cash ﬂow statements are translated at for acquisitions subsequent to January 1, 2010, and continues to apply the “partial average annual rates; goodwill” method. In accordance with that method: p currency translation diﬀerences in respect of the net income and equity of these p the goodwill reported in assets corresponds to the diﬀerence between the companies are recognized in “other items of comprehensive income” and acquisition price of the operations or shares of the company acquires and the presented on the balance sheet under the equity heading “currency translation fair value share of the corresponding assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities reserves”. When a foreign company is discontinued or sold, the associated on the date of the acquisition; currency translation reserves recognized after January 1, 2004 (date of ﬁrst-time p minority interests are recognized initially based on the fair value of assets, liabilities adoption of the IFRS standards) are recognized in proﬁt and loss. and contingent liabilities on the date of acquisition, prorated for the percentage interest held by minority shareholders. The valuation of the acquired company’s assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities on the acquisition date may be adjusted within twelves months of that date; this also applies to the valuation of the acquisition price if the contract contains conditional price adjustment clauses. The amount of goodwill may not be adjusted after the expiration of that period. 186 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 Goodwill is not amortized. It is subject to impairment tests that are systematically p Under the cost-based PCM formula, the percentage of completion is equal to the performed at least once a year or more often if there are signs of impairment. ratio of costs incurred (the costs of work or services performed and conﬁrmed Impairment is recognized if the outcome of these tests indicates that it is necessary. at the end of the accounting period) to the total anticipated cost of the contract. Signiﬁcant loss of market share, loss of administrative permits or licenses required This ratio may not exceed the percentage of physical or technical completion at to operate a business, or significant financial losses are examples of signs the end of the accounting period. of impairment. p Under the physical PCM formula, a predetermined percentage of completion To perform impairment tests, all goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs) is assigned to each stage of completion of the contract. The revenue and costs reﬂecting the group’s structure (the deﬁnition of a CGU and the methodology used recognized at the end of the accounting period are equal to the percentage of for impairment tests are described in Note 1.3.9). anticipated revenue and anticipated costs for the stage of completion achieved at that date. When the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the net carrying amount of its assets, the impairment is allocated ﬁrst to goodwill and When contract terms generate signiﬁcant cash surpluses during all or part of then to other non-current assets of the CGU (property, plant and equipment and the contract’s performance, the resulting ﬁnancial income is included in contract intangible assets), prorated based on their net carrying amount. The recoverable revenue and recognized in revenue based on the percentage of completion. amount of a CGU is the higher of (1) its value in use, measured in accordance with AREVA had elected not to include ﬁnancial expenses in the cost of contracts the discounted cash ﬂow method, or (2) its fair value less disposal costs. generating a cash loss, as previously allowed under IAS 11. This option is no Impairment allocated to goodwill cannot be reversed. longer applicable to contracts for which costs were incurred for the ﬁrst time after January 1, 2009: the ﬁnancial expenses generated by these contracts are included Upon the sale of a business, the amount of goodwill allocated to it is included in in the determination of the estimated income on completion of the project. its net carrying amount of the business and taken into consideration to determine the gain or loss on disposal. When a contract is expected to generate losses at completion, the total projected loss is recorded immediately, after deduction of any already recognized partial loss, If an asset or group of assets is sold that constitutes part of a CGU to which goodwill and a provision is set up accordingly. is allocated, a share of this goodwill is assigned based on objective criteria to the asset or group of assets sold; the corresponding amount is used to determine the When the gain or loss at completion cannot be estimated reliably, the costs are income from the sale. recorded as expenses for the period in which they are incurred and the revenue recognized may not exceed the costs incurred and recoverable. In cases of losses 1.3.6. Recognition of revenue at completion, this approach does not exclude the recognition of all expected losses in expenses. At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015, this provision Revenue is recognized at the fair value of the consideration received or to be applied in particular to the EPR reactor construction project in Finland (see Note 24). received, net of rebates and sales taxes. Revenue includes: 1.3.8. Valuation of property, plant and equipment p revenue from construction contracts and certain services recognized according and intangible assets to the percentage of completion method in accordance with IAS 11 (see Note 1.3.7 hereunder); and 1.3.8.1. Initial recognition p revenue from other sales of goods and services recognized when most of the Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are recognized at amortized risk and rewards are transferred to the customer in accordance with IAS 18. cost. Revenue in respect of transactions where the unit only acts as broker, without AREVA did not elect to recognize certain property, plant and equipment and bearing the risks and rewards attached to the goods, consists of the margin obtained intangible assets at fair value, as allowed under IFRS 1 for the ﬁrst-time adoption by the unit. The same is true for commodity trading activities, which primarily of IFRS on January 1, 2004. concern uranium trading. 1.3.8.2. Inclusion of borrowing costs No revenue is recognized when materials or products are exchanged for materials or products of a similar nature and value. Borrowing costs are not included in the valuation of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets: 1.3.7. Revenue recognized according to the percentage p placed in service before January 1, 2009, or of completion method p placed in service after that date but for which expenses had been incurred and Revenue and margins on construction contracts and certain services are recognized recognized as assets in progress at December 31, 2008. according to the percentage of completion method (PCM), as provided in IAS 11 In accordance with the amended IAS 23 accounting standard, eﬀective as from for construction contracts and in IAS 18 for services. January 1, 2009, the borrowing costs related to investments in property, plant and In application of this method, revenue and income from contracts are recognized equipment and intangible assets for projects initiated after that date and for which over the period of performance of the contract. Depending on the type and the period of construction or development is more than one year are included in complexity of the contracts, the group applies the percentage of completion method the costs of these assets. based on costs incurred or on the percentage of physical completion. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 187 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 1.3.8.3. Intangible assets Goodwill and trademarks produced internally are not capitalized. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES Depreciation of intangible assets is calculated using the most appropriate method Research and development expenses incurred by AREVA for its own account are for the asset category (straight-line depreciation or as a function of the production expensed as they are incurred. units), starting on the date they were placed in service and over the shorter of their probable period of use or, when applicable, the length of their legal protection. Research and development expenses funded by customers under contracts are included in the production cost of these contracts and recorded under cost of sales An intangible asset whose useful life is not defined, such as a brand, is not when the corresponding revenue is recognized in income. amortized, but is subject to impairment tests (see Note 1.3.9). As provided in IAS 38, expenses relating to development projects are recorded as 1.3.8.4. Property, plant and equipment intangible assets if the project meets the following six criteria: Property, plant and equipment are recognized at acquisition or production cost, p technical feasibility; including startup expenses, less cumulative depreciation and impairment. p intention of completing, using or selling the asset; The cost of nuclear facilities includes the AREVA group’s share of provisions p ability to use or sell the asset; for end-of-lifecycle operations, estimated at the date they are placed in service, p generation of future economic beneﬁts (existence of a market or internal use); termed “end-of-lifecycle assets – group share” (see Note 1.3.17). In accordance with IFRIC 1, changes in provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations coming from p availability of adequate ﬁnancial resources for completion; and changes in estimates or calculation assumptions and relating to nuclear facilities p reliability of measurement of costs attributable to the asset. in operation are oﬀset by a change in the same amount of the assets to which Capitalized development costs are then amortized over the expected life of the these provisions relate. intangible asset, from the commissioning date. They are depreciated on a straightProperty, plant and equipment are depreciated based on the approach deemed line basis over a minimum period of time. most representative of the economic depreciation of the assets (straight line Costs expensed in a year prior to the decision to capitalize may not be depreciation or as a function of the production units); each component is capitalized subsequently. depreciated based on its own useful life. MINERAL EXPLORATION AND MINING PRE-DEVELOPMENT Mining land is depreciated over the operating period of the deposit; site layout and Exploration and geological work are assessed in accordance with the following rules: preparation expenses are depreciated over 10 years; buildings over 10 to 45 years; production facilities, equipment and tooling other than nuclear facilities over 5 to p Exploration expenses incurred to identify new mineral resources and expenses 10 years; general facilities and miscellaneous ﬁxtures over 10 to 20 years; and related to studies and pre-development work to evaluate a deposit before project transportation equipment, oﬃce equipment, computer equipment and furniture proﬁtability is conﬁrmed are recognized as research and development expenses over 3 to 10 years. through proﬁt and loss for the period. Nuclear facilities are depreciated on a straight line over their useful life, measured p Mining pre-development expenses relating to reserves presenting technical and by taking into account the durations of the portfolio of existing or reasonably economic characteristics that indicate a strong probability of proﬁtable mining foreseeable contracts performed in these facilities. development may be capitalized at year-end. Indirect costs, excluding overhead expenses, are included in the valuation of these costs. Capitalized pre-mining Depreciation periods are revised if the group’s backlog changes signiﬁcantly. expenses are amortized in proportion to the number of tons mined from the Changes in the asset value of these facilities, recognized to oﬀset changes in the reserves they helped identify. value of provisions for the corresponding end-of-lifecycle operations, as explained GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS ALLOWANCES above, are depreciated prospectively over their remaining useful life. Following the withdrawal of IFRIC 3 by the IASB, and pending a decision by Assets ﬁnanced under leasing arrangements, which transfer, in substance, nearly all regulators on accounting for greenhouse gas emission allowances, AREVA does the risks and rewards inherent in ownership of the asset to AREVA, are recognized not record an asset or provision as long as the group’s emissions are lower than in the statement of ﬁnancial position as property, plant and equipment assets and the allowances it has received. depreciated as indicated above. Assets ﬁnanced by customers are depreciated over the term of the corresponding contracts. AREVA does not trade speculatively on emission allowance markets. The group’s only transactions were sales of rights corresponding to allowances allocated to it 1.3.9. Impairment of property, plant and equipment, in excess of its actual carbon dioxide emissions. Proceeds from these sales are intangible assets and goodwill recognized in proﬁt or loss under other operating income. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill and intangible assets with an indeﬁnite useful life An intangible asset is recorded when it is likely that future economic beneﬁts Impairment tests are performed systematically at least once a year for goodwill therefrom will accrue to the company and if the cost of this asset can be estimated and intangible assets with indeﬁnite useful lives. These tests are performed at the reliably, based on reasonable and documented assumptions. level of the cash-generating units (CGU) to which such goodwill and intangible Intangible assets are recorded at acquisition or production cost. assets belong. 188 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 A CGU is the smallest identiﬁable group of assets generating cash inﬂows which 1.3.12. Financial assets are largely independent of the cash inﬂows from the group’s other assets or groups Financial assets consist of: of assets. p assets earmarked for end-of-lifecycle operations; Impairment is recognized when the recoverable amount of a CGU is less than the net carrying amount of all assets belonging to it. The recoverable amount of a p other available-for-sale securities; CGU is the higher of: p loans, advances and deposits; p its fair value less disposal costs, corresponding to the net realizable value based p securities held for trading; on observable data when available (recent transactions, oﬀers received from p put and call options on securities; potential acquirers, published ratios for comparable publicly traded companies) p derivatives used for hedging (see Note 1.3.21); or on analyses conducted by internal or external experts of the AREVA group; p cash and cash equivalents. p its value in use, which is equal to the present value of the estimated future cash They are valued in accordance with IAS 39. ﬂows it generates, plus its “residual value”, corresponding to the present value of cash ﬂows for the “base” year, discounted to inﬁnity, estimated at the end of Regular purchases and sales of ﬁnancial assets are recognized at the date of the future cash ﬂow period. However, some CGU have a deﬁned lifecycle (by transaction. ore resources in Mining or by the duration of operating permits in the nuclear businesses); the cash ﬂows taken into account to assess their value in use are 1.3.12.1. Assets earmarked for end-of-lifecycle operations not discounted to inﬁnity but within the limit of their expected operating life. To This heading includes all investments dedicated by AREVA to the funding of its determine an asset’s useful value, cash ﬂows are discounted based on a discount operations for future end-of-lifecycle operations in the nuclear business, including rate consistent with a current assessment of the time value of money and the facility dismantling and waste retrieval and packaging. The portfolio includes directlyspeciﬁc risk of the asset or the CGU. held publicly traded shares and bonds, dedicated equity mutual funds, dedicated bond and money market funds, and cash. It also includes receivables resulting from Other property, plant and equipment and intangible assets agreements with third parties liable for a share of the ﬁnancing of end-of-lifecycle Impairment tests are performed when there is an indication of impairment of operations. These receivables are recognized at amortized cost. property, plant and equipment or intangible assets with ﬁnite useful lives. p Publicly traded shares are classiﬁed as “available-for-sale securities”, as deﬁned When no estimate of an individual asset’s recoverable amount may be established, in IAS 39. They are recognized at fair value, corresponding to the last traded the group determines the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit (CGU) price of the year. Changes in value are under “other items of comprehensive to which the asset belongs. income” and are presented on the balance sheet under “deferred unrealized gains and losses on ﬁnancial instruments” on an after-tax basis, except for lasting 1.3.10. Inventories and work-in-process impairment, which is recognized in ﬁnancial expenses for the year. Inventories and work-in-process are valued at production cost in the case of goods p AREVA does not consolidate its dedicated mutual fund assets on an individual produced by the group and at acquisition cost in the case of goods acquired for basis, insofar as the company does not have control over them according to consideration. Items are valued according to the ﬁrst-in ﬁrst-out method (FIFO) or IFRS 10 criteria: at weighted average cost, depending on the type of inventory. ○ AREVA is not involved in the management of the dedicated mutual funds, Impairment is recognized when the likely recoverable amount of inventory or workwhich are managed by independent and reputable asset management in-process is less than its net carrying amount. ﬁrms. These mutual funds are benchmarked to the MSCI index of large Financial expenses and research and development costs funded by AREVA are not European capitalizations, with strict limits on risk. The funds are regulated taken into account in the valuation of inventories and work-in-process. However, the by the French stock market authority and therefore subject to regulations cost of research and development programs funded by customers is recognized governing investment and concentration of risk, in inventories and work-in-process, as is amortization of capitalized development ○ AREVA does not control the mutual fund management ﬁrms, expenditures. ○ AREVA does not hold voting rights in the mutual funds, The costs incurred to get a contract from a customer (“proposal costs”) are ○ the funds do not trade directly or indirectly in ﬁnancial instruments issued recognized in work-in-process when there is a high probability on the date of yearby AREVA, end closing that the contract will be signed; in the opposite case, the proposal ○ none of the ﬁnancial investments made by the funds are strategic to AREVA, costs are recognized in proﬁt and loss under “Marketing and sales expenses” and “General and administrative expenses.” ○ AREVA receives no benefit and bears no risk other than that normally associated with investments in mutual funds and in proportion to its holding, 1.3.11. Accounts receivable ○ AREVA may terminate the management agreements only in speciﬁc cases Trade accounts receivable, generally due in less than one year, are recognized at (gross negligence, fraud, etc.). Consequently, AREVA cannot replace a fund book value at amortized cost. management company at will. An impairment charge is recognized to reﬂect the probable recovery value when collection is not assured. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 189 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 Accordingly, the dedicated mutual funds are recognized in the balance sheet under The drop in value is always considered signiﬁcant or lasting if it exceeds the following a single heading corresponding to AREVA’s share of their net asset value as of the thresholds, which are objective indicators of impairment: end of the year. Considering their long-term investment objective, the funds dedicated to Signiﬁcant Lasting ﬁnancing end-of-lifecycle operations are classiﬁed as “available-for-sale securities”. Accordingly, the accounting treatment of changes in fair value and the impairment Assets earmarked for end-of-lifecycle measurement and recognition methods are identical to those applicable to traded operations shares held directly. 1 Money market funds 5% 1 year p As an exception to the rules described above, bonds held directly as well as 1 Bond funds and bonds held directly 25% 2 years certain dedicated mutual funds consisting exclusively of bonds held to maturity 1 Equity funds 50% 3 years are recognized under “securities held to maturity” and valued at amortized cost. 1 Directly held shares 50% 3 years 1.3.12.2. Other available-for-sale securities Other available-for-sale securities This heading includes all shares held by AREVA in publicly traded companies, 1 Directly held shares 50% 2 years except for shares in joint ventures and associates consolidated under the equity Securities that have dropped below these thresholds are not subject to lasting method, and shares held for trading. impairment unless other information on the issuer indicates that the drop is probably These shares are valued in the same manner as shares held in the dedicated irreversible. In that case, AREVA uses its own judgment to determine whether lasting portfolio: impairment should be recognized. p fair value equal to the last traded price of the year; These thresholds are likely to be re-estimated over time as a function of changes in the economic and ﬁnancial environment. p changes in fair value recognized under “other items of comprehensive income”, except for lasting impairment, which is recognized in net ﬁnancial income. Impairment of available-for-sale securities is irreversible and may only be released to the income statement on sale of the securities. An increase in market prices or This heading also includes the group’s investments in the share capital of liquidation value subsequent to recognition of impairment is recorded as a change unconsolidated companies, either because AREVA does not have control and of fair value under “other items of comprehensive income”. Any additional loss of has no signiﬁcant inﬂuence over them or because of immateriality. These securities value aﬀecting a line of previously impaired securities is recognized as additional are valued at their acquisition cost when the fair value cannot be estimated reliably. impairment in net ﬁnancial income for the year. This is particularly the case for privately held companies. 1.3.12.4. Loans, advances and deposits 1.3.12.3. Lasting impairment of assets earmarked for end-of-lifecycle operations and other available-for-sale This heading mainly includes loans related to unconsolidated equity interests, securities advances for acquisitions of equity interests, and security deposits. Lasting impairment is recognized in the event of a signiﬁcant or lasting drop in These assets are valued at amortized cost. Impairment is recognized when the the price or liquidation value of a line of securities below their initial value. The recoverable amount is less than the net carrying amount. impairment is calculated as the diﬀerence between the prices traded on the stock market or the liquidation value of the securities on the last day of the period and the 1.3.12.5. Securities held for trading initial value of the securities, corresponding to their acquisition cost at inception. This heading includes investments in equities, bonds and shares of funds held to AREVA determines the significant or lasting nature of a drop in the price or generate a proﬁt based on market opportunities. liquidation value of a line of securities using several criteria, depending on: These assets are recognized at fair value based on their stock market price or their p the type of investments used, where the level of volatility and risk may vary net asset value at the end of the period. Changes in fair value are recognized under substantially: money market funds, bond or equity funds; bonds or equities ﬁnancial income for the period. held directly; 1.3.12.6. Put/call options on securities p whether the assets are earmarked or not to ﬁnance end-of-lifecycle operations: assets earmarked for end-of-lifecycle operations must be held for very long Put and call options on traded securities are recognized at fair value on the date periods of time, with expenses covered occurring after 2050. of closing using the Black-Scholes pricing model; changes in value are recorded AREVA has therefore established thresholds beyond which it considers that a drop under net ﬁnancial income for the year. in the price or liquidation value of a line of securities is signiﬁcant or lasting and The price of an option consists of intrinsic value and time value. Intrinsic value is requires the recognition of a provision for lasting impairment. The impairment is the diﬀerence between the strike price of an option and the market price of the measured for signiﬁcance by comparing the drop in the price or liquidation value underlying security. Time value is based on the security’s volatility and the date on of the line of securities with the historical acquisition cost. The lasting nature of which the option may be exercised. impairment is measured by observing the length of time during which the price or liquidation value of the line of securities remained consistently lower than the acquisition cost at inception. 190 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 1.3.12.7. Cash and cash equivalents The costs relating to employee beneﬁts (pensions and other similar beneﬁts) are split into two categories: Cash includes bank balances and non-trade current accounts with unconsolidated entities. p the discounting reversal expense for the provision, net of the expected yield on assets earmarked for retirement plans, are charged to net ﬁnancial income; the Cash and cash equivalents include risk-free marketable securities with an initial expected yield of the assets is calculated using the same interest rate used to maturity of threes months or less, or which may be converted into cash almost discount the provision; immediately. In particular, these assets include marketable debt instruments and shares of money market funds in euros, valued at amortized cost. p the current service cost is split between the diﬀerent operating expense items by destination: cost of sales, research and development expenses, marketing 1.3.13. Treasury shares and sales expenses, and general and administrative expenses. Treasury shares are not recognized in the balance sheet but deducted from equity, 1.3.16. Provisions at their acquisition cost. As provided in IAS 37, a provision is recognized when the group has an obligation 1.3.14. Assets of operations held for sale towards a third party at the end of the period, whether legally, contractually or implicitly, and it is probable that a net outﬂow of resources will be required after Non-current assets held for sale and assets related to discontinued operations the end of the period to settle this obligation, without receiving consideration at (see Note 1.3.1.5) are recognized at the lower of their net carrying amount before least equal to the outﬂow. A reasonably reliable estimate of net outﬂow must be reclassiﬁcation and their fair value, minus costs to sell. They are presented under a determined in order to recognize a provision. speciﬁc heading of the balance sheet; depreciation is discontinued upon transfer to this category. Provisions for restructuring are recognized when the restructuring has been announced and a detailed plan has been presented or the restructuring has begun. 1.3.15. Employee beneﬁts When the outflow of resources is expected to occur in more than two years, The group recognizes the total amount of its pension, early retirement, severance provisions are discounted to net present value if the impact of discounting is material. pay, medical insurance, long-service medals, accident and disability insurance, and other related commitments, whether for active personnel and for retired personnel, 1.3.17. Provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations in application of the provisions of amended IAS 19. Provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations are discounted by applying an inﬂation rate For deﬁned contribution plans, the group’s payments are recognized as expenses and a discount rate, determined based on the economic situation of the country in for the period to which they relate. which the particular facility is located, to estimated future cash ﬂows by maturity. In the case of deﬁned beneﬁt plans, beneﬁt costs are estimated using the projected The share of provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations corresponding to funding unit credit method. Under this method, accrued pension beneﬁts are allocated to expected from third parties is recognized in a non-current asset account, “end-ofservice periods based on the plan vesting formula. If services in subsequent years lifecycle asset – third party share”, which is discounted in exactly the same way as result in accrued beneﬁt levels that are substantially higher than those of previous the related provisions. years, the company must allocate the accrued beneﬁts on a straight-line basis. The AREVA NP group’s share of provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations, estimated The amount of future beneﬁt payments to employees is determined based on salary at the date the corresponding nuclear facilities are placed in service, is an integral trend assumptions, retirement age and probability of payment. The net present part of the cost of those facilities, which are recognized in property, plant and value of these future payments is calculated using a discount rate speciﬁc to each equipment (see Note 1.3.8.4) as “end-of-lifecycle assets – group share”. geographic and currency area, determined as a function of the interest rate of The provisions for the retrieval and packaging of waste are recognized as operating government bonds issued by prime companies for the same duration as AREVA’s expenses through proﬁt and loss. beneﬁt liabilities. Actuarial gains and losses relating to post-employment beneﬁts (change in the Treatment of income and expenses from discounting reversals valuation of the commitment and ﬁnancial assets due to changes in assumptions The discounting of the provision is partially reversed at the end of each period. the and experience diﬀerences) are recognized under “other items of comprehensive discounting reversal corresponds to the increase in the provision due to the passage income” and are presented on the balance sheet in their after-tax amount under of time. This increase is recorded as a ﬁnancial expense. the equity account “consolidated premiums and reserves”; they are not recyclable to the income statement. Similarly, the discounting of the provision corresponding to the third party share is partially reversed rather than amortized. On the other hand, actuarial gains and losses relating to beneﬁts for currently employed employees (e.g. long-service medals) are recognized in the income The resulting increase in the third party share is recognized as ﬁnancial income. statement. The share ﬁnanced by third parties is reduced for the value of work done on their The eﬀects of plan changes (gains and losses) are recognized in the income behalf, with recognition of a receivable from these third parties in the same amount. statement under the heading “other operating income and expenses”. Treatment of amortization The group’s share of end-of-lifecycle assets is amortized over the same period as the facilities concerned. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 191 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 The corresponding amortization expense is not considered as part of the cost of 1.3.18. Borrowings inventories or the cost of contracts, and is not taken into account in the calculation Borrowings include: of their percentage of completion. However, it is included in the income statement under cost of sales and thus deducted from gross margin. p put options held by minority shareholders of AREVA group subsidiaries; p obligations under ﬁnance leases; and Inﬂation and discount rates used to discount end-of-lifecycle p other interest-bearing debt. operations Inflation and discount rates used to discount end-of-lifecycle operations are 1.3.18.1. Obligations under ﬁnance leases determined as follows: As provided in IAS 17, leasing arrangements are considered ﬁnance leases when The inﬂation rate is set in accordance with the long-term inﬂation projections for all of the risks and rewards inherent in ownership are, in substance, transferred the Eurozone and taking into account the European Central Bank’s target rate. to the lessee. At inception, ﬁnance leases are recognized as a debt oﬀsetting an asset in the identical amount, corresponding to the lower of the fair value of the The discount rate is determined based on long series of bonds with maturities property and the discounted net present value (NPV) of future minimum payments comparable to those of the liabilities, to take into account long-term interest trends due under the contract. consistent with the long-term schedule of actual disbursements. The selected discount rate must also comply with a dual regulatory cap: Lease payments made subsequently are treated as debt service and allocated to repayment of the principal and interest, based on the rate stipulated in the contract p the value deﬁned by the decree of February 23, 2007 and the order of March 24, or the discount rate used to value the debt. 2015 amending the order of March 21, 2007; p the expected return on plan assets. 1.3.18.2. Other interest-bearing debt It is based on the moving average yield of 30-year French OATs over a 10-year This heading includes: period, plus the spread applicable to prime corporate borrowers. p interest-bearing advances from customers: interest-bearing advances from For example, the discount rate is revised based on changes in national economic customers are accounted for as borrowings, while non-interest-bearing advances conditions, with a lasting mediumand long-term impact, in addition to the potential are considered operating liabilities (see Note 1.3.19); eﬀects of regulatory caps. p loans from ﬁnancial institutions; For facilities in France, AREVA adopted an inﬂation rate of 1.75% and a discount p bonds issued by AREVA; rate of 4.50% at December 31, 2015 (rates identical to those used at December 31, 2014). p short-term bank facilities. Interest-bearing debt is recognized at amortized cost based on the eﬀective interest Treatment of changes in assumptions rate method. Changes in assumptions relate to changes in cost estimates, discount rates and Bond issues hedged with a rate swap (ﬁxed rate / variable rate swap) qualiﬁed disbursement schedules. as fair value hedges are revalued in the same amount as the hedging derivative. As provided in IFRS, the group uses the prospective method: 1.3.19. Advances and prepayments received p if the facility is in operation, the shares of end-of-lifecycle assets of the group There are three types of advances and prepayments from customers: and third parties are corrected in the same amount as the provision; the group’s share of end-of-lifecycle assets is amortized over the remaining life of the facilities; p interest-bearing advances, which are presented as borrowings (see Note 1.3.18.2); p if the facility is no longer in operation, the impact is recognized during the p customer advances and prepayments invested in non-current assets: this year of the change. The impact of changes in cost estimates is recognized heading records the amounts received from customers and used to ﬁnance under operating income, while the impact of changes in discount rates and capital expenditures for the performance of long-term contracts to which they disbursement schedules is recognized under net ﬁnancial income. have subscribed; Provisions for waste retrieval and packaging funded by the group have no p advances and prepayments on orders: this heading records advances and corresponding end-of-lifecycle asset. Consequently, changes in assumptions prepayments from customers that do not fall under the preceding two categories; concerning the group’s share of these provisions are recognized immediately in they are reimbursed by charges to revenue earned from the contracts in question. the income statement. Impacts from changes in cost estimates are recognized Only advances and prepayments eﬀectively collected are recognized. under operating income. Impacts from changes in discount rates and disbursement schedules are recognized under ﬁnancial income. 1.3.20. Translation of foreign currency denominated transactions Foreign currency-denominated transactions are translated by group companies into their functional currency at the exchange rate prevailing at the transaction date. 192 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are revalued at The amount accumulated in currency translation reserves is released to proﬁt and the exchange rate prevailing on the last day of the period. Foreign exchange gains loss when the subsidiary in question is sold. and losses are then recognized: DERIVATIVES NOT QUALIFYING AS HEDGES p in operating income when related to operating activities: trade accounts When derivatives do not qualify as hedging instruments, fair value gains and losses receivable, trade accounts payable, etc.; are recognized immediately in the income statement. p in ﬁnancial income when related to loans or borrowings. 1.3.21.3. Presentation of derivatives in the statement 1.3.21. Derivatives and hedge accounting of ﬁnancial position and statement of income 1.3.21.1. Risks hedged and ﬁnancial instruments PRESENTATION IN THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION The AREVA group uses derivative instruments to hedge foreign exchange risks, Derivatives used to hedge risks related to market transactions are reported under interest rate risks and the price of commodities. The derivatives used are mainly operating receivables and liabilities in the statement of ﬁnancial position. Derivatives forward exchange contracts, currency and interest rate swaps, inﬂation swaps, used to hedge risks related to loans, borrowings and current accounts are reported currency options and commodity options. under ﬁnancial assets or borrowings. The risks hedged relate to receivables, borrowings and ﬁrm commitments in foreign PRESENTATION IN THE STATEMENT OF INCOME currencies, planned transactions in foreign currencies, and planned sales and The revaluation of derivatives and hedged items relating to market transactions purchases of commodities. aﬀecting the statement of income is recognized under “other operating income and expenses”, except for the component corresponding to the discount/premium, 1.3.21.2. Recognition of derivatives which is recognized in ﬁnancial income. As provided in IAS 39, derivatives are initially recognized at fair value and For loans and borrowings denominated in foreign currencies, fair value gains subsequently revalued at the end of each accounting period until settled. and losses on ﬁnancial instruments and hedged items are recognized in ﬁnancial Accounting methods for derivatives vary, depending on whether the derivatives are income. designated as fair value hedging items, cash ﬂow hedging items, hedges of net investments in foreign operations, or do not qualify as hedging items. 1.3.22. Income tax As provided in IAS 12, deferred taxes are determined according for all temporary FAIR VALUE HEDGES diﬀerences between net carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities, This designation concerns hedges of ﬁrm commitments in foreign currencies: to which is applied the anticipated tax rate at the time of reversal of these temporary purchases, sales, receivables and debt. The hedged item and the derivative are diﬀerences. They are not discounted. revalued simultaneously and any changes in value are recorded in the income statement. Temporary taxable diﬀerences generate a deferred tax liability. Temporary deductible diﬀerences, tax loss carry-forwards, and unused tax credits CASH FLOW HEDGES generate a deferred tax asset equal to the probable amounts recoverable in the This designation covers hedges of probable future cash ﬂows: planned purchases future. Deferred tax assets are analyzed case by case for recoverability, taking into and sales in foreign currencies, planned purchases of commodities, etc. account the income projections of the group’s strategic action plan. The highly probable hedged items are not valued in the balance sheet. Only the Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted for each taxable entity if the entity is derivative hedges are revalued at the end of each accounting period. The portion allowed to oﬀset its current tax receivables against its current tax liabilities. of the gain or loss that is considered eﬀective is recognized under “other items of comprehensive income” and presented directly in equity under the balance sheet Deferred tax liabilities are recorded for all taxable temporary differences of heading “deferred unrealized gains and losses on ﬁnancial instruments”, on an aftersubsidiaries, associates and partnerships, unless AREVA is in a position to control tax basis. Only the ineﬀective portion of the hedge impacts income for the period. the timing of reversal of the temporary diﬀerences and it is probable that such reversal will not take place in the foreseeable future. Tax accounts are reviewed at The amounts recognized under “deferred unrealized gains and losses on ﬁnancial the end of each accounting year, in particular to take into account changes in tax instruments” are released to income when the hedged item impacts the income laws and the likelihood that amounts recognized will be recovered. statement, i.e. when the hedged transaction is recognized in the ﬁnancial statements. Deferred taxes are recognized through proﬁt and loss, unless they concern “other HEDGES OF NET INVESTMENTS IN FOREIGN OPERATIONS items of comprehensive income”, i.e. changes in the value of available-for-sale This heading relates to borrowings in a foreign currency and to borrowings in euros securities and derivatives considered as cash ﬂow hedges, currency translation when the euro has been swapped into a foreign currency to ﬁnance the acquisition adjustments on borrowings considered as hedges of net investments in foreign of a subsidiary using the same functional currency. Currency translation adjustments operations, or actuarial gains and losses resulting from changes in assumptions on these borrowings are recognized under “other items of comprehensive income” used to calculate post-employment employee beneﬁts. Deferred taxes related to and presented on the balance sheet under “currency translation reserves” in their these items are also recognized under “other items of comprehensive income”. net amount after tax; only the ineﬀective portion is recognized through proﬁt and loss. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 193 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 AREVA elected to recognize the value added business tax (contribution sur la Since the CVAE tax is deductible for income tax purposes, deferred taxes are valeur ajoutée des entreprises, CVAE); as of 2010, all of its French subsidiaries recognized at the standard rate on deferred tax assets and liabilities recognized are subject to this tax on net income (including the tax for Chamber of Commerce for the CVAE, as described in the previous paragraph. and Industry expenses) at the rate of 1.6%. AREVA considers that the base for calculation of the CVAE is a net amount rather than a gross amount, since the value Deferred tax assets added of its largest French subsidiaries represents a relatively small percentage of The recoverable share of the AREVA group’s deferred tax assets is that for which their revenue, bringing the value added business tax into the scope of accounting the probability of recovery is higher than 50%. To determine that probability, the standard IAS 12, Income Taxes. group performs a three-stage analysis: (a) demonstration of the non-recurrent nature As provided in IAS 12, this election requires recognition of deferred taxes at the of the losses; (b) analysis of the outlook for future income; and (c) analysis of tax rate of 1.6% on temporary diﬀerences for: management opportunities. p assets that produce economic beneﬁts subject to the CVAE tax that cannot Regarding the outlook for future income, the probability of future taxable proﬁts to be deducted from the value added. At January 1, 2010, the basis selected for oﬀset losses carried forward is assessed based on forecasts generated as part of temporary diﬀerences consisted of the net carrying amount of property, plant the budget process validated by management. The income outlook is determined and equipment and intangible assets eligible for depreciation. Beginning in for a 10-year period for each entity and/or consolidated area, based on the initial 2010, no deferred tax liability is recognized on asset acquisitions other than budget and income forecasts for the ﬁrst 3 years; beyond that time, a standard year business combinations, in application of the exemption provided by IAS 12 for derived from third-year data is used. The 10-year forecasting horizon selected is initial recognition of an asset or a liability; consistent with the volume in group’s backlog, the operating period of the assets, p asset impairments and provisions that may not be deducted from the CVAE but and the existence of certain framework agreements. that relate to expenses that will be deducted from the value added at a later date. NOTE 2. SCOPE 2.1. CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES AND ASSOCIATES (FRENCH / FOREIGN) (number of companies) 2015 2014 Consolidation method Foreign French Foreign French Full consolidation 84 43 90 44 Equity method 17 8 16 8 Sub-total 101 51 106 52 TOTAL 152 158 Note 36 provides a list of the main consolidated companies and associates. 2.2. 2015 TRANSACTIONS Creation of AREVA H2Gen On May 23, 2014, AREVA, Smart Energies (via its subsidiary Ceth2) and Ademe Creation of the Adwen joint venture announced the creation of the AREVA H2-Gen joint venture, which will manufacture On March 9, 2015, AREVA and Gamesa signed ﬁnal agreements to create Adwen, a proton exchange membrane electrolyzers. joint venture in the ﬁeld of oﬀshore wind. Held in equal shares by the two companies, Adwen is taking over AREVA’s wind energy operations. The joint venture will design, Creation of Anadec manufacture, install, commission and maintain oﬀshore wind turbines. On July 1, 2014, AREVA and Atox announced the creation of the Anadec joint Note 9 describes transactions that were ongoing at year-end 2015 and are expected venture, which will provide dismantling solutions and services to Japanese nuclear to be ﬁnalized in 2016. power plants. Creation of AREVA Mace Atkins 2.3. 2014 TRANSACTIONS On September 18, 2014, AREVA and Atkins announced the creation of the AREVA Mace Atkins joint venture, to strengthen their competitive position in the nuclear Sale of Euriware SA and Euriware Group fuel management and dismantling markets in the United Kingdom. On May 7, 2014, AREVA and Capgemini signed agreements involving a commercial partnership in the form of an IS outsourcing and systems integration contract, and the acquisition of Euriware and its subsidiaries by the Capgemini group. 194 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 NOTE 3. REVENUE BY REGION (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Contracts accounted for according to the percentage of completion method 1,165 1,131 Other sales of products and services Sales of goods 1,728 1,624 Sales of services 1,306 1,198 TOTAL 4,199 3,954 Revenue for 2015 includes 54 million euros for sales of enrichment services exchanged for natural uranium in the form of UF6 (versus 36 million euros at December 31, 2014). The table below presents data on contracts recognized according to the percentage of completion method, which were in progress as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014: (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Customer advances 1,576 1,140 Amounts withheld by customers 4 5 The group elected to present its statement of income based on the destination of income and expense items. Additional information is provided in Notes 4 and 5 below. NOTE 4. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION BY TYPE OF EXPENSE (in millions of euros, except workforce) 2015 2014* Payroll expenses (1,553) (1,705) Employees at the end of the year 21,046 22,113 Operating leases (73) (95) (*) In application of IFRS 5, the 2014 data were restated in relation to the data published the previous year. Payroll expenses include salaries and related social security contributions, excluding retirement beneﬁts. NOTE 5. RECONCILIATION BETWEEN OPERATING INCOME AND EBITDA (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Operating income (1,388) (2,115) Impairment of goodwill 26 214 Net increase in depreciation and impairment of intangible assets, net of reversals 145 132 Net increase in depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment, net of reversals 643 1,131 Impairment of current assets, net of reversals 71 148 Provisions, net of reversals (*) 920 724 Investment subsidies recognized through proﬁt and loss (1) (1) Costs of end-of-lifecycle operations performed 267 237 EBITDA 685 471 (*) Including increases and reversals of provisions for employee beneﬁts. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 195 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 NOTE 6. OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES Other operating expenses and other operating income include foreign exchange of 53 million euros at December 31, 2015 (versus a loss of 27 million euros and a losses in the amount of 22 million euros and foreign exchange gains in the amount gain of 2 million euros at December 31, 2014). OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Restructuring and early retirement costs* (238) 1 Goodwill impairment losses (26) (214) Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, net of reversals (208) (710) Income on disposals of assets other than ﬁnancial assets (6) Other operating expenses (391) (217) TOTAL OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES (863) (1,145) * Net of employee beneﬁts reversals. Restructuring costs are recognized for 2015. They are described in Notes 1 and 24. p costs associated with the deferral of work to open the Imouraren mining site in Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment in the amounts of 42 million euros in 2015 and 48 million euros in 2014; 2015 and 2014 are described in Notes 10, 11 and 12 respectively. p a provision constituted in 2015 for an industrial equipment supply contract in the amount of 40 million euros (see Note 24); In 2014 and 2015, other operating expenses included in particular: p a provision in the amount of 180 million euros for expected costs resulting from p provisions and expenses associated with the streamlining of the group’s oﬃce the transfer of the OL3 contract from AREVA NP to AREVA SA, for which the sites, mainly in France, in the amount of 41 million euros in 2014; terms are under discussion. (see Note 24). OTHER OPERATING INCOME (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Income on disposals of assets other than ﬁnancial assets 2 Other operating income 89 16 TOTAL OTHER OPERATING INCOME 91 16 196 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 NOTE 7. NET FINANCIAL INCOME (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Net borrowing costs (185) (185) Income from cash and cash equivalents 20 32 Gross borrowing costs (205) (217) Other ﬁnancial income and expenses (129) (115) of which share related to end-of-lifecycle operations 122 30 Income from disposal of securities earmarked for end-of-lifecycle operations 139 131 Dividends received 145 139 Income from receivables related to dismantling and from discount reversal on earmarked assets 24 27 Impairment of available-for-sale securities (3) Impact of changes in discount rate and amended schedules 9 (40) Discounting reversal expenses on end-of-lifecycle operations (193) (227) of which share not related to end-of-lifecycle operations (250) (145) Foreign exchange gain (loss) 19 13 Income from disposals of securities and change in value of securities held for trading 6 4 Dividends received 1 5 Impairment of ﬁnancial assets (21) (11) Interest on contract prepayments (68) (71) Financial income from pensions and other employee beneﬁts (34) (48) Other ﬁnancial expenses (141) (54) Other ﬁnancial income (12) 17 NET FINANCIAL INCOME (313) (299) At December 31, 2015, other ﬁnancial expenses mainly include accretion on debt At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015, the net gain on sales of securities and provisions other than employee beneﬁts and end-of-lifecycle operations in the included in the share related to end-of-lifecycle operations did not include the amount of 41 million euros, and a debt write-oﬀ for an operation held for sale in recapture of lasting impairment allocated to the securities sold. the amount of 66 million euros. NOTE 8. INCOME TAX ANALYSIS OF INCOME TAX EXPENSE (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Current taxes (France) (80) (63) Current taxes (other countries) (68) (28) Total current taxes (148) (91) Deferred taxes 24 (648) TOTAL TAX INCOME (124) (739) During the 2014 and 2015 accounting years, AREVA disposed of tax receivables without recourse to ﬁnancial institutions in the amounts of 72 million euros and 122 million euros respectively. AREVA retained no signiﬁcant ongoing involvement in respect of these receivables. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 197 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 RECONCILIATION OF INCOME TAX EXPENSE AND INCOME BEFORE TAXES (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Net income attributable to equity owners of the parent (2,038) (4,833) Less income from operations sold, discontinued or held for sale 190 1,678 Minority interests 2 (12) Share in net income of joint ventures and associates 21 14 Tax expense (income) 124 739 Income before tax (1,701) (2,415) Theoretical tax income (expense) 586 831 Reconciliation Operations taxed at a rate other than the full statutory rate 10 (32) Unrecognized deferred taxes (572) (927) Impairment of deferred tax assets recognized in previous years* (600) Other permanent diﬀerences (148) (11) EFFECTIVE TAX INCOME (EXPENSE) (124) (739) * in the tax consolidation area including AREVA SA (France) and AREVA GmbH (Germany). In view of the revision in the group’s business and proﬁtability outlook, and consistent with the assumptions selected for impairment tests, the group did not recognize deferred tax assets for the current year and wrote down certain deferred tax assets recognized in previous years in the two regions consolidated for tax purposes, consisting of France and Germany. TAX RATES USED IN FRANCE (percentage) 2015 2014 Tax rate 34.43 34.43 The tax rate used for presentation of the tax reconciliation was kept at 34.43% insofar as the French tax consolidations are in a deﬁcit position and parliamentary decisions to bring the tax rate to 38% are temporary in application. OTHER PERMANENT DIFFERENCES (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Parent / subsidiary tax treatment and inter-company dividends 1 2 Impact of permanent diﬀerences for tax purposes (17) 26 Diﬀerences between the French tax rate and tax rates applicable abroad (20) (21) CVAE business tax (11) (15) Other permanent diﬀerences* (101) (2) TOTAL PERMANENT DIFFERENCES (148) (11) * including 75 million euros related to goodwill write-downs (see Note 10). 198 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Operating income (1,388) (2,115) Net ﬁnancial income (313) (299) TOTAL INCOME SUBJECT TO TAX (1,701) (2,415) Tax expense (124) (739) Eﬀective tax rate NA NA DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Deferred tax assets 212 437 Deferred tax liabilities 100 66 NET DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 113 370 MAIN CATEGORIES OF DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Tax impact of temporary diﬀerences related to: Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and non-current ﬁnancial assets (106) Working capital assets (173) (154) Employee beneﬁts 170 141 Provisions for restructuring 1 Tax-driven provisions (124) (102) Provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations 30 73 Impact of loss carry-forwards and deferred taxes 93 175 Other temporary diﬀerences 222 238 NET DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 113 370 DEFERRED TAX ASSET AND LIABILITY REVERSAL SCHEDULE (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Reversal in more than 12 months 80 345 Reversal in 12 months or less 33 26 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 199 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 CHANGE IN CONSOLIDATED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 AT JANUARY 1 370 1,098 Tax on continuing operations, recognized in proﬁt or loss 24 (648) Tax recognized in discontinued operations (274) (231) Tax recognized directly in “other items of comprehensive income” (45) 111 Change in consolidated group 16 15 Currency translation adjustments 21 25 AT DECEMBER 31 113 370 DEFERRED TAX INCOME AND EXPENSES BY CATEGORY OF TEMPORARY DIFFERENCE (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Tax impact of temporary diﬀerences related to: Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and non-current ﬁnancial assets 85 302 Working capital assets (12) 11 Employee beneﬁts (6) 5 Provisions for restructuring 55 12 Tax-driven provisions (34) 155 Provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations 1 10 Net loss carry-forwards and deferred taxes 457 122 Impairment of deferred taxes (572) (1,527) Other temporary diﬀerences 51 262 NET DEFERRED TAX INCOME (EXPENSES) 24 (648) DEFERRED TAX RECOGNIZED IN “OTHER ITEMS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME” (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 IAS 32-39 impacts (change in value of available-for-sale assets, cash ﬂow hedges and hedges of a net investment) (26) 61 Other (19) 50 DEFERRED TAX RECOGNIZED DIRECTLY IN “OTHER ITEMS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME” (45) 111 UNRECOGNIZED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Tax credits Tax losses 1,170 1,618 Other temporary diﬀerences 1,268 1,453 TOTAL UNRECOGNIZED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS 2,439 3,070 200 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 NOTE 9. ITEMS RELATED TO OPERATIONS SOLD, DISCONTINUED OR HELD FOR SALE The following operations meet the criteria of IFRS 5 for classiﬁcation as “operations In this context, AREVA considers that the sale of a controlling interest in AREVA NP to sold, discontinued or held for sale” at December 31, 2015. EDF is highly probable and that the conditions for implementing IFRS 5 accounting Wind Energy rules relative to operations held for sale have been met. The scope of AREVA NP p operations classiﬁed as “operations held for sale” at December 31, 2015 was AREVA’s wind energy business division had already been classiﬁed in “operations determined based on discussions underway between AREVA and EDF, and may held for sale” at December 31, 2014. On March 9, 2015, AREVA and Gamesa still change. The OL3 project is not part of the scope held for sale. ﬁnalized the creation of the Adwen joint venture. Adwen’s results are recognized using the equity method as from that date (see Note 14). The results from January 1 No impairment is indicated in the comparison between the expected sales price to March 8, 2015, and income from deconsolidation are presented in “net income (based on the status of discussions to date between AREVA and EDF), net of sales from operations sold”. Moreover, the impacts of execution of the guaranties granted costs, and the net carrying amount of assets held for sale. by AREVA to Adwen are presented under that same heading. p Nuclear Measurements p Solar Energy In June 2015, AREVA began the process of disposing of its subsidiaries Canberra AREVA’s solar energy business division had already been classiﬁed in “operations Industries Inc. and Canberra France S.A.S., which specialize in nuclear measurement held for sale” at December 31, 2014. The discussions entered into with a potential instrumentation and systems. AREVA received indicative oﬀers on July 20, 2015 and buyer in 2015 were not successful. In parallel and with the objective of terminating binding oﬀers on December 18, 2015. After examining the oﬀers, the AREVA Board its solar operations, AREVA reached an agreement with its customer Reliance of Directors selected the Mirion proposal (supported by the Charterhouse venture to transfer to it the 125-MWe solar ﬁeld in Rajasthan, India, thus signifying the capital fund) on December 24, 2015. The proposal will be the subject of consultation termination of all AREVA operations in the solar energy ﬁeld. AREVA has no other with the AREVA group’s employee representation bodies in the ﬁrst quarter of contract in execution or in its backlog. The Solar operations are thus treated as a 2016 and is expected to receive the approval of the competition authorities. The “discontinued operation” at December 31, 2015. objective is to ﬁnalize the transaction by the end of 2016. Consequently, the Nuclear Measurements business is treated as an “operation held for sale” at December 31, p AREVA NP 2015. As indicated in Note 1, AREVA and EDF signed a memorandum of understanding The net sales price resulting from Mirion’s oﬀer is higher than the net carrying on July 29, 2015 presenting the principal terms and conditions of the project with amount. a view to ﬁnalizing deﬁnitive agreements. AREVA’s Board of Directors, meeting on January 27, 2016, was favorable to the convergence of negotiations entered p AREVA TA into with EDF concerning the valuation of AREVA NP’s operations, and gave the The transformation plan led by AREVA calls for the group to refocus on the Chief Executive Oﬃcer authority to complete the negotiations. At EDF’s request, processes of the nuclear cycle. The Agence des participations de l’État plans to completion of the transaction remains subject to (i) the favorable outcome of take a majority share of AREVA TA. The principle of this transaction was conﬁrmed veriﬁcations in progress concerning the compliance of the Flamanville 3 reactor in a press release in December 2015. In that situation, AREVA began the process vessel and (ii) the deﬁnition of procedures to protect EDF from risks related to the of disposing of AREVA TA; the objective is to complete the transaction by the end OL3 project, which remain to be speciﬁed. of 2016. The objective of the parties is to carry out this transaction in 2017, after consultation The net sales price expected is higher than the net carrying amount. with the employee representative bodies, receipt of regulatory authorizations and the lifting of the other conditions precedent of the transaction. NET INCOME AND NET CASH FROM OPERATIONS SOLD, DISCONTINUED OR HELD FOR SALE (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Net income from operations sold (240) Net income after tax from disposals 59 Net income from discontinued operations (115) (180) Net income from operations held for sale 106 (1,498) Net income from operations sold, discontinued or held for sale (190) (1,678) Net cash from operations sold (127) Net cash from discontinued operations 0 (49) Net cash from operations held for sale 458 791 Net cash from operations sold, discontinued or held for sale 331 741 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 201 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 2015 Discontinued Operation sold operation Discontinued operations (in millions of euros) Wind Energy Solar Energy AREVA NP Other TOTAL Revenue 3 (80) 3,566 449 3,937 Operating income (79) (109) 33 83 (71) Share in net income of associates (11) (11) Operating income after share in net income of joint ventures and associates (79) (109) 22 83 (83) Net ﬁnancial income (86) (6) (121) 39 (174) Income tax (17) 80 3 67 Net income for the period (181) (115) (20) 126 (190) Operating income from the solar operations includes (78) million euros of currency translation reserves recycling through proﬁt and loss. Discontinued Operation sold operation Discontinued operations (in millions of euros) Wind Energy Solar Energy AREVA NP Other TOTAL Net cash ﬂow from operating activities (77) (38) 33 177 95 Net cash ﬂow from investing activities (163) 6 (112) (2) (272) Net cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities 114 42 396 (22) 529 Other changes (10) (13) 2 (21) Increase (decrease) in net cash (127) 0 303 155 331 2014 Discontinued Operation sold operation Discontinued operations (in millions of euros) Wind Energy Solar Energy AREVA NP Other TOTAL Revenue 66 (1) 3,863 520 4,449 Operating income (474) (174) (422) (113) (1,183) Share in net income of associates (140) (140) Operating income after share in net income of joint ventures and associates (474) (174) (563) (113) (1,324) Net ﬁnancial income (5) (5) (96) (2) (108) Income tax 17 (1) (271) 9 (246) Net income for the period (462) (180) (930) (106) (1,678) Operating income for 2014 included: p write-downs of capitalized development expenses concerning AREVA NP’s EPRs impairment of assets (including goodwill) in the Wind Energy and Solar Energy in the amount of 299 million euros; p businesses in the total amount of 135 million euros; p provisions for losses at completion for an AREVA NP nuclear power plant losses on several contracts in the Wind Energy and Solar Energy businesses modernization contract in the amount of 155 million euros; p (including losses at completion) in the total amount of 215 million euros; p provisions for losses at completion for an experimental reactor design and provisions for contingencies and warranties on contracts in the Wind Energy and construction contract in the amount of 178 million euros. p Solar Energy businesses in the total amount of 205 million euros; 202 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 Discontinued Operation sold operation Discontinued operations (in millions of euros) Wind Energy Solar Energy AREVA NP Other TOTAL Net cash ﬂow from operating activities (258) (38) 123 97 (76) Net cash ﬂow from investing activities (19) (13) (177) (17) (226) Net cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities 229 11 828 (2) 1,066 Other changes (9) (27) 15 (22) Increase (decrease) in net cash (48) (49) 746 92 740 The other operations held for sale include AREVA TA and Nuclear Measurements. ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Non-current assets 4,645 208 Goodwill on consolidated companies 2,468 29 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 1,480 172 Assets earmarked for end-of-lifecycle operations 105 Investments in joint ventures and associates 103 Other non-current ﬁnancial assets 59 6 Deferred tax assets 430 Current assets 2,431 167 Inventories and work-in-process 696 20 Trade receivables and other operating receivables 1,685 145 Current tax assets 9 Other non-operating receivables 6 Cash and cash equivalents 32 1 Other current ﬁnancial assets 3 1 TOTAL ASSETS OF OPERATIONS HELD FOR SALE 7,076 375 (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Non-current liabilities 864 11 Employee beneﬁts 456 Provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations 318 Other non-current provisions 2 Share in negative net equity of joint ventures and associates 30 Long-term borrowings 1 11 Deferred tax liabilities 57 Current liabilities 4,457 381 Current provisions 751 281 Current borrowings 156 10 Advances and prepayments received 1,692 10 Trade payables and other operating liabilities 1,821 79 Current tax liabilities 11 Other non-operating liabilities 26 TOTAL LIABILITIES OF OPERATIONS HELD FOR SALE 5,320 392 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 203 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 The amounts at December 31, 2014 include assets and liabilities of the Wind At the end of 2015, the Borkum West II and GlobalTech One wind farms were under Energy and Solar Energy operations. a maintenance contract and machine warranty. However, at that date, although The amounts at December 31, 2015 include assets and liabilities of AREVA NP the 40 wind turbines of Borkum West II were all accepted by the customer, an (excluding the OL3 project), AREVA TA and Nuclear Measurements operations. agreement for the ﬁnal acceptance of the 80 wind turbines of GlobalTech One The assets and liabilities of the Solar Energy operations are reclassiﬁed in each remains to be found in the ﬁrst half of 2016. item of the balance sheet as provided in IFRS 5 for operations that have ceased to be classiﬁed as “operations held for sale”. AREVA Solar contracts On December 22, 2015, AREVA signed a preliminary agreement with its customer In 2015, the entities held for sale sold trade receivables maturing after year-end Reliance to end its obligations under supply and maintenance contracts for the closing in the amount of 178 million euros to credit institutions. No trade receivable 125-MW solar farm built in Dhursar in the state of Rajasthan, India. The agreement maturing after year-end closing was done in 2014. was conﬁrmed and signed by both parties on January 16, 2016. According to the principal terms of the agreement, Reliance accepted the solar farm in its present CAPITALIZED DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES state of completion and performance on February 3, 2016 in exchange for a price reduction of 85 million US dollars, paid by AREVA. Reliance also takes over facility The net value of intangible assets corresponding to capitalized development maintenance activities. expenses for the entire range of generation III nuclear reactors (generic EPR, development speciﬁc to the EPR for the British and Finnish markets and EPR AREVA NP contracts NM) amounted to 228 million euros at December 31, 2015 (238 million euros at December 31, 2014). Contract to modernize a nuclear power plant It should be noted that in 2013 EDF signed a series of agreements with the British On October 14, 2015, the shareholders of the company that operates the power government, CGNPC, CNNC and AREVA for the construction of two EPR reactors plant announced the ﬁnal shutdown of the reactor that is the subject of the project. at the Hinkley Point site in the United Kingdom. These agreements remained in AREVA and its customer signed an amendment to the contract on October 26, force at December 31, 2015 and in some cases were the subject of amendments. 2015 to take into account the reduction of the scope resulting from the announced Negotiations of the principal contract are well advanced at present. shutdown of the reactor. The systems were transferred to the customer on December 17, 2015. INFORMATION ON CONTRACTS The proﬁt at project completion on December 31, 2015 was adjusted to take into account the customer’s decision to shut down the reactor and the contract Adwen contracts amendment. Since Adwen could ﬁnd itself exposed to impacts from projects that have already FA3 contract been executed or are being executed, AREVA agreed to provide it with certain guarantees in this regard. During the ﬁrst half of 2015, the Institut de Radioprotection et de Sûreté Nucléaire (IRSN) announced a deviation in the results of quality testing on the reactor vessel of These are ﬁrst and foremost guarantees relating to the past: deterioration of proﬁt Flamanville 3. In order to provide technical proof of the absence of safety or security margins on projects in progress to supply turbines to GlobalTech One and Borkum risks, AREVA prepared a new vessel design report presentation and proposed West II. This guarantee was given without a ﬁnancial cap for a period of ﬁve years a program of supplementary testing to the nuclear safety authority (NSA). On as from the creation of the joint venture. Guarantees were also given for disputes, December 12, 2015, the French nuclear safety authority validated the test program litigation and claims relating to operations prior to closing but unrelated to projects proposed by AREVA concerning the bottom head and the closure head of the under execution, capped at 25 million euros for a period of 18 months. Flamanville 3 reactor vessel. This programs aims to demonstrate the mechanical Concerning operations to come as of the date of closing, AREVA will indemnify properties of these parts in connection with the ﬁtness for service report required the joint venture for potential losses related to maintenance contracts for the Alpha by (NSA). The test program was launched at the end of 2015 as planned. Tests are Ventus, GlobalTech One and Borkum West II wind farms as well as for the future being carried out on vessel bottom heads and closure heads analogous to those of Wikinger project, up to the limit of 130 million euros and at 85% of this amount the Flamanville 3 EPR reactor. Preliminary measurements were begun on the ﬁrst for a period of ﬁve years as from the commissioning of the turbines (except for samples taken. The Notiﬁed Body in charge of surveillance, EDF and the French Alpha Ventus, which is already in service). Moreover, AREVA will cover 100% of any safety authority were associated with these tests. The ﬁrst analyses are in progress manufacturing defects for the Wikinger project for ﬁve years as from commissioning, and should go into more detail in compliance with the requirements framework of in a maximum amount of 70 million euros. the French nuclear safety authority deﬁned in its letter of December 12, 2015. In On the date of Adwen’s establishment, a provision of 133 million euros was the ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015, it was considered recognized to cover all of these warranties. Subsequently, 207 million euros was that the test program on sacriﬁcial parts would bring the discussions underway with added to the provision for deterioration of margins on GlobalTech One and Borkum ASN and IRSN to a positive conclusion. The cost of the test program was included West II supply contracts following the implementation of reinforced marine logistics in the cost at completion of the project. resources for turbine startup before winter, and for machine warranties by the Concerning the progress of the reactor construction project, numerous milestones adoption of new statistical failure rate assumptions. These provisions are likely to were met over the course of 2015: the control room started up in the ﬁrst half, all evolve as a function of observed failure rates. of the equipment of the primary coolant loop was installed in the reactor building, welding of the primary coolant loop is nearing completion, and welding of the auxiliary piping is more than 50% complete. The hydraulic test of the vessel head was carried out successfully at the Chalon Saint Marcel plant on December 18, 2015, paving the way for the vessel head to be delivered to the Flamanville site on February 15, 2016. 204 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 In addition, AREVA and EDF reached an agreement on the terms of amendment However, the expenses incurred in 2015 were funded by the amounts collected no. 7 formalizing the update of the master schedule for the Flamanville 3 project, since the start of the project and payments received in the second half of the year. for which administrative approval is in progress. AREVA will resume all of its project-related activities once ETN has ﬁrmed up a longQuality action plan: term ﬁnancing solution. The terms of the resumption are actively being discussed by the two companies. In January 2016, AREVA confirmed and explained in detail to the French nuclear safety authority the quality action plan presented during the hearing of Koeberg contract December 8, 2015. A large share of this plan is devoted to veriﬁcation of the quality of manufacturing operations conducted at Creusot since 2004 and to the treatment A provision for losses at completion in the amount of 41 million euros was recognized of the ﬁndings that may result from it. Beyond that, all of the quality processes will be for an export contract in the reactors and services ﬁeld. The provision takes into revised as part of this plan, and the necessary improvement measures will be taken. consider both the technical constraints and the schedule of the contract. As supplier, This initiative has been extended to the Jeumont and Châlon/Saint Marcel plants. AREVA considers that the dispute between its customer and Westinghouse has no impact on the validity of its contract. Taishan contract AREVA TA contracts The design was completed and equipment delivered in 2015, enabling cold tests of unit 1 to be started in accordance with the schedule. This key milestone of project Contracts for the design and construction of an experimental completion is a world ﬁrst. At present, the teams are preparing to start hot tests of unit reactor 1 and are providing support to the customer for startup of the ﬁrst-of-a-kind reactor, A tripartite memorandum of understanding was signed on July 20, 2015 by which the Chinese nuclear safety authority has made conditional on the French AREVA SA, AREVA TA and the customer. The memorandum of understanding is nuclear safety authority’s acceptance of the Flamanville vessel justiﬁcation report. based on reciprocal concessions under which AREVA agrees to bear a capped part of the extra costs deemed necessary to the completion of its contracts, excluding Angra 3 contract errors of its doing and extra costs specifically related to its project manager Due to a delay in the payment of operations performed in 2015 from its customer responsibilities to steer overall testing. This memorandum of understanding will Eletrobrás Eletronuclear (ETN), AREVA decided to temporarily reduce its supply very substantially limit the group’s ﬁnancial exposure to this project. of engineering services, components and the instrumentation and control system of the Angra 3 nuclear reactor during the second quarter of 2015. NOTE 10. GOODWILL The change in goodwill from December 31, 2014 to December 31, 2015 was as follows: Currency translation December 31, Operations held adjustments December 31, (in millions of euros) 2014 Increase Disposals Impairment for sale* and other 2015 Mining 797 86 883 Front End 1,162 (1,000) (1) 161 Back End 227 1 228 Other operations 1,481 (26) (1,468) 13 TOTAL 3,667 (26) (2,468) 99 1,272 * see Note 9. GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT TESTS These tests consist of comparing the net carrying amount of the assets of cash generating units (after inclusion of write-downs of property, plant and equipment As indicated in Notes 1.1, “Estimates and judgments” and 1.3.9, “Impairment of and intangible assets listed in Notes 11 and 12) to their recoverable amount. property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill”, the group performs asset impairment tests based on its best estimate of their recoverable amount, which The discount rates used for these tests are based on the calculation of the average corresponds to the higher of their net realizable value or their estimated value in cost of capital for each business segment. They are calculated using observed use, based on projected cash ﬂows resulting from the budget, mining plans and market data and evaluations prepared by specialized ﬁrms (1020and 30-year the assumptions they contain. risk-free rates, risk premiums on equity markets, volatility indices, credit spreads and debt ratios of comparable businesses in each segment). 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 205 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 The following assumptions were used to determine the net present value of the cash ﬂows to be generated by the CGUs: At December 31, 2015 After tax discount rate Growth rate of pro forma year Final year Mining 9.50% Na 2070 Front End (Chemistry, Enrichment) 6.50% 1.75% 2025 Back End 4.50% 1.75% 2025 At December 31, 2014 After tax discount rate Growth rate of pro forma year Final year Mining 10.00% Not applicable 2069 Front End (Chemistry, Enrichment and Fuel) 7.00% 1.75% 2024 Back End 5.00% 1.75% 2023 Renewable Energies 9.50% 2% 2019 These impairment tests were calculated using exchange rates in eﬀect on the balance sheet date. Mining However, such deterioration would not lead to a write-down of the goodwill of the At December 31, 2015, the impairment test of the Uranium Mining CGU did not lead Uranium Mining CGU. to a write-down (versus a write-down of 200 million euros at December 31, 2014). In this respect, the sensitivity analysis was carried out without taking into account The recoverable amount of the Mining CGU is determined based on the value in a revision of economically mineable uranium quantities or production schedules use. The value in use of mining operations is calculated based on forecast data for resulting from this price change. the entire period, from mining at existing mines to marketing of the corresponding products (i.e. until 2070), rather than on a base year. The value in use is determined Bioenergy by discounting future cash ﬂows at the rate of 9.50% (10.00% at December 31, At December 31, 2015, the Bioenergy operations had no certainty of continuation. 2014) and using an exchange rate of 1.0887 US dollars per euro at December 31, A plan for the termination of the Bioenergy operations in Europe was announced 2015. in April 2015 to employee representatives. The termination carries social Future cash ﬂows were determined using the AREVA price forecasts to 2030, consequences which were already in progress in Germany and France in 2015. projected to 2070. The price forecast is based among other things on AREVA’s At the end of February 2016, no commercial project remained in backlog or in vision of changes in uranium supply (uranium mines and secondary resources) progress in the Bioenergy Europe footprint. and demand (linked to the quantity of material used by world nuclear power plants In Brazil, AREVA suspended all operations on the only project in progress (the over the period and the utilities” procurement strategies). “EPC” project for a 115-MW biomass power plant) and notiﬁed the customer of its To do this, the group developed a model to forecast the balance between supply and inability to ensure the necessary ﬁnancing for normal project operations. In Asia, demand in the uranium market and to predict the behavior of market participants the only project still in progress (in Thailand) ended in January 2016. In addition, in order to forecast future uranium prices. no commercial contract was signed for the torrefaction technology. The price forecast curve was updated on December 31, 2015 based on the most Due to the above operating items and in the absence of any probable disposal, recent assumptions available as concerns supply and demand for uranium. the goodwill of the Bioenergy CGU was written down in full in the amount of 26 million euros (versus 14 million euros at December 31, 2014), as are intangible The result of this test was higher than the net carrying amount and therefore does assets in the amount of 8 million euros. not result in goodwill impairment. The test is highly sensitive to exchange parity and to the anticipated future prices Front End and Back End of uranium. The value in use of the assets of the Uranium Mining CGU would fall The impairment tests conducted at December 31, 2015 on the CGUs carried by the by the amounts below if any of the following assumptions were used: Front End and Back End BGs did not lead to recognition of impairment of goodwill. p a discount rate of 10.00% rather than 9.50%: 278 million euros Sensitivity analyses showed that a discount rate of 1% higher or a growth rate for p a euro/US dollar exchange rate of 5 eurocents higher (i.e. 1.1387 instead of the base year of 1% lower than the above-mentioned rates would not have led to 1.0887): 362 million euros the recognition of impairment for the goodwill allocated to these cash-generating units, since their recoverable amount is greater than the net carrying amount of p or a uranium sales price assumption of 5 dollars less per pound than the price their assets. forecast drawn up by AREVA for the entire 2015-2030 period: 571 million euros 206 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 For the Enrichment CGU, an assumption of a 5% decrease in future sales prices in relation to the selected scenario, which is based on long-term sales price forecasts for separative work units (SWU) developed by AREVA for the share of future sales not under contract, would not generate goodwill impairment. NOTE 11. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Concessions and patents Intangible Pre-mining R&D Mineral (excluding assets in (in millions of euros) expenses expenses rights mines) Software progress Other Total Gross amount at December 31, 2014 1,894 1,086 1,180 460 617 374 379 5,991 Internally generated assets 4 22 0 10 1 37 Acquired assets 48 17 0 1 38 0 105 Disposals (0) (1) (3) (6) (2) (1) (12) Discontinued assets and operations (2) (1,122) (18) (149) (72) (147) (1,508) Currency translation adjustments (179) 47 127 2 2 (2) 7 3 Change in consolidated group (1) (0) (0) (0) (1) Other changes 58 (0) (36) 19 15 (33) (0) 23 Gross amount at December 31, 2015 1,825 50 1,271 459 479 313 239 4,636 Depreciation and provisions at December 31, 2014 (816) (716) (1,180) (89) (508) (224) (190) (3,723) Net increase in depreciation / impairment (1) (80) (32) (17) (27) (8) (35) (199) Disposals 0 0 3 6 1 10 (2) Discontinued assets and operations 790 12 113 (0) 119 1,034 Currency translation adjustments 102 (46) (127) (2) (1) (26) (1) (99) Change in consolidated group (0) 1 0 1 Other changes (49) 36 0 (0) (1) 1 (12) Depreciation and provisions at December 31, 2015 (842) (3) (1,271) (92) (417) (259) (104) (2,989) Net carrying amount at December 31, 2014 1,079 370 0 371 109 150 189 2,267 NET CARRYING AMOUNT AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 983 47 367 62 54 134 1,648 (1) Impairment of intangible assets in the amount of 28 million euros was recognized at December 31, 2015. (2) See Note 9. In 2015, investments in intangible assets primarily concern mineral exploration expenses in Canada, Niger and Kazakhstan. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 207 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 NOTE 12. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Plant, End-of-lifecycle equipment assets – AREVA (in millions of euros) Land Buildings and tooling share Other In process Total Gross amount at December 31, 2014 197 2,547 19,916 1,383 1,795 2,446 28,283 Investments 0 23 18 5 657 702 Disposals (1) (12) (48) (59) (8) (126) Discontinued assets and operations (2) (35) (590) (1,523) (133) (227) (209) (2,717) Currency translation adjustments (1) (59) (29) 2 49 (17) (55) Change in consolidated group (0) (0) Other changes 2 (106) 1,040 45 4 (954) 31 Gross amount at December 31, 2015 162 1,803 19,374 1,297 1,567 1,916 26,119 Depreciation and provisions at December 31, 2014 (90) (1,345) (15,152) (1,038) (1,329) (610) (19,565) Net increase in depreciation / impairment (1) (2) (66) (380) (2) (100) (150) (701) Disposals 0 11 45 49 105 Discontinued assets and operations (2) 9 382 1,077 66 176 2 1,712 Currency translation adjustments 0 18 6 (1) (50) 1 (26) Change in consolidated group 0 0 Other changes (0) 154 (149) (7) 1 (2) Depreciation and provisions at December 31, 2015 (83) (846) (14,554) (976) (1,261) (757) (18,477) Net carrying amount at December 31, 2014 107 1,202 4,764 345 466 1,836 8,719 NET CARRYING AMOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2015 79 957 4,819 322 306 1,158 7,642 (1) Impairment of Property, Plant and Equipment in the amount of 191 million euros was recognized at December 31, 2015. (2) See Note 9. At December 31, 2015, the net carrying amount of capitalized finance lease MINING ASSETS IN NAMIBIA TREKKOPJE contracts was 4 million euros (10 million euros at December 31, 2014). At December 31, 2015, the carrying amount of Trekkopje’s intangible assets Interest expenses capitalized in the cost of property, plant and equipment were not and property, plant and equipment includes the mining infrastructure and the signiﬁcant at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015. desalination plant infrastructure. AREVA has begun discussions with NamWater for the sale of the desalination plant; MINING ASSETS IN NIGER IMOURAREN its value in use was tested separately from that of the mining infrastructure. The desalination plant’s value in use was justiﬁed based on an updated business plan Work to place the project in care and maintenance was completed in 2015. using a discount rate of 7.50% (8.00% at the end of 2014). Impairment of 194 million euros was recognized for certain assets devoted to the project. The project will restart when uranium market conditions permit. At December 31, 2015, the net carrying amount of the mine’s property, plant and equipment and intangible assets is not justiﬁed by the potential resale value of the After taking into account that impairment, the net carrying amount of the Imouraren deposit’s reserves and resources of 24 million US dollars, based on a valuation project’s property, plant and equipment and intangible assets was 692 million euros per pound of uranium in the ground. Accordingly, partial impairment in the at December 31, 2015. amount of 24 million US dollars was recognized for this asset at December 31, That value remains justiﬁed by the value in use and potential resale value of the 2015 (i.e. 22 million euros based on the year-end exchange rate and the average deposit’s reserves and resources, based on a valuation per pound of uranium in exchange rate for the year), compared with 100 million US dollars at December 31, the ground. 2014 (i.e. 82 million euros at the year-end exchange rate and 75 million euros at the average exchange rate for the year). 208 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 COMURHEX II PLANT The impairment test performed at December 31, 2015 shows that the value in use of property, plant and equipment under construction, valued at December 31, Impairment tests carried out in previous years for property, plant and equipment 2015 using a discount rate of 6.5% (compared with 7.0% at December 31, 2014), under construction of the Comurhex II uranium conversion plant had led to the writea euro/US dollar exchange rate of 1.09 corresponding to the rate at December 31, down in full of capitalized amounts at December 31, 2014, i.e. 811 million euros 2015, and conversion unit sales price assumptions resulting from AREVA’s midand (including a charge of 599 million euros in 2014). long-term forecasts for supply and demand, was used to justify their net carrying A review of market conditions and of the supply and demand situation led to the amount, which is equal to the amounts capitalized in 2015, i.e. 83 million euros. decision to no longer consider the extension of the plant’s production capacity from The result of the impairment test at December 31, 2015 remains sensitive to the 15,000 metric tons to 21,000 metric tons. Sales prices and volumes produced were assumptions used, in particular the euro / US dollar exchange rate, long-term sales also revised to take into account the latest market price trends, contracts under prices and volumes sold. negotiation and conversion market forecasts. In addition, the cost of construction at completion for the ﬁrst phase of the plant was raised by 66 million euros in 2015. On that basis, no write-down or recapture of write-down was recognized at December 31, 2015. NOTE 13. END-OF-LIFECYCLE OPERATIONS The table below summarizes the AREVA group accounts aﬀected by the treatment of end-of-lifecycle operations and their ﬁnancing. Assets December 31, December 31, Shareholders’ equity and liabilities December 31, December 31, (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 End-of-lifecycle assets – AREVA share (1) 322 345 Assets earmarked for end-of-lifecycle operations 6,300 6,203 Provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations 6,921 6,985 1 End-of-life-cycle assets – third party share (2) 178 188 1 funded by third parties (2) 178 188 1 Assets earmarked for end-of-life cycle operations (3) 6,122 6,015 1 funded by AREVA 6,743 6,797 (1) Amount of total provision to be funded by AREVA still subject to amortization. (2) Amount of the provision to be funded by third parties. (3) Portfolio of ﬁnancial assets and receivables earmarked to fund AREVA’s share of the total provision. END-OF-LIFECYCLE ASSETS underlying property, plant and equipment. It also recognizes a third party asset for the share of dismantling and waste retrieval and packaging operations to be In addition to the value of its property, plant and equipment, the group recognizes funded by certain customers. Conversely, a provision is recorded to cover its total the deferred portion of the group’s share of end-of-lifecycle operations, such estimated end-of-lifecycle costs as soon as a facility starts up, including any share as nuclear facility dismantling, decontamination, etc. The group’s share of this funded by third parties. adjustment account asset is amortized according to the same schedule as the AREVA share Third party December 31, December 31, (in millions of euros) Gross Amortization Net share 2015 2014 Dismantling 1,298 (976) 322 178 500 533 Net carrying Increases in Net carrying amount at reversals of amount at December 31, amortization Discounting December 31, (in millions of euros) 2014 Increase Decrease and provisions reversals Other changes 2015 AREVA share 345 58 (15) (66) 322 Third party share 188 (16) 6 178 TOTAL 533 58 (16) (15) 6 (66) 500 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 209 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 At December 31, 2015, the balance of the group’s share of assets related to The increase in the group’s share of assets is primarily due to the phased AREVA NP operations were reclassiﬁed under “operations held for sale” in the commissioning of the Georges Besse II plant, to the change in the cost of disposal amount of 66 million euros (see Note 9). for long-lived mediumand high-level waste (LL/MHLW) from the future dismantling The third party share remaining in the end-of-lifecycle assets mainly corresponds of operating plants, and to the revaluation of the future dismantling cost of sites in to the funding expected from CEA for its share of funding for the Pierrelatte site. Germany and the United States. This heading increases by the amount of discounting reversals and decreases as work is performed. PROVISIONS FOR END-OF-LIFECYCLE OPERATIONS Reversals (when Net carrying risk has Change in Net carrying amount at materialized): assumptions, amount at December 31, expenses for Discounting revised Discontinued December 31, (in millions of euros) 2014 the year reversals budgets, etc. operations 2015 Provision for nuclear facility dismantling 5,212 (173) 146 50 (296) 4,939 Provision for waste retrieval and packaging 1,773 (104) 55 279 (21) 1,982 PROVISIONS FOR END-OF-LIFECYCLE OPERATIONS 6,985 (277) 201 329 (317) 6,921 The ministerial order of January 15, 2016 setting a cost of 25 billion euros for Without that impact, the changes in assumptions, estimate revisions and other would implementation of long-term management solutions for long-lived mediumand amount to 86 million euros. Most of this change concerns projects for dismantling, high-level radioactive waste has a net impact of 250 million euros (243 million euros projects for the retrieval and packaging of waste from the UP2-400 plant at la Hague, in revised estimate and 7 million euros of accretion) on the change in provisions and the updating of the waste inventories of that site. for end-of-lifecycle operations. Provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations for facilities entering in the scope of article 20 of the law of June 28, 2006, codiﬁed in articles L. 594-1 et seq. of the French Environmental Code Provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations of facilities covered by the Law of June 28, 2006 pertaining to the sustainable management of nuclear materials and nuclear waste were broken down as follows at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014: (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Dismantling of regulated nuclear facilities, excluding long-term radioactive waste management 4,310 4,359 Dismantling of used fuel, excluding long-term radioactive waste management 1,204 1,221 Retrieval and packaging of legacy waste, excluding long-term radioactive waste management 1,148 870 Long-term radioactive waste management 44 40 Post-closure disposal center monitoring costs Total provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations of facilities covered by the French law of June 28, 2006 6,706 6,490 Provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations of facilities not covered by the French law of June 28, 2006 215 495 TOTAL PROVISIONS FOR END-OF-LIFECYCLE OPERATIONS 6,921 6,985 Nature of the commitments In December 2004, the CEA, EDF and AREVA NC signed an agreement As a nuclear facility operator, the group has a legal obligation to secure and concerning the Marcoule security-regulated nuclear facility (INBS) which transfers dismantle its production facilities when they are shut down permanently in whole the responsibilities of site owner-operator to the CEA, which will be responsible for or in part. The group must also retrieve and package, in accordance with prevailing funding the site cleanup eﬀort. This agreement does not cover ﬁnal disposal costs standards, the various waste types generated by operating activities which could for long-lived highand medium-level waste. Accordingly, provisions for the Marcoule not be processed during treatment. These installations concern the front end of site include only AREVA’s share of waste shipping and ﬁnal waste disposal costs. the cycle, especially the Pierrelatte site, and the back end of the cycle, including the treatment plants at La Hague and the MELOX and Cadarache MOX fuel fabrication plants. 210 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 Determination of provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations p expenses are valued based on anticipated costs, including subcontracting, In accordance with the article 20 of the French program law no. 2006-739 of personnel costs, radiation protection, consumables, equipment and the treatment June 28, 2006 on the sustainable management of radioactive materials and waste, of the resulting waste. The valuation also includes a share of technical support codiﬁed in articles L. 594-1 et seq. of the French Environmental Code, AREVA costs of the entities in charge of the dismantling operations and of the related submits a report to the administrative authority every three years on cost estimates sites, as well as taxes and insurance; and calculation methods for provisions, in addition to an annual update of this p costs to ship radioactive waste and dispose of it at Andra facilities are estimated report. The methods used by AREVA to value the cost of end-of-lifecycle operations, and include the valuation of waste processing and disposal methods that do summarized hereunder, are described in these documents. not currently exist, such as: ○ estimates of future expenses for deep disposal of long-lived mediumand Principles for valuing costs for dismantling and for waste high-level waste; retrieval and packaging ○ the scope and terms for Andra’s future acceptance of waste at its long-lived The valuation of facility dismantling costs is based on methods that provide the low-level disposal site and deep geological repository (CIGEO). best estimate of costs and schedules for these operations: CONSIDERATION OF IDENTIFIED RISKS AND UNFORESEEN EVENTS p for facilities in operation, this involves an upstream valuation based on a technical The technical cost of end-of-lifecycle operations is backed up by consideration of: and economic model produced mainly with the ETE EVAL application used for the diﬀerent types of facilities to be dismantled. It is based on an inventory p a prudent reference scenario that takes operating experience into account; of equipment and the latter’s estimated radiological condition, and on models p a margin for risks identiﬁed through risk analyses conducted in accordance with with cost element scenarios and ratios. These valuations are updated at least the AREVA standard and updated regularly as the projects advance; once every three years and when there is a change in applicable regulations p a margin for unforeseen events designed to cover unidentiﬁed risks. or substantial technological developments are expected. The estimate for the Georges Besse I plant, for example, was revised in 2015; DISCOUNT RATE The discount rate is determined based on long series of bonds with maturities p for facilities that are shut down and starting from the kick-oﬀ of the dismantling comparable to those of the liabilities, to take into account long-term interest trends project, a series of studies and the condition of the facility are used to establish consistent with the long-term schedule of actual disbursements. The selected a cost, supplemented by a risk analysis. The estimated are updated every year; discount rate at December 31, 2015 must also comply with a dual regulatory p the costs are revised to take inﬂation into account and to reﬂect economic cap deﬁned in the decree of February 23, 2007 and the administrative order of conditions for the year. They are then allocated by year, adjusted for inﬂation March 21, 2007. and discounted to present value, as explained in Note 1.3.17. A provision is then recognized based on the present value. The discounting reversal is recognized It is based on the rolling average yield of 30-year French OATs over a 10-year period, in “Net ﬁnancial expense”. plus the spread applicable to prime corporate borrowers. For example, the discount rate is revised based on changes in national economic ASSUMPTIONS conditions, with a lasting mediumand long-term impact, in addition to the potential In general, provisions related to nuclear facility dismantling and waste retrieval and eﬀects of regulatory caps. packaging are based on the following assumptions: For facilities in France, AREVA adopted an inﬂation rate of 1.75% and a discount p some waste from fuel treatment operations performed under older contracts rate of 4.50% at December 31, 2015 (the same as at December 31, 2014). could not be processed on site, as packaging facilities were not yet in service at that time. This waste will be retrieved and packaged following a scenario and Final waste removal and disposal using technical methods approved by the regulatory authority; AREVA sets up a provision for expenses related to radioactive waste. p an inventory of costs to bring the site to the target decommissioning level will be established, with buildings generally decontaminated where they stand except These expenses include: for special circumstances, and with all nuclear waste areas decommissioned to p the removal and near-surface disposal of short-lived, very low-level and low-level conventional waste status. The ﬁnal condition (buildings and soils) of the facilities waste and its share of monitoring of Andra’s Centre de la Manche and Centre de to be dismantled serves as a base assumption for the dismantling scenario and l’Aube disposal facilities, which received or still receive its waste; cost estimates. For each facility, a dismantling plan is systematically prepared, p the removal and underground disposal of long-lived low-level waste (graphite); either during the initial license application or during the safety review. Soil cleanup expenses, if applicable, are determined with the objective of returning the facility p the removal and disposal of long-lived mediumand high-level waste covered by to a ﬁnal state of decontamination consistent with current regulations. Naturally, the French law of December 30, 1991 (now codiﬁed in articles L. 542-1 et seq. this assumption reﬂects the future use intended by AREVA for the industrial site of the French Environmental Code). The provision is based on the assumption in question, beyond the timeframe planned for dismantling operations; that a deep geologic repository will be deployed. p operations would start without any waiting period for radioactive decay after ﬁnal shutdown of production; 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 211 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 In its order of January 15, 2016, the Ministry of Ecology, Development and Energy among producers that is unchanged in relation to previous accounting periods. It set the cost for implementation of long-term management solutions for long-lived should be noted that Cigéo is funded by EDF, the CEA and AREVA according to mediumand high-level radioactive waste (the Cigéo project) at 25 billion euros (not allocation criteria based on the volume of waste to be sent to the geologic repository. discounted to the economic conditions of 2011) for a period of 140 years beginning The two main factors likely to inﬂuence the amount of the provision are the cost of in 2016. This cost, arising from the phase outlining the Cigéo project, substitutes the Cigéo project and the funding allocation criteria. for the 2005 estimate of 14.1 billion euros (at 2003 economic conditions) on which The ﬁnal cost constitutes an objective to be met by the French national radioactive the corresponding end-of-lifecycle provision was based. waste management agency ANDRA, in compliance with the nuclear safety The development of this new reference cost for Cigéo led AREVA NC to supplement standards set forth by the French nuclear safety authority (ASN) and based on close the net end-of-lifecycle provision by 250 million euros, factoring in the increased cooperation with the nuclear facility operators. Pursuant to the above-mentioned cost of Cigéo and a margin for contingencies. The provision for Cigéo (disposal) order, the cost of the Cigéo project will be regularly updated and as a minimum at is thus a total of 716 million euros in discounted value at December 31, 2015 the key stages of the project’s development (construction permit, operating license, (2.136 billion euros in undiscounted value) based on criteria for allocation of funding end of the “industrial pilot phase”, safety reviews), in accordance with ASN’s opinion. TENTATIVE SCHEDULE OF PROVISION DISBURSEMENTS The table below presents the tentative schedule for disbursement of provisions required by the law of 2006 (excluding cross-business contingencies): (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 2016 343 2017 – 2020 1,372 2021 – 2025 1,355 2026 – 2035 1,633 2036 and beyond 8,364 TOTAL PROVISIONS BEFORE DISCOUNTING 13,067 ASSETS EARMARKED FOR END-OF-LIFECYCLE OPERATIONS This heading consists of the following: (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Receivables related to end-of-lifecycle operations 739 725 Earmarked assets 5,383 5,290 TOTAL 6,122 6,015 Balances of the AREVA NP operations at December 31, 2015 are reclassiﬁed advise AREVA on the choice of asset classes and portfolio managers. These under “operations held for sale” in the amount of 105 million euros (see Note 9). recommendations are submitted to the Cleanup and Dismantling Fund Monitoring Receivables related to end-of-lifecycle operations correspond principally to Committee. Long-term asset allocations indicate the target percentage of assets receivables resulting from the signature of a contract in December 2004 under to cover liabilities (bonds and money market assets, including receivables from which the CEA agreed to fund a share of facility dismantling costs at the La Hague third parties) and the diversiﬁcation of assets (shares of stock, etc.), subject to and Cadarache plants and a share of waste retrieval and packaging costs at the limitations imposed by the French decree no. 2007-243 of February 23, 2007 and UP2-400 plant. its amendment by the decree no. 2013-678 of July 24, 2013, both in terms of the control and spread of risks and in terms of type of investments. Purpose of earmarked portfolio AREVA ensured that all AREVA NC and AREVA NP funds are held, registered To meet its end-of-lifecycle obligations, the group voluntarily built up a special and valued by a single custodian capable of performing the necessary control portfolio earmarked for the payment of its future facility dismantling and waste and valuation procedures independently, as required by the implementing decree. management expenses. This obligation has applied to all nuclear operators in The Equity segment is primarily managed by external service providers via: France since the Law no. 2006-739 of June 28, 2006 and the implementing decree p an equity management agreement, and no. 2007-243 of February 23, 2007 came into force. This portfolio was composed based on a schedule of disbursements over more than a century and is therefore p earmarked investment funds. managed with long-term objectives. The portfolio is comprised of ﬁnancial assets p The Rate segment (bonds and money market) is invested via: covering all of the group’s commitments, whether related to obligations imposed by ○ open-ended mutual funds, the Law of June 28, 2006 for regulated nuclear facilities located in France, or related to other end-of-life-cycle commitments for facilities located in France or abroad. ○ earmarked investment funds, and ○ directly held bonds. The group relies on independent consultants to study strategic target asset allocations to optimize the risk/return of the portfolio over the long term and to 212 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 The portfolio of assets earmarked to fund end-of-lifecycle expenses includes the following: (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 In market value or liquidation value Publicly traded shares 1,325 1,222 Equity funds 1,095 1,157 Bond and money market mutual funds 2,258 2,119 Unlisted mutual funds 96 76 At amortized cost Bonds and bond mutual funds held to maturity 610 716 Portfolio of securities earmarked for end-of-lifecycle operations 5,383 5,290 Receivables related to end-of-lifecycle operations 739 725 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS EARMARKED FOR END-OF-LIFECYCLE OPERATIONS 6,122 6,015 (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 By region Eurozone 5,510 5,409 Non-euro Europe 537 549 Other 75 57 TOTAL 6,122 6,015 Financial assets held as securities or mutual funds represent 88% of all earmarked The receivables from the CEA and EDF on account of overfunding by AREVA in assets at December 31, 2015. Earmarked assets were allocated as follows: connection with tax payments related to ﬁnancing provided to Andra between 1983 41% equities, 47% bonds, 12% receivables. and 1999 were discussed with these two operators in 2015. The CEA conﬁrmed to The contractual framework for the main receivable related to end-of-lifecycle AREVA that a debt in an amount equal to AREVA’s receivable, i.e. 16 million euros, operations (receivable from the CEA in the amount of 663 million euros at was recognized in the CEA’s accounts for the year ended December 31, 2015. December 31, 2014 vs. 676 million euros at December 31, 2015) was amended in 2015 in order to deﬁne a payment schedule by the CEA for the principal and interest, with the last payment scheduled for 2024. Performance of ﬁnancial assets earmarked for end-of-lifecycle operations by asset class (*) Asset class 2015 2014 Shares +12.8% +3.7% Interest rate products +0.6% +6.4% Subtotal Portfolio of earmarked securities +6.3% +5.2% Receivables related to end-of-lifecycle operations +2.5% +2.9% TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS EARMARKED FOR END-OF-LIFECYCLE OPERATIONS +5.8% +4.8% (*) Performance reported for these asset classes includes that of mutual funds earmarked for end-of-life-cycle operations of regulated French and foreign nuclear facilities not subject to the French law of June 28, 2006. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 213 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 If interest on receivables is used to determine the performance of rate instruments, p Dedicated bond funds and open-ended money market funds. The sensitivity to the overall performance of earmarked assets would be 5.8% for the 2015 calendar interest rates of bond funds is limited in both directions, including the portfolio’s year. overall consistency with preset long-term sensitivity objectives and the sensitivity of the liabilities to the discount rate used. The issuers’ ratings (Moody’s or Risk description and assessment Standard & Poor’s) are used to manage the credit risk exposure of money market Equity investments in the portfolio of earmarked securities include mainly: and bond funds. p A mandate of publicly-traded shares, which includes about thirty companies For Eurodif, mandates and bond funds were established speciﬁcally to match based in the European Union. The securities are held in order to generate gains disbursement ﬂows. over the long term. Although it is not a management guideline, the mandate will be assessed over the long term by reference to the MSCI EMU index, net Valuation dividends reinvested. The nature of the long-term mandate is not compatible The mutual funds’ net asset value is determined by valuing the securities held by with an evaluation against a benchmark. each fund at market value on the last day of the period. p Dedicated equity funds with diversified management strategies centered on European securities. The managers must follow strict rules of exposure, Derivatives depending on the objectives of the fund involved: including limits on the amounts Derivatives may be used for hedging or to acquire a limited exposure. They are invested per issuer or in percentage of the net value of the portfolio, limits on subject to specific investment guidelines prohibiting leverage. Total nominal exposures in currencies other than the euro, tracking error (relative risk compared commitments may not exceed the fund’s net assets. Sales of puts and calls must with the benchmark), and limits on exposures to certain types of instruments. be fully covered by underlying assets (and are prohibited on assets not included Together, these limits are designed to comply with investment rules established in the portfolio). in the implementing decree of the Law of June 28, 2006. As regards securities held by AREVA NC, interest rate products in the portfolio of Risk assessment and management of the earmarked portfolio earmarked securities mainly include: The risks underlying the portfolios and funds holding assets under the management p Directly held securities consisting of government bonds from the Eurozone, mandate for end-of-lifecycle operations are assessed every month. For each fund or which will be held to maturity. They are recognized at amortized cost under earmarked asset, this assessment allows the maximum total loss to be estimated “securities held to maturity”. with a 95% level of conﬁdence for diﬀerent portfolio maturities using the VaR (Value at Risk) method and volatility estimates. A second estimate is done using deterministic scenarios: impact of rates and/or declining equity markets. The impacts of changes in equity markets and interest rates on the valuation of earmarked assets are summarized in the following table: Base case (December 31, 2015) (in millions of euros) Assumption: declining equity markets and rising interest rates -10% on equities -252 +100 basis points on rates -58 TOTAL -310 Assumption: rising equity markets and declining interest rates +10% on equities +252 -100 basis points on rates +58 TOTAL +310 214 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 NOTE 14. INFORMATION ON JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES A joint venture is considered to be signiﬁcant if its revenue or balance sheet total is more than 200 million euros. An associate is considered to be signiﬁcant when its balance sheet total is more than 200 million euros. INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 ADWEN 74 Other joint ventures 23 64 Total joint ventures 97 64 MNF 30 Other associates 3 49 Total associates 3 79 TOTAL 100 143 Adwen combines the oﬀshore wind operations of AREVA and Gamesa. It is held in Balances of the AREVA NP, AREVA TA and Nuclear Measurements operations at equal shares by its two shareholders. Since its creation, Adwen has continued work December 31, 2015 are reclassiﬁed under “operations held for sale” in the amount to commission two major projects in the German North Sea: the Borkum West II of 103 million euros (see Note 9). project, with an installed capacity of 200 MW, and the GlobalTech One project, with an installed capacity of 400 MW. Losses related to the execution of this contract are the subject of a guarantee given by AREVA to Adwen (see Note 9). SHARE IN NEGATIVE NET EQUITY OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 ETC 59 75 ATMEA 28 TOTAL JOINT VENTURES 59 103 Amounts related to Atmea are reclassiﬁed under “operations held for sale” in the AREVA considers that it has an implicit obligation to ensure the continuity of ETC amount of 30 million euros at December 31, 2015 (see Note 9). operations; consequently, and in accordance with the provisions of IAS 28, AREVA Enrichment Technology Company (ETC) is a joint venture held in equal shares by recognizes its share of negative equity under liabilities on its consolidated balance AREVA and Urenco. Its main activity is to build, assemble and install centrifuges sheet and its share of negative net income on its statement of income and statement and associated piping systems enabling its customers to enrich uranium. ETC of consolidated comprehensive income. is also involved in the design of ultracentrifugation enrichment plants to meet its customers’ needs and in project management for the construction of these facilities. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 215 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 SHARE IN NET EQUITY OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 ETC 4 (17) Adwen (26) Other joint ventures 0 2 Total joint ventures (22) (15) Other associates 1 1 Total associates 1 1 TOTAL (21) (14) Financial information required under IFRS 12 is presented before elimination of intercompany transactions and restatements, and is based on 100% ownership. SIGNIFICANT JOINT VENTURES December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 ETC Adwen ETC Adwen (in millions of euros) Front End REN Front End REN Country UK Spain UK Spain % held 50% 50% 50% 50% Revenue 323 35 271 EBITDA 79 (35) 48 Net income 42 (52) 8 Including increases to amortization and depreciation (2) 11 8 Including interest income / expense 6 Including income tax income / expense 11 Other items of comprehensive income 24 (29) Comprehensive income 66 (52) (22) NA Current assets 127 494 280 Including cash and cash equivalents 11 90 7 Non-current assets 47 462 42 Current liabilities 107 237 (321) Including current ﬁnancial liabilities 147 10 Non-current liabilities 54 571 (54) Including non-current ﬁnancial liabilities 381 Net assets 13 148 (53) NA Share of equity at the beginning of the year (27) (16) Share of comprehensive income 33 (26) (11) Share of dividend distributions Joint venture creation 100 Share of equity at year-end closing 6 74 (27) Goodwill and consolidation entries (65) (49) Investment in joint ventures 74 Share of negative net equity (59) (75) NA 216 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 NON-SIGNIFICANT JOINT VENTURES (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Investments in joint ventures at year-end closing 23 64 Share of net income 8 Share of other items of comprehensive income 3 Share of comprehensive income 2 10 At December 31, 2015, non-signiﬁcant joint ventures were as follows: p AREVA H2Gen p TSU Projects p Anadec p TSU Niger p AREVA Mace Atkins p Cominak NON-SIGNIFICANT ASSOCIATES (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Investments in associates at year-end closing 3 49 Share of net income 1 1 Share of other items of comprehensive income 1 Share of comprehensive income 1 3 At December 31, 2015, non-signiﬁcant associates correspond to CILAS. NOTE 15. OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Available-for-sale securities 41 86 Loans to aﬃliates 370 82 Derivatives on ﬁnancing activities 123 21 Other non-current ﬁnancial assets 24 74 Other non-current non-ﬁnancial assets 15 8 TOTAL 573 273 Balances of the AREVA NP, AREVA TA and Nuclear Measurements operations at Loans to aﬃliates include in particular a shareholder loan to Adwen in the amount December 31, 2015 are reclassiﬁed under “operations held for sale” in the amount of 227 million euros. of 59 million euros (see Note 9). 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 217 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES Changes during the year were as follows: (in millions of euros) December 31, 2014 86 Increase 5 Disposals (14) Lasting impairment (21) Changes in fair value recorded in “other items of comprehensive income” 3 Discontinued operations and operations held for sale (14) Change in consolidation scope, currency translation, reclassiﬁcations and miscellaneous (4) DECEMBER 31, 2015 41 Available-for-sale securities are as follows: (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Publicly traded shares (at market value) 1 Japan Steel 14 1 Other publicly traded shares 4 Investment in privately held companies 41 68 TOTAL 41 86 At December 31, 2015, “investments in privately held companies” consisted The impact on the valuation of shares classiﬁed as “available-for-sale securities” is principally of the 13% interest in the share capital of Euronimba (iron mine in presented in Note 32. Guinea). The disposal of these securities to ArcelorMittal, for which a sales contract had been signed in the ﬁrst half of 2014, was not carried out in 2015. In addition, since the end of 2014, the price of iron ore declined then rose at the end of the OTHER NON-CURRENT NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS ﬁrst half of 2015 then fell again in the second half. At December 31, 2015, the At December 31, 2015, other non-current financial assets included uranium net carrying amount of the securities is less than the potential resale value of the inventories which were capitalized to fund future mine reclamation expenses abroad. deposit’s reserves and resources, based on a valuation per pound of iron in the ground. On that basis, impairment of the securities in the amount of 21 million euros was recognized at December 31, 2015. NOTE 16. INVENTORIES AND WORK-IN-PROCESS December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 (in millions of euros) Gross Impairment Net Gross Impairment Net Raw materials and other supplies 327 (104) 223 613 (127) 486 Goods in process 13 (0) 13 482 (111) 371 Services in process 854 (239) 615 634 (131) 503 Intermediate and ﬁnished products 416 (51) 365 719 (59) 660 TOTAL 1,611 (395) 1,216 2,448 (428) 2,020 Inventories and work-in-process 1 at cost 744 1,303 1 at fair value net of disposal expenses 472 717 Balances of the AREVA NP, AREVA TA and Nuclear Measurements operations at December 31, 2015 are reclassiﬁed under “operations held for sale” in the amount of 696 million euros (see Note 9). 218 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 CHANGE IN WRITE-DOWNS OF INVENTORIES AND WORK-IN-PROCESS JANUARY 1, 2015 (428) Change in consolidated group 0 Charges (139) Reversal (when risk has materialized) 58 Reversal (when risk has not materialized) 12 Discontinued operations and operations held for sale 91 Other 11 DECEMBER 31, 2015 (395) At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015, inventories and work-in-process p 108 million euros in 2015 (52 million euros in 2014) for inventories of separative in particular were written down as follows: work units (SWU) in the Enrichment business in view of the unfavorable trend in 2 million euros in 2015 (94 million euros in 2014) for proposal expenses in the SWU market price indicators during the year. p Back End Business Group’s International Projects business, with an uncertain recovery schedule; and NOTE 17. TRADE ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND RELATED ACCOUNTS (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Gross amount 978 2,099 Impairment (37) (20) NET CARRYING AMOUNT 941 2,079 Balances of the AREVA NP, AREVA TA and Nuclear Measurements operations at At December 31, 2015, trade accounts receivable and related accounts include December 31, 2015 are reclassiﬁed under “operations held for sale” in the amount receivables in the amount of 274 million euros on contracts recognized according of 861 million euros (see Note 9). to the percentage of completion method (versus 742 million euros at December 31, The gross amount of trade accounts receivable and related accounts does not 2014). include receivables maturing in more than one year. In 2014 and 2015, AREVA did not sell trade receivables maturing after yearend closing. TRADE ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND RELATED ACCOUNTS (GROSS)* (in millions of euros) Including not impaired and past due Maturing Impaired Trade accounts receivable in the and past Less than 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 6 6 months More than and related accounts Gross future due 1 month months months months to 1 year one year At December 31, 2015 704 575 29 35 2 1 5 11 46 At December 31, 2014 1,357 1,084 16 117 20 5 8 78 30 * Excluding accounts receivable recognized according to the percentage of completion method. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 219 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 NOTE 18. OTHER OPERATING RECEIVABLES (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 French State 326 525 Advances and down payments to suppliers 142 648 Miscellaneous accounts receivable 347 555 Financial instruments 41 46 Other 9 11 TOTAL 865 1,786 Balances of the AREVA NP, AREVA TA and Nuclear Measurements operations at “Financial instruments” include the fair value of derivatives hedging market December 31, 2015 are reclassiﬁed under “operations held for sale” in the amount transactions and the fair value of the ﬁrm commitments hedged. of 824 million euros (see Note 9). At December 31, 2015, other operating receivables include 97 million euros in “Miscellaneous accounts receivable” includes prepaid expenses, receivables from receivables maturing in more than one year. suppliers and receivables from employees and beneﬁt management bodies. NOTE 19. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Cash and current accounts 336 193 Cash equivalents 468 1,493 TOTAL 804 1,686 Balances of the AREVA NP, AREVA TA and Nuclear Measurements operations at Cash equivalents consist chieﬂy of short-term marketable securities and mutual December 31, 2015 are reclassiﬁed under “operations held for sale” in the amount funds. of 32 million euros (see Note 9). NOTE 20. OTHER CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Securities held for trading 35 Other current ﬁnancial assets and derivatives on ﬁnancing activities 207 41 TOTAL 207 76 Balances of the AREVA NP, AREVA TA and Nuclear Measurements operations at At December 31, 2014, “Securities held for trading” included top-rated bonds and December 31, 2015 are reclassiﬁed under “operations held for sale” in the amount balanced equity/bond funds. of 3 million euros (see Note 9). 220 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 NOTE 21. EQUITY The AREVA share is traded on compartment A of the NYSE Euronext stock exchange in Paris under ISIN code FR0011027143. At December 31, 2015, AREVA’s share capital was held as follows: SHARE CAPITAL At December 31 2015 2014 CEA 54.4% 54.4% French State 28.8% 28.8% Kuwait Investment Authority 4.8% 4.8% CDC/BPI France Participations 3.3% 3.3% Total 0.9% 0.9% Employees 1.2% 1.2% EDF 2.2% 2.2% Treasury shares 0.2% 0.2% Public 4.0% 4.0% TOTAL 100.0% 100.0% The par value of the AREVA SA share is 3.80 euros. DILUTIVE INSTRUMENTS The group does not have a stock option plan and has not issued any instrument CURRENCY TRANSLATION RESERVES convertible into equity. The group’s currency translation reserves were a negative 48 million euros in 2015, compared with a negative 12 million euros in 2014. EARNINGS PER SHARE An average of 382,295,981 shares was used to calculate earnings per share for 2015. OTHER ITEMS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Items not recyclable to the income statement 292 (260) 1 Actuarial gains and losses on the employee beneﬁts of consolidated companies 217 (200) 1 Income tax on non-recyclable items 9 24 Share in non-recyclable items from joint ventures and associates, net of tax 12 (16) Non-recyclable items related to operations sold, discontinued or held for sale, net of tax 55 (68) Items recyclable to the income statement (160) (85) Currency translation adjustments on consolidated companies and other 1 Unrealized gains (losses) for the period (136) 133 1 Less gains (losses) recognized in proﬁt and loss Change in value of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 1 Unrealized gains (losses) for the period 170 66 1 Less gains (losses) recognized in proﬁt and loss (86) (145) Change in value of cash ﬂow hedges 1 Unrealized gains (losses) for the period (139) (110) 1 Less gains (losses) recognized in proﬁt and loss 52 (7) Income tax related to recyclable items (28) 45 Share in recyclable items from joint ventures and associates, net of tax Recyclable items related to operations sold, discontinued or held for sale, net of tax (7) (70) TOTAL OTHER ITEMS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (NET OF INCOME TAX) 132 (346) 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 221 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 TAX IMPACT OF OTHER ITEMS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 2015 2014 (in millions of euros) Before tax Income tax After tax Before tax Income tax After tax Actuarial gains and losses on employee beneﬁts 217 9 225 (200) 24 (176) Currency translation adjustments on consolidated companies and other (136) 0 (136) 133 0 133 Change in value of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 84 (38) 46 (78) 31 (47) Change in value of cash ﬂow hedges (87) 10 (77) (114) 13 (100) Share in comprehensive income of joint ventures, net of tax 12 12 (16) (16) Items of comprehensive income related to operations sold, discontinued or held for sale, net of tax 62 62 (139) (139) TOTAL OTHER ITEMS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (NET OF INCOME TAX) 151 (20) 132 (415) 69 (346) NOTE 22. MINORITY INTERESTS The largest minority interests were as follows: (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Katco 126 200 SET and SET Holding 184 171 Somaïr 65 62 Imouraren (129) 15 AREVA TA 11 14 Soﬁdif 18 19 Other (41) (34) TOTAL 235 447 AREVA believes it has an implicit obligation to ensure continuity of operation Financial information on significant subsidiaries, required under IFRS 12, is of Eurodif and its subsidiaries; consequently, AREVA recognizes all of these presented before elimination of intercompany transactions. companies’ losses and negative net equity in “net income attributable to owners A subsidiary is considered to be signiﬁcant if the percentage held by minority of the part” and in “equity attributable to owners of the parent”. shareholders is greater than 20%, or if its revenue or total balance sheet is more than 200 million euros. 222 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 2015 Imouraren Somaïr Katco SET (in millions of euros) Mining Mining Mining Front End Country Niger Niger Kazakhstan France Minority interests 42.34% 36.60% 49.00% 12.00% Revenue 197 361 649 EBITDA (34) 40 295 460 Net income (236) 5 207 37 Share attributable to minority interests (102) 2 102 4 Current assets 39 135 147 484 Non-current assets 1,716 167 180 5,468 Current liabilities (74) (73) (36) (690) Non-current liabilities (1,909) (46) (25) (3,552) Net assets (227) 183 267 1,709 Share attributable to minority interests (122) 67 131 205 Cash ﬂow from operating activities (62) 30 289 234 Cash ﬂow from investing activities (20) (19) (57) (157) Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities 87 (13) (179) (22) Increase (decrease) in net cash 5 (2) 33 54 Dividends paid to minority interests (42) (88) 2014 Imouraren Somaïr Katco SET (in millions of euros) Mining Mining Mining Front End Country Niger Niger Kazakhstan France Minority interests 42.34% 36.60% 49.00% 12.00% Revenue 201 260 596 EBITDA (22) 40 179 390 Net income (76) (29) 65 (5) Share attributable to minority interests (35) (11) 32 (1) Current assets 38 139 226 271 Non-current assets 1,793 176 303 5,445 Current liabilities (95) (90) (81) (445) Non-current liabilities (1,414) (59) (37) (3,600) Net assets 323 166 410 1,671 Share attributable to minority interests 22 61 201 201 Cash ﬂow from operating activities (56) 63 110 234 Cash ﬂow from investing activities (159) (30) (71) (273) Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities 217 (31) (59) 90 Increase (decrease) in net cash 3 2 (13) 51 Dividends paid to minority interests (29) 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 223 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 NOTE 23. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Depending on the prevailing laws and practices of each country, the group’s Career pattern assumptions were revised downwards to within a range of [+1.0%; companies may pay retirement bonuses to their retiring employees based on their -0.5%] as a function of seniority, in addition to inﬂation. The overall impact of these compensation and seniority. Long-service jubilee payments and early retirement eﬀects generates a decrease in liabilities of approximately 144 million euros. The pensions are sometimes due in France and in Germany, while supplemental provision for employee beneﬁts was adjusted accordingly by oﬀset against “Other pensions may contractually guarantee a given level of income to certain employees. items of comprehensive”, in accordance with the provisions of revised IAS 19. Some of the group’s companies also grant other post-retirement beneﬁts, such as the reimbursement of medical expenses. The group’s key beneﬁts These deﬁned beneﬁt plans are recognized in accordance with the accounting The “CAFC plan” set up in 2012 is an early retirement plan consisting of a working method deﬁned in Note 1.3.15. time account with matching contributions from the employer for personnel who The group calls on independent actuaries for a valuation of its commitments work at night or in certain jobs identiﬁed in the agreement. The system is partially each year. covered by an insurance policy. The population of eligible beneﬁciaries is open. In some companies, these obligations are covered in whole or in part by contracts The group’s second most material early retirement system (called “TB6”) is also with insurance companies or pension funds. In such cases, the obligations and the located in France. The beneﬁciaries are employees who work at night or in certain covering assets are valued independently. The diﬀerence between the obligation types of jobs identiﬁed in the agreement. and the fair value of the assets is either a funding surplus or a deﬁcit. A provision Medical coverage partially funded by the employer during the retirement period is recognized in the event of a deﬁcit and an asset is recognized in the event of a is currently in eﬀect in some companies in France. The population of eligible surplus, subject to speciﬁc conditions. beneﬁciaries is open. Change in the discount rate and other ﬁnancial assumptions at December 31 015 The group’s discount rate for the Eurozone was set at 2.15%, versus 1.85% at yearend 2014. The long-term inﬂation assumption for the Eurozone was kept at 1.6%. PROVISIONS RECOGNIZED ON THE BALANCE SHEET (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 TOTAL PROVISIONS FOR PENSION OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 1,909 2,232 Plus total for plans valued locally 2 2 Less total for operations held for sale 456 Less pension plan assets TOTAL PLANS REVIEWED BY THE GROUP’S ACTUARIES 1,455 2,235 Medical expenses and accident/disability insurance 315 356 Retirement beneﬁts 351 583 Job-related awards 7 27 Early retirement beneﬁts 774 947 Supplemental retirement beneﬁts 8 321 p By geographical area Eurozone United States Other* Total Medical expenses and accident/disability insurance 315 315 Retirement beneﬁts 351 351 Job-related awards 7 7 Early retirement beneﬁts 763 11 774 Supplemental retirement beneﬁts 7 1 8 TOTAL 1,443 12 1,455 * Niger and Japan. 224 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 The information below concerns plans reviewed by the group’s actuaries. The main actuarial assumptions used in determining the group’s obligations are as follows: 2015 2014 Long-term inﬂation 1 Eurozone 1.6% 1.6% Discount rate 1 Eurozone 2.15% 1.85% 1 Dollar zone NA 3.75% Pension beneﬁt increases 1 Eurozone 1.6% 1.6% 1 Dollar zone NA 0% Social security ceiling increase (net of inﬂation) +0.5% +0.5% p Mortality tables 2015 2014 France 1 Annuity Mortality tables Mortality tables 1 Lump sum payment INSEE 2000-2002 Men/Women INSEE 2000-2002 Men/Women Germany Heubeck 2005 Heubeck 2005 United States NA RP2014 p Retirement age in France 2015 2014 Management personnel 65 65 Non-management personnel 62 62 p Average attrition is assumed to occur among employees in each company at a declining rate reﬂecting age brackets. The rates between brackets indicate average turnover at career start average turnover at career end. Management personnel Non-management personnel 2015 2014 2015 2014 France [1.6% 0%] [1.6% 0%] [0.7% 0%] [0.7% 0%] Germany [7% 0%] [7% 0%] [7% 0%] [7% 0%] United States NA 6% NA 6% p Assumed rates of average salary increases, including inﬂation. The rates between brackets indicate average increases at career start average increases at career end. Management personnel Non-management personnel 2015 2014 2015 2014 France [2.6% ; -1.1%] [3.8% 2.6%] [2.6% ; -1.1%] [3.3% 2.7%] Germany 3% 3.2% 3% 3.2% United States NA 3.75% NA 3.75% p Contributions / beneﬁts anticipated for deﬁned beneﬁt plans in 2015 are estimated at 137 million euros. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 225 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 FINANCIAL ASSETS Europe Type of asset 2015 2014 Cash 10% 5% Bonds 90% 82% Shares 0% 12% Real estate 0% 1% United States Type of asset 2015 2014 Cash NA 4% Bonds NA 36% Shares NA 60% Real estate NA 0% Eﬀective return on plan assets 2015 2014 Europe 0.6% 8.54% United States NA 4.79% The group’s pension assets do not include ﬁnancial instruments of the AREVA group. The pension plans’ real estate assets do not include real property owned by AREVA. NET CARRYING AMOUNT OF DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS Medical expenses and Supplemental accident/ Retirement retirement Early retirement disability Job-related At December 31, 2015 beneﬁts beneﬁts beneﬁts insurance awards Total Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 315 399 129 774 8 1,625 Fair value of plan assets 1 49 121 0 0 171 TOTAL DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION 315 351 7 774 8 1,455 Sensitivity of the actuarial value of the obligation to changes in discount rates An across-the-board decrease in the discount rate of 0.5% would increase the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation by 5.8%. 226 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 TOTAL EXPENSE FOR THE YEAR Medical expenses and Supplemental Early accident/ 2015 Retirement retirement retirement disability Job-related (in millions of euros) beneﬁts beneﬁts beneﬁts insurance awards Total Current service cost 31 21 26 9 2 89 Interest cost 12 25 21 7 0 66 Past service costs (including plan changes and reductions) (37) 0 (1) 0 (5) (43) Interest income on assets 0 (17) (3) 0 0 (20) Recognition of actuarial gains and losses generated during the year on other long-term plans (long service medals, CATS, etc.) 0 0 7 0 (1) 6 Liquidation TOTAL EXPENSE WITH INCOME STATEMENT IMPACT 6 29 50 16 (4) 97 Recognition of actuarial gains and losses generated during the year on post-employment plans Actuarial gains and losses on earmarked assets 2 3 (20) 0 0 (15) Experience diﬀerences 1 (7) (24) (15) 0 (44) Demographic assumption diﬀerences 1 5 (7) (1) 0 (2) Financial assumption diﬀerences (86) (41) (85) (22) 0 (234) TOTAL EXPENSE WITH IMPACT ON OTHER ITEMS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (82) (40) (136) (38) 0 (296) TOTAL EXPENSE FOR THE YEAR (77) (11) (85) (21) (4) (198) CHANGE IN THE DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION Medical expenses and Supplemental Early accident/ At December 31, 2015 Retirement retirement retirement disability Job-related (in millions of euros) beneﬁts beneﬁts beneﬁts insurance awards Total Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at December 31, 2014 600 973 1,088 360 26 3,047 Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation of operations held for sale (129) (909) (28) (16) (13) (1,096) Current service cost 31 21 26 9 2 89 Past service costs (including plan changes and reductions) (37) 0 (1) 0 (5) (43) Plan transfer Disposals / Liquidation / Plan reductions Cost escalation 12 25 21 7 0 66 Mergers, acquisitions, transfers 1 0 0 0 0 2 Change in consolidation scope Employee contributions 4 4 Beneﬁts paid during the year (43) (50) (102) (8) (2) (204) Actuarial gains and losses (84) (43) (109) (38) (1) (275) Currency translation adjustments 0 36 0 1 0 37 DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 352 57 895 315 7 1,626 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 227 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 CHANGES IN PLAN ASSETS (in millions of euros) 2015 Value of assets at December 31, 2014 810 Assets of operations held for sale (636) Interest income on assets 20 Actuarial diﬀerences 16 Contributions / Beneﬁts paid by the employer 16 Employee contributions 4 Beneﬁts paid and not reimbursed Beneﬁts paid by earmarked assets (81) Administrative expenses funded by assets (2) Eﬀect of mergers / acquisitions / transfers between entities Eﬀect of mergers / acquisitions / transfers between entities Change in consolidation scope Currency translation adjustments 25 NET CARRYING AMOUNT AT DECEMBER 31 171 CHANGE IN PROVISION ESTIMATED BY THE GROUP’S ACTUARIES (in millions of euros) 2015 Balance at December 31, 2014 2,234 Assets of operations held for sale (456) Change in consolidated group 1 Currency translation adjustment 13 Reclassiﬁcation of provisions/assets Total expense (198) Contributions collected/beneﬁts paid (138) NET CARRYING AMOUNT AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 1,455 228 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 NOTE 24. OTHER PROVISIONS Reversal Reversal (when risk January 1, (when risk has has not Discontinued Other December 31, (in millions of euros) 2015 Charges (*) materialized) materialized) operations (**) changes 2015 Restoration of mining sites and mill decommissioning 265 14 (20) (22) 238 Provision for site clean-up and reclamation of other industrial sites 2 (2) Other non-current provisions 267 15 (20) (2) (22) 238 Restructuring and layoﬀ plans 48 416 (33) (5) (187) 4 243 Provisions for ongoing cleanup 152 10 (36) (69) (28) 29 Provisions for customer warranties 78 17 (15) (5) (72) 2 4 Provisions for losses at completion 1,499 1,148 (623) (15) (198) 1,810 Accrued costs 974 134 (53) (8) (19) 1 1,030 Other 722 537 (260) (48) (198) 121 874 Current provisions 3,473 2,261 (1,021) (80) (742) 99 3,990 TOTAL PROVISIONS 3,740 2,275 (1,041) (80) (744) 78 4,228 (*) Including a discount reversal of 43 million euros at December 31, 2015. (**) see Note 9. At December 31, 2015, provisions for cleanup included 11 million euros for highlights of the period – Establishment of social dialogue. They correspond to the “PRISME” operations preparatory to the ﬁnal shutdown of Eurodif’s Georges Besse I diﬀerent components of these plans, including in particular voluntary retirement plant (versus 69 million euros at December 31, 2014). and early retirement, external mobility, and the tax for revitalization of labor pools At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, other provisions include in France. In accordance with the accounting rules, no provision is set up for the in particular: costs of internal mobility. p provisions for disputes; provisions for tax risks; PROVISIONS FOR LOSSES AT COMPLETION p p provisions for ﬁnes and penalties; Purchase Contract for Separative Work Units (SWU) p provisions for expenses related to work preparatory to the shutdown of certain In light of the persistently stagnant enrichment market prices, a provision in the nuclear facilities; amount of 50 million euros was constituted at December 31, 2015 for a SWU p provisions for contract risks. purchase contract, since ﬁrm commitments on sales prices made under this contract do not appear to be matched by the market price outlook for the period INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT SUPPLY CONTRACT in question. A provision of 40 million euros was constituted for an industrial equipment supply Contract for construction of the Olkiluoto 3 EPR reactor contract whose use in the current market situation is under consideration. Construction of the Olkiluoto 3 EPR (“the project”) made good progress over the course of 2015, meeting critical path milestones, although delays were recorded PROVISION RELATED TO THE SALE OF AREVA NP on subcritical tasks. The key milestones met were: p testing of the cabinets for the production part (TXP) of instrumentation and The “Other provisions” line includes a provision of 180 million euros at December 31, control systems on a platform at Erlangen. Those cabinets were sent to the site 2015 for expected costs resulting from the transfer of the OL3 contract from in late August 2015 for installation; AREVA NP to AREVA SA, for which the terms are under discussion. p completion in mid-December 2015 of all platform tests of the instrumentation and control systems constituting the critical path of the project, giving rise to the PROVISIONS FOR RESTRUCTURING AND REDUNDANCY PLANS customer’s payment of 55 million euros for milestone no. 10 in January 2016 (the Provisions for restructuring and redundancy plans represent the best estimate ﬁrst payment received from the customer since 2009 for meeting a contractual of costs to be incurred in connection with staﬀ reduction plans constituting the milestone). labor component of the group’s competitiveness plan, as explained in Note 1 on 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 229 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 The main short-term milestones are conﬁrmed: of the project, as the valuation remains highly dependent on the degree of the Submittal of the operating license application (OLA) in April 2016. customer’s cooperation and its compliance with its operational obligations. This p cost category is termed “undiscernible”. p Functional tests of the TXP cabinets starting in January 2016 to enable the operational test phases to start in May 2016. However, except for costs identiﬁed above, AREVA is still able to assess the amount of the costs to be incurred to complete the reactor’s construction. These types of p Continuation of electromechanical installation activities in the ﬁrst half of 2016, costs are called “reliable”. in particular electricity/instrumentation and control, and piping. With this background, and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 32 p End of the vessel ﬂushing sequence in January 2017. of IAS 11, AREVA stopped recognizing contract revenue and costs based on Operationally, the project still gives rise, and has for several years, to constant and percentage of completion; it now uses the following recognition methods: signiﬁcant disagreements with TVO (“the customer”), mostly because of the manner in which the latter applies the contract and does not comply with its operational p Revenue recognized in respect of the contract is stabilized at the level reached obligations as the future nuclear operator of this reactor. This way of functioning at June 30, 2013. remains an important disruptive factor in the ﬁnal stages of reactor construction, p Contract costs are expensed as they are incurred. Only costs in the “reliable” testing and commissioning, which require close cooperation with the customer and categories that effectively contribute to the physical completion of reactor gradual turnover of the plant to the latter. Talks with TVO are planned in 2016 to construction are charged against the provision for losses at completion pertaining jointly develop a plan to complete the facility and update the project schedule. This to the contract; they amounted to 402 million euros for the year. “Undiscernible” cooperation, if conﬁrmed, will improve the completion of the project and in particular costs recorded directly in expenses because they did not contribute to the will allow the test phases to begin in the best possible conditions. project’s progress amounted to 35 million euros for the year. On a legal level, the AREVA-Siemens Consortium (the “Consortium”) continues p Costs at completion are updated for the half-year and year-end closings. For 2015, to exercise its rights in connection with arbitration proceedings initiated in 2008. the cost at completion rose 905 million euros in relation to that estimated at the closing of the 2014 ﬁnancial statements. This increase is explained by (i) extra The Consortium’s claim for compensation for damages concerns a total amount operating costs, (ii) an increase in contingencies for the test phases, and (iii) the of 3.5 billion euros. No income has been recognized in respect of this claim. impact of the discussions begun with TVO. The loss at completion recognized TVO’s claim against the Consortium amounts to approximately 2.3 billion euros. at December 31, 2015 was thus brought to 5.5 billion euros. No provision has been constituted in respect of this claim. In fact, the Consortium and its counsel still believe that the allegations of intentional gross negligence set p If the conditions for carrying out the project improve over the coming months, out by TVO in its claim against the Consortium remain unfounded. In accordance as is foreseen in connection with the recent discussions with the customer, with the schedule of the arbitral proceeding, hearings on the merits of the dispute the abandonment of this degraded system of recognition of percentage of will take place in 2016. The arbitration court’s ﬁnal decision is not expected before completion of the project will be examined. AREVA will then resume recognition the end of 2017. of the OL3 contract in accordance with the percentage of completion method (IAS 11), which will lead to an adjustment of revenue as a function of the project’s Discussions have begun with TVO with the objectives of jointly laying the foundations percentage of completion. for cooperation to complete the project and settle the dispute. All parties consider that preliminary discussions have proceeded positively. If this agreement materializes, the OL3 contract will be transferred from AREVA NP to AREVA SA within the framework PROVISIONS FOR CONTRACT COMPLETION of the restructuring of the French nuclear industry. Provisions for contract completion totaled 1,030 million euros at December 31, On an accounting level, at this stage of the discussions with TVO, AREVA still 2015. These expenses represent ancillary tasks yet to be performed, in particular considers that it does not have the ability to value with suﬃcient reliability the costs waste treatment and storage. at completion of the reactor testing and commissioning phases until completion 230 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 NOTE 25. BORROWINGS Long-term (in millions of euros) borrowings Current debts December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Interest-bearing advances from customers 96 96 93 Borrowings from lending institutions and commercial paper 593 301 894 1,259 Bond issues 4,942 1,032 5,974 5,994 Short-term bank facilities and non-trade current accounts (credit balances) 91 91 122 Financial derivatives 221 14 235 5 Miscellaneous debt* 53 2 55 22 TOTAL BORROWINGS 5,905 1,440 7,344 7,494 * Including ﬁnance lease obligations. 1 3 4 10 Balances of the AREVA NP, AREVA TA and Nuclear Measurements operations at Borrowings by maturity, currency and type of interest rate: December 31, 2015 are reclassiﬁed under “operations held for sale” in the amount of 157 million euros (see Note 9). (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 Borrowings from lending institutions and commercial paper at December 31, 2015 include: Maturing in one year or less 1,440 p commercial paper outstanding in the amount of 26 million euros; Maturity of 1-2 years 878 p a loan from the European Investment Bank in the total amount of 200 million euros Maturity of 2-3 years 122 contracted in 2009 and maturing in January 2016; Maturity of 3-4 years 818 p an amortizable syndicated loan from 10 banks maturing in 2024 in the total Maturity of 4-5 years 613 initial amount of 650 million euros (617 million euros at December 31, 2015). Maturing of more than 5 years 3,473 TOTAL 7,344 (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 Euro 7,191 Fixed rate borrowings 5,880 US dollar 10 Floating rate borrowings 1,159 Yen: 62 TOTAL 7,040 Other 81 Other non-interest-bearing debt 70 TOTAL 7,344 Financial derivatives 235 TOTAL 7,344 The maturities of the group’s ﬁnancial assets and borrowings at December 31, 2015 are presented in Note 31. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 231 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 PAYMENT SCHEDULE AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 Balance Total sheet payment Less than 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 4 4 to 5 More than (in millions of euros) value ﬂows one year years years years years 5 years Interest-bearing advances from customers 96 96 96 Borrowings from lending institutions and commercial paper 894 894 301 87 61 45 81 319 Bond issues 5,974 5,974 1,032 795 61 773 532 2,780 Short-term bank facilities and non-trade current accounts (credit balances) 91 91 91 Miscellaneous debt 55 55 2 53 Future interest on ﬁnancial liabilities 1,309 297 211 154 149 116 384 Total borrowings (excluding derivatives) 7,109 8,419 1,722 1,092 277 967 728 3,632 Derivatives – assets (161) Derivatives – liabilities 235 Total net derivatives 73 73 (29) (3) 2 (40) (32) 175 TOTAL 7,183 8,492 1,694 1,089 278 927 696 3,808 PAYMENT SCHEDULE AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 Balance Total sheet payment Less than 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 4 4 to 5 More than (in millions of euros) value ﬂows one year years years years years 5 years Interest-bearing advances 93 93 93 Borrowings from lending institutions and commercial paper 1,259 1,259 436 247 78 61 45 392 Bond issues 5,994 5,994 53 991 794 55 778 3,324 Short-term bank facilities and non-trade current accounts (credit balances) 122 122 122 Miscellaneous debt 20 20 6 12 1 1 Future interest on ﬁnancial liabilities 1,551 326 256 211 154 149 456 Total borrowings (excluding derivatives) 7,489 9,038 941 1,506 1,083 270 971 4,266 Derivatives – assets (41) Derivatives – liabilities 5 Total net derivatives (36) (36) (15) (22) (1) 6 (21) 16 TOTAL 7,453 9,002 927 1,484 1,083 276 950 4,282 232 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 BOND ISSUES AFTER HEDGING Net carrying Nominal amount amount (in millions of Issue date (in millions of euros) Currency currency units) Nominal rate Maturity September 23, 2009 976 EUR 971 3.875% 2016 September 23, 2009 1,034 EUR 1,000 4.875% 2024 November 6, 2009 773 EUR 750 4.375% 2019 September 22, 2010 767 EUR 750 3.5% 2021 October 5, 2011 396 EUR 398 4.625% 2017 March 14, 2012 399 EUR 400 4.625% 2017 April 4, 2012 198 EUR 200 TEC10 + 2.125% 2022 September 4, 2013 532 EUR 500 3.25% 2020 September 20, 2013 61 JPY 8,000 1.156% 2018 March 20, 2014 782 EUR 750 3.125% 2023 TOTAL 5,917 GUARANTEES AND COVENANTS BANKING COVENANTS With the exception of the loan to Somaïr in the amount of 5 billion CFA (7 million euros), The amortizable syndicated loan in the amount of 623 million euros at December 31, for which assets have been pledged, no assets have been pledged to secure 2015 and maturing in June 2024 is backed by certain future revenue from the borrowings or debt (except for assets ﬁnanced under leasing arrangements). Georges Besse II enrichment plant. It includes security interests in future receivables and bank accounts, and includes a covenant allocating cash ﬂows to debt service which subordinates payments to AREVA SA (dividends and loan repayments) from Société d’enrichissement du Tricastin. NOTE 26. ADVANCES AND PREPAYMENTS RECEIVED (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Advances and prepayments on orders 1,868 3,355 Customer advances and prepayments invested in non-current assets 1,026 1,090 TOTAL 2,895 4,444 Balances of the AREVA NP, AREVA TA and Nuclear Measurements operations at Trade advances and prepayments on orders correspond to amounts received from December 31, 2015 are reclassiﬁed under “operations held for sale” in the amount customers under contracts that do not ﬁnance signiﬁcant non-current assets. In the of 1,692 million euros (see Note 9). case of long-term contracts, the amount recognized in the balance sheet represents This account comprises non-interest-bearing operating and Capex advances and the net balance of advances and prepayments received and sales invoiced or prepayments received from customers pursuant to contractual commitments. recognized on a percentage of completion basis; it also includes interest income The advances and prepayments are reimbursed by deduction from the revenue calculated on cash surpluses generated by these advances and prepayments, the generated under these contracts, which primarily concern sales of fuel and uranium, amount of which is determined on an individual contract basis. and used fuel treatment and recycling. Interest-bearing advances are recognized Customer advances and prepayments invested in non-current assets comprise in borrowings. amounts received from customers and used to ﬁnance capital expenditures for the Only advances and prepayments eﬀectively collected are recognized as a liability. performance of long-term contracts to which they have subscribed. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 233 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 At December 31, 2015, advances and prepayments by maturity were as follows: p less than 1 year: 18 million euros p 1-5 years: 631 million euros p more than 5 years: 2.247 billion euros NOTE 27. OTHER LIABILITIES OPERATING LIABILITIES (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Tax and social security liabilities, excluding corporate income tax 876 1,387 Financial instruments 299 202 Other operating liabilities 728 1,160 TOTAL 1,904 2,750 Balances of the AREVA NP, AREVA TA and Nuclear Measurements operations at December 31, 2015 are reclassiﬁed under “operations held for sale” in the amount of 1,002 million euros (see Note 9). Financial instruments include the fair value of derivatives hedging market transactions and the fair value of the ﬁrm commitments hedged. At December 31, 2015, operating liabilities by maturity were as follows: p less than 1 year: 1,459 billion euros p 1-5 years: 378 million euros p more than 5 years: 66 million euros NON-OPERATING LIABILITIES (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 TOTAL 64 73 Balances of the AREVA NP, AREVA TA and Nuclear Measurements operations at December 31, 2015 are reclassiﬁed under “operations held for sale” in the amount of 26 million euros (see Note 9). Other non-operating liabilities include mainly dividends payable to minority shareholders of certain subsidiaries. NOTE 28. CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES CHANGE IN WORKING CAPITAL REQUIREMENT (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Change in inventories and work-in-process (45) 162 Change in accounts receivable and other receivables 445 141 Change in accounts payable and other liabilities (67) (194) Change in trade advances and prepayments received (39) (143) Change in advances and prepayments made 11 49 Change in Forex hedge of WCR 24 49 Change in other non-current non-ﬁnancial assets (7) (8) TOTAL 322 56 234 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 NOTE 29. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions between the parent company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, were eliminated on consolidation and are not presented in this note. Transactions between AREVA and its joint ventures and associates, which are also related parties, are described in Note 14. Transactions between the Group and the CEA are as follows: CEA (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Sales 582 574 Purchases 92 99 Loans to/receivables from related parties 962 949 Borrowings from related parties 185 183 Transactions between continuing operations and the CEA are presented hereunder: CEA (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Sales 257 235 Purchases 73 79 Loans to/receivables from related parties 877 878 Borrowings from related parties 153 157 Transactions between the group and Adwen are as follows: Adwen (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Sales 5 Purchases 9 Loans to/receivables from related parties 142 Borrowings from related parties AREVA buys centrifuges from ETC for its new Georges Besse II enrichment plant. Transactions with the CEA concern dismantling work on the CEA’s nuclear AREVA’s equipment purchases from ETC totaled 81 million euros in 2015. facilities, engineering services for the design, construction and operating support of/to the CEA’s research reactors, and the provision of studies and research work. In addition, AREVA pays fees to the CEA for the use of its used nuclear fuel RELATIONS WITH GOVERNMENT-OWNED COMPANIES reprocessing processes. The group has business relationships with government-owned companies, in The group also provides services to the CEA concerning engineering services and particular EDF and the CEA (Commissariat à l’énergie atomique et aux énergies research, cleanup and dismantling services, and has two contracts for the design alternatives). and construction of certain components of an experimental reactor. Execution of Transactions with EDF concern the front end of the nuclear fuel cycle (uranium sales these two contracts has met with diﬃculties and given rise to the recognition of and conversion, enrichment and fuel fabrication services), the back end of the cycle provisions (see Note 24). (used fuel transportation, storage, treatment and recycling services), power plant maintenance and equipment sales. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 235 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 COMPENSATION PAID TO KEY EXECUTIVES (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 restated 2014 Short-term beneﬁts 4.5 5.4 2.9 Termination beneﬁts 1.7 Post-employment beneﬁts 0.1 0.1 Other long-term beneﬁts TOTAL 6.3 5.5 2.9 Key executives are: p for reported 2014 data: the members of the Executive Board and of the Supervisory Board; p for 2015 data: from January 1 to 8, 2015, the members of the Executive Board and of the Supervisory Board and, from January 9, 2015, the members of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee; p for restated 2014 data: the members of the Executive Management Board were added to the members of the Executive Board and of the Supervisory Board to enable comparability with 2015 data. Short-term beneﬁts and termination beneﬁts include compensation paid during the year by the group and by the CEA. NOTE 30. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS ALLOWANCES (in thousands of metric tons of CO2 ) 2015 2014 Allowances received by AREVA 73 77 Actual emissions 73 70 Excess of allowances over emissions 0 7 Allowances sold on the Powernext market 0 0 NOTE 31. MANAGEMENT OF MARKET RISKS GENERAL OBJECTIVES rate. The volatility of exchange rates may impact the group’s currency translation adjustments, equity and income. The group has an organization dedicated to implementing market risk management policies approved by the Executive Committee for centralized management of Currency translation risk: The group is exposed to the risk of translation into exposure to foreign exchange, commodity, rate and liquidity risks. euros of ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries using a local currency. Only dividends expected from subsidiaries for the following year are hedged as soon as the amount In the Finance Department, the Financial Operations and Treasury Management is known. Department (DOFT) makes transactions on financial markets and acts as a central desk that provides services and manages the group’s ﬁnancial exposure. Balance sheet risk: The group ﬁnances its subsidiaries in their functional currencies The organization of this department ensures the separation of functions and the to minimize the balance sheet foreign exchange risk from ﬁnancial assets and necessary human, technical, and information system resources. Transactions liabilities. Loans and advances granted to subsidiaries by the department of Treasury handled by DOFT cover foreign exchange and commodities trading, interest rates, Management, which centralizes ﬁnancing, are then systematically converted into centralized cash management, internal and external ﬁnancing, borrowings and euros through foreign exchange swaps or cross currency swaps. investments, and asset management. To limit the currency risk for long-term investments generating future cash ﬂows in To report on the ﬁnancial risks and related position limits and on the counterparty foreign currencies, the group uses a liability in the same currency to oﬀset the asset. risk, DOFT produces a weekly report on all positions and their market values for Trade exposure: The principal foreign exchange exposure concerns ﬂuctuations the group’s Chief Financial Oﬃcer. in the euro/US dollar exchange rate. As a uranium producer in Canada and Kazakhstan, the group is also exposed to ﬂuctuations in the Canadian dollar and the Kazakh tenge against the US dollar, in which uranium prices are denominated. FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK MANAGEMENT The group’s policy, which was approved by the Executive Committee, is thus The change in the exchange rate of the US dollar against the euro may aﬀect the to systematically hedge foreign exchange risk generated by sales transactions; group’s income in the medium term. it recommends hedging potential risks during the proposal phase, to the extent In view of the geographic diversity of its locations and operations, the group is possible, to minimize the impact of exchange rate ﬂuctuations on consolidated exposed to ﬂuctuations in exchange rates, particularly the dollar-euro exchange net income. 236 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 The AREVA group acquires derivatives (principally currency futures) or special As provided by group policies, each operating entity responsible for identifying insurance contracts issued by Coface to hedge its foreign exchange exposure from foreign exchange risk must hedge exposure to currencies other than its own trade, including accounts receivable and payable, conﬁrmed oﬀ-balance sheet accounting currency by initiating a transaction exclusively with the group’s trading commitments (orders received from customers or placed with suppliers), highly desk, except as otherwise required by speciﬁc circumstances or regulations. probable future cash ﬂows (budgeted sales or purchases, anticipated margins on The Financial Operations and Treasury Management Department centralizes contracts) and proposals made in foreign currencies. These hedges are backed the exposure of all entities and hedges the net position directly with banking by underlying transactions for identical amounts and maturities and, generally, are counterparties. A system of strict limits, particularly concerning results, marked documented and eligible for hedge accounting (except for hedges of proposals to market, and foreign exchange positions that may be taken by the trading desk, submitted in foreign currencies). is monitored by specialized teams that are also charged with valuation of the transactions. In addition, analyses of sensitivity to changes in exchange rates are periodically performed. At December 31, 2015, derivatives used by the group to manage foreign exchange risk were as follows: Market (Notional amounts by maturity date at December 31, 2015) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 > 5 years Total value Forward exchange transactions and currency swaps 2,613 728 331 136 0 0 3,808 (219) Currency options 62 28 90 Cross-currency swaps 132 60 61 298 0 983 1,533 (145) TOTAL 2,808 815 392 434 0 983 5,432 (364) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments used to hedge foreign currency exposure were as follows at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014: 2015 2014 Nominal amounts Nominal amounts (in millions of euros) in absolute value Market value in absolute value Market value Derivatives related to fair value hedging strategies (FVH) 386 (12) 965 (20) Forward exchange transactions and currency swaps 386 (12) 965 (20) Derivatives related to net investment hedging strategies (NIH) 0 0 0 0 Derivatives related to cash ﬂow hedging strategies (CFH) 2,212 (209) 1,926 (95) Forward exchange transactions and currency swaps 2,194 (208) 1,877 (95) Currency options 18 (1) 49 (1) Derivatives not eligible for hedge accounting 2,833 (150) 2,195 (75) Forward exchange transactions and currency swaps 1,228 1 352 (7) Currency options 72 (5) 81 (1) Cross-currency swaps 1,533 (145) 1,761 (68) TOTAL 5,432 (371) 5,086 (191) A signiﬁcant share of undocumented ﬁnancial instruments in 2015 and 2014 In view of the group’s policy, which is to hedge all currency exposures: corresponds to derivatives subscribed to hedge foreign exchange risk on monetary undocumented derivatives are used to hedge assets and liabilities in currencies p assets and liabilities, which constitutes a natural hedge. Financial instruments for identical amounts; reported as “Not formally documented” in accordance with IAS 39 also include derivative transactions to hedge requests for proposals in foreign currencies. p unhedged assets and liabilities are immaterial. The impact on the group’s ﬁnancial statements of an instant variation of +5% or Based on market data at the date of closing, the impact on the group’s consolidated -5% of exchange rates versus the euro is relatively neutral. equity at year-end 2015 of currency derivative instruments qualiﬁed as cash ﬂow hedges would be 70 million euros in the case of a 5% instantaneous increase in exchange rates against the euro, or -77 million euros in the case of a 5% decrease in COMMODITY RISK exchange rates. Using these same assumptions, the impacts were +56 million euros and -62 million euros at year end 2014. The group has little exposure to commodities. In 2015, the nominal value of the group’s commodity hedges (fuel forwards contracts) was less than 1 million euros. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 237 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT At December 31, 2015, interest rate swaps were the main ﬁnancial instruments used in the management of external debt. Rate risk management is entirely centralized in the department of Financial Operations and Treasury Management, which consolidates the subsidiaries’ The amount of the commitments and the sensitivity of the positions taken by the current or stable cash surpluses or requirements and arranges external ﬁnancing as trading desk in the framework of AREVA’s rate management policy are subject to appropriate, except as otherwise required by regulations or speciﬁc circumstances. limits based on the type of transaction involved. The group uses several types of derivative instruments, as required by market Inﬂation rate swaps in US dollars were set up to cover a speciﬁc and isolated conditions, to allocate its borrowings between ﬁxed rates and ﬂoating rates and to commercial risk on behalf of the Mining Business Group. manage its investment portfolio, with the goal being mainly to reduce its borrowing costs while optimizing the management of its cash surpluses. At December 31, 2015, the following ﬁnancial instruments were used to hedge interest rate exposure: Notional amounts by maturity date at December 31, 2015 Market (in millions of euros) Total 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 > 5 years value Interest rate swaps – variable lender – EUR Fixed borrower – EUR 400 200 200 (3) Interest rate swaps – variable lender – EUR EUR variable borrower 100 100 (0) USD variable borrower 983 983 (31) CAD variable borrower 490 132 60 298 1 Interest rate swaps – ﬁxed lender – EUR EUR variable borrower 1,626 376 150 450 650 105 Interest rate swaps – JPY ﬁxed lender EUR variable borrower 61 61 0 Inﬂation rate swaps – variable lender – USD USD ﬁxed lender 161 161 (56) GRAND TOTAL 3,820 708 60 61 448 611 1,933 16 At December 31, 2015, the group used the following derivatives to hedge interest rate exposure: Market value of contracts (1) Not formally Rate instruments Nominal amount Cash ﬂow Fair value documented (in millions of euros) of contract hedges (CFH) hedges (FVH) (Trading) Total Interest rate swaps – variable lender – EUR Fixed borrower – EUR 400 (0) (3) (3) Interest rate swaps – variable lender – EUR EUR variable borrower 100 (0) (0) USD variable borrower 983 (31) (31) CAD variable borrower 490 1 1 Interest rate swaps – ﬁxed lender – EUR EUR variable borrower 1,626 105 105 Interest rate swaps – JPY ﬁxed lender EUR variable borrower 61 0 0 Inﬂation rate swaps – variable lender – USD USD ﬁxed lender 161 (56) (56) TOTAL 3,820 (0) 105 (89) 16 (1) Gain / (loss). 238 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 The following tables summarize the group’s net rate risk exposure, before and after rate management transactions, at the end of 2015 and 2014. Maturities of the group’s ﬁnancial assets and borrowings at December 31, 2015 Less than 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years More than (in millions of euros) one year to 2 years to 3 years to 4 years to 5 years 5 years Total Financial assets 1,010 3 1 41 32 45 1,133 including ﬁxed rate assets 0 0 including ﬂoating rate assets 972 972 including non-interest-bearing assets 39 3 1 41 32 45 161 Borrowings (1,439) (879) (122) (818) (613) (3,473) (7,344) including ﬁxed rate borrowings (1,036) (869) (122) (818) (613) (2,997) (6,456) including ﬂoating rate borrowings (266) (10) 0 0 0 (255) (530) including non-interest-bearing borrowings (138) (221) (359) Net exposure before hedging (429) (875) (122) (777) (581) (3,427) (6,211) share exposed to ﬁxed rates (1,036) (869) (122) (818) (613) (2,997) (6,456) share exposed to ﬂoating rates 706 (10) 0 0 0 (255) 442 non-interest-bearing share (99) 3 1 41 32 (175) (197) Oﬀ-balance sheet hedging on borrowings: ﬁxed rate swaps 180 61 155 532 729 1,657 on borrowings: ﬂoating rate swaps (180) (61) (155) (532) (729) (1,657) Net exposure after hedging (429) (875) (122) (777) (581) (3,427) (6,211) share exposed to ﬁxed rates (855) (869) (61) (664) (81) (2,269) (4,799) share exposed to ﬂoating rates 526 (10) (61) (155) (532) (983) (1,215) non-interest-bearing share (99) 3 1 41 32 (175) (197) Maturities of the group’s ﬁnancial assets and borrowings at December 31, 2014 Less than 1 year to 2 years to 3 years to 4 years to More than (in millions of euros) one year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 5 years Total Financial assets 1,762 0 0 0 0 0 1,762 including ﬁxed rate assets (0) 0 0 0 0 0 (0) including ﬂoating rate assets 1,742 0 0 0 0 0 1,742 including non-interest-bearing assets 20 0 0 0 0 0 20 Borrowings (597) (1,286) (876) (119) (825) (3,788) (7,491) including ﬁxed rate borrowings (162) (1,085) (876) (64) (825) (3,580) (6,593) including ﬂoating rate borrowings (367) (201) 0 (55) 0 (207) (830) including non-interest-bearing borrowings (68) 0 0 0 0 0 (68) Net exposure before hedging 1,164 (1,286) (876) (119) (825) (3,788) (5,729) share exposed to ﬁxed rates (162) (1,085) (876) (64) (825) (3,580) (6,593) share exposed to ﬂoating rates 1,375 (201) 0 (55) 0 (207) 912 non-interest-bearing share (48) 0 0 0 0 0 (48) Oﬀ-balance sheet hedging on borrowings: ﬁxed rate swaps (28) 156 0 0 156 1,366 1,649 on borrowings: ﬂoating rate swaps 28 (156) 0 0 (156) (1,366) (1,649) Net exposure after hedging 1,164 (1,286) (876) (119) (825) (3,788) (5,729) share exposed to ﬁxed rates (190) (929) (876) (64) (670) (2,214) (4,944) share exposed to ﬂoating rates 1,403 (357) 0 (55) (156) (1,573) (738) non-interest-bearing share (48) 0 0 0 0 0 (48) 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 239 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 Based on the group’s exposure at December 31, 2015, a 1% increase in interest p other long-term investments: these are interests in publicly traded companies, rates would have an impact on borrowing costs on a full-year basis estimated at such as Alcatel and Japan Steel Works (see Note 15. Other non-current assets). -12 million euros and, therefore, on the group’s consolidated income before tax. The risk of a decrease in the price of shares in other non-current ﬁnancial assets That impact was -1 million euros at year end 2014. is not speciﬁcally hedged. The risk on shares held in the portfolio of assets earmarked to fund end-of-lifecycle RISK FROM EQUITY INVESTMENTS operations is an integral component of AREVA’s asset management program, which includes equities to increase long-term returns as part of a program to allocate assets The group holds publicly traded shares in a signiﬁcant amount and is exposed to between bonds and equities (see Note 13. End-of-lifecycle operations). Exposure to changes in the ﬁnancial markets. European equities is managed by various management companies, either through Publicly traded shares held by the AREVA group are exposed to the volatility inherent a mandate given to an investment ﬁrm or through several dedicated mutual funds, in equity markets. with management guidelines limiting the tracking error. These holdings are of two types: p equities held in the portfolio of ﬁnancial assets earmarked for end-of-lifecycle operations (see Note 13. End-of-lifecycle operations); and The sensitivity of the value of equity investments to variations in the equity markets is as follows: Upper scenario (10% increase in the value of equity investments) December 31, 2015 Securities recognized at fair value (in millions of euros) Available-for-sale securities through proﬁt or loss Balance sheet position 2,515 Income statement impact Impact on shareholders’ equity 252 Lower scenario (10% decrease in the value of equity investments) December 31, 2015 Securities recognized at fair value (in millions of euros) Available-for-sale securities through proﬁt or loss Balance sheet position 2,515 Income statement impact (0) Impact on shareholders’ equity (251) Upper scenario (10% increase in the value of equity investments) December 31, 2014 Securities recognized at fair value (in millions of euros) Available-for-sale securities through proﬁt or loss Balance sheet position 2,472 Income statement impact Impact on shareholders’ equity 247 Lower scenario (10% decrease in the value of equity investments) December 31, 2014 Securities recognized at fair value (in millions of euros) Available-for-sale securities through proﬁt or loss Balance sheet position 2,472 Income statement impact (2) Impact on shareholders’ equity (245) 240 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 COUNTERPARTY RISK The limits allowed for each counterparty are determined based on its rating and the type and maturity of the instruments traded. Assuming the rating of the counterparty The group is exposed to the credit risk of counterparties linked to its use of ﬁnancial is not downgraded earlier, the limits are reviewed at least once a year and approved derivatives to cover its risks by the group’s Chief Financial Oﬃcer. The limits are veriﬁed in a speciﬁc report The group uses diﬀerent types of ﬁnancial instruments to manage its exposure to produced by the internal control team of the Treasury Management Department. foreign exchange and interest rate risks, and its exposure to risks on commodities. During periods of signiﬁcant ﬁnancial instability that may involve an increased risk The group primarily uses forward buy/sell currency and commodity contracts and of bank default, which may be underestimated by ratings agencies, the Group rate derivative products such as swaps, futures or options to cover these types of monitors advanced indicators as necessary, such as the value of the credit default risk. These transactions involve exposure to counterparty risk when the contracts swaps (CDS) of the eligible counterparties, to determine if limits should be adjusted. are concluded over the counter. When conditions warrant (rising counterparty risk, longer term transactions, etc.), To minimize this risk, the group’s cash management department deals only with market transactions are managed by margin calls that reduce the group’s diversiﬁed, top quality counterparties based on their ratings in the Standard & Poor’s counterparty risk to a predetermined threshold: the Credit Support Annex for trades and Moody’s rating systems, with a minimum rating of investment grade. A legal documented under an ISDA master agreement, or the Collateral Annex for trades framework agreement is always signed with the counterparties. documented under a French Banking Federation (FBF) master agreement. BALANCE SHEET NETTING OF THE FAIR VALUE OF DERIVATIVES At December 31, 2015 Eﬀect of clearing agreements Gross carrying Financial Fair value of (in millions of euros) amount instruments ﬁnancial collateral Net exposure Assets 211 (205) 6 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities (535) 205 56 (275) TOTAL (324) 0 56 (268) LIQUIDITY RISK The system for monthly updates of cash forecasts (with a monthly view of the ﬁrst four months, then quarterly thereafter) was bolstered with an additional system for The group’s department of Financial Operations is in charge of liquidity risk updates of the ﬁrst four months on a weekly basis, based on (i) a weekly update of management and provides the subsidiaries with appropriate long term and short positions to month end and (ii) a system of alerts initiated by the Business Groups and term ﬁnancing resources. operating entities for cash ﬂows (excluding internal cash ﬂows) that are unexpected, Cash management optimization is based on a centralized system to provide liquidity unreported, unplanned or cancelled in any amount greater than 5 million euros. and manage the cash surpluses of the subsidiaries, regardless of AREVA’s equity If a pre-determined short-term position is exceeded, the Cash Management and stake. Management is provided by the group’s department of Financial Operations, Financing Department (DOFT) will send out a special communication to the chieﬂy through cash pooling agreements and inter-company loans, subject to local Business Groups and the group’s executive management (including the group’s regulations. The group’s consolidated cash surpluses are managed to optimize Chief Financial Oﬃcer) to decide on protective measure to be taken. ﬁnancial returns while ensuring that the ﬁnancial instruments used are liquid. At December 31, 2015, the group had a 1.250-billion-euro syndicated line of credit Borrowings are centralized by the department of Treasury Management to optimize and bilateral lines of credit totaling 845 million euros, all of which were conﬁrmed borrowing costs and facilitate access to the banking system. and unused. At December 31, 2015 Maturity Unused (in millions of euros) Amount amount 2016 2017 2018 Syndicated line of credit 1,250 1,250 1,250 Conﬁrmed bilateral lines of credit 845 845 50 795 TOTAL 2,095 2,095 50 795 1,250 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 241 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 In early 2016, AREVA drew a total of 2.045 billion euros on its syndicated line CREDIT RISK of credit and on bilateral lines of credit and negotiated an interim ﬁnancing from AREVA’s only exposure to credit risk relates to investments of cash surpluses in banks in the amount of 1.1 billion euros. These resources will ensure the group marketable securities and mutual funds or money market funds. Investment in these ﬁnancing for 2016. marketable securities is subject to limits of exposure based on the issuer’s rating External ﬁnancing arrangements are not subject to speciﬁc covenants. However, (short-term rating of Investment Grade). The group’s management approves these certain loan agreements include change of control clauses stipulating that the group limits. As regards money market funds and monetary SICAV (open-ended mutual should maintain control over the AREVA subsidiary that concluded the agreement, funds), the group invests its cash surpluses only subject to limits of exposure based or that the French State should maintain control over AREVA. The concept of control on the issuer’s rating (under criteria as described above) and in investment vehicles is understood either under the meaning of article L. 233-3 of the French Commercial with an average duration of less than 3 months. Code or in relation to the percentage of share capital ownership, which should remain higher than 50.1%. Under certain circumstances, the debt may become due immediately if AREVA ceases to control the subsidiary, or if the French State MARKET VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS ceases to control AREVA. The market value of financial instruments pertaining to currency, rate and The group’s liquidity risks and situation are presented in Note 1. commodity transactions are calculated based on market data as of the closing date, on discounted future cash ﬂows, or on prices provided by ﬁnancial institutions. The AREVA met two key milestones of the financing plan announced during the use of diﬀerent market assumptions could have a signiﬁcant impact on estimated publication of the half-year 2015 ﬁnancial statements with the proposal received market values. from EDF valuing AREVA NP (excluding OL3) at 2.5 billion euros and validation from the AREVA Board of Directors for a capital increase of 5 billion euros. 242 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 NOTE 32. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES BY CATEGORY 2015 Assets Including Fair value Balance Non-ﬁnancial recognized Assets Assets Fair value sheet assets and Loans and in proﬁt available held to of ﬁnancial (in millions of euros) value liabilities receivables or loss for sale maturity Derivatives assets Non-current assets 17,747 11,069 1,131 4,814 610 123 6,813 Goodwill on consolidated companies 1,272 1,272 Intangible assets 1,648 1,648 Property, plant and equipment 7,642 7,642 End-of-lifecycle assets (third party share) 178 178 Assets earmarked for end-of-lifecycle operations 6,122 739 4,773 610 6,257 Investments in joint ventures and associates 100 100 Other non-current assets 573 17 392 41 123 555 Deferred tax assets 212 212 Current assets 11,240 9,278 1,542 356 65 1,962 Inventories and work-in-process 1,216 1,216 Trade accounts receivable and related accounts 941 271 669 669 Other operating receivables 865 600 239 26 265 Current tax assets 51 51 Other non-operating receivables 81 64 18 18 Cash and cash equivalents 804 449 356 805 Other current ﬁnancial assets 207 168 39 207 Assets of operations held for sale 7,076 7,076 TOTAL ASSETS 28,987 20,347 2,673 356 4,814 610 187 8,775 Financial instruments at fair value recognized in proﬁt or loss and in “other items p Level 2: if a market for a ﬁnancial instrument is not active, valuation based on of comprehensive income” according to: readily observed market inputs p Level 1: Valuation based on quoted market prices in an active market p Level 3: valuation based on criteria that cannot be readily observed. (in millions of euros) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Non-current assets 5,329 341 12 5,682 Assets earmarked for end-of-lifecycle operations 5,329 189 5,518 Other non-current assets 152 12 164 Current assets 356 65 421 Other operating receivables 26 26 Cash and cash equivalents 356 356 Other current ﬁnancial assets 39 39 TOTAL ASSETS 5,685 406 12 6,103 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 243 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 Analysis of assets in the level 3 category Amount at Discontinued Amount at (in millions of euros) December 31, 2014 Increase Disposals operations Other December 31, 2015 Other non-current assets 21 4 (14) 1 12 Liabilities and equity Including Liabilities Fair value Balance Non-ﬁnancial at recognized Assets Fair value sheet assets and amortized in proﬁt available of ﬁnancial (in millions of euros) value liabilities cost or loss for sale Derivatives liabilities Equity and minority interests (2,281) (2,281) Share capital 1,456 1,456 Consolidated premiums and reserves (3,797) (3,797) Actuarial gains and losses on employee beneﬁts (293) (293) Deferred unrealized gains and losses on ﬁnancial instruments 166 166 Currency translation reserves (48) (48) Minority interests 235 235 Non-current liabilities 14,676 8,772 5,684 221 5,710 Employee beneﬁts 1,455 1,455 Provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations 6,921 6,921 Other non-current provisions 238 238 Share in negative net equity of joint ventures and associates 59 59 Long-term borrowings 5,905 5,684 221 5,710 Deferred tax liabilities 100 100 Current liabilities 16,592 13,080 3,261 251 3,512 Current provisions 3,990 3,990 Current borrowings 1,440 1,426 14 1,440 Advances and prepayments received 2,895 2,895 Trade accounts payable and related accounts 941 18 923 923 Other operating liabilities 1,904 817 849 238 1,087 Current tax liabilities 39 39 Other non-operating liabilities 64 1 63 63 Liabilities of discontinued operations 5,320 5,320 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 28,987 19,571 8,944 472 9,222 (in millions of euros) Leve 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Non-current liabilities 221 221 Long-term borrowings 221 221 Current liabilities 251 251 Current borrowings 14 14 Other operating liabilities 238 238 TOTAL LIABILITIES 472 472 244 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 2014 Assets Including Fair value Balance Non-ﬁnancial recognized Assets Assets Fair value sheet assets and Loans and in proﬁt available held to of ﬁnancial (in millions of euros) value liabilities receivables or loss for sale maturity Derivatives assets Non-current assets 21,709 15,431 881 4,659 716 21 6,426 Goodwill on consolidated companies 3,667 3,667 Intangible assets 2,267 2,267 Property, plant and equipment 8,719 8,719 End-of-lifecycle assets (third party share) 188 188 Assets earmarked for end-of-lifecycle operations 6,015 725 4,573 716 6,163 Investments in joint ventures and associates 143 143 Other non-current assets 273 10 155 86 21 263 Deferred tax assets 437 437 Current assets 8,211 4,635 2,052 1,478 45 3,576 Inventories and work-in-process 2,020 2,020 Trade accounts receivable and related accounts 2,079 739 1,340 1,340 Other operating receivables 1,786 1,335 426 25 452 Current tax assets 85 85 Other non-operating receivables 104 80 24 24 Cash and cash equivalents 1,686 1 241 1,443 1,685 Other current ﬁnancial assets 76 21 35 20 76 Assets of operations held for sale 375 375 TOTAL ASSETS 29,920 20,067 2,933 1,478 4,659 716 66 10,001 Financial instruments at fair value recognized in proﬁt or loss and in “other items p Level 2: if a market for a ﬁnancial instrument is not active, valuation based on of comprehensive income” according to: readily observed market inputs p Level 1: Valuation based on quoted market prices in an active market p Level 3: valuation based on criteria that cannot be readily observed. (in millions of euros) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Non-current assets 5,359 165 21 5,545 Assets earmarked for end-of-lifecycle operations 5,340 97 5,437 Other non-current assets 19 68 21 107 Current assets 1,478 45 1,523 Other operating receivables 25 25 Cash and cash equivalents 1,443 1,443 Other current ﬁnancial assets 35 20 55 TOTAL ASSETS 6,837 210 21 7,068 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 245 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 Liabilities and equity Including Liabilities Fair value Balance Non-ﬁnancial at recognized Assets Fair value sheet assets and amortized in proﬁt available of ﬁnancial (in millions of euros) value liabilities cost or loss for sale Derivatives liabilities Equity and minority interests (244) (244) Share capital 1,456 1,456 Consolidated premiums and reserves (1,738) (1,738) Actuarial gains and losses on employee beneﬁts (583) (583) Deferred unrealized gains and losses on ﬁnancial instruments 204 204 Currency translation reserves (12) (12) Minority interests 428 428 Non-current liabilities 16,527 9,656 6,870 7,071 Employee beneﬁts 2,235 2,235 Provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations 6,985 6,985 Other non-current provisions 267 267 Share in negative net equity of joint ventures and associates 103 103 Long-term borrowings 6,870 6,870 7,071 Deferred tax liabilities 66 66 Current liabilities 13,638 9,703 3,792 143 3,935 Current provisions 3,473 3,473 Current borrowings 624 619 5 624 Advances and prepayments received 4,444 4,444 Trade accounts payable and related accounts 1,824 14 1,810 1,810 Other operating liabilities 2,750 1,320 1,292 138 1,430 Current tax liabilities 58 58 Other non-operating liabilities 73 1 71 71 Liabilities of discontinued operations 392 392 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 29,920 19,115 10,663 143 11,006 (in millions of euros) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Current liabilities 143 143 Current borrowings 5 5 Other operating liabilities 138 138 TOTAL LIABILITIES 143 143 246 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 NET GAINS AND LOSSES ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Available-for-sale securities 2015 Subsequent valuation Changes in fair value Interest income Other income and foreign exchange Gain (loss) (in millions of euros) and dividends and expenses impact Impairment from disposal Other items of comprehensive income* 173 (86) Statement of Income 146 (23) 145 TOTAL 146 173 (23) 59 * excluding tax impact. At December 31, 2015, the net change in the fair value of available-for-sale securities recognized in “other items of comprehensive income” represented a total unrealized gain of 497 million euros. 2014 Subsequent valuation Changes in fair value Interest income Other income and foreign exchange Gain (loss) (in millions of euros) and dividends and expenses impact Impairment from disposal Other items of comprehensive income* 61 (145) Statement of Income 139 (19) 134 TOTAL 139 61 (19) (10) * excluding tax impact. At December 31, 2014, the net change in the fair value of available-for-sale securities recognized in “other items of comprehensive income” represented a total unrealized gain of 411 million euros. Loans and receivables 2015 (in millions of euros) Interest Impairment Debt forgiveness Net income 38 (18) 2014 (in millions of euros) Interest Impairment Debt forgiveness Net income 48 Financial assets and liabilities at fair value recognized through proﬁt or loss The income recorded on ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities recognized at fair value through proﬁt and loss was 2 million euros at December 31, 2015 and 5 million euros at December 31, 2014. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 247 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 Financial liabilities at amortized cost 2015 Interest expense Other income and (in millions of euros) and commissions expenses Net income (277) 2014 Interest expense Other income and (in millions of euros) and commissions expenses Net income (258) Derivatives used for hedging At December 31, 2015, the ineﬀective share of derivatives used for hedging recognized in proﬁt or loss is as follows: p Cash ﬂow hedges: (9) million euros p Fair value hedges: 1 million euros CASH FLOW HEDGES Recognition Value before tax New Change through proﬁt Value before tax at (in millions of euros) at December 31, 2014 transactions in value and loss December 31, 2015 Cash ﬂow hedging instruments (110) (39) (102) 52 (199) LASTING IMPAIRMENT OF AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES Reversal of Currency Amount at depreciation translation Other Value before tax at (in millions of euros) December 31, 2014 Charges on disposals adjustments changes December 31, 2015 Earmarked funds (15) (2) (95) (112) Other available-for-sale securities (133) (21) 29 95 (29) TOTAL (148) (23) 29 (141) UNREALIZED CAPITAL LOSSES ON AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES NOT RECOGNIZED THROUGH PROFIT AND LOSS Unrealized capital losses Including maturity in less Including maturity (in millions of euros) at December 31, 2015 than 1 year in 1-2 years Mandate (46) (8) (39) Bond funds (9) (7) (2) TOTAL (55) (15) (40) 248 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 NOTE 33. COMMITMENTS GIVEN AND RECEIVED December 31, Less than December 31, (in millions of euros) 2015 one year 1 to 5 years > 5 years 2014 Commitments given 3,022 1,142 1,142 738 2,526 Operating commitments given 2,487 856 959 672 2,277 1 Contract guarantees given 2,251 774 938 538 2,161 1 Other operating guarantees 235 82 20 133 116 Commitments given on ﬁnancing 428 233 144 51 152 Other commitments given 108 53 40 15 97 Commitments received 2,705 689 2,007 8 1,355 Operating commitments received 2,613 650 1,955 8 1,303 Commitments received on collateral 3 3 1 Other commitments received 89 39 50 51 Reciprocal commitments 2,915 284 2,469 162 3,171 The amounts above include off-balance-sheet commitments of discontinued of the contract, unless TVO succeeds in demonstrating the existence of a serious operations; they do not include construction contracts for which the group is and intentional oﬀence by the supplier. TVO has called on this commitment several currently in negotiations. times, and the group rejected these calls. No value concerning these guarantees was included in the previous table. COMMITMENTS GIVEN RECIPROCAL COMMITMENTS Operating commitments represent the majority of commitments given. Most of these commitments consist of performance bonds. In January 2013, the group established a 1.25-billion-euro syndicated line of The group gave a parent company commitment to its customer TVO for the credit available in euros over a 5-year period. The group also has bilateral lines execution of contractual obligations for the construction of an EPR in Finland. The of credit available to it in the amount of 50 million euros maturing in 2016 and group received a counter guarantee from Siemens in the amount of its share in the 795 million euros maturing in 2017. As of the end of December 2015, none of contract with TVO. The commitment given by the group corresponds to the amount these lines had been used. Reciprocal commitments at December 31, 2015 include the future minimum payments to be made on operating leases, as follows: (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 Less than one year 1 to 5 years > 5 years December 31, 2014 507 63 302 143 594 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 249 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 NOTE 34. DISPUTES AND POTENTIAL LIABILITIES Olkiluoto 3 EPR power plant (OL3) (dispute concerning penalty, including interest, is 79 million euros, including 28 million euros for Alstom AREVA NP) and AREVA severally. Alstom paid this amount in full to the European Commission. On December 5, 2008, the AREVA-Siemens consortium initiated arbitration The disagreement between the two groups on the share of the ﬁne to be paid proceedings with the ICC with regard to delays and disruptions suffered in by AREVA was settled amicably between them, and AREVA paid the sum of connection with the performance of the contract and the resulting extra costs (“D&D 5.1 million euros to Alstom pursuant to the settlement. Claim”). In July 2012, the Court of Arbitration rendered a ﬁnal partial decision Disputes involving AREVA related to the T&D business, sold on June 7, 2010, are enjoining TVO to release 100 million euros (plus interest) due to the AREVA-Siemens now closed. consortium which had been retained in contravention of contractual provisions. This decision was duly executed by TVO. UraMin case As of the end of 2015, after seven years of legal proceedings (exchanges of briefs Following the preliminary inquiry led by the French national ﬁnancial prosecutor’s by the parties and intermediate audiences with the arbitration court), the parties’ oﬃce, two judicial inquiries against persons unknown were opened concerning respective claims amounted to approximately 3.5 billion euros for the Consortium the conditions of the acquisition of UraMin and the presentation of the company’s (on sections 1 and 2 of its claim, covering the start of the project to February 2014) ﬁnancial statements relative to this purchase from 2009 to 2012. and 2.3 billion euros for TVO. The proceeding is following its course. In response to the subpoena received from the court, AREVA brought an independent The Consortium and its counsel still consider the allegations of serious/intentional action for damages in connection with the investigation of the UraMin acquisition. oﬀense made in TVO’s counterclaim to remain unfounded. Discussions with TVO have been initiated aiming at ensuring the completion of OL3 CFMM project and to settle the disputes. All parties consider that preliminary discussions A request for arbitration was submitted to the International Chamber of Commerce have proceeded positively. If this agreement materializes, the OL3 contract will be on July 28, 2014 against the CFMM company by a partner, Mr. Georges Arthur transferred from AREVA NP to AREVA SA within the framework of the restructuring Forrest, in which the petitioner challenges the decision of the General Meeting of the French nuclear industry. of Shareholders on June 24, 2013 to liquidate ArevExplo RCA. CFMM has submitted counterclaims in response to this petition. An arbitration tribunal has Disputes involving AREVA related to the T&D business, sold been constituted and the proceeding, which is to take place in 2015 and 2016, is on June 7, 2010 expected to result in a decision in 2017. Following the European Commission decision of January 24, 2007 in which 11 companies were fined, including AREVA, for anti-competitive practices Miscellaneous investigations concerning the gas-insulated switchgear market (GIS), the Court of Justice of the The company is also aware of the existence of other preliminary inquiries in progress European Union, in its decision of April 10, 2014, partly upheld certain appeals which led by the French national ﬁnancial prosecutor’s oﬃce. Since these inquiries are had been lodged in this matter by AREVA, causing a modiﬁcation of the distribution being carried out in connection with legal proceedings against unknown parties, of the penalty, but not a reduction of the overall penalty. The total amount of the AREVA is not currently implicated. NOTE 35. EVENTS SUBSEQUENT TO YEAR-END In early January 2016, AREVA started to use conﬁrmed lines of credit in the amount of 2.045 billion euros made available by its banking pool. The lines of credit now drawn represent 795 million euros maturing in 2017 and 1.250 billion euros maturing in January 2018. 250 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 NOTE 36. MAIN CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES AND ASSOCIATES Business reg. no. December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Name of unit or controlling entity: Percentage Percentage Company name, legal form Country (Siren no.) Method of interest Method of interest Nuclear AREVA NC SA France 305 207 169 FC 100 FC 100 AREVA NP SAS France 428 764 500 FC 100 FC 100 AREVA GmbH Germany FC 100 FC 100 AREVA Inc. United States FC 100 FC 100 AREVA TA SA France 772 045 879 FC 83.58 FC 83.58 Eurodif SA France 723 001 889 FC 59.65 FC 59.65 AREVA Resources Southern Africa Great Britain FC 100 FC 100 AREVA Resources Canada Canada FC 100 FC 100 Katco Kazakhstan FC 51 FC 51 SET France 440 252 666 FC 88 FC 88 ETC Great Britain EM 50 EM 50 AREVA Mines France 501 493 605 FC 100 FC 100 Somaïr Niger FC 63.40 FC 63.40 TN International France 602 039 299 FC 100 FC 100 CFMM France 300 574 894 FC 100 FC 100 ANC Expansion France 538 613 613 FC 86.51 FC 86.51 Renewable Energies AREVA Wind GmbH Germany Deconsolidated FC 100 Holding company and other operations – Investments AREVA SA France 712 054 923 FC 100 FC 100 AREVA BS France 421 356 593 FC 100 FC 100 FC: full consolidation EM: equity method NOTE 37. TRANSITION OF 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS REPORTED TO RESTATED 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS This note recapitulates the main impacts of the adoption of IFRS 5 on the ﬁnancial statements for the period ended December 31, 2014. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 251 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 RECONCILIATION OF STATEMENT OF INCOME AS REPORTED TO RESTATED STATEMENT OF INCOME adjustments (in millions of euros) 2014 reported IFRS 5 2014 restated REVENUE 8,336 (4,383) 3,954 Other income from operations 18 (13) 5 Cost of sales (8,744) 4,206 (4,538) Gross margin (390) (190) (579) Research and development expenses (231) 97 (134) Marketing and sales expenses (188) 128 (59) General and administrative expenses (316) 103 (213) Other operating expenses (1,584) 439 (1,145) Other operating income 64 (48) 16 OPERATING INCOME (2,645) 530 (2,115) Share in net income of joint ventures and associates (154) 140 (14) OPERATING INCOME AFTER SHARE IN NET INCOME OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES (2,799) 512 (2,129) Income from cash and cash equivalents 32 32 Gross borrowing costs (275) 58 (217) Net borrowing costs (243) 58 (185) Other ﬁnancial expenses (505) 52 (453) Other ﬁnancial income 350 -12 338 Other ﬁnancial income and expenses (155) 40 (115) NET FINANCIAL INCOME (397) 98 (299) Income tax (1,000) 262 (739) NET INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (4,197) 1,030 (3,167) Net income after tax from operations sold, discontinued or held for sale (648) (1,030) (1,678) NET INCOME FOR THE PERIOD (4,845) (4,845) Including: Group: Net income from continuing operations (4,198) 1,039 (3,159) Net income from operations sold, discontinued or held for sale (635) (1,038) (1,674) NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE PARENT (4,834) (4,833) Minority interests: Net income from continuing operations 1 (9) (8) Net income from operations sold, discontinued or held for sale (12) 9 (4) NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO MINORITY INTERESTS (11) (12) Number of shares outstanding 383,204,852 383,204,852 Average number of shares outstanding 383,204,852 383,204,852 Average number of treasury shares 857,551 857,551 Average number of shares outstanding, excluding treasury shares 382,347,301 382,347,301 Earnings per share from continuing operations (10.98) (8.26) Basic earnings per share (12.64) (12.64) Consolidated net income per diluted share (12.64) (12.64) 252 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 20 RECONCILIATION FROM STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AS REPORTED TO RESTATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME adjustments (in millions of euros) 2014 reported IFRS 5 2014 restated Net income (4,845) (4,845) Items not recyclable to the income statement (261) (260) Actuarial gains and losses on the employee beneﬁts of consolidated companies (305) 105 (200) Income tax related to non-recyclable items 61 (37) 24 Share in non-recyclable items from joint ventures and associates, net of tax (16) (16) Non-recyclable items related to operations sold, discontinued or held for sale, net of tax (68) (68) Items recyclable to the income statement (85) (85) Currency translation adjustments on consolidated companies and other 118 15 133 Change in value of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets (84) 6 (78) Change in value of cash ﬂow hedges (124) 10 (114) Income tax related to recyclable items 50 (5) 45 Share in recyclable items from joint ventures and associates, net of tax 6 (6) Recyclable items related to operations sold, discontinued or held for sale, net of tax (51) (19) (70) Total other items of comprehensive income (net of income tax) (346) (346) COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (5,190) (5,190) 1 Attributable to equity owners of the parent (5,155) (5,155) 1 Minority interests (36) (36) 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 253 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.2 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 RECONCILIATION OF STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS AS REPORTED TO RESTATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS adjustments (in millions of euros) 2014 reported IFRS 5 2014 restated Net income for the period (4,845) (4,845) Less: income from operations sold 648 1,030 1,678 Net income from continuing operations (4,197) 1,030 (3,167) (Proﬁt) / loss of joint ventures and associates 154 (140) 14 Net amortization, depreciation and impairment of PP&E and intangible assets and marketable securities maturing in more than 3 months 1,828 (550) 1,278 Goodwill impairment losses 214 214 Net increase in (reversal of) provisions 900 (178) 723 Net eﬀect of reverse discounting of assets and provisions 372 (26) 346 Income tax expense (current and deferred) 1,000 (262) 739 Net interest included in borrowing costs 223 (58) 165 Loss (gain) on disposals of ﬁxed assets and marketable securities maturing in more than 3 months; change in fair value (151) 22 (129) Other non-cash items (10) 6 (4) Dividends from joint ventures and associates 15 (12) 2 Cash ﬂow from operations before interest and taxes 348 (167) 181 Net interest received (paid) (218) 58 (160) Income tax paid (140) 27 (113) Cash ﬂow from operations after interest and tax (10) (82) (92) Change in working capital requirement 199 (143) 56 NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 190 (225) (36) Investment in PP&E and intangible assets (1,151) 173 (978) Loans granted and acquisitions of non-current ﬁnancial assets (1,234) 61 (1,174) Acquisitions of shares of consolidated companies, net of acquired cash Disposals of PP&E and intangible assets 10 (4) 7 Loan repayments and disposals of non-current ﬁnancial assets 1,311 (42) 1,268 Disposals of shares of consolidated companies, net of disposed cash (11) 0 (11) NET CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES (1,076) 187 (889) Share issues in the parent company and share issues subscribed by minority shareholders in consolidated subsidiaries Treasury shares sold/(acquired) (2) (2) Transactions with minority interests (8) (8) Dividends paid to minority shareholders of consolidated companies (31) 1 (30) Increase in borrowings 979 (824) 155 NET CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 939 (823) 116 Increase (decrease) in securities recognized at fair value through proﬁt and loss (2) (2) Impact of foreign exchange movements 19 24 44 NET CASH FROM OPERATIONS HELD FOR SALE (97) 837 740 INCREASE (DECREASE) IN NET CASH (26) (26) NET CASH AT THE BEGINNING OF THE YEAR 1,582 1,582 NET CASH AT THE END OF THE YEAR 1,556 1,556 254 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.3 2015 Financial statements 20 20.3 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20.3.1 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS This is a free translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report on the annual ﬁnancial statements issued in the French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. The statutory auditors’ report includes information speciﬁcally required by French law in such reports, whether modiﬁed or not. This information is presented below the audit opinion on the annual ﬁnancial statements and includes explanatory paragraphs discussing the auditors’ assessments of certain signiﬁcant accounting and auditing matters. These assessments were considered for the purpose of issuing an audit opinion on the annual ﬁnancial statements taken as a whole and not to provide separate assurance on individual account balances, transactions or disclosures. This report also includes information relating to the speciﬁc veriﬁcation of information given in the management report. This report should be read in conjunction with, and is construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Annual General Meeting, we hereby report to you, for the year ended December 31, 2015, on: p The audit of the accompanying ﬁnancial statements of AREVA; p The justiﬁcation of our assessments; p The speciﬁc veriﬁcations and information required by law. These ﬁnancial statements have been approved by the Board of directors. Our role is to express an opinion on these ﬁnancial statements based on our audit. I OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France; those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the ﬁnancial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures, using sampling techniques or other methods of selection, to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as well as the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suﬃcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. In our opinion, the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the ﬁnancial position of the Company as of December 31, 2015 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with French accounting principles. Without qualifying our opinion, we draw your attention to the matter set out in Note 1.1 to the ﬁnancial statements, regarding the context of the closing, the Company’s liquidity situation and the information relating to the application of the going concern principle. II JUSTIFICATION OF OUR ASSESSMENTS Accounting estimates contributing to the production of the ﬁnancial statements have been made under the terms described in Note 1.1 to the ﬁnancial statements. Within this framework, and in accordance with the requirements of article L. 823-9 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the justiﬁcation of our assessments, we bring to your attention the following matters: p Participating interests were valued in accordance with the accounting methods described in Note 2.2 to the ﬁnancial statements entitled “Accounting policies, rules and methods – Long-term investments”. As part of our audit, we reviewed the procedures for executing the valuation of those long-term investments and assessed the consistency of the underlying assumptions with the forecasted data of these entities concerned. We also veriﬁed the appropriateness of the abovementioned information provided in the notes of the ﬁnancial statements. p Provisions for risks, litigation and contingent liabilities are described in Note 6.8 to the ﬁnancial statements. We examined the existing procedures for the identiﬁcation, evaluation and presentation in the accounts of the Company’s risks, litigation and contingent liabilities. We also veriﬁed that the main disputes identiﬁed during the implementation of these procedures are described appropriately in the note to the ﬁnancial statements. p In the frame of our assessment on the going concern assumption, we examined the Company’s liquidity situation detailed in Note 1.1 to the ﬁnancial statements. We acknowledged the cash ﬂow forecasts, the debt schedules, the current credit lines and the related covenants. These assessments were made as part of our audit of the ﬁnancial statements taken as a whole, and therefore contributed to the opinion we formed which is expressed in the ﬁrst part of this report. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 255 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.3 2015 Financial statements III – SPECIFIC VERIFICATIONS AND INFORMATION REQUIRED BY LAW We have also performed, in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the speciﬁc veriﬁcations required by French law. We have no matters to report as to the fair presentation and the consistency with the ﬁnancial statements of the information given in the management report of the Board of directors and in the documents addressed to shareholders with respect to the ﬁnancial position and the ﬁnancial statements. Concerning the information given in accordance with the requirements of article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to remunerations and beneﬁts received by the directors and any other commitments made in their favour, we have veriﬁed its consistency with the ﬁnancial statements, or with the underlying information used to prepare these ﬁnancial statements and, where applicable, with the information obtained by your company from companies controlling your company or controlled by it. Based on this work, we attest the accuracy and fair presentation of this information. In accordance with French law, we have veriﬁed that the required information concerning the purchase of investments and controlling interests and the identity of the shareholders and holders of the voting rights has been properly disclosed in the management report. Courbevoie Paris La Défense, March 31, 2016 The statutory auditors French original signed by MAZARS ERNST & YOUNG Audit Cédric Haaser Jean-Louis Simon Aymeric de La Morandière Jean Bouquot 256 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.3 2015 Financial statements 20 20.3.2 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 2015 2014 Assets Amortization (In thousands of euros) Note Gross & Depreciation Net Net Uncalled share capital Non-current assets Research and development expenses Concessions, patents, licenses, software and similar rights 148,061 95,171 52,890 51,096 Business intangibles Other intangible assets Intangible assets in progress 2,639 2,639 12,752 Advances and prepayments on intangible assets Total intangible assets 20.4.4.1/4.2 150,701 95,171 55,529 63,849 Land 204 204 204 Buildings 114 114 Plant, equipment and tooling 174 75 98 1 Other property, plant and equipment (PPE) 86,825 67,402 19,423 20,604 Plant, property and equipment in progress 5,766 5,766 10,166 Advances and prepayments on PPE Total property, plant and equipment 20.4.4.1/4.2 93,082 67,591 25,491 30,974 Associates 8,467,665 6,155,573 2,312,092 2,313,045 Loans to associates 5,597,158 549,455 5,047,703 5,297,680 Long-term shareholdings in trading portfolio Other equity securities 183 59 124 14,359 Loans Other long-term investments 22,422 5,921 16,501 21,593 Total long-term investments 20.4.4.3/4.4 14,087,428 6,711,008 7,376,420 7,646,677 Total non-current assets 14,331,211 6,873,770 7,457,441 7,741,499 Current assets Raw materials and supplies Goods in process Intermediate and ﬁnished products Goods Total inventories and work-in-process Advances and prepayments on orders 23,753 23,753 23,647 Accounts receivable and related accounts 101,685 101,685 113,492 Other accounts receivable 479,105 749 478,355 377,132 Subscribed capital called for, unpaid Total receivables 20.4.4.5 580,790 749 580,041 490,625 Marketable securities 428,467 286 428,181 1,481,032 Cash instruments 55,700 55,700 12,600 Cash and cash equivalents 1,911,363 9,722 1,901,641 1,776,828 Total cash and marketable securities 20.4.4.7 2,395,530 10,009 2,385,522 3,270,460 Prepaid expenses 15,657 15,657 2,672 Total current assets 3,015,730 10,758 3,004,972 3,787,404 Deferred charges 12,768 12,768 16,480 Bond redemption premiums 17,095 17,095 20,690 Unrealized foreign exchange gains GRAND TOTAL 17,376,804 6,884,529 10,492,275 11,566,074 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 257 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.3 2015 Financial statements Shareholders’ equity and liabilities (in thousands of euros) Note 2015 2014 Share capital 20.4.4.8 1,456,178 1,456,178 Additional paid-in capital, merger premiums, share premiums 1,148,130 1,148,130 Legal reserve 145,618 145,618 Reserves in accordance with the articles of association Other reserves 9,707 9,707 Retained earnings -1 413 175 3,896,177 Net income for the year -2,915,938 -5,309,351 Investment subsidies 654 986 Tax-driven provisions 7,895 6,230 Total shareholders’ equity 20.4.4.9 -1,560,931 1,353,674 Other shareholders’ equity Proceeds from issues of equity securities Advances subject to covenants 83 73 Total other shareholders’ equity 83 73 Provisions for contingencies and losses Provisions for contingencies 1,515,629 200,656 Provisions for losses 40,871 48,127 Total provisions for contingencies and losses 20.4.4.10 1,556,500 248,783 Liabilities Convertible bond issues Other bond issues 5,867,450 5,861,685 Bank borrowings 201,797 459,495 Miscellaneous loans and borrowings 3,575,483 2,979,907 Advances and prepayments on orders Trade accounts payable and related accounts 99,811 127,771 Taxes and employee-related liabilities 17,510 22,167 Accounts payable on non-current assets and related accounts 471 147 Other liabilities 518,259 377,356 Financial instruments 147,455 70,293 Unearned income 68,388 64,722 Total liabilities 20.4.4.11 10,496,623 9,963,543 Unrealized foreign exchange losses TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 10,492,275 11,566,074 258 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.3 2015 Financial statements 20 20.3.3 STATEMENT OF INCOME (in thousands of euros) Note 2015 2014 Operating income Sales of goods Sales of products Services performed 452,145 487,137 Revenue (1) 452,145 487,137 Production in inventory Self-constructed assets 10,148 15,549 Operating subsidies Reversals of provisions, amortization and depreciation 4,817 4,035 Transferred expenses 10 3,188 Other income 494 440 Total operating income 467,614 510,349 Operating expenses Sales of goods Change in inventory (goods) Purchases of raw materials and other supplies 1,662 154 Change in inventory (raw materials and supplies) Other purchases and expenses 553,739 610,740 Taxes and related expenses 3,521 4,189 Salaries and other compensation 10,791 8,991 Social security taxes 6,385 7,140 Amortization, depreciation and provisions 27,756 37,093 Other expenses 4,565 5,442 Total operating expenses 605,094 673,442 Current operating income 20.4.5.1 -137,480 -163,093 Share of net income from joint operations Proﬁt allocated or loss transferred Loss allocated or proﬁt transferred Financial income From equity interests 223,799 209,553 From other marketable securities and capitalized receivables 70 152 Other interest and related income 170,747 113,399 Reversals of provisions, amortization and depreciation 992,036 1,238 Transferred expenses Foreign exchange gains 796,818 438,962 Net income from disposals of marketable securities 1,529 4,327 Total ﬁnancial income 2,184,999 767,631 Financial expenses Amortization, depreciation and provisions 3,676,817 5,162,720 Interest and related expenses 465,583 322,936 Foreign exchange losses 794,808 441,457 Net loss on disposals of marketable securities 565 1,117 Total ﬁnancial expenses 4,937,773 5,928,229 net ﬁnancial income 20.4.5.2 -2,752,774 -5,160,598 Income before tax and exceptional items -2,890,254 -5,323,691 (1) including direct exports 60,408 54,052 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 259 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.3 2015 Financial statements STATEMENT OF INCOME (CONTINUED) (in thousands of euros) Note 2015 2014 Exceptional items On ﬁnancial management transactions 3,648 298 On capital or non-current asset transactions 21,664 26,439 Reversals of provisions, amortization and depreciation 171,886 240,665 Transferred expenses Total exceptional income 197,198 267,402 Exceptional expenses On ﬁnancial management transactions 5,229 26,419 On capital or non-current asset transactions 46,197 101,870 Amortization, depreciation and provisions 260,775 197,270 Total exceptional expenses 312,201 325,559 Exceptional items 20.4.5.3 -115,002 -58,157 Employee proﬁt-sharing Income tax 20.4.5.4 -89,319 -72,496 NET INCOME -2,915,938 -5,309,351 260 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 20 20.4 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The notes hereunder supplement the statement of ﬁnancial position for the period These notes and tables are an integral part of the ﬁnancial statements approved by ended December 31, 2015 showing total assets of 10,492,275 thousand euros, Board of Directors on February 25, 2016. The ﬁnancial statements will be presented and the statement of income, showing a net loss of 2,915,938 thousand euros. to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders for approval on May 19, 2016. These statements are for the 12-month period beginning January 1 and ending For the record, on January 8, 2015, the extraordinary general meeting of AREVA SA December 31, 2015. decided to transform the company’s governance from that of a corporation with The notes include: a Supervisory Board and an Executive Board into a corporation with a Board of Highlights of the year Directors. On that same day, the newly appointed Board of Directors decided to split p the positions of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Oﬃcer. Mr. Philippe p Accounting principles and methods Varin was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors and Mr. Philippe Knoche p Notes to the statement of ﬁnancial position was appointed CEO of AREVA. p Notes to the statement of income p Additional information 20.4.1. ITEMS OF NOTE IN THE 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20.4.1.1. CONTEXT OF THE 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Flamanville 3 reactor vessel and (ii) the deﬁnition of procedures for transferring the OL3 contract from AREVA NP to AREVA SA. The year of 2015 saw the implementation of measures announced on March 4, 2015 during the publication of the financial statements for the year ended ○ The parties’ objective is to carry out this transaction in 2017, after consultation December 31, 2014, and guidance for the transformation of the French nuclear with the employee representative bodies, receipt of regulatory authorizations industry announced on June 3, 2015 by the President of the French Republic. and the lifting of the other conditions precedent of the transaction. Important milestones were met in 2015 and in the ﬁrst weeks of 2016, in particular Refocusing on nuclear fuel cycle operations for the following items: The sale, termination or transformation into a joint venture of operations that are p Advanced discussions with EDF for the sale of at least 75% of AREVA NP’s share not part of the new AREVA’s core business, refocused on the nuclear fuel cycle, capital, excluding the OL3 contract; have been announced or carried out in 2015: p Refocusing of AREVA on nuclear fuel cycle operations with the announced p Oﬀshore Wind: On March 9, 2015, AREVA and Gamesa ﬁnalized the creation termination or sale of operations that are not part of its core business; of the Adwen joint venture; p A competitiveness plan aiming for 1 billion euros in cost reductions by 2017, p Solar Energy: Discussions with potential buyers were not successful, and the including a restructuring plan; last project in execution was the subject of an agreement with the customer on p The preparation of a 2015-2017 ﬁnancing plan including in particular an increase January 16, 2016 to terminate the contract; in AREVA’s share capital of 5 billion euros. p Nuclear Measurements: Following a call for oﬀers issued in June 2015 aimed Discussions with EDF for the sale of AREVA NP at selling its subsidiaries Canberra Industries Inc. and Canberra France S.A.S., which specialize in nuclear measurement instrumentation and systems. After AREVA and EDF continue their discussions for the sale of at least 75% of AREVA NP examining the oﬀers, AREVA selected the Mirion proposal (supported by the to EDF. Charterhouse investment capital fund) on December 24, 2015; p The two companies signed a preliminary memorandum of understanding on p AREVA TA: The principle of an acquisition by the Agence des participations de July 29, 2015 presenting the principal terms and conditions of the project with l’État of a majority interest in AREVA TA was announced in a press release on a view to ﬁnalizing deﬁnitive agreements. December 17, 2015 and conﬁrmed on January 27, 2016. p The next milestone was met during the AREVA Board of Directors meeting of January 27, 2016, which was favorable to the convergence of negotiations Restructuring plan entered into with EDF concerning the valuation of AREVA NP’s operations and The group announced a personnel expense reduction target of 18% worldwide gave the Chief Executive Oﬃcer authority to ﬁnalize the negotiations. AREVA (15% in France) based on renegotiation of compensation, the organization reached an agreement with EDF on an indicative value of 2.5 billion euros for of working time, and manpower adjustments leading to the elimination of 5 to 100% of the share capital at the closing date of the transaction, excluding the 6,000 jobs, including 3 to 4,000 in France, by the end of 2017. OL3 project, with a price supplement mechanism as a function in particular of In France, a group agreement was signed on October 19, 2015 between AREVA NP’s performance over the 2017-2018 period, and which could reach management and labor. Measures are based on voluntary action. The consultation a maximum amount of 350 million euros. This proposal is likely to be adjusted procedures with employee representative bodies are in progress and, subject to upwards or downwards as a function of the ﬁnancial statements drawn up at approval by the labor administration, the voluntary departure plans will enter into the closing date of the transaction. force in early April 2016. ○ AREVA would keep a strategic interest in AREVA NP of at least 15%, with which governance rights would be associated suited to AREVA’s status as a Capital increase strategic minority shareholder. The Board of Directors, meeting on January 27, 2016, approved the principle of ○ Finalization of the transaction remains subject in particular to (i) the favorable a capital increase in the amount of 5 billion euros designed to restore a sound outcome of verifications in progress concerning the compliance of the balance sheet to the group. On that same day, the President of the French Republic 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 261 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements announced that the State, as leading shareholder, would subscribe to this capital Contract for construction of the Olkiluoto 3 EPR increase, to which minority third-party investors would be invited, and would ensure Over the course of 2015, the Olkiluoto 3 EPR project made progress, meeting its full success, in compliance with regulations and European procedures applicable critical path milestones. to such transactions. Discussions have begun with TVO with the objective of jointly laying the foundations Liquidity situation and business continuity for cooperation to complete the project and settle the dispute. All parties consider that preliminary discussions have proceeded positively. If this agreement materializes, the At December 31, 2015, the liquidity risk was covered for the year of 2016 by: OL3 contract will be transferred from AREVA NP to AREVA SA within the framework p a positive gross cash position of 2.4 billion euros (compared with 3.3 billion euros of the restructuring of the French nuclear industry. at December 31, 2014) consisting of 738 million euros of external cash and 1.647 billion euros of internal non-trade current accounts (see Note 20.4.4.7). Gross cash was kept at this level through a combination of optimization activities 20.4.1.2. WRITE-DOWN OF EQUITY SECURITIES initiated during the year (strengthened cash management, implementation AND LOANS TO ASSOCIATES of the competitiveness plan, factoring transactions and the sale of tax credit In connection with the review undertaken in late 2015-early 2016 of the receivables). These cash optimization measures will continue in 2016; business outlook for the diﬀerent Business Groups, and considering the current p an unused balance of conﬁrmed lines of credit in the approximate amount of market environment and the diﬃculties experienced on certain construction or 2.1 billion euros, including a syndicated line of credit and bilateral lines of credit. modernization contracts in progress, the proﬁtability outlook for some ﬁrst-tier Since December 31, 2015: subsidiaries was revised signiﬁcantly downward. p as it announced on January 27, 2016, AREVA drew the full amount of these The recoverable amounts resulting therefrom translate into the write-down of lines of credit, including a syndicated line of credit and bilateral lines of credit certain equity securities, of non-trade current accounts, of loans to associates held totaling 2.045 billion euros, on January 4 and 5, 2016; by AREVA SA (see Note 20.4.4.4.1), and of the provision for ﬁnancial risk (see a bridge loan of 1.1 billion euros provided by a banking pool was negotiated Note 20.4.4.10.2). The principal subsidiaries concerned are: p and will supplement these resources to ensure the group’s business continuity. p AREVA NP, At December 31, 2015, short-term borrowings amounted to 4.834 billion euros p AREVA Business Support, and consisted mainly of the following (see Note 20.4.4.11): p AREVA Energies Renouvelables. External debt in the amount of 1.284 billion euros, including: At December 31, 2015, the write-down for equity securities and loans to associates p the last installment in the amount of 200 million euros of a loan granted by the for the year contributed the amount of 2,684,781 thousand euros to AREVA SA’s European Investment Bank, paid in January 2016; loss of 2,915,938 thousand euros. AREVA SA equity became negative on that same date. p the scheduled repayment of 975 million euros of a bond issue in September 2016; p accrued interest on bond issues in the amount of 81 million euros in September 2016; 20.4.1.3. CREATION OF ADWEN p commercial paper in the amount of 26 million euros; and On March 9, 2015, through its subsidiary AREVA Energies Renouvelables, AREVA p current bank facilities in the amount of 2 million euros. and Gamesa signed ﬁnal agreements to create Adwen, a joint venture in the ﬁeld Internal debt in the amount of 3.549 billion euros, including: of oﬀshore wind. Held in equal shares by the two companies, Adwen is taking over AREVA’s wind energy operations. The joint venture will design, manufacture, install, p debt related to associates in the amount of 6 million euros; and commission and maintain oﬀshore wind turbines. p non-trade current accounts in the amount of 3,543 million euros. Beyond 2016, and up to the end of 2018, signiﬁcant debt repayments include 20.4.1.4. CONTRACTS FOR THE DESIGN AND repayment of the bond issue expiring in October 2017 in the nominal remaining amount of 798 million euros, reimbursement of the bridge loan of 1.1 billion euros CONSTRUCTION OF AN EXPERIMENTAL REACTOR in January 2017, assuming it is used in 2016, repayment of the bilateral lines of A tripartite memorandum of understanding was signed on July 20, 2015 by credit in the amount of 795 million euros in 2017, repayment of the syndicated AREVA SA, AREVA TA and the customer. The memorandum of understanding is line of credit in the amount of 1.250 billion euros in January 2018, and a private based on reciprocal concessions under which AREVA agrees to bear a capped placement in yen equivalent to 60 million euros in September 2018. Over that share of the extra costs deemed necessary to the completion of its contracts, timeframe, business continuity will be ensured by taking the measures set forth excluding errors of its doing and extra costs speciﬁcally related to its project manager in the group’s ﬁnancing plan, whose objective is to give the company the means responsibilities to steer overall testing. This memorandum of understanding will very to implement its transformation plan and to present a ﬁnancial proﬁle enabling it substantially limit the group’s ﬁnancial exposure to this project (see Note 20.4.4.10.2). to reﬁnance in the markets on a long-term basis. These measures include among others the capital increase, the sale of the majority of AREVA NP to EDF, and the other subsidiary sales described in the preceding paragraphs. 262 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 20 20.4.2. ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND METHODS The ﬁnancial statements of AREVA SA for the year ended December 31, 2015 recorded in euros based on the hedged rate. Unrealized foreign exchange losses were prepared in accordance with French accounting standards as defined are recognized through a contingency provision. in articles 121-1 and 121-2 et seq. of the Plan comptable général 2014. The accounting policies were applied in compliance with the provisions of the French Commercial Code, the Accounting decree of November 29, 1983 and the ANC 20.4.2.4. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 2014-03 regulations of the French Accounting Board related to the redrafting of AREVA SA uses derivative instruments to hedge foreign exchange risks, interest rate the Plan comptable général applicable to year-end closing. risks and the price of commodities, both for its own account and for transactions carried out by its subsidiaries. The derivatives used are mainly forward exchange contracts, currency and interest rate swaps, inﬂation swaps, currency options and 20.4.2.1. VALUATION OF PROPERTY, PLANT commodity options. AND EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS The risks hedged relate to receivables, borrowings and ﬁrm commitments in foreign Property, plant and equipment (PPE) and intangible assets are recognized at currencies, planned transactions in foreign currencies, and planned sales and acquisition or production cost, including startup expenses. purchases of commodities. Derivative instruments traded to hedge subsidiaries’ They are depreciated based on the approach most representative of the loss of exposure are issued by banking counterparties. Thus, AREVA SA’s exposure to its economic value of each component, with each component depreciated based on subsidiaries is strictly oﬀset by AREVA SA’s positions with the banks. its own useful life. Depreciation is calculated using the straight line method and Accounting principles: rates normally applicable to these categories of assets. p Gains and losses on derivatives traded to hedge the subsidiaries’ exposure are The maximum depreciation periods are as follows: recognized through proﬁt and loss at maturity, thus matching the gains and p 3 years for oﬀ-the-shelf software; losses recognized on the symmetrical derivative transactions between AREVA SA p 10 years for integrated management software packages; and the banks. p 25 years for buildings; p Interest rate derivatives traded by AREVA SA are qualiﬁed as hedging instruments. Interest is recognized as accrued. p 10 years for building improvements and oﬃce furniture; and p 5 years for oﬃce equipment, computers and transportation equipment. 20.4.2.5. MARKETABLE SECURITIES Depreciation may be recorded when a speciﬁc asset’s book value exceeds its net carrying amount. The resulting net carrying amount may be considered to be Marketable securities are valued at the lower of their acquisition cost or period-end economically justiﬁed. value. A provision for impairment is recorded when the valuation at the end of the period shows an overall loss by class of securities. The current value is equal to the average closing market price of the securities for the last month of the period. 20.4.2.2. LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS A provision for impairment of other cash investments, such as debt instruments that Long-term investments are recognized on the balance sheet at cost on the are not publicly traded, is recorded separately when warranted. day of contribution or acquisition. The acquisition cost includes the purchase price plus costs directly related to the purchase, such as commissions paid to acquire securities. 20.4.2.6. NON-TRADE CURRENT ACCOUNTS A provision for impairment of investments in associates is recorded when their Non-trade current accounts are reported under “cash and cash equivalents” on original cost exceeds their value in use, determined security by security. the assets side of the balance sheet; otherwise, they appear in borrowings on Impairment is computed based on interest in each associate’s equity at year end. the liabilities side. This assessment also takes into account the subsidiaries’ estimated proﬁtability or market value, as well as events or developments subsequent to year-end. 20.4.2.7. BOND ISSUES Loans to equity associates are recorded at face value. A provision for impairment is recognized if necessary to reﬂect the actual value at year end. Bond debt is recognized as borrowings, as provided in generally accepted accounting principles in France (Plan comptable général). Redemption premiums and deferred charges related to bond issues are amortized 20.4.2.3. RECEIVABLES AND BORROWINGS in a straight line over the term of the issue. Receivables and debt are recorded at nominal value. Receivables may be written down to reﬂect potential collection diﬃculties based on information available 20.4.2.8. PROVISIONS FOR CONTINGENCIES AND LOSSES at closing. Receivables and borrowings in foreign currencies are translated and recorded in AREVA’s provisions for contingencies and losses are consistent with French euros based on exchange rates in eﬀect at year end. Unrealized gains and losses accounting board rules on liabilities dated December 7, 2000 (CRC 2000-06). are recorded on the balance sheet as currency translation diﬀerences. Receivables AREVA SA records provisions for contingencies and losses, for instance to cover and liabilities in foreign currencies whose exchange rates have been hedged are restructuring or litigation expenses. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 263 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements Contingent liabilities represent obligations that are neither probable nor certain at 20.4.2.10. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS the date of closing, or obligations that are probable but where no resource is likely to be expended. Contingent liabilities are not recognized in provisions, but rather Items related to the company’s ordinary operations are recognized in income before disclosed in the notes (see Section 20.4.4.10). tax and extraordinary items, even if they are exceptional in terms of frequency or amount. Only items that are not related to the company’s ordinary operations are recognized as exceptional items in the income statement, in addition to transactions 20.4.2.9. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS speciﬁcally qualiﬁed as exceptional items under French GAAP (regulated provisions, reversals of investment subsidies, gains on disposals of certain assets, etc.). In the case of deﬁned contribution plans, the group’s payments are recognized as expenses for the period to which they relate. The ﬁnancial statements also reﬂect all of AREVA’s pension, retirement and related 20.4.2.11. TAX INFORMATION beneﬁt commitments, both for active personnel and for retirees, net of any plan As provided in article 223A of the French Tax Code, AREVA SA opted to be solely assets and unrecognized gains covering the liabilities. responsible for income tax due on the combined income of the group consisting of For deﬁned beneﬁt plans, beneﬁt costs are estimated using the projected credit AREVA SA and the subsidiaries in which it holds at least 95% of the share capital. unit method. Under this method, accrued pension beneﬁts are allocated among This regime remains in eﬀect for the year ended December 31, 2015. service periods based on the plan vesting formula. If services in subsequent years The relations between AREVA SA and its integrated subsidiaries are governed by a result in accrued beneﬁt levels that are substantially higher than those of previous tax integration agreement based on the principle of tax neutrality. This agreement years, the Company must allocate the accrued beneﬁts on a straight-line basis. The deﬁnes in particular the conditions for distributing tax liabilities among integrated amount of future beneﬁt payments to employees is determined based on salary companies and the rules applicable upon termination of the integration. trend assumptions, retirement age and mortality, discounted to present value based on interest rates for long-term bonds from AAA issuers. As provided in article 39-1-2 of the French Tax Code, depreciation is deductible for tax purposes only if properly recognized in the company’s accounting records. Actuarial gains and losses are spread out over the average expected remaining To encourage capital spending, tax law may allow companies to recognize working life of personnel taking part in these plans for the portion exceeding the amortization that would not otherwise be required under reporting standards. Due largest of the following values by more than 10%: to discrepancies between tax and accounting rules, AREVA recognizes accelerated p the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the balance sheet opening depreciation in a manner that is consistent with accounting rules providing for date; minimum cumulative straight-line amortization. p the fair value of plan assets at the balance sheet opening date. The costs of plan changes are allocated over the vesting period. 20.4.3. EVENTS SUBSEQUENT TO YEAR-END CLOSING In early January 2016, AREVA started to use conﬁrmed lines of credit in the amount Discussions with TVO began in early 2016 with the objective of jointly laying the of 2.045 billion euros made available by its banking pool. The lines of credit now foundations for cooperation to complete the project and settle the dispute. If this drawn represent 795 million euros maturing in 2017 and 1.250 billion euros agreement materializes, the OL3 contract will be transferred from AREVA NP to maturing in January 2018. AREVA SA within the framework of the restructuring of the French nuclear industry. The parties agree that signiﬁcant progress has been made, making an agreement foreseeable in the coming weeks. 264 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 20 20.4.4. NOTES TO THE BALANCE SHEET 20.4.4.1. GROSS VALUES OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS Transfers from Gross amount Note Merger account (in thousands of euros) Appendix 2014 Spin-oﬀ Increase Decrease to account 2015 Intangible assets Research and development expenses Concessions, patents, licenses, software and similar rights 128,957 19,362 253 -4 148,061 Leasehold Other intangible assets Intangible assets in progress 12,752 7,305 17,418 2,639 Advances and prepayments TOTAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS 20.4.4.1.1 141,709 26,668 17,672 -4 150,701 Property, plant and equipment Land 204 204 Buildings: 1 Buildings erected on owned land 114 114 1 Buildings erected on third party land 1 Buildings, facilities, ﬁxtures Plant, equipment and tooling: 1 Plant, equipment and tooling 64 109 174 1 End-of-lifecycle assets Other PPE: 1 Miscellaneous facilities, ﬁxtures and improvements 62,562 4,289 -82 66,769 1 Transportation equipment 1 Oﬃce equipment, computer equipment and furniture 19,226 765 22 86 20,056 1 Other property, plant and equipment Plant, property and equipment in progress 10,166 4,404 8,804 5,766 Advances and prepayments on PPE TOTAL PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 20.4.4.1.2. 92,335 9,568 8,826 4 93,082 20.4.4.1.1. The increase in intangible assets is mainly p Phileas project (2,858 thousand euros) – SAP merger of the legal entities related to the startup of the following projects: p Smart/Sepa project (644 thousand euros) – Cash management software p Windows 7 project (11,289 thousand euros) – Information Systems Department 20.4.4.1.2. The increase in property, plant and equipment p ETE-EVAL project (2,202 thousand euros) Software for dismantling scenarios (PPE) is mainly due to the deployment of improvements and ﬁxtures on certain ﬂoors of the AREVA Tower. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 265 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 20.4.4.2. AMORTIZATION AND DEPRECIATION OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS Amortization and impairment Merger From account (in thousands of euros) Note 2014 Spin-oﬀ Increase Decrease to account 2015 Intangible assets Research and development expenses Concessions, patents, licenses, software and similar rights 77,861 17,454 143 95,171 Leasehold Other intangible assets Intangible assets in progress TOTAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS 77,861 17,454 143 95,171 Property, plant and equipment Land and improvements Buildings: 1 Buildings erected on owned land 114 114 1 Buildings erected on third party land 1 Buildings, facilities, ﬁxtures Plant, equipment and tooling: 1 Plant, equipment and tooling 64 12 75 1 End-of-lifecycle assets Other PPE: 1 Miscellaneous facilities, ﬁxtures and improvements 45,568 5,015 50,583 1 Transportation equipment 1 Oﬃce equipment, computer equipment and furniture 15,616 1,211 8 16,819 1 Other property, plant and equipment Plant, property and equipment in progress TOTAL PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 61,362 6,237 8 67,591 20.4.4.3. LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS Merger Gross amount Contribution (in thousands of euros) Note 2014 Spin-oﬀ Increase Decrease 2015 Associates 20.4.4.3.1 6,419,276 -700 2,050,160 1,071 8,467,665 Loans to associates 20.4.4.3.2 6,423,123 1,156,801 1,982,766 5,597,158 Investment portfolio Other long-term securities 20.4.4.3.3 43,488 43,305 183 Loans Other long-term investments: 1 Receivables related to end-of-lifecycle operations 1 End-of-lifecycle assets Third party share 1 Other long-term investments 20.4.4.3.4 24,781 3,242 5,600 22,422 TOTAL LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS 12,910,668 -700 3,210,203 2,032,742 14,087,428 266 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 20 20.4.4.3.1. The “Associates” line totaling 8,467,665 thousand p UraMin Centrafrique 113,502 thousand euros euros primarily comprises the following securities: (123,569 thousand USD) p AREVA NP 5,092,280 thousand euros p AREVA Solar Inc. 111,292 thousand euros AREVA Mines 2,356,194 thousand euros (121,164 thousand USD) p AREVA NC 523,292 thousand euros p Atmea 106,500 thousand euros p CERE 251,541 thousand euros p AREVA Enrichment Services LLC 65,240 thousand euros p (71,027 thousand USD) p AREVA Energies Renouvelables 155,003 thousand euros The increases correspond mainly to the ﬁnancing granted to CFMM in the amount ○ In 2015, AREVA subscribed to the capital increase of its subsidiary AREVA NP of 590,000 thousand euros and to AREVA Énergies Renouvelables in the amount in the amount of 2,050,115 thousand euros by incorporation of receivables. of 266,281 thousand euros. The principal decrease in this item corresponds to the ○ The decrease of the period corresponds to the liquidation of AREVA Canada incorporation of the receivable of 1,794,000 thousand euros in connection with the Inc. in the amount of 1,066 thousand euros. AREVA NP capital increase (see supra). ○ The amounts for mergers, contributions and spin-oﬀs corresponds to the complete transfer of assets and liabilities carried out between AREVACom 20.4.4.3.3. The change in the “Other long-term securities” and AREVA SA in the amount of 700 thousand euros. item corresponds to the sale of Japan Steel securities in the amount of 43,305 thousand euros. 20.4.4.3.2. The “Loans to associates” line in the amount of 5,597,158 thousand euros concerns medium-term loans 20.4.4.3.4. “Other long-term investments” include: granted to companies of the group, including accrued p security deposits related to commercial leases for the AREVA Tower in interest (see Note 20.4.4.6). At December 31, 2015, these Courbevoie and the rue La Fayette oﬃces in Paris in the approximate amount companies were mainly: of 4,818 thousand euros at December 31, 2015, after reimbursement of 50% p Société enrichissement Tricastin 1,922,921 thousand euros of the security deposit on rue Lafayette following the sale of 50% of the lease; p AREVA Inc. 990,855 thousand euros p AREVA’s equity interest in European Liability Insurance for the Nuclear Industry (1,078,744 thousand USD) (Elini), a mutual insurance company, representing 6,741 thousand euros at December 31, 2015, and in the mutual BlueRE in the amount of p CRI Canada 880,800 thousand euros 320 thousand euros; (1,331,418 thousand CAD) p treasury shares acquired from the Framépargne fund under a liquidity agreement p CFMM 595,745 thousand euros for 9,937 thousand euros; p AREVA Énergies Renouvelables 446,281 thousand euros p the liquidity contact with Natixis in the amount of 396 thousand euros, with p Eurodif 145,200 thousand euros purchases and sales of these shares constituting the principal changes in this item. 20.4.4.4. IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS Write-downs (in thousands of euros) Note 2014 Merger-Spin-oﬀ Increase Decrease 2015 Associates 20.4.4.4.1 4,106,231 -471 2,050,218 405 6,155,573 Loans to associates 20.4.4.4.2 1,125,442 379,013 955,000 549,455 Investment portfolio Other long-term securities 20.4.4.4.3 29,130 29,071 59 Loans Other long-term investments: 1 Receivables related to end-of-lifecycle operations 1 End-of-lifecycle assets Third party share 1 Other long-term investments 20.4.4.4.4 3,188 2,733 5,921 TOTAL LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS 5,263,991 -471 2,431,964 984,476 6,711,008 20.4.4.4.1 In view of the accounting rules and methods p FRACOQ 2 18 thousand euros, (see Note 20.4.2.2), charges to provisions for shares in p AREVADelﬁ 15 thousand euros. associates correspond to write-downs of the shares as Reversals correspond to provisions on the shares: follows: p Cilas 395 thousand euros, p AREVA NP 2,050,115 thousand euros, p AREVACom 10 thousand euros. p AREVA Business Support 69 thousand euros, 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 267 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 20.4.4.4.2 The change in provisions for loans to associates 20.4.4.4.3 The change in provisions for other long-term corresponds to charges to provisions for receivables: securities is composed of the reversal of the provision for p AREVA Énergies Renouvelables 363,953 thousand euros, impairment of Japan Steel Works shares in the amount of 29,071 thousand euros (interest sold in 2015). p UraMin Centrafrique 15,060 thousand euros. and to reversals of provisions for receivables: 20.4.4.4.4 The change in the provision for other long-term p AREVA NP 955,000 thousand euros. investments corresponds to the write-down of AREVA SA treasury shares in the amount of 2,733 thousand euros based on the market price of the AREVA share at December 31, 2015. 20.4.4.5. STATEMENT OF RECEIVABLES Maturing in less Maturing in more (in thousands of euros) Note Gross amount than 1 year than 1 year Non-current assets Loans to associates 5,597,158 402,575 5,194,583 Loans Other long-term investments: 1 Receivables related to end-of-lifecycle operations 1 End-of-lifecycle assets Third party share 1 Other long-term investments 22,422 429 21,993 TOTAL CAPITALIZED RECEIVABLES 5,619,580 403,005 5,216,575 Current assets Suppliers: advances and prepayments made 23,753 23,753 Working capital: receivables Doubtful accounts Other trade accounts receivable 101,685 101,685 Accounts payable to employees and related accounts 372 372 Social security administration and other social institutions 1 1 French State and local governments: 1 Income tax 68,936 68,936 1 Value added tax 34,186 34,186 1 Other taxes and related expenses 149 149 1 Miscellaneous French State Group and associates 34,425 34,425 Trade accounts and other receivables 341,037 341,037 TOTAL GROSS RECEIVABLES – WORKING CAPITAL 580,790 580,790 Prepaid expenses 15,657 15,657 TOTAL GROSS RECEIVABLES 6,239,780 1,023,204 5,216,575 268 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 20 20.4.4.6. ACCRUED INCOME (French decree 83-1020 of November 29, 1983, article 23) (in thousands of euros) Note 2015 2014 Long-term investments Loans to associates 20.4.4.6.1. 27,072 38,726 Other long-term investments TOTAL LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS 27,072 38,726 Working capital: receivables Trade accounts receivable and related accounts 18,131 17,046 Accounts payable to employees and related accounts Social security administration and other social institutions 1 French State and local governments Trade accounts and other receivables 20.4.4.6.2. 309,388 195,395 TOTAL RECEIVABLES – WORKING CAPITAL 327,519 212,440 Marketable securities 8 Cash and cash equivalents TOTAL INCOME RECEIVABLE 354,592 251,174 20.4.4.6.1 The change in accrued interest for loans to p SET 7,092 thousand euros associates comes mainly from loans to: p CFMM 5,745 thousand euros p AREVA Resources Canada Inc. -1,925 thousand euros 20.4.4.6.2 The change in trade accounts and other p AREVA NP -23,710 thousand euros receivables is mainly due to the revaluation of cash instruments at the closing rate. 20.4.4.7. NET CASH (in thousands of euros) Note 2015 2014 Other marketable securities 428,467 1,481,032 Write-downs -286 20.4.4.7.1. 428,181 1,481,032 Cash instruments 55,700 12,600 Non-trade current accounts 1,657,221 1,728,017 Write-downs 20.4.4.7.2. -9,722 -1,268 1,647,499 1,726,749 Cash and cash equivalents 254,142 50,079 TOTAL CASH AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES 2,385,522 3,270,460 20.4.4.7.1. At December 31, 2015, other marketable treasury shares acquired in connection with the liquidity contract in the amount of securities consisted primarily of certiﬁcates of deposit in 1,498 thousand euros. the amount of 112,000 thousand euros, of money market funds and treasury bonds in the amount of 314,933 thousand 20.4.4.7.2. The increase in write-downs of non-trade euros, and of treasury shares acquired in connection with the current accounts corresponds to the hedging of the nonliquidity contract in the amount of 1,334 thousand euros. recoverability risk of certain subsidiaries: The write-down of 286 thousand euros corresponds to the change in the value of p FRACOQ 2 6,591 thousand euros the treasury shares as a function of stock market prices at December 31, 2015. p AREVADelﬁ 459 thousand euros At December 31, 2014, other marketable securities consisted primarily of p AREVA Ressources Centrafrique 1,405 thousand euros certiﬁcates of deposit in the amount of 80,000 thousand euros, of money market funds and treasury bonds in the amount of 1,399,328 thousand euros, and of 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 269 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 20.4.4.8. SHARE STRUCTURE (French decree 83-1020 of November 29, 1983, article 24-12) Number of shares at the beginning Category of shares Par value of the year Increase Decrease at year-end Ordinary shares 3.80 euros 383,204,852 383,204,852 Since May 30, 2011, the AREVA share is traded on compartment A of the NYSE Euronext stock exchange in Paris under ISIN code FR0011027143. The authorized capital of AREVA SA at December 31, 2015 was as follows: 2015 2014 2013 CEA 54.4% 54.4% 61.5% French State 28.8% 28.8% 21.7% Kuwait Investment Authority (KIA) 4.8% 4.8% 4.8% CDC/BPI France Participations 3.3% 3.3% 3.3% Total 1.0% 1.0% 1.0% Employees 1.2% 1.2% 1.2% EDF 2.2% 2.2% 2.2% Public 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% Treasury shares 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% TOTAL 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 20.4.4.9. EQUITY Appropriation Contribution Net income (in thousands of euros) Note 2014 of the result Spin-oﬀ for the year Increase Decrease 2015 Subscribed capital 1,456,178 1,456,178 Additional paid-in capital, share premiums 1,148,130 1,148,130 Revaluation adjustment Legal reserve 145,618 145,618 Restricted reserves Regulated reserves 3,304 3,304 Other reserves 6,403 6,403 Carry-forward 3,896,177 -5,309,351 -1,413,175 Net income for the year -5,309,351 5,309,351 -2,915,938 -2,915,938 Net investment subsidies 986 332 654 Tax-driven provisions 6,230 1,665 7,895 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 20.4.4.9.1 1,353,674 -2,915,938 1,665 332 -1,560,931 20.4.4.9.1. The company’s shareholders’ equity became negative at December 31, 2015. 270 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 20 20.4.4.10. PROVISIONS FOR CONTINGENCIES AND LOSSES Merger(in thousands of euros) Note 2014 Spin-oﬀ Increase Decrease Reclassiﬁcations 2015 Provisions for contingencies Provisions for litigation Provisions for customer warranties Provisions for taxes 20.4.4.10.1 856 10,164 11,019 Provisions for foreign exchange losses Other provisions for contingencies 20.4.4.10.2 199,800 1,473,347 168,537 1,504,610 TOTAL PROVISIONS FOR CONTINGENCIES 200,656 1,483,511 168,537 1,515,629 Provisions for losses Provisions for retirement and similar beneﬁts 1,857 426 2 2,281 Provisions for taxes Provisions for work completion Provisions for accrued expenses Provisions for mining site reclamation End-of-lifecycle provisions Provisions for decontamination of tooling Other provisions for losses 20.4.4.10.3 46,270 7,946 15,627 38,590 TOTAL PROVISIONS FOR LOSSES 48,127 8,372 15,629 40,871 TOTAL PROVISIONS FOR CONTINGENCIES AND LOSSES 248,783 1,491,883 184,166 1,556,500 Including charges and reversals 1 Operating 353 4,817 1 Financial 1,232,420 7,463 1 Exceptional 259,110 171,886 20.4.4.10.1 The change in the provision for taxes p a provision for financial risk as regards AREVA NP in the amount of corresponds mainly to the set-asides for the AREVA Mines 1,107,000 thousand euros; dispute concerning the write-down of the long-term advance p a provision of 180,000 thousand euros for costs resulting from the transfer to AREVAExplo RCA. of the OL3 contract from AREVA NP to AREVA SA in connection with the subsidiary’s restructuring. 20.4.4.10.2 The change in other provisions for contingencies mostly concerns: 20.4.4.10.3 The change in other provisions for losses p underlying loses on rate swaps in the amount of 3,843 thousand euros; corresponds mostly to commitments made in connection p a net provision reversal of 97,000 thousand euros set up for the experimental with real estate leases devoid of future economic beneﬁt for reactor construction project, for which AREVA agreed to bear a majority share the company following the restructuring of the company’s of the existing and probable costs identiﬁed to date for the reactor design and oﬃces in the Paris area, and to commitments for the use construction contracts in exchange for a cap on the related ﬁnancial risks; of licenses. p a provision for the negative net situation of AREVA Business Support in the amount of 121,504 thousand euros; 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 271 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 20.4.4.11. STATEMENT OF LIABILITIES Maturing in Maturing in less Maturing more than (in thousands of euros) Note Gross amount than 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 years Borrowings Convertible bond issues Other bond issues 20.4.4.11.1 5,867,450 1,056,414 2,111,036 2,700,000 Bank borrowings 20.4.4.11.2 201,797 201,797 Miscellaneous loans and borrowings 20.4.4.11.3 3,575,483 3,575,396 86 TOTAL BORROWINGS 9,644,729 4,833,607 2,111,036 2,700,086 Advances and prepayments on orders Other liabilities Trade accounts payable and related accounts 99,811 99,811 Taxes and employee-related liabilities: 1 Accounts payable to employees and related accounts 4,281 4,281 1 Social security administration and other social institutions 1,305 1,305 1 French State and local governments: 1 Value added tax 8,858 8,858 1 Other taxes 1,714 1,714 1 Income tax 1,353 1,353 Accounts payable on non-current assets and related accounts 471 471 Group and associates 175,109 23,288 151,821 Other liabilities 343,150 343,150 Cash instruments 147,455 147,455 TOTAL OTHER LIABILITIES 783,506 631,686 151,821 Unearned income 20.4.4.11.4 68,388 14,440 33,064 20,884 TOTAL UNEARNED INCOME 68,388 14,440 33,064 20,884 TOTAL GROSS BORROWINGS 10,496,623 5,479,733 2,295,920 2,720,970 20.4.4.11.1. Bond issues (in currency thousands) Issue date Nominal Currency Nominal rate Maturity September 23, 2009 975,000 EUR 3.875% 2016 September 23, 2009 1,000,000 EUR 4.875% 2024 November 6, 2009 750,000 EUR 4.375% 2019 September 22, 2010 750,000 EUR 3.500% 2021 October 5, 2011 800,000 EUR 4.625% 2017 April 4, 2012 200,000 EUR TEC 10 +2.125% 2022 September 4, 2013 500,000 EUR 3.250% 2020 September 20, 2013 8,000,000 JPY 1.156% 2018 March 20, 2014 750,000 EUR 3.125% 2023 TOTAL 5,786,036 (*) EUR (*) exchange rate used: 1 EUR = 131.07 JPY The total drawn on the bond issues comes to a total of 5.786 billion euros in nominal value. Of this total, 1,800 million euros were hedged for a variable rate in euros with rate swaps. 272 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 20 20.4.4.11.2. Bank borrowings ○ AREVA GmbH 357,710 thousand euros Loans and borrowings came to 201,797 thousand euros at December 31, 2015, ○ CERE 245,265 thousand euros mainly including: ○ SET 166,841 thousand euros p bank account credit balances of 1,709 thousand euros; ○ TN International 153,819 thousand euros p a European Investment Bank credit in the amount of 200,000 thousand euros ○ Soﬁdif 137,426 thousand euros contracted in 2009 and maturing in January 2016. ○ AREVA Mines 116,219 thousand euros 20.4.4.11.3. Miscellaneous loans and borrowings ○ AREVA Inc. 111,964 thousand euros Loans and borrowings came to 3,575,483 thousand euros at December 31, 2015, ○ AREVA IR 92,065 thousand euros mainly including: 20.4.4.11.4 Unearned income p commercial paper in the amount of 26,000 thousand euros; AREVA unwound rate swaps that had been set up to cover bond issues (ﬁxed rate p debt related to associates in the amount of 5,948 thousand euros; and receiver / variable rate payer). In line with market conditions, the swap terminations p non-trade current liabilities in the amount of 3,543,448 thousand euros. At generated a gain recognized as unearned income, which will be spread out over December 31, 2015, these companies were mainly: the remaining period of the borrowings to reﬂect their eﬀective interest rate over ○ AREVA NC 1,223,310 thousand euros their term. These gains are in addition to unwinding carried out in 2011 and 2013. ○ AREVA TA 425,584 thousand euros At December 31, 2015 At December 31, 2014 Unearned operating income 1,411 387 Unearned ﬁnancial income 66,977 64,337 TOTAL 68,388 64,722 20.4.4.12. ACCRUED EXPENSES (in thousands of euros) Note 2015 2014 Borrowings Convertible bond issues Other bond issues 81,414 81,600 Bank borrowings 88 165 Miscellaneous loans and borrowings 1 TOTAL BORROWINGS 81,503 81,766 Other liabilities Trade accounts payable and related accounts 73,978 88,306 Taxes and employee-related liabilities 6,522 6,757 Accounts payable on non-current assets and related accounts 334 Other liabilities 20.4.4.12.1. 294,734 185,104 TOTAL OTHER LIABILITIES 375,568 280,167 TOTAL ACCRUED EXPENSES 457,071 361,933 20.4.4.12.1. The change in other liabilities is mainly due to the revaluation of cash instruments at the closing rate. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 273 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 20.4.5. NOTES TO THE INCOME STATEMENT 20.4.5.1. CURRENT OPERATING INCOME 20.4.5.3. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Reported revenue includes: Exceptional items amounting to -115,002 thousand euros correspond mainly to: p charge allocations to subsidiaries, corresponding to shared services and the p loss on the disposal of Japan Steel Works shares -23,102 thousand euros right to use a trademark, for a total of 368,326 thousand euros; p income from the liquidation of AREVA Canada Inc. 60 thousand euros The trademark license fee is charged to all customer entities of the AREVA brand p Payment to Alstom in connection with the unwinding and associated activities. Three types of activities are concerned: of the GIS litigation -5,100 thousand euros ○ marketing and sales; p net reversals of provisions related to the restructuring ○ communications; of the company’s Paris-area real estate 4,567 thousand euros ○ public aﬀairs. p net reversal of provisions for contingencies related By default, the fee is 0.9% of each relevant subsidiary’s contribution to to a prototype experimental reactor 97,000 thousand euros consolidated sales. Shared services are billed based on a catalogue of services; p impacts of tax audits -10,164 thousand euros p proceeds from real estate operations (33,004 thousand euros); and p provision for costs resulting from the transfer p the charge allocation for personnel expenses (10,357 thousand euros). of the OL3 contract from AREVA NP to AREVA SA in connection with the subsidiary’s restructuring -180,000 thousand euros Operating expenses reﬂect holding company activities and services provided to subsidiaries. The operating loss thus came to 137,480 thousand euros. 20.4.5.4. INCOME TAX 20.4.5.2. NET FINANCIAL INCOME As provided in article 223A of the French Tax Code, AREVA SA opted to be solely responsible for income tax due on combined income recognized by the The net ﬁnancial income of -2,752,774 thousand euros includes in particular: integrated group. p dividends from equity interests 3,485 thousand euros In 2015, AREVA SA and its integrated subsidiaries generated a combined tax loss p net income on non-trade accounts and loans of 1,342,626 thousand euros. to equity associates 229,370 thousand euros The tax income recognized for 2015 came to 89,319 thousand euros p debt forgiveness towards AREVA TA in connection It is broken down as follows: with the RJH project -66,175 thousand euros p net income on ﬁnancial instruments 12,426 thousand euros p Tax savings generated by the tax integration regime 63,489 thousand euros p interest expenses on loans -250,159 thousand euros p Income tax on earnings from all previous ﬁnancial years 22,773 thousand euros p foreign exchange gain 2,011 thousand euros p Tax credits 3,057 thousand euros p charges to provisions for shares in associates -2,050,315 thousand euros (1) p charges to provisions for loans to associates -379,013 thousand euros (2) p charges to provisions for ﬁnancial risk -1,228,504 thousand euros (3) p reversal of provisions for loans to associates 955,000 thousand euros (4) p net gain from disposals of securities 963 thousand euros (1) mainly AREVA NP SAS (2) mainly AREVA Énergies Renouvelables (3) mainly AREVA NP SAS and AREVA Business Support (4) mainly AREVA NP SAS 274 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 20 20.4.6. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 20.4.6.1. WORKFORCE The company employed 23 people on December 31, 2015, as indicated in the following table: 2015 2014 2013 Management personnel 23 29 34 Supervisors 0 0 3 Support staﬀ 0 0 0 TOTAL 23 29 37 20.4.6.2. PENSIONS AND OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AREVA SA pays retirement bonuses to its retiring employees, based on their compensation and seniority. This deﬁned beneﬁt plan is recognized in accordance with the accounting principles deﬁned in note 2.9. Each year, independent actuaries determine AREVA’s commitments at year end. Balance sheet reconciliation (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 2013 TOTAL PROVISIONS FOR PENSION OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 2,281 1,857 2,700 The main actuarial assumptions used in determining the group’s obligations are as follows: 2015 2014 2013 Inﬂation 1.60% 1.60% 1.80% Discount rate 2.15% 1.85% 3.25% p Mortality tables used: INSEE 2000-2002 Men/Women p Assumed rate of salary increase, net of inﬂation. p Retirement age: 65 for management personnel, 62 for non-management personnel. p Average attrition Management Non-management Management Non-management personnel personnel personnel personnel < 30 years 1.60% 1.60% < 30 years 1.00% 1.00% 30-39 1.60% 1.60% 30-39 0.50% 0.50% 40-49 1.60% 1.60% 40-49 0.00% 0.00% 50-54 1.60% 1.60% 50-54 -0.30% -0.30% 55 and above 0.00% 0.00% 55 and above -0.50% -0.50% Net carrying amount of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 2013 Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 3,753 3,772 3,660 Fair value of plan assets Unrecognized actuarial losses -1,157 -1,566 -903 Unrecognized past service gains -315 -349 -57 TOTAL DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION 2,281 1,857 2,700 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 275 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements Change in the provision (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 2013 Change in the provision: Restated opening balance 1,857 2,700 2,759 (1) Mergers and acquisitions / Transfers -1,134 -450 Total expense 426 293 418 Contributions collected/beneﬁts paid -2 -2 -27 BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT DECEMBER 31 2,281 1,857 2,700 (1) Change in liability related to incoming transfers from AREVA NC and outgoing transfers to AREVA Business Support. Total expense for the year (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 2013 Current service cost 198 172 245 Interest cost 73 108 117 Expected return on plan assets Amortization of actuarial gains or losses 34 4 33 Past service cost 121 9 24 Plan creation, curtailment or liquidation TOTAL EXPENSE FOR THE YEAR 426 293 418 20.4.6.3. INFORMATION ON LEASE ARRANGEMENTS Finance lease contracts in Euriware’s were taken over by AREVA SA on April 30, 2014. Fees paid Accrued fees Residual Balance sheet accounts for the year cumulative up to 1 year 1 year to 5 years > 5 years Total to be paid purchase price Computer equipment 6,222 12,288 3,517 1,292 4,809 TOTAL 6,222 12,288 3,517 1,292 4,809 20.4.6.4. COMPANY EXPOSURE TO MARKET RISK Finance, Legal and Strategy departments. The reporting system includes weekly reports submitted to the Chief Financial Oﬃcer, including a valuation of all positions General objectives at their market value. Together, these reports and reviews are used to monitor the counterparty risk. AREVA has an organization dedicated to implementing market risk management policies approved by the Executive Committee for centralized management of Foreign exchange risk management exposure to foreign exchange, commodity, rate and liquidity risks. The volatility of exchange rates may impact AREVA’s currency translation In the Finance department, the Financial Operations and Treasury Management adjustments, equity and income. Department (DOFT) makes transactions on ﬁnancial markets and acts as a central desk that provides services and manages AREVA’s financial exposure. This Balance sheet risk: Loans and borrowings granted by AREVA to its subsidiaries department is organized with a front, middle and back oﬃce and accounting, are systematically converted into euros through currency swaps. ensuring the separation of functions, and has all the human, technical, and To limit the currency risk for long-term investments generating future cash ﬂows in information system resources necessary to accomplish its mission. Transactions foreign currencies, AREVA uses a liability in the same currency to oﬀset the asset. handled by DOFT cover foreign exchange and commodities trading, interest rates, Trade exposure: AREVA’s policy, which was approved by the Executive Committee, centralized cash management, internal and external ﬁnancing, borrowings and is to systematically hedge foreign exchange risk generated by its operations; it investments, and asset management. recommends hedging potential risks during the proposal phase, to the extent To report on ﬁnancial risk and exposure limits, DOFT prepares a monthly report possible, to minimize the impact of exchange rate ﬂuctuations on net income. presenting the group’s positions and the performance of its ﬁnancial transactions. The report is sent to the senior management of the AREVA group and to the 276 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 20 AREVA acquires derivatives (principally currency futures) or special insurance The Financial Operations and Treasury Management Department covers its contracts issued by Coface to hedge its foreign exchange exposure from exposures directly with its banking counterparties. A system of strict limits, trade, including accounts receivable and payable, conﬁrmed oﬀ-balance sheet particularly concerning results, marked to market, and foreign exchange positions commitments (orders received from customers or placed with suppliers), highly that may be taken by the trading desk, is monitored daily by specialized teams that probable future cash ﬂows (budgeted sales or purchases, anticipated margins on are also charged with valuation of the transactions. In addition, analyses of sensitivity contracts) and proposals made in foreign currencies. These hedges are backed to changes in exchange rates are periodically performed. by underlying transactions for identical amounts and maturities and, generally, are documented and eligible for hedge accounting (except for hedges of proposals submitted in foreign currencies). At December 31, 2015, derivatives used by AREVA to manage foreign exchange risk were as follows: (Notional amounts by maturity date Market at December 31, 2015) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 > 5 years Total value Forward exchange transactions and currency swaps 4,573 1,579 698 277 7,126 13 Currency options 136 67 203 Cross-currency swaps 132 60 61 298 983 1,533 -145 TOTAL 4,841 1,705 759 575 983 8,863 -68 Interest rate risk management At December 31, 2015, interest rate swaps were the main ﬁnancial instruments used AREVA is exposed to the ﬂuctuations of interest rates on its ﬂoating rate borrowings in the management of external debt. Receiver inﬂation rate swaps in USD were set and on its ﬁnancial investments. The Financial Operations and Treasury Management up with banks to cover payer inﬂation rate swaps in USD set up with AREVA Mines. Department manages all interest rate risks. The amount of the commitments and the sensitivity of the positions taken by the AREVA uses several types of derivative instruments, as required by market trading desk in the framework of AREVA’s rate management policy are subject to conditions, to allocate its borrowings between ﬁxed rates and ﬂoating rates and to limits based on the type of transaction involved. manage its investment portfolio, with the goal being mainly to reduce its borrowing costs while optimizing the management of its cash surpluses. At December 31, 2015, the following ﬁnancial instruments were used to hedge interest rate exposure: Notional amounts by maturity date at December 31, 2015 Interest rate instruments Market (in millions of euros) Total 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 > 5 years value Interest rate swaps – variable lender – EUR Fixed borrower – EUR 400 200 200 -3 Interest rate swaps – variable lender – EUR EUR variable borrower 100 100 -0 USD variable borrower 983 983 -31 CAD variable borrower 490 132 60 298 1 Interest rate swaps – ﬁxed lender – EUR EUR variable borrower 1,626 376 150 450 650 105 Interest rate swaps – ﬁxed lender – JPY EUR variable borrower 61 61 0 Interest rate swaps – US inﬂation lender USD ﬁxed lender 161 161 -56 Interest rate swaps – US inﬂation borrower USD ﬁxed borrower 161 161 56 GRAND TOTAL 3,981 708 260 61 448 771 1,933 72 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 277 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements Commodity risk Liquidity risk AREVA does not have signiﬁcant exposure to commodities. The group’s department of Financial Operations is in charge of liquidity risk management and provides the subsidiaries with appropriate long term and short Equity risk term ﬁnancing resources. To manage its long-term investment positions, AREVA may elect to use puts and Cash management optimization is based on a centralized system to provide liquidity calls backed by portfolio equities. No such transaction was pending at the end and manage the cash surpluses of the subsidiaries, regardless of AREVA’s equity of the year. stake. Management is provided by the group’s department of Financial Operations, chieﬂy through cash pooling agreements and inter-company loans, subject to local Counterparty risk regulations. The group’s consolidated cash surpluses are managed to optimize AREVA is exposed to the credit risk of counterparties linked to its use of ﬁnancial ﬁnancial returns while ensuring that the ﬁnancial instruments used are liquid. derivatives to cover its risks AREVA uses diﬀerent types of ﬁnancial instruments to Borrowings are centralized by the department of Treasury Management to optimize manage its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks, and its exposure borrowing costs and facilitate access to the banking system. to risks on commodities and publicly traded equities. AREVA primarily uses forward buy/sell currency and commodity contracts and rate derivative products such as In addition, the system for monthly updates of cash forecasts (with a monthly view swaps, futures or options to cover these types of risk. These transactions involve of the ﬁrst four months, then quarterly thereafter) was recently bolstered with an exposure to counterparty risk when the contracts are concluded over the counter. additional system for updates of the ﬁrst four months on a weekly basis, based on (i) a weekly update of positions to month end and (ii) a system of alerts initiated by To minimize this risk, AREVA’s trading desk deals only with diversiﬁed, top quality the Business Groups and operating entities for cash ﬂows (excluding internal cash counterparties based on their ratings in the Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s rating ﬂows) that are unexpected, unreported, unplanned or cancelled in any amount systems, with a minimum rating of Investment Grade. A legal framework agreement greater than 5 million euros. If a pre-determined short-term position is exceeded, is always signed with the counterparties. the Cash Management and Financing Department (DOFT) will send out a special The limits allowed for each counterparty are determined based on its rating and the communication to the Business Groups and the group’s executive management type and maturity of the instruments traded. Assuming the rating of the counterparty (including the group’s Chief Financial Oﬃcer) to decide on protective measure to is not downgraded earlier, the limits are reviewed at least once a year and approved be taken by the Chief Financial Oﬃcer. The limits are veriﬁed in a speciﬁc report produced At December 31, 2015, the group had a 1.250-billion-euro syndicated line of credit by the internal control team of Treasury Operations. During periods of signiﬁcant and bilateral lines of credit totaling 845 million euros, all of which were conﬁrmed ﬁnancial instability that may involve an increased risk of bank default, which may be and unused. underestimated by ratings agencies, AREVA monitors advanced indicators such as the value of the credit default swaps (CDS) of the eligible counterparties to determine In early 2016, AREVA drew a total of 2.045 billion euros on its syndicated line of if limits should be adjusted. credit and on bilateral lines of credit and negotiated a bridge loan with a banking pool in the amount of 1.1 billion euros. These resources ensure the group’s funding When conditions warrant (rising counterparty risk, longer term transactions, etc.), for the year of 2016. market transactions are managed by margin calls that reduce AREVA’s counterparty risk to a predetermined threshold: the Credit Support Annex for trades documented External ﬁnancing arrangements are not subject to speciﬁc covenants. However, under an ISDA master agreement, or the Collateral Annex for trades documented certain loan agreements include change of control clauses stipulating that the group under a French Banking Federation (FBF) master agreement. should maintain control over the AREVA subsidiary that concluded the agreement, or that the French State should maintain control over AREVA. The concept of control Market value of ﬁnancial instruments is understood either under the meaning of article L. 233-3 of the French Commercial Code or in relation to the percentage of share capital ownership, which should The market value of ﬁnancial instruments pertaining to currency, rate and commodity remain higher than 50.1%. Under certain circumstances, the debt may become transactions was calculated based on market data at the closing date, on discounted due immediately if AREVA ceases to control the subsidiary, or if the French State future cash ﬂows, or on prices provided by ﬁnancial institutions. The use of diﬀerent ceases to control AREVA. market assumptions could have a signiﬁcant impact on estimated market values. AREVA met two key milestones of the financing plan announced during the publication of the half-year 2015 ﬁnancial statements with the proposal received from EDF valuing AREVA NP (excluding OL3) at 2.5 billion euros and validation from the AREVA Board of Directors for a capital increase of 5 billion euros. 278 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 20 20.4.6.5. ASSOCIATES Transactions with (in thousands of euros) related parties associates Advances and prepayments to fund non-current assets Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Long-term investments Associates 8,467,435 230 Loans to associates 5,597,158 Loans Other long-term securities Other long-term investments 9 14,064,602 230 Accounts receivable Suppliers: advances and prepayments made 857 Accounts receivable and related accounts 88,260 Other accounts receivable 281,501 Subscribed capital issued and not paid 370,618 Cash and cash equivalents Non-trade current accounts 1,647,720 1,647,720 Miscellaneous loans and borrowings Bond issues 13,646 Miscellaneous debt 27 Loans to associates 5,948 Miscellaneous loans and borrowings Non-trade current accounts 3,543,448 3,563,070 Liabilities Customers: advanced and prepayments received Trade accounts payable 37,675 973 Accounts payable on non-current assets Other liabilities 200,440 238,115 973 FINANCIAL EXPENSES -3,920,780 FINANCIAL INCOME 1,708,237 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 279 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 20.4.6.6. OFF-BALANCE-SHEET COMMITMENTS (in thousands of euros) Note Total < 1 year 1 to 5 years > 5 years Commitments given Bid guarantees Performance warranties 828,530 232,010 379,276 217,243 Down payment guarantees 378,976 543 378,433 Guarantees for waivers of warranty retentions After-sales warranties Other operating commitments 128,590 128,590 Total operating commitments given 1,336,096 232,010 379,820 724,266 Comfort letters given 70,211 70,211 Guarantees and surety 1,167,000 282,182 834,484 50,334 Liens given Mortgages given Other funding guarantees 58,803 45,053 13,750 Total commitments and collateral given on ﬁnancing 1,296,014 397,446 848,234 50,334 Guarantees of assets and liabilities 15,000 15,000 Guarantees pertaining to rental obligations given 7,296 21 7,275 Other commitments given 1,648 148 1,500 Total other commitments given 23,944 169 23,775 I. TOTAL COMMITMENTS GIVEN 2,656,054 629,626 1,251,829 774,600 Commitments received Contract guarantees received 3,787 3,787 Vendor warranties received 677 677 Other commitments received II. TOTAL COMMITMENTS RECEIVED 4,464 4,464 Reciprocal commitments Firm multiyear purchase commitments Firm multiyear sales commitments Unused lines of credit 2,095,000 50,000 2,045,000 Future minimum payments on operating leases 154,370 42,179 112,191 Other reciprocal commitments III. TOTAL RECIPROCAL COMMITMENTS 2,249,370 92,179 2,157,191 Commitments given of credit available to it in the amount of 50 million euros maturing in 2016 and The group gave a parent company commitment to its customer TVO for the 795 million euros maturing in 2017. As of the end of December 2015, none of execution of contractual obligations for the construction of an EPR in Finland. The these lines had been used. In early January 2016, AREVA started to use these group received a counter guarantee from Siemens in the amount of its share in the lines of credit in the amount of 2.045 billion euros. contract with TVO. The commitment given by the group corresponds to the amount of the contract, unless TVO succeeds in demonstrating the existence of a serious 20.4.6.7. COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS and intentional oﬀence by the supplier. TVO has called on this commitment several times, and the group rejected these calls. No value concerning these guarantees A total of 1,537 thousand euros in compensation and beneﬁts was paid during was included in the previous table. the year to directors and oﬃcers (members of the Executive Board and of the Supervisory Board until January 8, 2015, and members of the Board of Directors Reciprocal commitments as from that same date) by the company and companies it controls or the company that controls it, as per article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code created Unused lines of credit by the New Economic Regulations Law of May 15, 2001 and amended by the In January 2013, the group established a 1.25-billion-euro syndicated line of Financial Security Law of August 1, 2003. credit available in euros over a 5-year period. The group also has bilateral lines 280 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 20 20.4.6.8. DISPUTES AND POTENTIAL LIABILITIES concerning the gas-insulated switchgear market (GIS), the Court of Justice of the European Union, in its decision of April 10, 2014, partly upheld certain appeals which Olkiluoto 3 EPR power plant (OL3) had been lodged in this matter by AREVA, causing a modiﬁcation of the distribution (dispute concerning AREVA NP) of the penalty, but not a reduction of the overall penalty. The total amount of the penalty, including interest, is 79 million euros, including 28 million euros for Alstom On December 5, 2008, the AREVA-Siemens consortium initiated arbitration and AREVA severally. Alstom paid this amount in full to the European Commission. proceedings with the ICC on account of delays and disruptions suﬀered in the performance of the contract and the resulting additional costs incurred (“D&D The disagreement between the two groups on the share of the ﬁne to be paid Claim”). In July 2012, the Court of Arbitration rendered a final partial verdict by AREVA was settled amicably between them, and AREVA paid the sum of enjoining TVO to release 100 million euros (plus interest) due to the AREVA-Siemens 5.1 million euros to Alstom pursuant to the settlement. consortium and retained in contravention of the contractual provisions. This decision Disputes involving AREVA related to the T&D business, sold on June 7, 2010, are was duly executed by TVO. now closed. As of the end of 2015, after seven years of legal proceedings (exchanges of briefs by the parties and intermediate audiences with the arbitration court), the parties’ UraMin case respective claims amounted to approximately 3.5 billion euros for the Consortium Following the preliminary inquiry led by the French national ﬁnancial prosecutor’s (on sections 1 and 2 of its claim, covering the start of the project to February 2014) oﬃce, two judicial inquiries against persons unknown were opened concerning and 2.3 billion euros for TVO. The proceeding is following its course. the conditions of the acquisition of UraMin and the presentation of the company’s The Consortium and its counsel still consider the allegations of serious/intentional ﬁnancial statements relative to this purchase from 2009 to 2012. oﬀense made in TVO’s counterclaim to be unfounded. In response to the subpoena received from the court, AREVA brought an Discussions have begun with TVO with the objective of jointly laying the foundations independent action for damages in connection with the investigation of the for cooperation to complete the project and settle the dispute. All parties consider that UraMin acquisition. preliminary discussions have proceeded positively. If this agreement materializes, the OL3 contract will be transferred from AREVA NP to AREVA SA within the framework Miscellaneous investigations of the restructuring of the French nuclear industry. The company is also aware of the existence of other preliminary inquiries in progress led by the French national ﬁnancial prosecutor’s oﬃce. Since these inquiries are Disputes involving AREVA related to the T&D business, being carried out in connection with legal proceedings against unknown parties, sold on June 7, 2010 AREVA is not currently implicated. Following the European Commission decision of January 24, 2007 in which 11 companies were fined, including AREVA, for anti-competitive practices 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 281 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 20.4.6.9. SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES (ARTICLE L.233-15 OF THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL CODE) Carrying amount Revenue Equity of shares held before Income other than Unpaid tax of last from last Equity share Authorized authorized loans and Guarantees ﬁnancial ﬁnancial Dividends (in%) capital capital Gross Net advances given year year received A Detailed ﬁnancial information on subsidiaries and associates (net carrying amount exceeds 1% of the company’s equity) 1 Subsidiaries (more than 50% of the equity held) AREVA NP SAS Tour AREVA 92084 Paris La Défense Cedex – France 100.00 400,000 -275,291 5,092,280 2,312,821 -1 233 253 AREVA MINES SAS Tour AREVA 92084 Paris La Défense Cedex – France 99.99 25,207 460,257 2,356,194 1,452,194 50,109 1,577,113 138,192 AREVA NC SA Tour AREVA 92084 Paris La Défense Cedex – France 100.00 100,259 -1,036,510 523,292 523,292 2,481,006 -480,496 Compagnie d’Etude et de Recherche pour l’Energie (CERE) Tour AREVA 92084 Paris La Défense Cedex – France 100.00 247,500 12,006 251,541 251,541 291 AREVA ENERGIES RENOUVELABLES SAS Tour AREVA 92084 Paris La Défense Cedex – France 100.00 155,003 -226,912 155,003 446,281 2,694 -430,471 CEDEC SA Tour AREVA 92084 Paris La Défense Cedex – France 90.14 36,532 4,883 33,466 33,466 -13 AREVA IR Tour AREVA 92084 Paris La Défense Cedex – France 100.00 6,375 96,922 30,940 30,940 -59 2,975 2 Associates (10% to 50% of the equity held) B. Summary information on other subsidiaries and associates 1 Subsidiaries not included in section A 1 French subsidiaries 15,300 14,087 Foreign subsidiaries 3,323 3,323 2 Associates not included in section A 2 French companies 6,098 3,020 510 Foreign companies 230 230 282 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.5 Five-year ﬁnancial summary 20 20.5. FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY (thousands of euros) Type of indicator 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 I Share capital at year end a) Share capital 1,456,178 1,456,178 1,456,178 1,456,178 1,456,178 b) Number of common shares outstanding 383,204,852 383,204,852 383,204,852 383,204,852 383,204,852 c) Number of shares with preferred dividend rights 0 0 0 0 0 II Operations and income for the year a) Revenue before tax 450,606 430,415 490,444 487,137 452,145 Income before tax, employee proﬁt-sharing b) and amortization, depreciation and provisions (including reversals) 1,246,778 310,831 294,177 230,703 208,647 c) Income tax 34,541 63,115 100,847 72,496 89,319 d) Employee proﬁt-sharing for the year 0 0 0 0 0 Income after tax, employee proﬁt-sharing and amortization, e) depreciation and provisions (increases-decreases) 1,182,443 241,683 180,155 5,309,351 2,831,938 f) Net income distributed 0 0 0 0 0(*) III Earnings per share (in euros) Income after tax and employee proﬁt-sharing, before a) amortization, depreciation and provisions (increasesdecreases) 3.00 0.98 0.50 0.41 0.31 Income after tax, employee proﬁt-sharing and amortization, b) depreciation and provisions (increases-decreases) 3.00 0.63 0.47 13.86 7.39 c) Dividend per share (rounded to one eurocent) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 IV Personnel a) Average number of salaried employees during the year 119 125 45 33 28 b) Total payroll for the year 25,243 26,994 12,724 10,925 10,110 Payroll taxes and other beneﬁt expenses (social security, c) beneﬁts programs, etc.) 10,431 13,543 2,762 4,606 4,329 (*) Preliminary data pending approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 283 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.6 Information on accounts payable to suppliers 20.6. INFORMATION ON ACCOUNTS PAYABLE TO SUPPLIERS Accounts payable to suppliers at year-end, in accordance with articles L. 441-6-1 (1) and D. 441-4 of the French Commercial Code, by maturity dates: (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Matured 2,694 491 0 to 30 days 22,032 39,615 31 to 45 days 769 485 More than 45 days 17 3 TOTAL 20,124 39,612 20.7. DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION POLICY 20.7.1. PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS According to article 45 of AREVA’s articles of association, the payment of annual Dividends properly received are not subject to recovery. Dividends that have not dividends is done at the dates set by the Board of Directors within nine months of been collected within ﬁve years from the date set for distribution are forfeited to the end of the ﬁscal year. the French State. 20.7.2. DIVIDEND DATA (euros) Dividend Tax credit Gross dividend 2012 2013 2014 2015 With a consolidated loss attributable to owners of the parent of -2,038 million euros, application of the group’s dividend policy led the AREVA Board of Directors to recommend to the Shareholders that no dividend be paid for 2015. 20.7.3. DIVIDEND POLICY The Board of Directors deﬁnes the dividend distribution policy based on its review of the ﬁnancial results, the interim budget for 2016, taking into account the company’s requirements for the recovery of its ﬁnancial situation and the economic context, and debt management. Accordingly, the Board of Directors does not plan to propose a dividend distribution to the Shareholders convened to approve the ﬁnancial statements for the year ending December 31, 2016. 284 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 20.9 Signiﬁcant change in the issuer’s ﬁnancial or trading position 20 20.8. LEGAL AND ARBITRATION PROCEEDINGS The group is involved in a number of disputes with a potentially signiﬁcant negative For information, on June 21, 2013, CCCM instituted an arbitration request to the impact on its business, ﬁnancial situation or reputation. German Institute of Arbitration (Deutsche Institution fur Schiedsgerichtsbarketi, Appropriate provisions are recorded to cover expenses that may result from these DIS) against the consortium of AREVA Renewables GmbH and AREVA Bioenergia disputes or proceedings, based on case-by-case analysis. Ltda. In July 2014, CCCM ﬁled a second arbitration brief in which it asks, ﬁrstly, for 13,030,086.93 euros for alleged default on the Sao Borja EPC contract (construction In addition, some disputes concern damages or injury that are covered under the of a biomass power plant in the State of Rio Grande du Sul, Brazil). Secondly, group’s insurance policies or other forms of guarantee. CCCM asks that the AREVA Renewables / Bioenergia Consortium be held liable Except for the proceedings explained in Section 4.2.3. Significant risks and disputes for all damages suﬀered by CCCM as a result of the termination of three other involving AREVA, and to AREVA’s knowledge, there is no other administrative, legal biomass construction contracts among the same parties. CCCM is requesting or arbitration proceeding pending or threatened that had or could have a signiﬁcant 45,017,503.79 euros for damages in this regard. Following the hearing and the impact on the ﬁnancial situation, proﬁtability or reputation of AREVA and/or of the post-hearing written evidence of the parties in 2015, the case is presently under group in the past twelve months. deliberation, with a decision expected in 2016. 20.9. SIGNIFICANT CHANGE IN THE ISSUER’S FINANCIAL OR TRADING POSITION Signiﬁcant events between year-end closing for 2015 (December 31, 2015) and the date of this Reference Document are mentioned in Note 35 of Section 20.2. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015, and in section 9.3. Events subsequent to year end closing for 2015 of this Reference Document. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 285 21 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 0.0. 21.1. SHARE SOMS_T2NUM CAPITAL 00 286 21.2. 0.0. CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION SOMS_T2NUM 00 21.1.1. Amount of subscribed capital 286 AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 289 0.0. 21.1.2. SOMS_T2NUM Shares not representative of capital 00 287 0.0. 21.2.1. SOMS_T2NUM Corporate purpose 00 289 0.0.0. 21.1.3. soms_t3num Treasury shares 00 287 0.0.0. 21.2.2. soms_t3num Members of the corporate bodies 00 289 0.0.0. 21.1.4. soms_t3num Liquidity contract 00 287 0.0.0. 21.2.3. soms_t3num Restrictions on sales of company shares 00 289 0.0.0. 21.1.5. soms_t3num Convertible securities and warrants 00 287 0.0.0. 21.2.4. soms_t3num Conditions for convening general meetings 00 0.0.0. soms_t3num 00 0.0.0. of shareholders soms_t3num 289 00 21.1.6. Information on the terms governing any 0.0.0. acquisition right and/or any obligation soms_t3num 00 21.2.5. 0.0.0. Provision having the eﬀect of delaying, deferring soms_t3num 00 attached to capital subscribed but not paid, or preventing a change of control of areva – or any plan to increase the share capital 287 conditions governing changes in the share capital 290 0.0. SOMS_T2NUM 00 0.0. SOMS_T2NUM 00 21.1.7. soms_t3 Information on the capital of any member of 21.2.6. Breaching shareholding thresholds 290 00 soms_t3 00 the group which is the subject of an option or a soms_t3 ﬁrm or contingent agreement calling for it to be 00 21.3. soms_t3 AGREEMENTS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE L. 22500 placed under option soms_t3 287 00 soms_t3 102-1 PARAGRAPH 13 OF THE FRENCH 00 21.1.8. Delegations soms_t3 of competence and authority 00 COMMERCIAL CODE soms_t3 290 00 granted to the board of directors by the shareholders on january 8, 2015 regarding 21.4. REVIEW OF AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED capital increases 288 DURING PREVIOUS FINANCIAL YEARS 21.1.9. Liens 288 WITH CONTINUING EFFECT IN THE LAST FINANCIAL YEAR 291 21.1. SHARE CAPITAL 21.1.1. AMOUNT OF SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL The share capital of the company was fully paid up at December 31, 2015 and Custodian services are provided by: amounts to 1,456,178,437.60 euros, divided into 383,204,852 ordinary shares with Société Générale Securities Services a par value of 3.80 euros per share. Issuer Service All of the shares are quoted on Compartment A of NYSE Euronext Paris under Euroclear code 062059150 and ISIN code FR 0011027143. 32, rue du Champ-de-Tir BP 81236 44312 Nantes Cedex 3 France Tel.: +33 2 51 85 67 89 www.nominet.socgen.com www.sg-securities-services.com 286 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 21.1 Share capital 21 21.1.2. SHARES NOT REPRESENTATIVE OF CAPITAL None. 21.1.3. TREASURY SHARES The Board of Directors did not use the authorization given by the Shareholders on January 8, 2015 to purchase its own shares. At December 31, 2015, AREVA held 933,598 of its own shares (740,490 shares in treasury and 193,108 shares under a liquidity contract). 21.1.4. LIQUIDITY CONTRACT Since 2013, at AREVA’s request, Natixis has managed the liquidity agreement ﬁnanciers) on March 8, 2011 and approved by the French market authority (AMF, for AREVA shares (Paris – ISIN code FR0011027143) admitted for trading on Autorité des marchés ﬁnanciers) on March 21, 2011. Three million euros were NYSE Euronext Paris, in accordance with the Ethics Charter adopted by the allocated to the implementation of this liquidity contract, which covers a period of French association of ﬁnancial markets (AMAFI, Association française des marchés 12 months, renewable by tacit agreement. 21.1.5. CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES AND WARRANTS None. 21.1.6. INFORMATION ON THE TERMS GOVERNING ANY ACQUISITION RIGHT AND/OR ANY OBLIGATION ATTACHED TO CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED BUT NOT PAID, OR ANY PLAN TO INCREASE THE SHARE CAPITAL None. 21.1.7. INFORMATION ON THE CAPITAL OF ANY MEMBER OF THE GROUP WHICH IS THE SUBJECT OF AN OPTION OR A FIRM OR CONTINGENT AGREEMENT CALLING FOR IT TO BE PLACED UNDER OPTION In connection with the shareholders’agreement between the French State, the regarding the preemptive right. The exercise price for the purchase option will be Commissariat à l’énergie atomique et aux énergies alternatives and the Kuwait calculated as a function of the average weighted closing price of AREVA shares Investment Authority (KIA) (1) for a term of 10 years as from December 28, 2010, during the 90 trading days preceding the exercise date of the option. the French State has a purchase option in the event that KIA violates its commitment (1) Kuwait Investment Authority is an autonomous government institution in charge of the management and administration of the general reserve fund and the fund’s assets for future generations of Kuwaitis, and of any other funds conveyed by the Ministry of Finance of Kuwait in the name and for the account of the State of Kuwait. KIA was created in 1953. With 592 billion dollars of assets under management in December 2015, it was the sixth largest fund in the world in terms of managed assets at year-end 2015 according to the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 287 21 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 21.1 Share capital 21.1.8. DELEGATIONS OF COMPETENCE AND AUTHORITY GRANTED TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS BY THE SHAREHOLDERS ON JANUARY 8, 2015 REGARDING CAPITAL INCREASES The table hereunder summarizes the delegations of competence and authority granted to the Board of Directors by the Shareholders on January 8, 2015 regarding capital increases. Date Type of authorization of authorization Maturity Maximum amount Issue of ordinary shares and/or securities that are equity securities giving access to AGM 26 months 436,000,000 euros other equity securities or conferring a right to the allocation of debt instruments, and/or January 8, 2015 March 8, 2017 securities giving access to equity securities to be issued, with the preemptive subscription (14th resolution) right maintained Issue of ordinary shares and/or securities that are equity securities giving access to AGM 26 months 145,000,000 euros other equity securities or conferring a right to the allocation of debt instruments, and/or January 8, 2015 March 8, 2017 securities giving access to equity securities to be issued, with the preemptive subscription (15th resolution) right withdrawn, by a public oﬀer Issue of ordinary shares and/or securities that are equity securities giving access to AGM 26 months 145,000,000 euros other equity securities or conferring a right to the allocation of debt instruments, and/or January 8, 2015 March 8, 2017 securities giving access to equity securities to be issued, with the preemptive subscription (16th resolution) right withdrawn, by an oﬀer pursuant to part II of article L. 411-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code Authorization to increase the number of shares to be issued in the event of a share issue AGM 26 months Within the limit of with or without preemptive subscription right of the shareholders January 8, 2015 March 8, 2017 15% of the initial (17th resolution) share issue Issue, without preemptive subscription right, of shares and/or securities giving access to AGM 26 months 145,000,000 euros share capital to remunerate contributions in kind granted to the company consisting of January 8, 2015 March 8, 2017 equity securities or securities giving access to share capital (18th resolution) Capital increase by capitalization of earnings, retained earnings or premiums AGM 26 months Total amount eligible January 8, 2015 March 8, 2017 for capitalization (19th resolution) Total nominal cap on issues of ordinary shares and/or securities giving access to the AGM 595,000,000 euros company’s share capital that may be carried out by virtue of the delegations conferred on January 8, 2015 the Board of Directors by the 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th and 18th resolutions (21st resolution) 21.1.9. LIENS There are no liens on AREVA’s share capital as of this date. 288 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 21.2 Certiﬁcate of incorporation and articles of association 21 21.2. CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 21.2.1. CORPORATE PURPOSE Article 3 of AREVA’s articles of association deﬁnes the corporate purpose of the p to acquire direct or indirect equity and interests, in whatever form, in any French company as follows, in France and abroad: or foreign company or enterprise involved in ﬁnancial, commercial, industrial, to manage any industrial or commercial operation, especially in the nuclear, and tangible or intangible property operations; p renewable energies, information technology and electronics ﬁelds, and to this p to purchase, sell, exchange, subscribe to or manage any equity shares and end: investment securities; ○ to sign any agreement related to these operations, p to provide any type of service, particularly those beneﬁting all of the group’s companies; and ○ to examine projects relative to the creation, development or reorganization of any industrial enterprise, p more generally, to undertake any industrial, commercial, ﬁnancial, tangible or intangible property operation, in France or abroad, that is directly or indirectly ○ to carry out these projects or contribute to their implementation by any appropriate means, more speciﬁcally by acquiring equity or interests in any related to the above in furtherance of its corporate purpose or to facilitate that existing or proposed business venture, purpose’s achievement and development. ○ to provide ﬁnancial resources to industrial enterprises, especially by acquiring equity interests and through loan subscriptions; 21.2.2. MEMBERS OF THE CORPORATE BODIES For information on the members of the administrative, executive and supervisory bodies, please refer to Sections 14 and 16 and to Appendix 1 of this Reference Document. 21.2.3. RESTRICTIONS ON SALES OF COMPANY SHARES 1. Possession of a share automatically signiﬁes acceptance of the company’s articles 4. Each share signiﬁes ownership of the company’s equity and a right to share of association and of the resolutions duly adopted by all of its shareholders. The in the proﬁts and the liquidating dividend proportionate to the share capital it CEA, as AREVA’s principal shareholder, does not have speciﬁc rights attached represents. to the shares it holds. 5. The shares are freely transferable, except as provided by laws and regulations. 2. Unless otherwise provided by law, each shareholder has as many voting rights The shares are registered in an account and transferred from account to account as the number of fully paid-up shares he or she holds and may cast as many upon sale. votes in shareholder meetings. 3. Shareholders are liable for the company’s liabilities only up to the par value of their shares; additional cash calls are prohibited. 21.2.4. CONDITIONS FOR CONVENING GENERAL MEETINGS OF SHAREHOLDERS According to articles 26 and 29 of AREVA’s articles of association: p by a representative designated by the President of the Commercial Court ruling in interlocutory proceedings at the request of any interested party or of the Works p General Meetings of Shareholders comprise all shareholders. Committee, in urgent cases, or of one or more shareholders representing at p General Meetings are convened by the Board of Directors. least 5% of the share capital, or of an association of shareholders meeting the They may also be convened: conditions set forth in article L. 225-120 of the French Commercial Code; p by the statutory auditors, but only after having unsuccessfully requested it of p by the liquidators after dissolution of the company. the Board of Director by registered letter with return receipt requested; if the The Works Committee may ﬁle a legal claim to designate a representative charged auditors are in disagreement on the timeliness of that notice of meeting, one with convening the General Meeting as provided by law. of them may ask the President of the Commercial Court in an urgent ruling for authorization to proceed, the other auditors and the Chairman of the Board of The shareholders may, upon a decision of the Board of Directors published in Directors being duly summoned; the notice of meeting and/or notiﬁcation to attend, attend General Meetings by video conference or by telecommunication means enabling their identiﬁcation in 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 289 21 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 21.3 Agreements referred to in Article L. 225-102-1 paragraph 13 of the French Commercial Code accordance with applicable legislation and regulations. The shareholders are in that Joint owners of undivided shares are represented at the General Meeting by one case deemed to be present for the calculation of quorum and majority. of the joint owners or by a single proxy who shall be designated, in the event of Any shareholder may participate in person or by proxy in General Meetings of disagreement, by order of the President of the Commercial Court in an urgent ruling Shareholders, as provided by law, by oﬀering proof of his or her identity and of his at the request of any of the joint owners. or her ownership of the shares, either by registering the shares or certiﬁcates with The Company Works Council designates two of its members to attend General the company at least two days before the General Meeting of Shareholders or, in Meetings of shareholders, one from among the company’s managers, technicians the case of bearer shares, if any, by delivering a certiﬁcate of ownership through and supervisors, and the other from among its administrative/clerical personnel and an authorized account representative conﬁrming the registration of the shares in craft/manual workers. Alternatively, the persons mentioned in articles L. 2323-64 the bearer share accounts. and L. 2323-65 of the French Labor Code may attend the General Meetings. In the event of the subdivision of share or certiﬁcate ownership, only the voting right holder may attend or be represented at the General Meeting. 21.2.5. PROVISION HAVING THE EFFECT OF DELAYING, DEFERRING OR PREVENTING A CHANGE OF CONTROL OF AREVA – CONDITIONS GOVERNING CHANGES IN THE SHARE CAPITAL At December 31, 2015, the decree no. 83-1116 of December 21, 1983 amended That decree was amended on January 14, 2016 and now requires that the French on the Société des participations du CEA (AREVA) stipulates that the CEA is obliged State, or the Commissariat à l’énergie atomique et aux énergies alternatives, or the to keep more than half of AREVA’s capital. other public institutions of the State, or the companies in which they hold a majority share, directly or indirectly, singly or jointly, are required to keep more than half the capital of the company. 21.2.6. BREACHING SHAREHOLDING THRESHOLDS Aside from the thresholds provided by law, any natural person or corporate entity, receipt requested, the number of shares and/or voting rights held and of securities acting alone or in concert, who comes into ownership, directly or indirectly, of a giving access to the share capital and to the voting rights potentially attached thereto. fraction equal to or greater than 0.5% or any multiple thereof of the share capital This same requirement to provide information applies, within the same period of and/or voting rights of the company shall declare to the company within ﬁve trading time, when falling below the threshold of 0.5% or a multiple thereof. days of exceeding the threshold, by registered letter to the head oﬃce with return 21.3. AGREEMENTS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE L. 225-102-1 PARAGRAPH 13 OF THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL CODE Article L. 225-102-1, paragraph 13, of the French Commercial Code indicates that Two agreements enter into this category: the management report must mention agreements signed, directly or through a 1. Amendment dated February 27, 2015 to the memorandum of understanding third party, between, on the one hand and as the case may be, a member of the between AREVA NC and the CEA signed December 22, 2004 concerning Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Oﬃcer, one of the Chief Operating Oﬃcers the transfer of CEA obligations pertaining to future cleanup and dismantling or one of the shareholders holding more than 10% of a company’s voting rights and, expenses at the la Hague site and at Cadarache’s CFCa facility to COGEMA. on the other hand, another company where the latter owns, directly or indirectly, more than half of the share capital, except when the agreement relates to a routine 2. Tripartite memorandum of understanding between the CEA, AREVA SA and transaction concluded at arm’s length. Technicatome (AREVA TA) concerning the RJH project. This memorandum of understanding is described in Appendix 2 of this Reference Document, inasmuch as it is considered to be an agreement subject to the provision of articles L.225-38 et seq between the CEA, AREVA SA and AREVA TA. 290 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 21.4 Review of agreements authorized during previous ﬁnancial years with continuing eﬀect in the last ﬁnancial year 21 21.4. REVIEW OF AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED DURING PREVIOUS FINANCIAL YEARS WITH CONTINUING EFFECT IN THE LAST FINANCIAL YEAR In accordance with the provisions of article L. 225-40-1 of the French Commercial 2. Subordination agreement Code, the Board of Directors of the company began a review, on February 24, 2016, The purpose of the Subordination Agreement signed on June 13, 2014 is, inter of agreements authorized in previous years and whose execution continued in the alia, to subordinate the rights of AREVA SA, AREVA NC and SET Holding vis-àmost recent year with the aim of evaluating whether those agreements still meet vis SET (Société d’Enrichissement du Tricastin) in respect of any shareholderthe criteria that initially led to their approval. provided funding, to the rights of SET’s lending banks, until all amounts due The following three agreements, corresponding to that situation, were the subjects to the latter have been repaid in full in connection with the bank ﬁnancing of of that review: the Georges Besse II plant. This agreement is described in Appendix 2 of this 1. Agreement signed July 16, 2004 under which AREVA NC gave AREVA SA Reference Document. authority to manage or organize and control, in the its name and on its behalf, 3. Letter of support from the company to its subsidiary AREVA TA in the event that assets earmarked to fund dismantling and radioactive waste management the latter were not to have the ability by itself to cope with large ﬁnancial losses. expenses. This agreement is described in Appendix 2 of this Reference This letter is described in Appendix 2 of this Reference Document. Document. The Board of Directors, meeting on February 24, 2016, decided to maintain these It should be noted that, during its ﬁrst review, on March 3, 2015, the Board of three agreements. Directors had already decided to maintain this agreement for its execution in ﬁnancial year 2014. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 291 22 MAJOR CONTRACTS Except for the contracts described in Chapters 6 and 9 of this Reference Document, AREVA did not enter into major contracts in 2014 and 2015 other than those entered into in the normal course of its business. 292 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT THIRD PARTY INFORMATION, STATEMENTS BY EXPERTS AND DECLARATIONS OF INTEREST 23 Not applicable. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 293 INFORMATION AVAILABLE 24 TO THE PUBLIC 24.1. AVAILABILITY OF DOCUMENTS 294 24.3. FINANCIAL INFORMATION PROGRAMS 295 24.2. PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR FINANCIAL 24.4. TENTATIVE FINANCIAL COMMUNICATIONS INFORMATION 294 SCHEDULE 295 24.1. AVAILABILITY OF DOCUMENTS The following documents, or copies thereof, may be consulted at AREVA’s head p all reports, correspondence and other documents, historical ﬁnancial data, oﬃce, Tour AREVA, 1 place Jean Millier, 92400 Courbevoie, during the period of assessments and statements given by an expert at AREVA’s request, some of validity of this Reference Document: which are included or referred to in this document; and p establishing decree no. 83-1116 of December 21, 1983 and its amendments, p historical ﬁnancial data of AREVA and its consolidated subsidiaries for each of the decree no. 2007-1140 of July 27, 2007 published in the Journal officiel on two ﬁscal years preceding the date of registration of this Reference Document. July 28, 2007, decree no. 2010-1613 of December 23, 2010, and the articles of association of AREVA; 24.2. PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR FINANCIAL INFORMATION The persons responsible for financial information are: The team is also composed of: p Stéphane Lhopiteau, Chief Financial Oﬃcer; p Anne-Sophie Jugean, Investor Relations Manager; p Manuel Lachaux, Director of Financial Communications and Investor Relations. p Sabine Kueny, Marketing, Communications and Retail Shareholding Manager; p Sophie Richard, Financial Analysis Manager. The Shareholders Relations service may be reached at our toll-free number (calls in France only), 0810 699 756 or by e-mail to: actionnaires@areva.com. It is based at the head oﬃce of AREVA, Tour AREVA, 1 place Jean Millier, 92400 Courbevoie, France. 294 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC 24.4 Tentative ﬁnancial communications schedule 24 24.3. FINANCIAL INFORMATION PROGRAMS Executive management’s objective is to report on the group’s operations to and the Shareholder’s Guide that went online in February 2014. AREVA publishes its shareholders. Accordingly, AREVA has had a ﬁnancial communications program half-year and annual results, in accordance with French law. It should be noted that, in place since it was formed. The goals of this program are to build strong relations in the nuclear business, comparisons of quarterly data from one year to quarterly with our shareholders and to develop the group’s presence on the ﬁnancial markets data of the previous year may show signiﬁcant variations that may not be a good by providing more information on our operations. indicator of the expected trend for the year as a whole. Information of a ﬁnancial, commercial, organizational or strategic nature that may At least twice a year, the group organizes information meetings to comment on be of interest to the ﬁnancial community is provided to the national and international its business and ﬁnancial performance. These meetings are broadcast live on the media and to press agencies via press releases. All information provided to the Internet. ﬁnancial markets (press releases, audio and video presentations of a ﬁnancial or The group organizes tours of its sites to increase awareness of its operations strategic nature) is available in the “Finance” section of the group’s website at and facilities. The ﬁrst tour speciﬁcally for individual shareholders was given on www.areva.com. Persons wishing to receive press releases by e-mail may register November 15, 2013 at the la Hague site. on the group’s website, which also features a schedule of upcoming events and announcements, as well as the Letter to the Shareholders begun in January 2012 24.4. TENTATIVE FINANCIAL COMMUNICATIONS SCHEDULE A tentative schedule of upcoming events and announcements is provided below. It is regularly updated on the AREVA website. Date Event February 26, 2016 2015 results (press release, conference and webcast) May 19, 2016 Combined Annual General Meeting of Shareholders July 28, 2016 First half 2016 results (press release, telephone conference and webcast) 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 295 INFORMATION 25 ON HOLDINGS 25.1. SIGNIFICANT EQUITY INTERESTS OF AREVA 296 25.2. SHAREHOLDERS’ AGREEMENTS 296 25.2.1. Shareholders’ agreements concerning AREVA shares 296 25.2.2. Main shareholders’ agreements concerning AREVA’s equity interests 297 25.1. SIGNIFICANT EQUITY INTERESTS OF AREVA Not applicable. 25.2. SHAREHOLDERS’ AGREEMENTS 25.2.1. SHAREHOLDERS’ AGREEMENTS CONCERNING AREVA SHARES Except for agreements described hereunder, there is, to AREVA’s knowledge, no The French State has an option to purchase the shares in the event that KIA violates agreement containing rights of ﬁrst refusal concerning at least 0.5% of AREVA’s its commitment regarding the preemptive right. The exercise price for the purchase share capital or voting rights. option shall be calculated based on the average weighted closing price of AREVA shares during the 90 trading days preceding the date of exercise of the option. SHAREHOLDERS’ AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE FRENCH STATE, THE CEA AND KIA MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN TOTAL CHIMIE, TOTAL NUCLÉAIRE AND AREVA The French State, the CEA and KIA entered into a 10-year shareholders’ agreement eﬀective December 28, 2010, whose key provisions are as follows: Under the terms of a memorandum of agreement dated June 27, 2001, Total Chimie the French State has a preemptive right in the event that KIA sells all or part of and Total Nucléaire agree to retain their AREVA securities until such time as AREVA p its equity interest, except for sales of shares made on the market; shares are admitted for trading on a regulated market. Although all AREVA shares are now traded on a regulated market, neither Total Chimie nor Total Nucléaire has p KIA has an anti-dilution right in the event of a capital increase with cancellation yet chosen to dispose of their AREVA shares. of the preemptive right (except for capital increases reserved for employees of AREVA); p KIA has an absolute right to dispose of its shares in the event of a change in control of AREVA, in the meaning of article L. 233-3 of the French Commercial Code. 296 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT INFORMATION ON HOLDINGS 25.2 Shareholders’ agreements 25 25.2.2. MAIN SHAREHOLDERS’ AGREEMENTS CONCERNING AREVA’S EQUITY INTERESTS EURODIF/SOFIDIF of Directors of AREVA TA is composed of 15 members, 5 of whom are elected by the employees, 6 of whom are appointed on the recommendation of Cedec, AREVA NC presently holds, directly or indirectly through Soﬁdif, 60% of Eurodif’s 3 of whom are appointed on the recommendation of AREVA, and 1 of whom is capital. appointed on the recommendation of the EDF group. In the event that EDF group As part of a bilateral agreement between France and Iran for cooperation in the ﬁeld wished to sell all or part of its interest in AREVA TA, AREVA has priority in relation of enrichment, a memorandum of understanding was entered into in 1974 leading to Cedec to acquire this interest. If either Cedec or AREVA contemplates the sale of to the establishment of Soﬁdif, 40% of whose share capital is held by the Atomic all or part of its shares or rights in AREVA TA, Cedec and AREVA have a reciprocal Energy Organization of Iran (AEOI), with 60% held by AREVA NC. and irrevocable agreement under which each would ﬁrst oﬀer the shares for sale Soﬁdif’s sole asset is a 25% equity interest in Eurodif. Soﬁdif’s business is limited to the other party (unless AREVA were to sell the shares to the CEA). to taking part in meetings of Eurodif’s Supervisory Board, collecting its share of Eurodif’s dividends and redistributing those dividends to its own shareholders. ETC Due to national and international sanctions, no dividend has been paid to the AEOI since 2007. AREVA NC holds 50% of the shares of Enrichment Technology Company Ltd (ETC), which combines all of Urenco’s operations involving the design and construction of facilities and equipment for uranium enrichment by centrifugation. A shareholders’ AREVA TA agreement deﬁnes the relations between AREVA NC and URENCO in ETC, in AREVA holds 24.90% of AREVA TA, 65.10% is held by CEDEC (90.14% AREVA, particular concerning the composition of the Board of Directors, decisions requiring 9.86% DCN-I), and 10% is held by EDF Développement. A memorandum of a unanimous vote by the directors present, and restrictions on selling ETC shares. understanding concerning AREVA TA’s body of shareholders was signed on March 12, 1993 and subsequently amended. It provides in particular that the Board 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 297 APPENDIX 1 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS A1 ON GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES 0.0. 1. SOMS_T2NUMAND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK LEGISLATIVE 00 299 0.0. 4. SOMS_T2NUM SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROLS 00 311 1.1. Legal provisions 299 4.1. Introduction 311 0.0. 1.2. SOMS_T2NUM The standard for AREVA: the Afep-Medef Code 00 0.0. 4.2. SOMS_T2NUMgovernance, resources, Organization, 00 0.0.0. of corporate governance soms_t3num 299 00 0.0.0. information systems and operating procedures soms_t3num 312 00 0.0.0. soms_t3num 00 4.3. 0.0.0. Dissemination of information soms_t3num 315 00 2. 0.0.0. REVIEWS PERFORMED TO PREPARE soms_t3num 00 4.4. 0.0.0. Managing risk and setting objectives soms_t3num 315 00 THIS REPORT 301 4.5. Control activities 315 0.0.0. soms_t3num 00 0.0.0. soms_t3num 00 0.0.0. soms_t3num 00 4.6. 0.0.0. Continuous oversight of the internal soms_t3num 00 3. PREPARATION AND ORGANIZATION control system 316 OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ WORK 301 0.0. SOMS_T2NUM 00 0.0. SOMS_T2NUM 00 3.1. Composition of the Board of Directors 301 5. BUSINESS ADDRESSES OF THE MEMBERS soms_t3 00 soms_t3 00 3.2. Responsibilities and functioning of the Board of OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 317 soms_t3 Directors 00 305 soms_t3 00 3.3. soms_t3 Work of the Board of Directors 00 307 soms_t3 00 3.4. soms_t3 Rules applicable to evaluations 00 307 soms_t3 00 3.5. Committees of the Board of Directors 308 3.6. Powers of the Chairman of the Board and of the Chief Executive Oﬃcer 311 On January 8, 2015, AREVA’s General Meeting of Shareholders decided to This report presents, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the composition of the transform the company’s governance, composed of a Supervisory Board and an Board of Directors, the application of the principle of balanced representation of men Executive Board, into a single structure with a Board of Directors. This transformation and women on the Board, and the conditions for preparing and organizing the work corresponds to the wish of the majority shareholders, the French State and the of the Board of Directors. Information on the functioning of the Supervisory Board CEA. Its purpose is to align the company’s governance with best practices in eﬀect and of the Executive Board appear in the 2014 Reference Document (Appendix 1). in France and to better support the company’s executive management through a This report also provides information on procedures for internal control and risk clear division of roles and eﬀective collaboration between the Board of Directors management. and executive management. It also changed the company’s articles of association to implement the new provisions of order no. 2014-948 of August 20, 2014 on governance and transactions involving the capital of publicly owned companies. 298 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT APPENDIX 1 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1. Legislative and regulatory framework A1 1. LEGISLATIVE AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK 1.1. LEGAL PROVISIONS This report is prepared in application of article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial p “The [above-mentioned] report also specifies particular methods related to the Code, under which “In publicly traded companies, the Chairman of the Board of attendance of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting or refers to the Directors reports on […] the composition of the Board and on the application of the provisions of articles of association setting forth those methods.” principle of balanced representation of men and women in its midst, conditions for AREVA’s articles of association do not contain any particular provision concerning the preparation and organization of the work of the Board, and internal control and shareholder rights, which are exercised according to common law at AREVA, as risk management procedures established by the company, describing in particular noted in Section 21 of the Reference Document. those procedures relating to the preparation and treatment of accounting and p “Moreover, this report presents the principles and rules decided upon by the ﬁnancial information used to prepare the corporate ﬁnancial statements and, if Board of Directors to determine compensation and benefits of any kind granted applicable, the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.” to corporate officers.” Article L. 225-37 also stipulates the following: This information appears in Section 15 of the Reference Document. p “This report also indicates the possible limitations that the Board of Directors p This report “mentions the publication of information stipulated in article L. 225applies to the powers of the Chief Executive Officer.” 100-3 of the French Commercial Code”. The limitations on the powers of the Chief Executive Officer appear in This information, which relates to items which may have an impact in the event paragraph 3.6 below. of a takeover bid, appears in Section 21.2.5 of the Reference Document. p “When a company defers voluntarily to a code of corporate governance drawn p “The [above-mentioned] report is approved by the Board of Directors and made up by recognized business organizations, the [above-mentioned] report also public.” indicates which provisions were set aside and for what reason. The report also specifies the place where this code may be consulted. If a company does not This report was submitted to the Compensation and Nominating Committee defer to such a code of corporate governance, this report indicates the rules for comment on February 16, 2016, and to the Audit and Ethics Committee adopted to supplement the legal requirements and explains why the company on February 17, 2016. The Board of Directors approved the report during its decided not to apply any of the provisions of this code of corporate governance”. meeting of February 24, 2016. AREVA defers to the Afep-Medef Code of Corporate Governance under the conditions mentioned in paragraph 1.2 below. 1.2. THE STANDARD FOR AREVA: THE AFEP-MEDEF CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (1) IMPLEMENTATION OF THE “APPLY OR EXPLAIN” RULE In accordance with the “apply or explain” principle incorporated in article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, AREVA provides hereunder the reasons that led it to AREVA defers to the “Code of Corporate Governance for Publicly Traded depart from certain rules stated in the Afep-Medef Code. AREVA’s capital structure and Companies” developed jointly by the Afep and the Medef in December 2008 and the speciﬁc provisions that apply to AREVA limit the full application of the governance recently revised in November June 2015 (“Afep-Medef Code”). recommendations in the Afep-Medef Code. (1) The Code is available on the Medef website (www.medef.fr). 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 299 A1 APPENDIX 1 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1. Legislative and regulatory framework Afep-Medef recommendation Departure Explanation or corrective action taken The Afep-Medef Code recommends that The company’s articles of association and This recommendation is not suited to AREVA, considering the a “relatively signiﬁcant number” of shares the rules of procedure of the Board of structure of its share ownership and the resulting composition of be held by the members of the Board of Directors do not require that its members the Board of Directors. Directors – article 20 of the Code hold a relatively signiﬁcant number of shares. The Afep-Medef Code recommends that The terms of the ﬁrst members of the Board In the framework of the adoption of the new governance and in view the terms of members of the Board of of Directors appointed on January 8, 2015 of the composition of the Board of Directors, it was not deemed Directors be staggered to avoid massive are set to expire on the same date. necessary to stagger the terms of the directors. AREVA does not rule renewals and promote the harmonious out the appointment of new directors for a term of four years from renewal of the directors article 14 of the the date of their appointment, thus allowing terms to be staggered. Code The Afep-Medef Code recommends that The Board of Directors’Audit and Ethics The composition of the Audit and Ethics Committee is intended to at least two thirds of the members of Committee is comprised of ﬁve members, reﬂect the diﬀerent categories of members present on the Board the Audit Committee be independent – two of whom are independent, i.e. 50%. of Directors (including, in addition to the independent members, a article 16.1 of the Code representative of the French State and a representative of company personnel). This committee is chaired by an independent member, Mrs. Sophie Boissard, who has recognized accounting and ﬁnance expertise. In addition, Mr. Denis Morin, Director of Budget at the French Ministry of Finance, is also a member of the committee. The Afep-Medef Code recommends On April 29, 2015, the Board of Directors Compulsory redundancies in cases other than the change of control that severance pay for which executives having approved AREVA commitments or of strategy may exist. may be eligible be paid only when the corresponding to severance pay or beneﬁts executive is asked to leave in connection likely to be due to the Chief Executive with a change of control or strategy Oﬃcer in connection with the termination article 23.2.5 of the Code. of or change in his duties, indicated that the severance pay would be paid only for dismissal, excluding dismissal for just cause, in particular in the event of a change of control or strategy. 300 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT APPENDIX 1 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 3. Preparation and organization of the Board of directors’ work A1 2. REVIEWS PERFORMED TO PREPARE THIS REPORT To prepare this report, the Chairman of the Board of Directors reviewed, in particular, Department. He also perused the company’s articles of association and rules of the minutes of meetings of the Board of Directors and of its committees for the year procedure. ended and, for the section of the report concerning internal control procedures, The work and reviews related to the preparation of this report were also submitted information provided by the functional departments in connection with the annual to the statutory auditors. review of internal control procedures and comments from the Internal Audit 3. PREPARATION AND ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ WORK Information on the preparation and organization of the Supervisory Board’s work adopted, appear in the 2014 Reference Document (Appendix 1). until January 8, 2015, when a governance structure with a Board of Directors was 3.1. COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 3.1.1. GENERAL RULES RELATING TO THE As of this date, the Board of Directors is composed of twelve members: COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS p eight members appointed* by the Shareholders (including two members Every year, on a recommendation of the Compensation and Nominating Committee, appointed on a proposal from the French State); the Board of Directors re-examines the Board’s composition and that of its p one member representing the French State, appointed by ministerial order; and committees to seek balanced representation of men and women and to ensure p three members elected by salaried personnel. the presence of independent members with recognized expertise from a variety The Board of Directors’members serve a term of four years, bearing in mind that of backgrounds in order to enrich the knowledge and experience of the Board the terms of the ﬁrst members of the Board of Directors will end after the Annual and to bring in an external view and a diversity of skills and experience among its General Meeting convened to approve the ﬁnancial statements for the year ending members, in particular in the management of large publicly-traded groups, with December 31, 2018. solid expertise in international business relations, industrial vision, and recognized skills in accounting, ﬁnance, strategic planning and development. The duties of a member of the Board of Directors not elected by company personnel expire at the end of the Ordinary General Meeting convened to approve the As of the date of this report, the percentage of women represented on the Board ﬁnancial statements for the year ended and held during the year of expiration of of Directors is 22%, bearing in mind that directors representing employees are not said member’s term. counted in establishing this percentage. The members of the Board of Directors appointed by the Shareholders may be In accordance with article 15 of the articles of association, the company is governed dismissed at any time by them. by a Board of Directors comprised of no less than three and no more than eighteen members, including, if applicable, a representative of the French State appointed The duties of a member of the Board of Directors elected by company personnel by ministerial order and directors appointed by the Annual General Meeting of end (i) upon the expiration of his or her four-year term, which must occur no later shareholders on the proposal of the French State pursuant to order no. 2014-948 than the announcement of the results of the election that the company is required of August 20, 2014 and decree no. 2014-949 of August 20, 2014. to organize, (ii) or upon the termination of his or her employment contract, (iii) or upon the date of his or her dismissal under the conditions provided in the articles of The Board of Directors comprises three directors elected by company personnel association and in the legislative and regulatory provisions in eﬀect as of the date of who are not counted in determining the minimum and maximum number of the dismissal. It is hereby stated that the terms of the ﬁrst members of the Board of directors. The three members of the Board of Directors representing company Directors elected by company personnel will end no later than the announcement personnel are elected by an electoral college consisting of engineers and managers of the results of the election preceding the Annual General Meeting convened to (one member) and by an electoral college consisting of the other employees (two approve the ﬁnancial statements for the year ending December 31, 2018. members). Pursuant to the decree no. 83-1116 of December 21, 1983, as amended, and to decree no. 55-733 of May 26, 1955 the following persons also attend the meetings * Or for whom the cooptation was ratiﬁed. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 301 A1 APPENDIX 1 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 3. Preparation and organization of the Board of directors’ work of the Board of Directors in an advisory capacity: the Director general for Energy and p Chairman of the Association de l’École supérieure de chimie électronique of Climate at the Ministry of Energy, serving as Government Commissioner, and the Lyon (CPE) and of its Board of Directors; representative of the Head of the Control Mission “Atomic Energy” of the General p Chairman of the Board of Directors of École nationale supérieure d’electricité et Economic and Financial Control Department as a member of the company’s de mécanique/Université de LorraineSchool of Energy; General Economic and Financial Control Board. They may also attend meetings p Director representing the French State, on behalf of the minister of Industry, to of committees reporting to the Board of Directors. the Board of Directors of AREVA NC (AREVA) (term expired 03/16/15). Pursuant to article 18 of the articles of association, the Board of Directors is assisted in the exercise of its duties by two censors, who attend its meetings without voting Terms expired exercised outside the company during the last rights. ﬁve years The statutory auditors have a standing invitation to the Audit and Ethics Committee p Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Institut national de la recherche meetings and are invited to the meetings of the Board of Directors when the annual pédagogique. and half-year ﬁnancial reports are examined, and to any other meeting when their No other change was made to the composition of the Board of Directors in 2015. presence is opportune. 3.1.4. MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 3.1.2. INDEPENDENCE OF THE MEMBERS AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS As of the date of this report, the Board of Directors comprises three independent Members appointed by the Shareholders/ coopted by the members out of a total of twelve members, bearing in mind that the directors Board of Directors representing company personnel are not counted to establish this proportion. The The members of the Board of Directors are: proportion of at least one third of the members as independents, as recommended by the Afep-Medef Code of Governance, is thus met. p Mr. Philippe Varin (Chairman); p Mrs. Sophie Boissard; Pursuant to these criteria, and based on a recommendation of the Compensation and Nominating Committee, the Board of Directors, meeting on February 2, 2015 p Mr. Claude Imauven; (then meeting on February 24, 2016), considered the following members of the p Mr. Philippe Knoche; Board of Directors to be independent: p Mr. Christian Masset (appointed on the proposal of the French State); p Mrs. Sophie Boissard; p Mr. Denis Morin (appointed on the proposal of the French State); p Mr. Claude Imauven; p Mrs. Pascale Sourisse; p Mrs. Pascale Sourisse. p Mr. Daniel Verwaerde. None of the independent members of the Board of Directors has signiﬁcant business Their respective terms will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting convened relations with the company. The main criterion used for this determination was the to approve the ﬁnancial statements for the year ending December 31, 2018. insigniﬁcant share of revenue resulting from existing business relations, if any, in comparison with the revenue of the company and of the members in question. Philippe Varin (age 63 – French nationality) – Chairman Mr. Philippe Varin was appointed director by the Shareholders on January 8, 2015 3.1.3. CHANGES IN THE COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD and as Chairman of the Board by the Board of Directors, meeting on that same OF DIRECTORS IN 2015 date. Mr. Philippe Varin is a graduate of École polytechnique and of École des mines de Paris. Mr. Daniel Verwaerde was coopted as a member of the Board of Directors and appointed Vice Chairman on February 2, 2015, replacing Mr. Bernard Bigot, who Other oﬃces held had been appointed to those duties on January 8, 2015. The Combined Annual p Director of EDF (1); General Meeting of Shareholders ratiﬁed his cooptation on May 21, 2015. p Director of Saint-Gobain (1); Bernard Bigot (age 65 – French nationality) p Chairman of the Cercle de l’Industrie; Mr. Bernard Bigot is a graduate of Ecole normale supérieure of Saint-Cloud and p Special envoy of the Minister of Foreign Aﬀairs and International Development holds the aggregation in physical sciences and a PhD in chemistry. to ASEAN countries. Terms in progress Other oﬃces held during the past ﬁve years p Director-General of Iter Organization (since 03/05/15); p Chairman of the Managing Board of Peugeot SA; p Chairman of the Fondation de la Maison de la chimie; p Chairman of the Board of Directors of Peugeot Citroën Automobiles SA; p Chairman of the Université de Lyon Foundation (since 12/08/15); p Chairman of the Board of Directors of GEFCO SA; p Vice Chairman of the Fondation Jean Dausset – Centre d’études du p Director of Banque PSA Finance SA; polymorphisme humain; p Director of Faurecia SA; p Vice Chairman of the Association Laboratoires des energies du Sud Rhônep Director of PCMA Holding BV; Alpes; p Director of BG Group Plc. (1) Publicly traded company. 302 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT APPENDIX 1 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 3. Preparation and organization of the Board of directors’ work A1 Sophie Boissard (age 45 – French nationality) Other oﬃces held Mrs. Sophie Boissard was appointed director by the Shareholders on January 8, p Chairman, Chief Executive Oﬃcer and director of AREVA NC (AREVA); 2015. A graduate of École normale supérieure and École nationale d’administration, p Chairman of the Board of Directors of AREVA Mines (since 02/18/16) (AREVA); Mrs. Boissard is also Conseiller d État. p Chairman of AREVA NP SAS (AREVA); Mrs. Boissard has been the Chief Executive Oﬃcer of Korian (1) since January 26, p Member of the Supervisory Board of AREVA GmbH (AREVA); 2016. p Chairman of the Board of Canberra Industries Inc.; Other oﬃces held p Member of the Executive Board of AREVA SA (term expired 01/08/15); p Director of Sanef; p Permanent representative of AREVA SA to the Board of Directors of AREVA TA p Chairman of the ICF Habitat group (SNCF) (term expired 01/25/16); (term expires November 1, 2016) (AREVA). p Chairman of Espaces Ferroviaires (SNCF) (term expired in 02/01/16); Other oﬃces held during the past ﬁve years p Director of Eurostar International Limited (SNCF) (term expired 05/28/15). Chairman of the Board of Directors of AREVA Inc. (AREVA). p Other oﬃces held during the past ﬁve years Christian Masset (age 59 – French nationality) p General Manager in charge of organizing SNCF Immobilier (SNCF); Mr. Christian Masset was appointed director by the Shareholders on the proposal p Chairman of SNCF Participations (SNCF); of the French State on January 8, 2015. He is a graduate of École nationale p Director of GIAT Industries; d’administration, Institut d’études politiques of Paris and École supérieure des sciences économiques et commerciales (ESSEC) p Director of AREP; Mr. Christian Masset is Secretary-General of the Quai d’Orsay (Ministry of Foreign p Chairman and Chief Executive Oﬃcer of A2C; Aﬀairs and International Development). p Vice Chairman of the Union des Transports publics. Other oﬃces held Claude Imauven (age 58 – French nationality) p Director of EDF (1); Mr. Claude Imauven was appointed director by the Shareholders on January 8, 2015. He is a graduate of École polytechnique and holds the rank of Ingénieur in p Director of École nationale d’administration; the Corps des Mines. p Director of the Institut Français; Mr. Claude Imauven is Deputy Chief Executive Oﬃcer of Saint-Gobain (1) since p Director of the Agence nationale des titres sécurisés (national agency for secure January 1, 2016. identity documents); p Director of the Commission de récolement des dépôts d’œuvres d’art Other oﬃces held (commission for veriﬁcation of registered works of art); p Director of Banque CIC Est; p Director of the Établissement de préparation et de réponse aux urgences p Director of Artelia Holding SAS; sanitaires (health emergency planning and response institution); p Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Institut Mines-Télécom (EPSCT) p Director of France Médias Monde; (since 02/15/16); p Member of the Comité de l’énergie atomique (French atomic energy board). p Chairman of Saint-Gobain Matériaux de Construction SAS and Saint-Gobain Produits pour la Construction SAS (Saint-Gobain) (term expired 12/31/15); Other oﬃces held during the past ﬁve years p Director and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Saint-Gobain PAM (Saintp Member of the Board of the l’Institut du monde arabe (Arab World Institute); Gobain) (term expired 12/31/15); p Director of Agence pour l’enseignement du français à l’étranger; p Director and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Saint-Gobain Isover (Saintp Director of France expertise international; Gobain) (term expired 12/31/15); Director of the Cultures France, which became Institut Français in 2010; p p Member of the Supervisory Board and Chairman of Saint-Gobain Weber (SaintDirector of the Agence française de développement (French Development p Gobain) (term expired 12/31/15). Agency); Other oﬃces held during the past ﬁve years p Director of the France-Israel Foundation. p Chief Executive Oﬃcer and Director of BPB Limited; Denis Morin (age 60 – French nationality) p Chairman of the Board of SG Rakennustuotteet Oy; Mr. Denis Morin was appointed director of the company by the Shareholders on p Director of Inversiones BPB Chile Ltda. January 8, 2015 on the proposal of the French State. He is a graduate of École des hautes études commerciales de Paris (HEC), Institut d’études politiques of Paris Philippe Knoche (age 46 – French nationality) and École nationale d’administration. Mr. Philippe Knoche was appointed Chief Executive Oﬃcer of the company by Mr. Denis Morin is Director of Budget at the French Ministry of Economy and the Board of Directors at its meeting of January 8, 2015 after the Shareholders Finance. had appointed him director. He is a graduate of École polytechnique and of École des mines. Other oﬃce held Mr. Philippe Knoche holds 100 AREVA shares. p Director of SNCF (1). (1) Publicly traded company. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 303 A1 APPENDIX 1 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 3. Preparation and organization of the Board of directors’ work Other oﬃces held during the past ﬁve years p Director of Australia Finance Pty Ltd (Australia); p Director of EDF. p Permanent representative of Thales as Director of Sofresa. Pascale Sourisse (age 53 – French nationality) Daniel Verwaerde (age 61 – French nationality) Mrs. Pascale Sourisse was appointed director by the Shareholders on January 8, Mr. Daniel Verwaerde was coopted as director and appointed Vice Chairman by 2015. She is a graduate of École nationale supérieure des télécommunications the Board of Directors on February 2, 2015 to replace Mr. Bernard Bigot for the (ENST) and École polytechnique. remainder of the term of his predecessor. The Shareholders ratiﬁed his cooptation on May 21, 2015. He is a graduate of École centrale de Paris. Mrs. Pascale Sourisse is Senior Executive Vice President, International Development with the Thales (1) group. Mr. Daniel Verwaerde is Managing Director and Chairman of the Board of Directors of CEA. Other oﬃces held Other oﬃces held p Director of Vinci (1); p Chairman of the Board of Directors of the CEA; p Director of Renault (1); p Managing Director of SCI Richard; p Chairman of Thales International SAS and Thales Europe SAS (Thalès); p Managing Director of SCI Guillaume; p Director of the Agence nationale des fréquences (French frequency agency); p Managing Director of SCI Mathilde. p Director of the Agence Nationale de la Recherche; p Chairman of the Board of Ecole de Télécom Paris Tech; Other oﬃces held during the past ﬁve years p Permanent representative of Thales as Director of Odas. p Director of Sodern. Other oﬃces held during the past ﬁve years MEMBER REPRESENTING THE FRENCH STATE, APPOINTED BY p Member of the collective body of Thales Security Solutions & Services SAS; MINISTERIAL ORDER p Chairman of Sitac SAS (previously 181 Centelec SAS); p Member of the Board of Directors of the Institut Télécom; Alexis Zajdenweber (age 39 – French nationality) p Chairman and Chief Executive Oﬃcer of Thales Communications & Security SAS; Mr. Alexis Zajdenweber was appointed representative of the French State to the p Chairman of Thales Services SAS; AREVA Board of Directors as from January 8, 2015 by ministerial order of January 7, 2015. His term will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting convened to p Member of the Supervisory Board of Thales Alenia Space SAS; approve the ﬁnancial statements for the year ending December 31, 2018. p Member of the Board of Gifas; Mr. Alexis Zajdenweber is a graduate of Institut d’études politiques of Paris and p Member of the Board of Directors of DCNS; École nationale d’administration. p Chairman of Thales Canada Inc. Canada; p Director of Thales UK Ltd. (United Kingdom); Other oﬃces held p Director of Thales Electronics Ltd. (United Kingdom); p Director of Eramet (1); p Member of the Supervisory Board of Thales Netherland BV (Netherlands); p Member of the Supervisory Board of ERDF; p Director of Thales USA Inc. (USA); p Director of the French Geological Survey (BRGM). p Director of ADI Engineering & Vehicles Pty Ltd (Australia); Other oﬃces held during the past ﬁve years p Director of ADI Group Holdings Pty Ltd (Australia); p Director of La Monnaie de Paris. p Director of ADI Group Pty Ltd (Australia); p Director of ADI Lithgow Pty Ltd (Australia); MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPRESENTING THE p Director of ADI Munitions Pty Ltd (Australia); EMPLOYEES p Director of Australian Defence Industries Pty Ltd (Australia); The Board of Directors has three directors representing the employees who were p Director of Thales Australia Holdings Pty Ltd (Australia); elected on October 31, 2014 on the condition of the change of governance. p Director of Thales Underwater Systems Pty Ltd (Australia); Their four-year terms took eﬀect on January 8, 2015 and will end no later than the p Director of Thales Training & Simulation Holdings Pty Ltd (Australia); announcement of the results of the election preceding the Annual General Meeting convened to approve the ﬁnancial statements for the year ending December 31, p Director of ATM Pty Ltd (Australia); 2018. p Director of Australia Corporate Finance Pty Ltd (Australia); Jean-Michel Lang (age 53 – French nationality) Mr. Jean-Michel Lang was elected by the employee electoral college on October 31, 2014 as director representing the employees. Mr. Jean-Michel Lang is an expert to the head of the department that handles product quality deviations for AREVA NC. (1) Publicly traded company. 304 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT APPENDIX 1 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 3. Preparation and organization of the Board of directors’ work A1 Other oﬃces held Economic and Financial Comptroller General None. Mr. Bruno Rossi, appointed head of the Atomic Energy Control Mission of the General Economic and Financial Control Department by a decision of the Ministry Other oﬃces held during the past ﬁve years of the Economy, Industry and Employment on June 24, 2008, served as the Economic and Financial Comptroller General of the company in application of p Member of the Board of Directors of MELOX. article 3 of decree no. 83-1116 of December 21, 1983, as amended. Mr. Rossi Odile Matte (age 56 – French nationality) was represented by Mr. Christian Bodin, who reported to him on his control of AREVA and in that capacity attended meetings of the Board of Directors and of its Mrs. Odile Matte was elected by the employee electoral college during the elections specialized committees. of October 31, 2014 as director representing the employees. Mrs. Odile Matte is a project administrator with AREVA TA. Government Commissioner Mr. Laurent Michel, appointed Director general for Energy and Climate by decree Other oﬃces held of December 19, 2012, serves as the Government Commissioner for the company p Director elected by the employees of AREVA TA (AREVA); pursuant to decree no. 83-1116 of December 21, 1983, as amended. In that p Manager of SCI Les Cèdres. capacity, he attends the meetings of the Board of Directors and of its specialized committees. Other oﬃces held during the past ﬁve years Censors p None. In application of article 18 of AREVA’s articles of association, adopted January 8, Françoise Pieri (age 48 – French nationality) 2015, the Board of Directors appointed Mr. Pascal Faure and the CEA, represented by Mr. Christophe Gégout, as censors. Mrs. Françoise Pieri was elected by the employee electoral college during the elections of October 31, 2014 as director representing the employees. The censors’mission is to assist the Board of Directors in the performance its duties; they attend meetings of the Board of Directors without the right to vote. Mrs. Françoise Pieri is an integrated management system specialist (AREVA NC). Each censor is appointed for a period of one year, which may be renewed without Other oﬃces held limitation. None. Secretary of the Board Other oﬃces held during the past ﬁve years In 2015, Mr. Pierre Charreton, General Counsel and Chief Administrative Oﬃcer of AREVA, served as Secretary of the Board of Directors. None. Mrs. Malak Tazi, Legal Director of Governance, Companies and Securities & Finance, serves as Deputy Secretary of the Board of Directors. 3.2. RESPONSIBILITIES AND FUNCTIONING OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 3.2.1 RESPONSIBILITIES p is kept informed of all signiﬁcant transactions outside the company’s oﬃcial strategy; The responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the preparation and organization of its work are deﬁned in the legislative and regulatory framework governing p at any time of the year, carries out checks and controls as it deems necessary corporations (sociétés anonymes) in France, in AREVA’s articles of association and and has the documents it considers useful to the accomplishment of its mission in the rules of procedure of the Board of Directors (1). sent to it; p deﬁnes the company’s ﬁnancial communications policy and ensures the quality of The Board of Directors determines the direction of the company’s activities information provided to the shareholders and to the ﬁnancial market, in particular and oversees its implementation. Except for the powers expressly attributed to through ﬁnancial statements or in connection with major transactions; the General Meetings of Shareholders, and subject to limitations as regards the company’s purpose, it may take up any matter concerning the company’s operations p is regularly informed by the Audit and Ethics Committee of the company’s and, through its deliberations, rules on matters concerning it. ﬁnancial situation, cash position and commitments; is also informed in a timely manner of the company’s liquidity position and makes decisions as necessary Within the framework of its mission, and without this list being exhaustive, the Board: concerning its ﬁnancing and debt position; p determines the company’s and the group’s strategic directions after receiving p approves the ﬁnancial statements, prepares the annual management report, an opinion from the Strategy and Investments Committee; convenes Annual General Meetings and sets the order of business for them; p designates the oﬃcers in charge of managing the company within the framework p approves the report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors on governance and of this strategy and sets their compensation on a recommendation from the internal control and risk management procedures, as stipulated in article L. 225-37 Compensation and Nominating Committee; of the French Commercial Code; (1) The articles of association and rules of procedure are available on the AREVA website, www.areva.com. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 305 A1 APPENDIX 1 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 3. Preparation and organization of the Board of directors’ work p approves the company’s annual budget and multiyear plan; information at all times between sessions of the Board if necessary, and they should p conducts an annual review of the company’s equal opportunity and equal pay be able, if so desired, to meet the principal executives of the company after ﬁrst policy; informing the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Oﬃcer. p may authorize the Chief Executive Oﬃcer to provide sureties, endorsements and Each director may receive, if he/she deems it necessary, training on speciﬁc features guarantees in the company’s name; of the company, on its businesses and business segments, and on the role of director. p may authorize the Chief Executive Oﬃcer to carry out the transactions described in paragraph 3.6 below. 3.2.5 RULES APPLICABLE TO CONFLICTS OF INTEREST 3.2.2 DISSOCIATION OF THE DUTIES OF CHAIRMAN OF The rules to be followed by members of the Board of Directors to prevent conﬂicts THE BOARD AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER of interest appear in article 4.6 of the Board of Directors’rules of procedure, which Under the provisions of article L. 225-51-1 of the French Commercial Code, the stipulate in particular that: Board of Directors opted to dissociate the duties of Chairman of the Board of p the director shall preserve his or her independence of judgment, decision and Directors and Chief Executive Oﬃcer, with Mr. Philippe Varin performing the duties action under all circumstances; of Chairman of the Board and Mr. Philippe Knoche performing the duties of Chief p the director shall endeavor to avoid any conﬂict that may exist between his or her Executive Oﬃcer. material and non-material interests and those of the company; The dissociation of these duties is intended to establish a clear distinction between p the director shall inform the Board of Directors of any conﬂict of interest in which the strategic direction, decision-making and control duties of the Chairman of the he or she could be implicated, directly or indirectly; Board and the operational and executive duties of the Chief Executive Oﬃcer. It is p in the event of a conﬁrmed or potential conﬂict of interest, the director concerned also intended to improve the functioning of the Board through the presence of a shall, upon receipt of the order of business, inform the Chairman of the Board person dedicated to chairing it, and the balanced distribution of powers limiting the of Directors and, if applicable, the chairman of the committee concerned, and isolation of a single executive and promoting dialogue among peers. shall abstain from taking part in the vote on the corresponding deliberation; Furthermore, as a member of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Oﬃcer p the director, or a permanent representative if the director is a legal entity, may not participates in the determination of the company’s and the group’s strategic participate personally in companies or activities in competition with the group directions. without ﬁrst informing the Board of Directors and receiving its approval; The respective powers of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and of the Chief p a director who considers that he or she has lost the ability to discharge his or her Executive Oﬃcer are described in paragraph 3.6 below. duties as a member of the Board or of a committee must resign. In addition: 3.2.3 MEETINGS p the company has set up a speciﬁc procedure to prevent and settle situations The Board of Directors meets as often as the interests of the company so require and which might generate conﬂicts of interest for the Chairman of the Board of at least six times per year. The directors have the possibility of being represented by Directors due to his service as a director on the Board of Directors of EDF; another director at meetings of the Board of Directors. Each director may represent p as part of the negotiations between EDF and AREVA concerning the proposed only one of his or her colleagues during the same session of the Board. strategic and industrial partnership between the two groups, the Chairman of the Board of Directors decided to suspend his participation in the EDF Board Meetings of the Board of Directors are chaired by the Chairman, who leads the of Directors in order to devote himself to his duties as Chairman of the Board of discussions, or in his absence by the Vice Chairman, or in the absence of the latter Directors of AREVA SA; by a member of the Board of Directors designated at the beginning of the meeting by a simple majority of the members present. p Mr. Christian Masset, who also sits on the EDF Board of Directors, indicated in a letter addressed to the Chairman of the AREVA Board of Directors that he would The directors attending the Board session via videoconference or a take the customary measures to avoid any potential conﬂict of interest when the telecommunications medium allowing them to be identiﬁed and ensuring their AREVA Board and its committees deal with relations between AREVA and EDF. eﬀective attendance, are deemed to be present for the calculation of quorum and majority. The Secretary of the Board initials the register in place of those directors. This process may not be used for the approval of the annual ﬁnancial statements 3.2.6 BUSINESS ETHICS OF DIRECTORS and management report, the decision on the dissociation or non-dissociation of the The director shall perform his or her duties with independence, integrity, uprightness duties of Chairman of the Board of Directors and of Chief Executive Oﬃcer, and the and professionalism. appointment of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Oﬃcer and the Chief Operating Oﬃcer(s) as the case may be. The Rules of Procedure published on the company’s website describe the duties of directors, in particular: The group’s employees may also be invited in consideration of their contribution to the points listed in the order of business for the meeting. The presence of external p respect for laws, articles of association and the corporate interest; third parties must be authorized by the Chairman of the Board of Directors. p the duty to speak out; p the strictest respect for the conﬁdentiality of the work of the Board and its 3.2.4 INFORMATION AND TRAINING OF DIRECTORS committees; p the application of rules related to multiple oﬃce-holding; The directors receive the order of business of the Board meeting and the items necessary to their reﬂection at least ﬁve (5) calendar days before the meeting, except in an emergency or exceptional circumstances. They receive a continuous ﬂow of 306 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT APPENDIX 1 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 3. Preparation and organization of the Board of directors’ work A1 p the prevention of conﬂicts of interest; principles and rules to be followed in connection with the prevention of direction of p compliance with obligations related to the holding of ﬁnancial instruments issued duty or insider trading. This code was presented to AREVA’s Executive Committee by the company and the holding of privileged information. on February 15, 2016. In parallel with the issuance of this code, actions to raise awareness of stock exchange rules are being conducted with the group’s employees. In connection with the program launched in 2015 to strengthen ethics and compliance, the group updated and brought together in 2016 a code of applicable 3.3. WORK OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors’work concerned in particular the establishment of the new p the annual budget for 2016; governance and the composition of the committees; examination of the half-year and p the proposed industrial and strategic partnership with EDF; annual ﬁnancial statements and the observations of the statutory auditors on those p the proposed disposal of Canberra; statements; the report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors on the Board’s work and internal control procedures for 2014; the report on internal controls pursuant to p the company’s policy of equal opportunity, equal pay and gender diversity. article 7 of the decree of February 23, 2007 on the securement of funding for nuclear To facilitate the Board of Directors’decision-making, certain subjects were examined expenses; the Chief Executive Oﬃcer’s objectives; and related party agreements. by the diﬀerent committees, according to their area of responsibility. The Board The Board of Directors also reviewed: heard the meeting reports and recommendations of these committees. p the group’s performance plan; In 2015, the Board met 12 times with an attendance rate of 87.5%. p the ﬁnancing plan, including the asset disposal plan; 3.4. RULES APPLICABLE TO EVALUATIONS The Board of Directors’rules of procedure stipulate that, at least once a year, the Board and organization of the Board and of its committees. Among the areas identiﬁed of Directors shall devote time for discussion on the order of business to examine its for improvement are: composition, functioning and organization, as well as that of the committees, and increasing the number of women sitting on the Board of Directors; p to verify that important matters are properly prepared and discussed. In addition, at least once every three (3) years, it undertakes or commissions a formal evaluation p dialogue between employee representatives, the Chief Executive Oﬃcer and the of its work. Every year, it informs the shareholders of the evaluations carried out Senior Executive Vice President of Human Resources prior to Board meetings; and any follow-up actions. p reducing the length of extraordinary meetings of the Board to facilitate schedule management; A meeting of the Board of Directors is held once a year during which the performance of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Oﬃcer and the Chief Operating Oﬃcer(s), if p formalizing the follow-up of decisions and strengthening information provided applicable, is evaluated. Those parties do not attend the meeting. between Board sessions; During the Board of Directors meeting of December 17, the chairman of the p resuming visits of the sites. Compensation and Nominating Committee indicated the schedule and stages for Actions will be taken along these lines in 2016. the annual evaluation of the Board of Directors for 2015, carried out internally. The The Board of Directors meeting of February 24, 2016 included the evaluation of the evaluation questionnaires drawn up by that committee were sent to the members performance of the Chairman and Chief Executive Oﬃcer on its order of business; of the Board on December 18, 2015. those parties were not in attendance. The results were examined by the Compensation and Nominating Committee on At that time, the Board hailed the commitment and quality of action of the Chairman February 16, 2016 and presented to the Board of Directors on February 24, 2016. of the Board of Directors and of the Chief Executive Oﬃcer at a diﬃcult time for It transpires from this that the directors are satisﬁed with the composition, functioning the company. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 307 A1 APPENDIX 1 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 3. Preparation and organization of the Board of directors’ work 3.5. COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors may create committees within it and determines their The accounting and ﬁnance expertise of the members of the Audit and Ethics composition and remit. Committee appears in paragraph 3.1. Composition of the Board of Directors. The role of these committees is to collect appropriate additional information and The Audit and Ethics Committee follows matters related to the preparation and provide it to the Board of Directors, and to facilitate decision-making by making control of accounting and ﬁnancial information, in particular the process for preparing recommendations as necessary. They have no authority as such and perform their ﬁnancial information; the eﬀectiveness of internal control and risk management duties under the authority of the Board of Directors. systems; the statutory audit of the annual corporate ﬁnancial statements and the The committees may request independent technical studies on subjects within consolidated ﬁnancial statements by the statutory auditors, and the consistency their purview, subject to the consent of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and of accounting methods; the procedure for selecting the statutory auditors and subsequent reporting to the Board. The committee must ensure the expertise and their independence; the correct valuation of mineral resources and reserves; the independence of the external experts on which it calls. supervision of the execution of large projects; and the business risk map. The composition and functioning of the committees are deﬁned in the legislative To accomplish its mission, the committee hears the head of the Internal Audit and regulatory framework applicable to corporations (sociétés anonymes) in France, Department and gives its opinion on the department’s organization. The committee in AREVA’s articles of association, and in the rules of procedure of the Board of receives internal audit reports or a periodic summary of those reports. The Directors. committee must also hear the statutory auditors, the Chief Financial Oﬃcer and ﬁnancial directors, and the directors of Accounting and Cash Management. The Board of Directors created four standing committees on January 8, 2015: Upon the expiration of the terms of the statutory auditors, the committee examines p an Audit and Ethics Committee; the bidding process and recommends that the Board of Directors either renew their p a Strategy and Investments Committee; terms or appoint successors. p a Compensation and Nominating Committee; The committee examines the list of consolidated companies and, if appropriate, p an End-of-Lifecycle Obligations Monitoring Committee. the reasons for which companies are or are not included on it. On June 5, 2015, the Board of Directors also created a temporary Ad Hoc Committee The Audit and Ethics Committee establishes an annual schedule of work in in connection with the establishment of a ﬁnancing plan and restructuring to be fulﬁllment of its duties. Financial statements must be provided to the committee for carried out within the group. review suﬃciently in advance (at least three (3) calendar days before their review by the Board of Directors). The examination of the ﬁnancial statements by the Audit and Committee members are not entitled to compensation for their duties other than Ethics Committee must be accompanied by a presentation by the statutory auditors the attendance fees that the Board of Directors may allocate to them. highlighting key ﬁndings of the statutory audit (in particular audit adjustments and The Chief Executive Oﬃcer and, if applicable, the Chief Operating Oﬃcer(s) attend signiﬁcant weaknesses in internal controls identiﬁed during their work), and the committee meetings at the request of the committee chairman. This also applies to accounting options selected. It must also be accompanied by a presentation by the Chairman of the Board of Directors when he is not a member of the committee the Chief Financial Oﬃcer describing the company’s risk exposure and signiﬁcant in question. oﬀ-balance-sheet commitments. The terms of committee members coincide with their terms as members of the The Audit and Ethics Committee must review ethical aspects related to the company Board of Directors. He or she may be renewed at the same time as the latter. at least twice a year. Exceptionally, the Board of Director may dismiss a committee member or its In 2015, the Audit and Ethics Committee met 15 times, with an attendance rate chairman at any time. of 78.66%. The chairman of each committee is appointed by the Board of Directors on a It examined subjects under its speciﬁc responsibility, in particular the half-year recommendation from the Compensation and Nominating Committee. If the and annual ﬁnancial statements (and the corresponding press releases); quarterly chairman is unable to attend, the committee’s other members designate a chairman publications on revenue; the business risk map; the review of the conclusions of of the sitting. The committee chairman designates a secretary. the statutory auditors and the Internal Audit Department on internal controls; the The members of the committee may be convened by any means (mail, fax, quarterly review of major capital projects and large customer projects; the summary email, etc.), or even verbally. Except for emergencies or exceptional circumstances, of internal audits and the annual Ethics report. the meeting documents are sent to the committee members at least ﬁve (5) calendar days before the date of the meeting. The notice of meeting must include the order of business, which is set by the person convening the committee meeting. 3.5.2. STRATEGY AND INVESTMENTS COMMITTEE A committee member may not arrange to be represented at the meeting. As of the date of this Reference Document, the Strategy and Investments Committee has six members: Philippe Varin (Chairman), Claude Imauven(1), Christian Masset, Odile Matte(2), Daniel Verwaerde and Alexis Zajdenweber. 3.5.1. AUDIT AND ETHICS COMMITTEE The Strategy and Investments Committee is tasked with analyzing the main As of the date of this Reference Document, the Audit and Ethics Committee has strategic directions foreseeable for the group’s development and with assessing ﬁve members: Sophie Boissard (1) (Chairman), Denis Morin, Françoise Pieri (2), the soundness of the most important strategic decisions proposed by the Chief Pascale Sourisse(1) and Alexis Zajdenweber. (1) Independent director. (2) Director representing the employees. 308 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT APPENDIX 1 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 3. Preparation and organization of the Board of directors’ work A1 Executive Oﬃcer. It ensures application of the company’s strategic plan and its process of the Board of Directors; the compensation of executive oﬃcers; and the implementation at the subsidiary level. objectives of the Chief Executive Oﬃcer. The committee is tasked with examining proposed transactions subject to the prior approval of the Board of Directors (see paragraph 3.6 below). It examines, 3.5.4. END-OF-LIFECYCLE OBLIGATIONS MONITORING in particular during the annual budget review, a quantiﬁed medium-term, threeCOMMITTEE year plan setting forth in detail the planned capital expenditures and anticipated production costs, in particular for each of the mining sites. As of the date of this report, the End-of-lifecycle Obligations Monitoring Committee has four members: Pascale Sourisse (1) (Chairman), Jean-Michel Lang (2), Daniel In 2015, the Strategy and Investments Committee met 8 times, with an attendance Verwaerde and Alexis Zajdenweber**. rate of 89.8%. The committee is responsible for contributing to the monitoring of the portfolio It studied the following subjects in particular: the strategic roadmap, the ﬁnancing of assets earmarked by AREVA’s subsidiaries to cover their future cleanup and plan, the asset disposal plan and the group’s ﬁnancial trajectory. dismantling expenses. The Strategy and Investments Committee may meet as a select committee at the The End-of-Lifecycle Obligations Monitoring Committee met 5 times in 2015, with initiative of its chairman. The Select Committee’s purpose is to examine major an attendance rate of 55%. commercial proposals subject to the authorization of the Board of Directors. In 2015, the committee was asked, among other things, for an opinion on the status The Select Committee in charge of major commercial proposals met 6 times in of end-of-lifecycle liabilities at the end of 2015; the management of assets and 2015, with an attendance rate of 83.35%. liabilities, and the rate of coverage at year-end 2015; and changes in cost estimates for current and future dismantling operations. 3.5.3. COMPENSATION AND NOMINATING COMMITTEE As of the date of this report, the Compensation and Nominating Committee has 3.5.5. AD HOC COMMITTEES four members: Claude Imauven (1) (Chairman), Sophie Boissard (1), Jean-Michel As of the date of this report, the Ad Hoc Committee has four members: Pascale Lang (2)*and Alexis Zajdenweber. Sourisse(1) (Chairman), Sophie Boissard(1), Claude Imauven(1) and Daniel Verwaerde. The mission of the Compensation and Nominating Committee is, among others, Created on June 5, 2015 in connection with the establishment of a ﬁnancing plan to recommend individuals to the Board of Directors who may be eligible for and restructuring to be carried out within the group, the committee’s mission is to appointment as oﬃcers of the company; to discuss each director’s independent examine oﬀers to be made to the company, in particular as concerns their scope director qualiﬁcation; to formulate recommendations and proposals to the Board and valuation and the legal and social issues related to the transactions; to examine of Directors concerning compensation, pension and insurance beneﬁts, additional the terms of the strategic partnership agreement with EDF; to examine in detail the retirement beneﬁts, non-cash beneﬁts and other ﬁnancial beneﬁts for the company’s diﬀerent components of the ﬁnancing plan in order to ensure that it meets the needs oﬃcers, including severance pay if applicable; to examine the system for distribution and challenges of the company; and to formulate advice and recommendations of attendance fees among the members of the Board of Directors; and to determine to the Board of Directors. the objectives, methods and outcome of the Board’s policy on the representation of men and women, nationalities and diverse skills in its midst. The Ad Hoc Committee met 15 times in 2015, with an attendance rate of 93.32%. The company’s oﬃcers participate in the committee meeting dedicated to reviewing In particular, it studied the industrial and strategic partnership and the commercial the compensation policy for key executives who are not company oﬃcers. agreements with EDF, EDF valuation of AREVA NP and the ﬁnancing plan. In 2015, the Compensation and Nominating Committee met 8 times, with an The Ad Hoc Committee was assisted by its own legal and ﬁnancial advisors. attendance rate of 85.50% It studied the following subjects in particular: the establishment of a succession In addition, a committee comprised of Philippe Varin (Chairman), Pascale plan for executive oﬃcers; the qualiﬁcation of independent director of directors; Sourisse (1), Bernard Bigot, Claude Imauven (1) and Alexis Zajdenweber met on the distribution of attendance fees among the members of the Board of Directors; January 8, 2015 following the ﬁrst Board of Directors meeting to discuss the group’s the compensation policy for principal non-oﬃcer executives; the company policy major strategic topics. on equal opportunity and gender diversity; the launching of the annual evaluation (1) Independent director. (2) Director representing the employees *Jean-Michel Lang replaced Françoise Pieri on March 3, 2015. **Alexis Zajdenweber replaced Denis Morin on March 3, 2015. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 309 A1 APPENDIX 1 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 3. Preparation and organization of the Board of directors’ work 3.5.6. INDIVIDUAL ATTENDANCE RATE Attendance rate per person and per meeting in 2015 (in %) Board members Major End-of-Lifecycle Strategy Compensation Commercial Obligations Board and Investments and Nominating Proposals Audit and Ethics Monitoring Ad Hoc First and last names of Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Philippe Varin 100 100 NA 100 NA NA NA Sophie Boissard 100 NA 87.5 NA 100 NA 100 Claude Imauven 75 75 100 66.7 NA NA 80 Philippe Knoche 100 NA NA NA NA NA NA Jean-Michel Lang (1) 58.3 NA 40 NA NA 40 NA Christian Masset 83.3 87.5 NA NA NA NA NA Odile Matte 100 87.5 NA NA NA NA NA Denis Morin 33.3 NA NA NA 20 0 (2) NA Françoise Pieri 100 NA 100 NA 100 NA NA Pascale Sourisse 100 NA NA NA 73.3 100 100 Daniel Verwaerde 100 85.7 (3) NA 66.7 NA 60 93.3 Alexis Zajdenweber 100 100 100 100 100 75 (2) NA (1) Mr. Jean-Michel Lang was absent due to illness from February to July 2015. (2) Mr. Denis Morin was a member of the Committee only during the ﬁrst meeting, held in February 2015. He was then replaced by Mr. Alexis Zajdenweber. (3) Mr. Daniel Verwaerde was appointed in February 2015 and thus did not attend the ﬁrst meeting, held in January 2015. Attendance rate per person and per meeting in 2015 (in %) Standing invitees Major End-of-Lifecycle Strategy and Compensation Commercial Obligations Board Investments and Nominating Proposals Audit and Ethics Monitoring Ad Hoc First and last names of Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Christian Bodin 100 100 75 100 100 100 NA Pascal Faure 66.7 50 NA NA NA NA NA Christophe Gégout 50 NA NA NA 20 20 NA Laurent Michel (or his representative) 91.7 100 0 66.7 46.7 20 NA 310 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT APPENDIX 1 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 4. System of internal controls A1 3.6. POWERS OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Under the terms of article 17-2 of AREVA’s articles of association, the following transactions of the company and its subsidiaries are subject to the prior authorization The Chairman represents the Board of Directors and, unless exceptional of the Board of Directors: circumstances arise, is the only person with the authority to act or make a statement in the name of the Board of Directors. (a) transactions that could aﬀect the group’s strategy and modify its ﬁnancial structure or scope of business; In coordination with the company’s executive management, the Chairman may take part in deﬁning the group’s strategic directions and may represent the group (b) insofar as they concern amounts in excess of 80 million euros: in France and abroad in its relations with public oﬃcials and the group’s partners. (i) the issuance of securities of direct subsidiaries, regardless of their nature, Meetings of the Board of Directors are chaired by the Chairman, who leads the (ii) exchanges, with or without cash payment, of goods, securities or assets; loans, discussions, or in his absence by the Vice Chairman, or in the absence of the latter borrowings, credit transactions and prepayments; acquisitions or disposals, by by a member of the Board of Directors designated at the beginning of the meeting any means, of all debt instruments, excluding cash management operations by a simple majority of the members present. in the ordinary course of business, The Chairman organizes and leads the work of the Board of Directors and ensures (iii) settlements, agreements or transactions relating to disputes; the smooth functioning of the corporate bodies in accordance with principles of (c) insofar as they concern amounts in excess of 20 million euros: good governance. He coordinates the work of the Board of Directors with that of its committees. (i) proposed investments concerning the creation of a site or the capacity increase of an existing site, He ensures that the directors and censors receive timely information, in a clear and appropriate form, needed to perform their missions. (ii) acquisitions, increases or disposals of equity interests in any company, existing or to be established, The Chairman provides liaison between the Board of Directors and the company’s shareholders, in concert with executive management. (iii) decisions to create an entity to establish an operation in France or abroad, or to withdraw an operation; CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (iv) acquisitions of real estate. Exceptionally, and unless the Chairman of the Board of Directors requests otherwise, The Chief Executive Oﬃcer is responsible for the company’s executive management the transactions referred to under (a), (b) and (c) above are not subject to the prior and represents the company in its relations with third parties. approval of the Board of Directors when they are carried out between companies Full powers are vested in him to act on behalf of the company in all circumstances, of the group; except for powers attributed by law to the Board of Directors and to the Shareholders, (d) commercial proposals meeting the criteria deﬁned in the Board of Directors’rules and as stipulated in the company’s own rules of governance. of procedure. The Chief Executive Oﬃcer reports on major events in the group at each meeting of the Board of Directors. 4. SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROLS 4.1. INTRODUCTION This section, which describes the group’s system of internal controls, is structured The Values Charter is the reﬂection of the group’s culture of business ethics and according to the frame of reference for internal controls published by the Autorité the expression of its commitments, in particular sustainable development and antides marchés ﬁnanciers (French stock market authority AMF) in July 2010. corruption commitments. It sets forth Values, Action Principles and Rules of Conduct The scope of internal controls described below applies to AREVA as parent that apply to all of the group’s executives and employees and to the members of company and to all of the companies it controls, regardless of their legal form. the Board of Directors. The group’s values are performance, safety and security, customer satisfaction, responsibility, integrity, partnership and transparency. In 2015, the group’s business ethics advisor coordinated the annual report of 4.1.1. AREVA’S COMMITMENTS compliance with the Values Charter and presented the 2014 executive summary AREVA defined and implements fundamental commitments regarding the of the report to the Board of Directors’ Audit and Ethics Committee. conduct of its operations. The environment for internal controls is based on these commitments, among other things. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 311 A1 APPENDIX 1 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 4. System of internal controls The group calls attention to its commitment to ﬁghting corruption in its code of p the internal dissemination of relevant and reliable information enabling each ethics, which can be accessed on the group’s intranet.The policy presents the person to discharge his or her responsibilities; main characteristics of the British anti-corruption law which came into eﬀect in midp a system to identify, analyze and manage risk; 2011 and emphasizes the law’s supranational reach, similar to that of the US antip control activities designed to reduce this risk; and corruption law (FCPA), which had served as the international benchmark until then. p continuous monitoring of the internal control system. The group’s business ethics advisor also works to ensure that the management of the relevant AREVA units continues to implement the Nuclear Power Plant The group ensured that the approach taken is consistent with the standards of the Exporters’Principles of Conduct, an industry ethics initiative launched by the AMF. In particular, it veriﬁed the consistency between: Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, which AREVA actively helped to p the “implementing guidelines for the internal control of accounting and ﬁnancial deﬁne. information published by the issuers” included in the Frame of Reference, and To the maximum extent possible, the group also ensures employee compliance with p the system for self-audit of internal controls within the group (Self Audit Income), the obligations resulting from competition law. To this end, the Legal Department in which was carried out to ensure that all the standards are met (see Section 4.6. charge of European and Competition Law is asked to review the group’s projects Continuous oversight of the internal control system). and serves as an advisor on competition law at every level of the company. The department distributed Best Practices (Competition Charter) aimed in particular at enabling the Legal Department to better identify and address early in the process 4.1.3. INTERNAL CONTROL OBJECTIVES competition issues with which the group is regularly confronted, such as requests Internal controls contribute to the management of operations. They aim in particular for proposals, meetings with competitors, and consortiums. These Best Practices to ensure: are supplemented by training sessions for the operating teams. p compliance with laws and regulations; In the second half, at the initiative of the Chief Executive Oﬃcer and with the full p implementation of instructions and guidelines set by the governing bodies; support of the governing bodies, the group initiated the start of a program to strengthen compliance and ethics. The initiative, the ﬁrst phase of which is expected p the smooth functioning of the group’s internal processes, in particular those to last 18 months, reﬂects AREVA’s commitment to rising quickly to the level of the contributing to the preservation of its assets; best references in this ﬁeld. p the reliability and quality of the information produced and communicated, with particular emphasis on ﬁnancial information. Within this framework, the warning system was strengthened in 2015 and an “individual compliance commitment letter” process was set up for all of the group’s The scope of internal control is not limited to procedures for ensuring the reliability executives. Priorities for 2016 were also set, aimed in particular at increasing the of accounting and ﬁnancial information. robustness of existing systems. The latter are aimed in particular at improving However, no matter how well designed and implemented, internal control existing systems, mainly concerning the prevention of corruption, compliance with mechanisms are not suﬃcient by themselves to guarantee with absolute certainty competition rules and the prevention of risks in ﬁnancial and stock market ethics. that these objectives are met. AREVA’s internal control system is consistent with the group’s commitments 4.1.2. INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS regarding the conduct of its operations, particularly as regards the Values and Sustainable Development Charter. In the “Frame of Reference for Internal Control” of the Autorité des marches ﬁnanciers (AMF), to which the group defers, the internal control system is characterized by: p an organization with a clear deﬁnition of responsibilities, suﬃcient resources and expertise, and appropriate information systems, procedures, tools and practices; 4.2. ORGANIZATION, GOVERNANCE, RESOURCES, INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND OPERATING PROCEDURES Internal controls are implemented throughout the group by all employees under capital expenditures and sensitive or signiﬁcant commercial proposals, drawing in the overall responsibility of existing governing bodies. particular on preparatory work carried out by the four standing committees that it created (see Section 4.3. Committees of the Board of Directors). 4.2.1. AREVA’S ORGANIZATION For his part, the Chief Executive Oﬃcer is responsible for the company’s executive management and represents it in his relations with third parties. In addition to the Following the Combined General Meeting held on January 8, 2015, and in order powers conferred on him by law, and subject to the limitations set forth in the articles to strengthen the group’s existing internal control system, AREVA changed its of association or in the Board of Directors’rules of procedure, the Chief Executive corporate governance structure, going from a structure with a Supervisory Board Oﬃcer is responsible for: and Executive Board to a single structure with a Board of Directors. p deﬁning the group’s performance objectives (ﬁnancial, commercial, operational, In this new framework, as described in Section 3 of this report, the Board of Directors nuclear safety, occupational safety, etc.) and their breakdown by business, and is in charge in particular of deﬁning the group’s strategy and validating large monitoring their achievement; 312 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT APPENDIX 1 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 4. System of internal controls A1 p allocating the group’s resources (human resources, ﬁnancial resources, etc.); 4.2.3. HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PLAN p deﬁning organizational principles and processes to serve customers and build Against the backdrop of an economically and ﬁnancially diﬃcult environment, the talent. human resources policy had three priorities in 2015: In 2015, in the framework of weekly meetings, the Chief Executive Oﬃcer associated p negotiate and implement the human resources aspects of the group’s the members of his Executive Committee (ExCom) with his work, particularly that performance plan (voluntary departure plan, reduction of labor expenses, related to the design and supervision of internal control systems for which he is organizational transformation); responsible. p continue to promote and manage internal mobility while securing the retention At December 31, 2015, the ExCom members were: of key skills; p the Senior Executive Vice President of the Mining and Front End Business Group; p develop executive and manager leadership skills, a driver for the commitment p the Senior Executive Vice President of the Reactors & Services Business Group, and mobilization of the managerial body. who is also the Chief Operating Oﬃcer of AREVA NP; p the Senior Executive Vice President of the Back End Business Group; 4.2.4. INFORMATION SYSTEMS p the Senior Executive Vice President of Engineering & Projects; The mission of the Information Systems and Services Department (DSSI) is to ensure p the Senior Executive Vice President, Asia Region, in charge of the reorganization the availability, conﬁdentiality and integrity of the group’s information systems. To of the international commercial function; accomplish this, it is organized to meet the following objectives: p the Senior Executive Vice President of Operations Support, in charge of the p orient the information system towards services to the group’s businesses, in corporate transformation project; alignment with the organization of the group’s processes; p the Senior Executive Vice President of Human Resources; p standardize, streamline and consolidate the technical and functional infrastructure p the Chief Financial Oﬃcer. to ensure its performance and reliability, taking into account economic, During the year, under the direction of the Chief Executive Oﬃcer and his ExCom, geographic and security-related considerations. operational leadership for the group’s activities was provided by: p ﬁve Business Groups (BG), which regularly organize meetings with the relevant 4.2.5. OPERATING PROCEDURES corporate functions to review and monitor major projects for which they are responsible (MPC Major Projects Committee); 4.2.5.1. General internal control procedures p crosscutting departments, in particular an Engineering & Projects organization The group’s internal control procedures consist of rules, directives and operating (E&P); procedures deﬁned by the governing bodies. p functional departments and three regions. Supplementing this, the businesses have translated their internal control systems The Chief Executive Oﬃcer and his ExCom drew on three coordination and steering into charters and policies. committees which had broad delegation of authority: The charters establish rules of governance and principles for internal controls, as p the Major Proposals Committee, in charge of approving commercial proposals follows: in compliance with the limits set by the Board of Directors; p The Nuclear Safety Charter spells out the group’s commitments in the ﬁeld p the Risk Committee, charged with coordinating analysis of the group’s principal risks; of nuclear safety and radiation protection to ensure that requirements are met p the Resources and Reserves Committee (including independent experts) to throughout the facility operating period; validate data relating to the group’s mineral resources and reserves. p The Audit Charter describes the purpose, missions, roles and responsibilities and applicable procedures of the group’s internal audit; 4.2.2. DEFINITION OF RESPONSIBILITIES p The Network Security Charter deﬁnes the basic principles of the AREVAnet AND AUTHORITY computer communication network and the rules to be followed to access various services. The group has a frame of reference which clearly deﬁnes powers and duties. It Policies deﬁne the operating principles and procedures that are a step above is based on: speciﬁc business procedures. The group has established the following policies p formal written and duly signed organizational notes describing missions and in particular: responsibilities at the level of the group, in particular the operational departments p the procurement policy and guide to ethics in procurement set rules, objectives and the functional departments; and best practices in procurement and business ethics; p formal written delegations of authority in the procedure “Delegation of Authority – p the payment security policy deﬁnes the group’s policy for secure payment Thresholds and Decision Channels”, which deﬁnes internal rules for authorization methods and means to be used to limit the risk of fraud; and decision-making for the leading operational processes; and p the personnel protection policy is designed to give all group employees equal p delegations of authority and signature authority throughout the group to conduct protection, whether they are traveling on business or live in France or abroad; business as appropriate at each level of in a manner consistent with applicable laws and regulations. p the occupational safety and environmental policies establish rules of conduct for continuing risk reduction; The organization and delegations of authority are deﬁned to comply with the principle of the separation of duties. In particular, governance and internal control principles applicable to delegations of authority set ﬁnancial limits by type of transaction, for which information must be provided to or authorization received from the competent authority. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 313 A1 APPENDIX 1 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 4. System of internal controls p the human resources policy aims to boost the company’s collective performance The “standards and procedures” function of the Management Control and Accounting by developing each individual’s skills and talents. Department deﬁnes and distributes information relating to implementation of the Consistent with the principle of subsidiarity and to ensure the assimilation of these management control and accounting standards, procedures, principles and rules. instructions, the operational departments adapt the procedures to their speciﬁc It also monitors changes in regulations to ensure that the ﬁnancial statements are circumstances prior to implementation within their entities. prepared in accordance with IFRS rules adopted by the European Union. 4.2.5.2. Accounting and ﬁnancial reporting procedures 4.2.6. SOFTWARE Overall organization In addition to oﬃce automation software used by employees, the group has speciﬁc Information is rolled up and processed at two operational levels: the operating entities software customized for the conduct of its operations. (basic level of information production) and the Business Groups (management and A wide variety of tools are used, including facility control systems, integrated performance analysis at the group level). management systems, methods and scorecards, and contribute to the operational Instructions for consolidation are issued by the group’s Financial Management control of each business. Control and Accounting Department for all half-year and annual ﬁnancial statements. The group has a single, secure reporting and consolidation tool shared throughout These instructions include: the group under the authority of the Finance Department. p the schedule for preparing accounting and ﬁnancial information for reporting In addition, organizational notes and standards and procedures applicable to the purposes; entire group are distributed using a dedicated software application. p the process for validating this information; AREVA set up a tool for all SAP core systems in the group (called the AREVA p items requiring particular attention, such as complex issues, changes in the legal Segregation of Tasks & Roles Optimization project) to strengthen internal controls environment and new internal procedures; and and streamline access to the management information system. The main purpose p the coordinators for consolidation (at the corporate level) responsible for of this tool is to secure the access management process by ensuring that user approving consolidation treatments for a portfolio of entities; they also perform roles are deﬁned according to best practices for the separation of duties and by crosscutting analyses (corresponding to the notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial automating their management with the SAP Governance, Risk and Compliance statements) for the entire group. suite (SAP GRC). The group’s Finance Department modeled the group’s main ﬁnancial processes and provides a complete, up-to-date database shared by all of the parties involved 4.2.7. INTERNAL CONTROL PRACTICES AND in these processes (corporate departments and Business Groups). This system: MANAGEMENT p documents the processes while acting as an interface for applicable group Internal control relies on all of these components as well as on the practices of procedures; all employees, which are themselves based on the group’s commitments (Values p identiﬁes areas for improvement and optimization of those processes. Charter, compliance with the principles of sustainable development, etc.). “Best Modelled processes are available on a dedicated intranet space and are updated practices” are identiﬁed to facilitate their dissemination and sharing so as to ensure regularly to reﬂect changes in the organization. eﬀective continuous improvement in matters of internal controls. The “internal control” function jointly coordinated by the Internal Audit Department Implementation and control of accounting principles and the Finance Department within the Internal Control Committee relies on a The reporting entities’ﬁnancial statements are prepared in accordance with the network of “internal control coordinators” appointed in each of the Business Groups, group’s accounting and ﬁnancial principles. These rules apply to all entities included whose main objectives are: in the group’s consolidation scope. They include: p to ensure the distribution of information concerning decisions made and their p a glossary that deﬁnes the main headings of the ﬁnancial statements and the application by the entities (“top-down”); and group’s performance indicators; p to roll up speciﬁc points requiring attention from the entities to the committee p an annotated chart of accounts; and (“bottom-up”). p applicable procedures issued by the Management and Accounting Control The Internal Audit Department is in charge of monitoring and updating the Department. performance of the internal control system for the group’s governing bodies, The principles are supplemented by procedures and instructions issued and particularly through the self-audit exercise. In connection with this mission, it reviewed on a regular basis by the other units of the Finance Department (Financial provided support to operational management, the functional departments and Operations and Cash Management Department, Financial Communications the shared service centers to strengthen existing systems by means of preventive Department, Tax Department) and by the Business Groups, and include procedures and corrective actions. and instructions dealing speciﬁcally with internal controls and fraud. The person responsible for internal accounting and ﬁnancial controls is tasked more speciﬁcally with issues related to internal accounting and ﬁnancial controls, and works closely with the Internal Audit Department. 314 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT APPENDIX 1 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 4. System of internal controls A1 4.3. DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION Bottom-up and top-down information channels have been established to p top-down information: communicate relevant and reliable information in a timely manner: ○ the relevant departments and the group are informed of resolutions by the p bottom-up information: corporate decision-making bodies, ○ accounting and ﬁnancial information is rolled up and processed in accordance ○ the group monitors laws and regulations on nuclear safety, occupational with speciﬁc processes using shared tools to record and check the data (i.e. a safety, health, the environment, accounting and taxation, and disseminates this single, secure reporting and consolidation software program shared by the information throughout the group as appropriate. Organizational notes, rules, entire group and supervised by the Finance Department), standards and procedures are disseminated in accordance with applicable organizational rules, standards and procedures. ○ achievement of performance objectives and progress on the transformation plan through related action plans are monitored through regular monthly and Communications with stakeholders are framed in plans designed to ensure the quarterly business reviews; quality of the information provided. 4.4. MANAGING RISK AND SETTING OBJECTIVES 4.4.1. RISK IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT p the main risk factors identiﬁed are described in the Reference Document in the section on risk management and insurance (see Section 4. Risk factors). Matters The group drew up a business risk map when it was established to take into account pertaining to nuclear safety and industrial safety, which are an absolute priority the potential impact of events on the achievement of the group’s strategic and for the group, are discussed in that section; operational objectives. AREVA’s Risk and Insurance Department, working with the risk managers of the Business Groups (which themselves have a network of Risk p in addition, in 2016, with probable signiﬁcant changes to the group’s consolidation Managers in their operating entities), carries out an annual update. scope and organization in which a number of entities will be involved, all of the management and control bodies will have to ensure strict compliance with In 2015, the latter was reviewed by the Risk Committee and approved by the ExCom. applicable rules during the transition period, and the proper functioning of all The business risk map was presented to the Board of Directors’Audit and Ethics processes that go into making the internal control system robust. Committee. In addition, the Safety-Health-Security-Sustainable Development Department is In particular: tasked with supervising industrial risk management and, on a practical level, working p the operational management teams have approved the assessment of risk in their with the relevant Business Groups to ensure the implementation and eﬀectiveness operations. For example, the group’s entities collected, analyzed and measured of action plans that aim to reduce these risks. the risk factors of their respective operations. They also prepared mitigation In 2015, the Finance Department regularly presented the group’s major investment plans and management procedures to minimize the risk and have designated and commercial projects to the Audit and Ethics Committee, providing an the people in charge and the schedule for completion; opportunity to discuss changes in the risks associated with those projects with p the members of the Executive Committee identiﬁed and formalized the list of the the control bodies. group’s major risks and designated a “referring” member for each of them. More speciﬁcally, this member is in charge of verifying the existence of an appropriate action plan and reporting on its progress to the Risk Committee, the Executive 4.4.2. SETTING OBJECTIVES Committee and the company’s governing bodies; In 2015, the process of setting objectives for the group was framed by the 2015-2017 Transformation Plan. 4.5. CONTROL ACTIVITIES The functional departments, acting on behalf of the group’s management bodies, budget updates and reporting documents are used to regularly and progressively deploy their policies and ensure their correct implementation. In particular, the compare actual results and the extent to which objectives have been met with those Management and Accounting Control Department defines and ensures the deﬁned when the budgets were approved. application of management control rules, documents the accounting and ﬁnancial By deﬁnition, each organization is responsible for its own internal controls. These management processes, and ensures compliance with rules on delegations of controls rely on the mobilization of human, material and ﬁnancial resources, the authority pertaining to ﬁnancial commitments. organization of those resources, the deployment of speciﬁc objectives within the Each operational and functional level implements appropriate control activities to organization, and the implementation of controls for prevention or detection. regularly evaluate the level of achievement of established objectives. In particular, the 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 315 A1 APPENDIX 1 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 4. System of internal controls Preventive controls are carried out according to speciﬁc procedures, whether p controls are carried out at the diﬀerent stages of the consolidation process: manual or computerized, involving validations at appropriate levels of the ○ either automatically by the consolidation software (control of debit/credit organization, among other things. Detection controls consist of after-the-fact balances, data traceability, data integrity, access control), or veriﬁcations connected with speciﬁc supervision of the work performed and analysis of variances or anomalies. Information systems, performance indicators, etc. are ○ manually by the consolidation department, ﬁnancial controllers and business analysts; used to facilitate this supervision. p the group’s Tax Department performs tax reviews of the group’s main companies. In addition, audit and expert bodies are charged with controlling the most signiﬁcant issues in relation to the group’s speciﬁc goals. In particular, as regards accounting and ﬁnancial information: p each entity has set up a system of controls before transactions are recorded; 4.6. CONTINUOUS OVERSIGHT OF THE INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM In 2015, AREVA continued to take action to optimize its internal control systems. Lastly, as is the case each year, the Audit Director presented his internal controls These actions were conducted under the supervision of the Chief Executive Oﬃcer review report to the Chief Executive Oﬃcer and his ExCom as well as to the Audit and his ExCom, and with the oversight of the Board of Directors through the Audit and Ethics Committee. and Ethics Committee. In addition to audits carried out under the audit plan, the group’s entities perform The Chief Administrative Oﬃcer deployed the annual compliance letter process, a self-audit of their internal controls every year following a standard questionnaire which applied to all executives in the subsidiaries, the Business Group’s senior (the “Self-Audit Income”), duly approved by their operational management, which executive vice presidents, the directors of the Business Units, the regional directors, has complied since 2007 with the “Implementing guidelines for internal controls and the directors of the group’s corporate functions. of accounting and ﬁnancial information” of the frame of reference published by AREVA’s Internal Audit Department intervenes everywhere in the group and in any the AMF. The questionnaire, reviewed by the joint statutory auditors, was deployed area relevant for internal controls. This department is under the responsibility of its in 2015 across the entire consolidation scope of the group, representing 106 director and, under the hierarchical and functional authority of the Audit Director, entities in some 20 countries. By entity, it covered 200 control items organized carried out its activities independently in compliance with the Audit Charter and into 14 business cycles, and led management to commit to action plans to address according to international standards for the profession. the weaknesses identiﬁed. In 2015, the missions were conducted in accordance with the annual audit plan The entities’responses to this self-audit questionnaire are reviewed by the Internal approved by the Chief Executive Oﬃcer, presented to the ExCom, and examined Audit Department and shared with the network of internal control coordinators by the Audit and Ethics Committee. This department is responsible among other and the statutory auditors. This review and its sharing mechanism contribute to the things for reporting to the management bodies on its assessment of compliance with oversight of the overall system; the results are presented to the appropriate levels of and the eﬀectiveness of the internal control systems deployed within the group. In the organization (Business Groups and functional departments in particular). The particular, this assessment takes into account the risks identiﬁed using the full range main elements are summarized in the annual report by the Audit Director on the of the group’s tools (business risk map, internal control self-audit tools, interviews examination of internal controls. conducted by the Audit Department with the General Inspectorate, a hundred of This report does not contain an analytical section. This is consistent with practices the group’s top managers and the statutory auditors, etc.). The recommendations in France and the recommendations of the Autorité des Marchés Financiers, as resulting from these missions give rise to performance improvement plans, which described in its December 13, 2011 report on corporate governance and internal are monitored in concert with the managers involved. controls. Chairman of the Board of Directors 316 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT APPENDIX 1 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 5. Business addresses of the members of the Board of Directors A1 5. BUSINESS ADDRESSES OF THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Mr. Philippe Varin Mr. Christian Masset Chairman of the Board of Directors Secretary General AREVA Tower – 1 place Jean Millier Ministry of Foreign Aﬀairs and International Development 92084 Paris-La Défense Cedex, France 37 Quai d’Orsay 75007 Paris, France Mr. Philippe Knoche Chief Executive Oﬃcer Mr. Denis Morin AREVA Tower – 1 place Jean Millier Budget Director 92084 Paris-La Défense Cedex, France 139 rue de Bercy Teledoc 241 Mr. Daniel Verwaerde 75572 Paris Cedex 12, France Chairman of the Commissariat à l’énergie atomique et aux énergies alternatives CEA/SACLAY Mrs. Pascale Sourisse CAB/AG Senior Executive Vice President, International Development Headquarters Building (no. 447) Thales Group 91191 Gif-sur-Yvette Cedex, France Carpe Diem Tower 31 place des Corolles Mrs. Sophie Boissard CS 20001 Chief Executive Oﬃcer 92098 La Défense, France Korian Group 21-25 rue Balzac DIRECTOR REPRESENTING THE FRENCH STATE 75008 Paris, France Mr. Claude Imauven Mr. Alexis Zajdenweber Director of Energy Shareholdings Chief Operating Oﬃcer Agence des participations de l’État Saint-Gobain Ministry of Economy and Finance Construction Products Division Teledoc 228 Les Miroirs 139 rue de Bercy 18 avenue de l’Alsace 75572 Paris Cedex 12, France 92400 Courbevoie, France 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 317 A1 APPENDIX 1 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 5. Business addresses of the members of the Board of Directors MEMBERS OF THE BOARD ELECTED BY COMPANY PERSONNEL OTHER PERSONS ASSISTING THE BOARD IN AN ADVISORY CAPACITY Mr. Jean-Michel Lang AREVA NC Mr. Laurent Michel BP 124 Director General of Energy and Climate 30203 Bagnols-sur-Cèze Cedex, France Government Commissioner Ministry of Ecology, Sustainable Development and Energy Mrs. Françoise Pieri MEDDE AREVA NC Sequoia Tower Pierrelatte Establishment 1 place Carpeaux DSI/LOG 92800 Puteaux, France BP 175 26702 Pierrelatte, France Mr. Christian Bodin Economic and Financial Controller General Mrs. Odile Matte Head of the control mission AREVA TA Energy Mission Aix-en-Provence AREVA TA AREVA Tower CS 50497 1 place Jean Millier 13593 Aix-en-Provence Cedex 03 94084 Paris – La Défense Cedex, France France Mr. Marcel Otterbein Representative of the Works Council to the Board of Directors AREVA Business Support AREVA Tower – 1 place Jean Millier 92084 Paris-La Défense Cedex, France Mr. Pascal Faure (Censor) General Director Ministry of Economy, Industry and the Digital Economy General Directorate of Competitiveness and Energy (DGE) 67 rue Barbès BP 80001 94201 Yvry-sur-Seine Cedex, France Mr. Christophe Gégout (Censor) CEA/Saclay CAB/AG Headquarters Building (no. 447) 91191 Gif-sur-Yvette Cedex, France 318 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT APPENDIX 2 A2 1. STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT PREPARED 2. STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON RELATED IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE L. 225-235 PARTY AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS 321 OF THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL CODE (CODE DE COMMERCE) AND DEALING WITH THE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF AREVA SA 319 This is a free translation into English of a report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and is construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. 1. STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE L. 225-235 OF THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL CODE (CODE DE COMMERCE) AND DEALING WITH THE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF AREVA SA To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of AREVA SA and in accordance with article L. 225-235 of the French Commercial Code, we hereby present our report dealing with the report prepared by the Chairman of your company in accordance with article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code for the ﬁnancial year ending 31/12/2015. The Chairman is responsible for preparing and submitting for the approval of the Board of directors a report describing the internal control and risk management procedures implemented by the company and disclosing other information as required by article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code dealing in particular with corporate governance. Our own responsibility is to: p communicate to you any observations we may have as to the information contained in the Chairman’s report and relating to the company’s internal control and risk management procedures in the area of the preparation and processing of ﬁnancial and accounting information; and p attest that the report includes the other disclosures required by article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code. It should be noted that we are not responsible for verifying the fair presentation of those other disclosures. We have performed our work in accordance with the professional standards applicable in France. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 319 A2 APPENDIX 2 1 Statutory Auditors’ report prepared in accordance with article L. 225-235 of the French Commercial Code INFORMATION RELATING TO THE COMPANY’S INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES IN THE AREA OF THE PREPARATION AND PROCESSING OF FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING INFORMATION Our professional standards require the application of procedures designed to assess the fair presentation of the information contained in the Chairman’s report and relating to the company’s internal control and risk management procedures in the area of the preparation and processing of ﬁnancial and accounting information. Those procedures involve in particular: p obtaining an understanding of the underlying internal control and risk management procedures in the area of the preparation and processing of ﬁnancial and accounting information presented in the Chairman’s report, and of the related documentation; p obtaining an understanding of the work performed as a basis for preparing that information and the existing documentation; p determining if any major internal control weaknesses in the area of the preparation and processing of ﬁnancial and accounting information identiﬁed by us during the course of our engagement have been appropriately disclosed in the Chairman’s report. On the basis of the procedures performed, we have nothing to report on the information relating to the company’s internal control and risk management procedures in the area of the preparation and processing of ﬁnancial and accounting information contained in the report of the Chairman of the Board of directors prepared in accordance with article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code. OTHER DISCLOSURES We hereby attest that the report of the Chairman of the Board of directors includes the other disclosures required by article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code. Drawn up in Courbevoie and Paris-La Défense, on March 31, 2016 The statutory auditors French original signed by MAZARS ERNST & YOUNG Audit Jean-Louis Simon Cédric Haaser Aymeric de La Morandière Jean Bouquot 320 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 2 Statutory auditors’ report on related party agreements and commitments APPENDIX 2 A2 This is a free translation into English of a report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and is construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. 2. STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON RELATED PARTY AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS To the Shareholders Grounds justifying the beneﬁt of the agreement for the In our capacity as statutory auditors of your company, we hereby report on certain company related party agreements and commitments. Your Board of Directors provided the following grounds for this agreement: this We are required to inform you, on the basis of the information provided to us, of the framework agreement is an essential element of AREVA SA’s strategic roadmap. terms and conditions as well as the grounds justifying the beneﬁt to the company of those agreements and commitments indicated to us, or that we may have identiﬁed 2. With AREVA TA (Technicatome SA), an 83.56%-owned in the performance of our engagement. We are not required to comment as to subsidiary of your company whether they are beneﬁcial or appropriate or to ascertain the existence of any such A) LETTER AMENDING THE LETTER DATED 26 NOVEMBER 2014 agreements and commitments. It is your responsibility, in accordance with Article R. 225-31 31 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), to evaluate the Person concerned beneﬁts resulting from these agreements [and commitments] prior to their approval. Ms Odile Matte, member of the Boards of both AREVA SA and AREVA TA. In addition, we are required, where applicable, to inform you in accordance with Article R. 225-31 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) concerning Nature, purpose and conditions the implementation, during the year, of the agreements and commitments already In the interest of the group, notably in light of the strategic nature of the activity of its approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders. subsidiary AREVA TA, by letter dated 26 November 2014, AREVA SA undertook to We performed those procedures which we considered necessary to comply with support its subsidiary AREVA TA within the limit of €200m should AREVA TA not professional guidance issued by the national auditing body (Compagnie Nationale have the ability itself to handle signiﬁcant additional ﬁnancial losses (exceeding a des Commissaires aux Comptes) relating to this type of engagement. These ﬁxed threshold of €50m) relating to the projects in which it is currently engaged. procedures consisted in verifying that the information provided to us is consistent This letter was authorized by AREVA SA’s Supervisory Board on 26 November with the documentation from which it has been extracted. 2014 and approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders held on 21 May 2015 (cf. herebelow the “Agreements and commitments approved during the year”). EEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS SUBMITTED FOR APPROVAL BY The implementation of this commitment was to take the form of a shareholder THE GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS current account contribution followed by a forgiveness of debt for an amount corresponding to the losses recorded on projects to the extent of the percentage In accordance with Article L. 225-40 of the French Commercial Code (Code of your company’s direct and indirect interest in AREVA TA (namely 83.56%), it de commerce), we have been advised of certain related party agreements and being speciﬁed that the agreement formalizing the aforementioned forgiveness of commitments which received prior authorization from your Board of Directors. debt would include a better fortunes clause concerning the projects generating the aforementioned losses. 1. With EDF, a 2.24% shareholder of your company Then, as AREVA SA’s current ﬁnancial situation constrained it to limit the use of its Persons concerned equity, it wished to limit the ﬁnancial impact of the support mechanism thereon. Mr Christian Masset (EDF director), Mr Philippe Varin (EDF Board Member) and By amendment letter dated 2 July 2015, authorized by the Board of Directors Mr Alexis Zajdenweber (representative of the State and EDF director). meeting held on the same day, it was therefore agreed to spread the implementation of the support mechanism over time, and to not systematically make the forgiveness Nature, purpose and conclusions: conclusion of a framework of each debt granted to its subsidiary conditional on this latter’s undertaking to agreement propose to the General Meeting of its Shareholders a capital increase for the same amount, within two years of the forgiveness of debt. In its meeting on 29 July 2015, the Board of Directors authorized the conclusion of a framework agreement signed the next day between EDF and AREVA SA which Grounds justifying the beneﬁt of the agreement for the company summarizes and formalizes the progress of the discussions and the understanding of the steps making it possible to establish a partnership concerning, ﬁrstly, a plan Your Board of Directors provided the following grounds for this agreement: the to transfer at least 75% of the capital of the AREVA NP entity to EDF and, secondly, interest of the group with regard to the strategic nature of AREVA TA’s activity. a project to set up a joint entity dedicated to the design, project management and Further, the debt forgiveness agreements include a better fortunes clause for the sales and marketing of new reactors. projects that generate the losses. Better fortunes means a reduction in the loss upon completion or the return to proﬁt margins on said projects before their completion. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 321 A2 APPENDIX 2 2 Statutory auditors’ report on related party agreements and commitments B) DEBT FORGIVENESS AGREEMENT DATED 28 JULY 2015 1. With SET (Société d’Enrichissement du Tricastin), an 88%-owned subsidiary of AREVA NC, itself a Person concerned fully-owned subsidiary of AREVA SA Ms Odile Matte, member of the Boards of both AREVA SA and AREVA TA. Persons concerned Nature, purpose and conditions Mr Bernard Bigot, Mr Philippe Pinson and Mr Christophe Gégout (permanent In July 2015, further to the authorization of its Board of Directors on 2 July 2015, representative of CEA), members of your company’s Supervisory Board until the AREVA SA made an initial shareholder current account contribution followed by a change of governance on 8 January 2015 and directors of AREVA NC. forgiveness of debt on 28 July 2015 for an amount of €49m corresponding to the amount of the loss generated by projects in progress in respect of ﬁnancial year Nature, purpose and conditions: subordination agreement 2014 to the extent of the percentage of your company’s direct and indirect interest For the ﬁnancing requirements of Société d’Enrichissement du Tricastin (SET), in AREVA TA. This forgiveness of debt should be followed by a capital increase which owns and operates the Georges Besse II enrichment plant, the Supervisory for AREVA TA to the advantage of AREVA SA for the same amount, no later than Board of AREVA SA, at its meeting on 26 February 2014, authorized AREVA SA 31 December 2017. to sign a subordination agreement. Grounds justifying the beneﬁt of the agreement for the company The purpose of this subordination agreement signed on 13 June 2014 is notably to subordinate the rights of AREVA SA, AREVA NC and SET Holding with regard to This agreement is the implementation of the letter dated 26 November 2014, ﬁrstly, SET in respect of any shareholder ﬁnancing, to the rights of SET’s lending banks, and secondly, the letter amendment dated 2 July 2015, both referred to hereabove. until the amounts owed to the latter have been fully repaid. Your Board of Directors provided the following grounds for this agreement: the interest of the group with regard to the strategic nature of AREVA TA’s activity. 2. With AREVA TA (Technicatome SA), an 83.56%-owned Further, the debt forgiveness agreements include a better fortunes clause for the subsidiary of AREVA projects that generate the losses. Better fortunes means a reduction in the loss upon completion or the return to proﬁt margins on said projects before their completion. Person concerned C) AGREEMENT TO ABANDON A RECEIVABLE DATED 18 DECEMBER 2015 CEA, represented by Christophe Gégout, a member of your company’s Supervisory Board (until the change of governance on 8 January 2015) and director of AREVA TA. Persons concerned Nature, purpose and conditions: support provided by AREVA Ms Odile Matte and Mr Philippe Knoche (representative of AREVA SA on the Board to its subsidiary AREVA TA of Directors of AREVA TA), both members of the Board of Directors of AREVA SA and AREVA TA. At its meeting on 26 November 2014, your company’s Supervisory Board authorized the signature of a letter formalizing your company’s commitment to support its Nature, purpose and conditions subsidiary AREVA TA should the latter suﬀer signiﬁcant ﬁnancial losses. In December 2015, further to the authorization of its Board of Directors on The conditions of this support are as follows: in the event that AREVA TA suﬀers 17 December 2015, AREVA SA made another shareholder current account signiﬁcant ﬁnancial losses (exceeding €50m) over and above the losses already contribution followed by a forgiveness of debt on 18 December 2015 for an amount provided for relating to the projects in which it is currently engaged, your company’s of €17.2 m, corresponding to the amount of the losses generated by projects in support would then take the form of a shareholder current account contribution, progress in respect of ﬁnancial year 2015 to the extent of the percentage of your followed by a forgiveness of debt for an amount corresponding to the losses company’s direct and indirect interest in AREVA TA. This forgiveness of debt will recorded on projects to the extent of the percentage of your company’s direct not be followed by a capital increase to the advantage of AREVA SA. and indirect interest in AREVA TA (namely 83.56%), within the limit of €200m. The agreement formalizing the aforementioned forgiveness of debt would include Grounds justifying the beneﬁt of the agreement for the company a better fortunes clause concerning the projects generating the aforementioned losses, better fortunes meaning a reduction in the loss upon completion or the This agreement is the implementation of the letter dated 26 November 2014, ﬁrstly, return to proﬁt margins on said projects before their completion. and secondly, the letter amendment dated 2 July 2015, both referred to hereabove. With the aim of providing AREVA TA, as a precautionary measure, with the ﬁnancial Your Board of Directors provided the following grounds for these agreements: resources to address a similar situation in the future, your company’s commitment the interest of the group with regard to the strategic nature of AREVA TA’s activity. described above must be accompanied by a correlative commitment by AREVA TA Further, the debt forgiveness agreements include a better fortunes clause for the to propose to the General Meeting of its shareholders a capital increase for the projects that generate the losses. Better fortunes means a reduction in the loss upon beneﬁt of your company, for an amount at least equal to that of the forgiveness completion or the return to proﬁt margins on said projects before their completion. of debt granted, within two years of the forgiveness of debt. As shareholder of AREVA TA, your company undertakes to subscribe for this capital increase and pay AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS ALREADY APPROVED for it in cash or by oﬀsetting it against a receivable that it may hold from AREVA TA. BY THE GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS Agreements and commitments approved in prior years whose implementation continued during the year In accordance with Article R. 225-30 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we have been advised that the implementation of the following agreements and commitments, which were approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders in prior years, continued during the year. 322 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 2 Statutory auditors’ report on related party agreements and commitments APPENDIX 2 A2 3. With AREVA NC (a fully-owned subsidiary of your company) establishment of a management method intended to minimize any potential dispute on liabilities, with a shared governance reinforced by an objective-cost Persons concerned project management approach. This agreement, which the parties wished to be Mr Luc Oursel (a member of the Executive Board of your company and Chairman ‘freestanding’, cancels and supersedes the Agreement of September 2010 and of AREVA NC until 3 December 2014) and Mr Philippe Knoche (CEO of your the Memorandum of Understanding of March 2011 in deﬁning the contractual, company and of AREVA NC). ﬁnancial and project governance-related conditions of the RJH Project until the end of the performance of AREVA TA’s contracts for the engineering team and Mr Philippe Pinson, Mr Christophe Gégout (as permanent representative of CEA) as supplier of the Reactor Block (FRN BR. All or part of these provisions will be and Mr Bernard Bigot (members of the Supervisory Board of your company until transposed where necessary into the engineering team and FRN BR contracts by 8 January 2015) and directors of AREVA NC. means of amendments. Nature, purpose and conditions: agency agreement The tripartite Memorandum of Understanding is an important step for AREVA SA and CEA. It reﬂects the agreement reached with CEA as to the assessment of the On 8 July 2004, the Supervisory Board authorized the signature of an agency nature and scope of the respective contractual commitments of the prime contractor, agreement under which AREVA NC gave AREVA authority to manage or organize engineering team, and Reactor Block supplier to ﬁnalize the Project. and control, in the name and on behalf of AREVA NC, assets earmarked to cover dismantling and radioactive waste management costs. This agreement has an The agreement of 26 February 2015 led AREVA SA to recognize an additional indeﬁnite term with three months’ notice required for termination by either party. provision of €207m euros in the accounts as of 31 December 2014, in order to take into account the terms of the aforementioned agreement. This agreement did not give rise to any billing in ﬁnancial year 2014. On 29 April 2015, the Board of Directors ratified the agreement signed on Agreements and commitments approved during the year ended 26 February 2015 and authorized the signature of the tripartite Memorandum of Understanding for the deﬁnitive settlement of the RJH project situation. The Further, we have been informed of the performance in the year ended of the agreement was deﬁnitively signed on 20 July 2015. following agreements and commitments, already approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders of 21 May 2015, on the basis of the statutory auditors’ special In accordance with article L. 225-42 of the French Commercial Code (Code de report dated 27 March 2015. commerce), the Combined Meeting of Shareholders of 21 May 2015 ratiﬁed the agreement signed between the Managing Director of CEA and the CEO of AREVA SA 1. With AREVA TA (Technicatome SA), an 83.56%-owned and approved, in accordance with article L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Code subsidiary of AREVA and with the French Atomic Energy (Code de commerce), the tripartite Memorandum of Understanding entered into and Alternative Energies Commission (Commissariat à between CEA, AREVA SA and AREVA TA. CEA did not take part in the voting. l’énergie atomique et aux énergies alternatives), a 54.37% shareholder of your company 2. With Mr Philippe Knoche, member of the Board of Directors Persons concerned Nature, purpose and conditions: commitments relating to a Concerning the ratiﬁcation of the agreement signed on 26 February 2015, Mr Daniel termination beneﬁt, compensation for a non-compete clause Verwaerde (director of your company and Managing Director of CEA). and unemployment insurance Concerning the prior authorization of the signature of the tripartite Memorandum of On 29 April 2015, upon proposal by the Appointments and Compensation Understanding, Mr Daniel Verwaerde (director of AREVA SA and Managing Director Committee, the Board of Directors decided to terminate the commitments made by of CEA) and Ms Odile Matte (director of both your company and of AREVA TA). AREVA SA corresponding to indemnities or beneﬁts liable to be owed to Mr Philippe Knoche, CEO, as a result of his duties being terminated or changed, under the Nature, purpose and conditions following conditions: On 26 February 2015, the Managing Director of CEA and CEO of AREVA SA signed Mr Philippe Knoche may receive a termination beneﬁt for a maximum amount ﬁxed an agreement for the drafting and implementation of the conditions for the ﬁnal at twice the amount of the last ﬁxed portion of his remuneration, on an annual basis, settlement of the situation of the “Réacteur Jules-Horowitz” (RJH) project (total cost as of the date on which his duties terminate. overrun for CEA and AREVA SA estimated at €469m economic conditions 2013), on the basis of their current shared vision of what is still to be done, the schedule If Mr Philippe Knoche (i) wishes to receive his retirement beneﬁts shortly after the end upon completion and the related resources needed to ﬁnalize the project for the of his term of oﬃce, regardless of the reasons therefor, even if forced, or (ii) is moved construction of this reactor with the aim of loading the ﬁrst core in October 2019. to another position within the group, he shall not claim any termination beneﬁt. These contractual, ﬁnancial and project governance-related conditions must be The above-mentioned termination beneﬁt shall only be paid in the event of removal reﬂected in the drafting of a tripartite memorandum of understanding (between of Mr Philippe Knoche from oﬃce, unless for just cause, notably in the event of a CEA, AREVA SA and AREVA TA), based on reciprocal concessions satisfying the change in control or strategy. guidelines deﬁned between the executive managements of the parties: The termination beneﬁt shall be subject to the following performance conditions: In accordance with the authorization dated 26 February 2015, the teams of p if the average of the two previous ﬁnancial years have given rise to the achievement CEA, AREVA SA and AREVA reached agreement on the drafting of a tripartite of 60% or more of the quantitative and qualitative objectives, the termination Memorandum of Understanding for the deﬁnitive settlement of the RJH project beneﬁt will be paid automatically. situation, including elements relating to the ﬁnancing of the Project, the conditions p if the average of the two previous ﬁnancial years have given rise to the achievement of the payment of the Project’s cost overruns by AREVA TA or CEA in addition of less than 60% of the quantitative and qualitative objectives, the Board of to the situation recorded in the account closing at 31 December 2012 and the 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 323 A2 APPENDIX 2 2 Statutory auditors’ report on related party agreements and commitments Directors will assess the performance of the party concerned with regard to the Mr Philippe Knoche will beneﬁt from: circumstances that aﬀected the company’s operation in the year ended. p the unemployment insurance provided for by the MEDEF with the social security The Board of Directors may decide to grant Mr Philippe Knoche compensation as guarantee covering company managers and executives (Garantie Sociale des consideration for a non-compete clause. The amount of such compensation shall Chefs et Dirigeants d’Entreprise (GSC)), the contributions to which shall be borne be charged against the termination payment made, if applicable, to Mr Philippe 65% by the Company and 35% by Mr Philippe Knoche. Knoche under the above terms and conditions. If no termination payment is made, p the supplementary pension scheme applicable to executive employees of the the amount of compensation due in consideration of a non-compete clause shall company. be ﬁxed by the Board of Directors in accordance with customary practice. The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of 21 May 2015 approved the commitments made by AREVA SA corresponding to the indemnities or beneﬁts owed or liable to be owed to Mr Philippe Knoche, CEO, as a result of his duties being terminated or changed. Courbevoie and Paris-La Défense, March 31, 2016 French original signed by The Statutory Auditors MAZARS ERNST & YOUNG Audit Cédric Haaser Jean-Louis Simon Aymeric de La Morandière Jean Bouquot 324 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY APPENDIX 3 A3 1. HUMAN RESOURCES INFORMATION 325 3. SOCIETAL INFORMATION 334 1.1. Occupational health and safety 326 3.1. Local economic and labor impacts of operations 334 2. ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 327 3.2. Stakeholder relations 335 2.1. General environmental policy 327 3.3. Subcontracting and suppliers 335 2.2. Environmental risk prevention and management 329 3.4. Fair practices 336 2.3. Environmental performance 330 2.4. Environmental performance improvement 334 4. TABLE OF CONCORDANCE FOR DATA REQUIRED UNDER ARTICLE R. 225-105-1 OF THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL CODE IN MATTERS OF SOCIAL, SOCIETAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 337 Ever since its creation, AREVA has given impetus to a proactive sustainable AREVA subscribes to the United Nations’Global Compact and, on the occasion development initiative by making strong commitments in matters of social, of the 21st United Nations Climate Change Conference, reaﬃrms its commitment environmental and societal responsibility. These commitments are deployed and in its operations to: periodically updated through the policies that the group implements in a number reduce industrial emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) in AREVA’s nuclear fuel p of areas – human resources, diversity, nuclear safety, health, occupational safety cycle facilities by 50% by 2020 compared to 2004; and the environment – as well as through the Values Charter. These diﬀerent policies and charters help organize the company’s operations in compliance with p reduce the total energy used in all of AREVA’s facilities by at least 80% by 2020 human rights and in the interest of environmental protection and the laws that compared to 2004; govern them. AREVA’s eﬀorts target continuous performance improvement in p oﬀer its customers the possibility of reducing their CO2 emissions by building every ﬁeld, particularly nuclear and occupational safety, and take into consideration new nuclear reactors, improving their availability, and extending the operating the expectations of stakeholders directly or indirectly concerned by the group’s period of existing reactors. operations. In addition, AREVA is pursuing its proactive continuous improvement initiative in its mining operations based on best international practices for corporate social responsibility, in particular through the ten principles of the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM). 1. HUMAN RESOURCES INFORMATION Labor information concerning employment, work organization, labor relations, training, equality of treatment, promotion and compliance with the stipulations of the fundamental agreements of the International Labor Organization are presented in Section 17. Employees. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 325 A3 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY 1. Human resources information 1.1. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY The 2014-2016 occupational health and safety policy aims for continuous helping to strengthen the priority that the group gives to safety among its partners improvement of occupational health and safety and reinforcement of prevention and employees. actions. Our constant goal is to strive for zero lost time injuries and zero impacts In 2015, the group also adapted its initiative on hard working conditions to include from our operations on the health and safety of our employees, subcontractor the latest regulatory requirements on this subject. personnel and the local communities near our sites. AREVA’s commitments are to: With one of its suppliers, AREVA developed a new poke-resistant glove, drawing p ensure appropriate monitoring of occupational health for all employees by on its operating experience with the poking hazard in contaminated environments. deﬁning and applying international medical standards for medical surveillance The glove was adapted to the constraints of our operations and is designed for use of occupational hazards, by strengthening governance, by giving increased in a nuclear environment. The development of these gloves with the users led to attention to the quality of working life, especially as concerns the prevention their approval and introduction this year. of occupational stress, by deploying the group’s occupational health service in France, and by including speciﬁc issues associated with expatriation in the In connection with work with the company’s labor partners, AREVA’s Health, Safety medical follow-up of employees; and Working Conditions Committee (CHSCT) set up a joint working group on the management of personal protection equipment and access conditions for areas p in the field of occupational safety, prevent and manage all industrial risks regulated for radiation protection in the group’s regulated nuclear facilities, which associated with our operations for employees and subcontractor personnel. aims to identify and share best practices on this subject. In France, following the group agreement signed in 2012, AREVA completed the deployment of the new occupational health service organization. The creation of a In 2015, the group continued to record improved occupational safety results. single health service (supported by regional oﬃces) gives the group’s employees After sharply reducing lost time injuries, AREVA set objectives for the reduction of in France comprehensive occupational health services with consistent quality. injury rates, with and without lost time, to less than ﬁve per million hours worked in AREVA’s occupational health service in France was approved by the administrative 2015. At the end of 2015, the frequency rate was 4.7, in line with our objective. The authorities in 2013. lost time injury rate remained stable at 1.44. For subcontractor personnel working on In 2015, AREVA continued the work initiated in 2012 on safety culture. our operations, the number of lost time injuries was stable, conﬁrming the reduction of more than 30% achieved from between 2013 and 2014. Three new safety standards were made applicable in 2015 concerning overhead work, mechanical handling and movements. They supplement the group’s other AREVA was sad to report three deaths in 2015, one of which was work-related. nine standards, which aim for a consistent approach and rules in all activities. That accident occurred in Kazakhstan during a drilling operation carried out by a subcontractor. The other two events concerned a temporary employee who died For the third consecutive year, the month of June was Safety Month. During this during a lunch break at the Ugine site and an employee of the Installed Based period, the sites organized one-day workshops speciﬁc to their risks and operations. Business Unit who died at his place of lodging during a business trip. By raising awareness and giving opportunities for discussion, these workshops are OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY DATA Occupational safety data for AREVA employees 2015 2014 Accident frequency rate with lost time (excluding commuting accidents) 1.44 1.37 Accident severity rate (accidents reported during the year, excluding commuting accidents) 0.04 0.03 Number of fatal accidents 3 1 The risks associated with radiation and AREVA’s corresponding proactive radiation Consistent with the group’s objective, no AREVA employee received an individual protection policy are outlined in Section 4.3.1. on nuclear risk. The average radiation dose of more than 20 mSv over 12 consecutive months. In mid-2015, the maximum exposure of AREVA employees remained very low, at 0.89 mSv in mid-2015, the recorded dose was 16.01 mSv, with 85.9% of AREVA’s employees having received a same as the maximum dose to the general public. dose of 0 to 2 mSv and 55.9% a dose of less than the recording level set by regulation, i.e. less than 0.1 mSv. It should be noted that, in France, the average annual exposure to naturally occurring radiation is approximately 2.4 mSv (source: IRSN). 326 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY 2. Environmental information A3 Radiation protection and occupational disease* data 2015 2014 Average employee dose from radiation exposure (mSv) 0.89 0.90 Total individual external dose to AREVA employees over 12 consecutive months (man-mSv) 14,621 16,328 Total individual internal dose to AREVA employees over 12 consecutive months (man-mSv) 4,894 4,337 Average subcontractor employee dose from radiation exposure (mSv) 0.39 0.51 Occupational diseases NA * Due to the time needed to get the results of passive dosimetry analyses (also called benchmark dosimetry) and the half-year schedule for rolling up these data in the group’s reporting software, the annual results are always expressed from July 1 of year -2 to June 30 of year -1. The group received a limited number of claims for occupational diseases concerning various disorders in 2015, in particular for musculoskeletal disorders. 2. ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 2.1. GENERAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY 2.1.1. AREVA’S ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY 2.1.2. ORGANIZATION SET UP FOR ENVIRONMENTAL RISK PREVENTION AND CONTROL The 2013-2016 environmental policy aims for the reinforcement of environmental risk prevention, whether risks are chronic or accidental, and to take into account The Safety-Health-Quality-Environment Department (SQED) is in charge of: the erosion of biodiversity erosion. Protection of the environment as a community safety management for the group’s nuclear facilities and related activities carried p asset is integral to AREVA’s Values Charter. out for its own account and for its customers; The six major commitments of the group’s environmental policy are organized p radiation protection and occupational health and safety for all of the group’s along three main lines: employees and subcontractor personnel; Performance in managing environmental challenges p product and service quality; p prevention of industrial and environmental risks from the facilities; 1. Develop and maintain a shared culture of environmental risk prevention; p management of actions integral to the sustainable development process. 2. Improve facility design by taking their entire lifecycle into account; It draws on speciﬁc organizations within the Business Groups, the operating entities Preventing and managing accident-related environmental and the regions to perform its activities. hazards Within the SQED, the Environment and Sustainable Development function develops the group’s policy on environmental hazards and the environmental footprint, along 3. Strengthen the prevention and management of accidental technological risks; with all of the actions integral to the sustainable development initiative. This function 4. Prevent risks related to facility aging and accidental spills; brings together specialists in environmental hazards, eco-performance, conventional waste management, and corporate social and environmental responsibility. Preventing and managing chronic health and environmental On executive management’s behalf, a General Inspectorate composed of a corps of hazards inspectors who are independent of the chain of command is in charge of auditing the 5. Strengthen the prevention and management of chronic health hazards; correct assumption of responsibilities, detecting early signs of potential deterioration, 6. Control the environmental footprint of activities to prevent damage to biodiversity. and recommending the necessary improvements. It puts out an annual report on the status of safety in the group’s nuclear facilities and operations. The quantiﬁcation of environmental objectives is adjusted based on ongoing risk mapping eﬀorts, stakeholder expectations, best internal and external practices, The lessons learned from events in the nuclear safety, radiation protection, environmental reporting, an external benchmark, and dialogue with the operating health, occupational safety, environment and transportation ﬁelds are available entities. The environmental policy applies to all of the group’s entities in France and in the AHEAD IT tool (AREVA Happened Events Advanced Database), enabling abroad. The operating entities implement the policy through action plans. experience to be shared. This tool can be accessed by all of the operating entities. Through its specialists and their networks, the department disseminates information related to accomplishments, best practices and events in order to prevent risk and promote performance improvement. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 327 A3 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY 2. Environmental information NUMBER OF EVENTS IN 2015 RANKED ON THE INES SCALE IN THE University to present risk prevention measures concerning safety, health and the GROUP’S NUCLEAR ENTITIES (OWNER-OPERATORS, CONTRACT environment in an educational format. OPERATORS AND SERVICE PROVIDERS) OR DURING THE SHIPMENT OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS Employee information 153 154 157 AREVA communicates regularly with its employees on SHSE subjects to give them 137 information on policies, applicable benchmark documents, the sharing of best practices from operating experience, and risk prevention actions. This information is communicated via email and on the AREVA intranet, and through regular network information meetings. Information on AREVA’s commitments in favor of the circular economy A deﬁning feature of AREVA is its development of a pioneering, competitive position 19 19 19 15 in the circular economy through its fuel cycle operations. Its industrial tools in the 1 0 0 0 back end of the cycle enable it to recycle energy recovered from the plutonium contained in used nuclear fuel into fresh MOX fuel. Level 0 Level 1 Level 2 Industrial know-how on this scale is unique in the world. It signiﬁcantly reduces 2012 2013 2014 2015 environmental impacts across the entire uranium lifecycle, in particular during the Source: AREVA. mining stage, which has the biggest impact in terms of footprint. In addition, the group has always aligned its internal practices with these issues in Safety-Health-Environment training order to very signiﬁcantly and proactively reduce its environmental footprint across AREVA’s Safety Excellence program, a professional development program for the entire nuclear fuel cycle. managers with operational delegation of authority, was established in 2012 and For example, from the early days of its establishment, AREVA has built an internal has gradually been expanded. The program is based in particular on assessments system of environmental performance indicators to measure the results produced of skills in nuclear safety, radiation protection, materials transportation, materials by changes in individual behavior, the optimization of existing facilities, or major safeguards, industrial safety, protection of nature and the environment, and technological leaps. occupational health and safety, and on a body of mandatory training programs. It is intended for site directors, duty oﬃcers, facility managers, Safety-HealthThis sense of responsibility was further encouraged for ﬁve years by an internal Environment (SHSE) managers and project managers at AREVA’s industrial sites. market for oﬀsets to carbon-emitting activities, with the operating entities ﬁnancially encouraged to pursue eco-design eﬀorts in favor of cleaner technology solutions. The program includes a module devoted to SHSE management for site directors. Twelve site directors and production managers with delegation of authority took From the start, AREVA ensured that the results of this initiative were indisputable this module in 2015 in connection with new duties or to maintain their skills. A total by coming up with auditable performance indicators. For example, AREVA’s “nonof approximately 120 site directors have taken the program since its establishment. ﬁnancial reporting system” has been audited each year since 2004 by the statutory auditors, and the results are published in the group’s annual report. A training program in Safety-Health-Environment is oﬀered to facility managers; it consists of two modules and work in small groups on operating practices. Starting At the end of 2014, a ten-year assessment indicated a 66% reduction in greenhouse in 2014, the program was made mandatory for new facility managers. Forty-two gas emissions at constant revenue, an 89% reduction in energy consumption, a facility managers took the program in 2015, and 80% of all facility managers have 91% reduction in water consumption, and a 48% reduction in unrecycled waste. received the training to date. One of the key actions involved recovering waste from the metal segment of the zirconium business for recycling as raw materials in the manufacturing of nuclearAlso in 2015, two self-assessment campaigns on SHSE skills were conducted quality zirconium sponge. following the Safety Excellence benchmark, one for SHSE managers at the sites and in the BGs and BUs (100 employees), and one for project managers with A new phase of the circular economy has begun with major operators in the nuclear the contracting authority or the project management organization (more than industry, in particular to recycle a maximum amount of certain resources from 180 employees). dismantling, such as steel. In addition to the training required by regulation and training programs on risk and safety culture given at the operator and site level, the group has deﬁned and 2.1.3. AMOUNT OF PROVISIONS AND GUARANTEES oﬀers training programs on nuclear safety, human and organizational factors (HOF), FOR ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS signiﬁcant event analysis, and occupational safety for target groups. Provisions and guarantees related to the group’s end-ofInduction sessions for new hires lifecycle obligations and environmental hazards AREVA organizes day-long induction sessions on company operations for each Provisions totaling 7.257 billion euros had been set aside as of December 31, newcomer to the group in France. A special module was set up with AREVA 2015 for environmental hazards, including the dismantling and rehabilitation of 328 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY 2. Environmental information A3 mining sites and facilities, nuclear facility dismantling, radioactive waste retrieval with AREVA’s share representing 6.743 billion euros (see Section 20.2. Notes to and packaging, ﬁnal waste disposal, routine cleanup, and pollution control and the consolidated financial statements for the period ended December 31, 2015, reclamation of industrial sites and mines. The share of provisions for nuclear Note 13. End-of-lifecycle operations of this Reference Document). facility dismantling and waste retrieval and packaging total 6.921 billion euros, 2.2. ENVIRONMENTAL RISK PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT 2.2.1. BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION AND DEVELOPMENT On February 6, 2014, AREVA NC ﬁled a license application with the French ministry in charge of nuclear safety for the dismantling of INB 105 at the Tricastin site. ASN AREVA pays close attention to monitoring and preserving biodiversity. The protection and its technical expert IRSN are reviewing the application. of plant and animal life begins in the design phase and continues throughout the facility operating period and into site rehabilitation. Special care is devoted to native At former French mining sites, the campaign to inventory mine tailings and to species and to how species introduced during reclamation adapt to the local biotope search for the presence of radon in and around homes is continuing on schedule. (habitat for plant and animal life). As of the end of 2015, a total of 71 residential houses had been identiﬁed in the immediate vicinity of places where mine tailings had been reused, along with As early as 2006, AREVA began an in-depth review of interactions between its another 530 residences further away from the mine tailings. Accordingly, 588 radon operations and biodiversity, supplemented with an “AREVA and biodiversity” report. kits were sent to the owners of the houses in order to take measurements during The conclusion was that, as for all industrial activities, the group’s sites: the winter months, when radon accumulates more easily in homes due to poor p use the natural environment; ventilation. p beneﬁt from all of the ecosystemic services oﬀered by biodiversity (resources, Following the completion of cleanup and dismantling work at the SICN site in Annecy climate regulation, regulation of eﬄuents, etc.); in 2013, prefectorial permits for monitoring and public service were issued to the site p contribute as a consequence of their activities to biodiversity erosion (waste on July 1, 2014. Currently, the site hosts a mechanical machining company which production, greenhouse gas emissions, use of resources, dividing up of existing conducts its operations in the remaining rooms, a warehousing and maintenance ecosystems). workshop where the former uranium foundry was located, and the biomass boiler AREVA integrated this theme into its environmental policy with the goal of avoiding, built by IDEX in the southwestern part of the site, which has provided heating for reducing and if necessary oﬀsetting the impacts of its operations on biodiversity. a number of individual houses and municipalities since the beginning of the year. At the Veurey site, SICN has ﬁled applications to decommission the two regulated Comprehensive mapping showed that the main impacts on biodiversity from the nuclear facilities; the application for institution of public easements of March 2014 is group’s facilities came from the mining operations and from the operations of still under review by the nuclear safety authority ASN. Actions aimed at the complete some sites with signiﬁcant environmental aspects. After work involving international reindustrialization of the site continue. biodiversity experts, AREVA developed a tool to assess interactions between the group’s operations and biodiversity. Usable by each site, the tool oﬀers a means for Operations to clean up the Miramas site were ﬁnished on October 31, 2015. raising employee awareness, methods for assessing the impacts on biodiversity, Operating units such as the washing station and the unit to remove explosives and a guide for setting up action plans. contamination are winding down, and the site is in the ﬁnal clean-up phase. The corresponding work completion reports were sent to the prefecture for review In addition, to gain a better grasp of local biodiversity challenges, targeted ecological and approval. The site is now working with local partners to examine its sale and inventories were taken at the major industrial sites. The most important of these reindustrialization. No operations will be conducted at the site in 2016, except for concerned the Tricastin site. The inventories provide a clear picture of existing the winding down of the UDT and the dismantling of the related building, which biodiversity at the site and were used to create maps of the ecological issues are subject to a legal proceeding. associated with the preservation of remarkable species. More generally, the group strives to continually reduce the environmental footprint of its facilities and more speciﬁcally to take simultaneous action on the ﬁve mechanisms 2.2.3. CONSIDERATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL STRESS known to erode biodiversity. The main actions undertaken involve combatting AND CHRONIC HAZARDS climate change and the proliferation of invasive species, managing risks related to A nuclear facility’s environmental impact study is updated at each stage of its changes in land use and to the potential impacts of releases and other industrial lifecycle, i.e. upon its creation, modiﬁcation, shutdown and dismantling. Such pollution, and working towards the sustainable use of natural resources. studies seek to characterize the potential health eﬀects and environmental impacts of stresses and releases from the facility in question. 2.2.2. SOIL MANAGEMENT They include chemical hazards assessments which focus on the neighboring population that might be chronically exposed to facility releases. They are carried out AREVA’s environmental policy for the 2013-2016 period carries on from the based on normal facility operating scenarios, both in France and abroad, and factor policies of previous years, whose objectives are to reduce and manage all of our in diﬀerent potential exposure paths to the neighboring populations in approaches environmental liabilities. In particular, it stresses greater eﬀorts to prevent the risks that are as realistic as possible. They are repeated at each material modiﬁcation of of accidents, chronic risks and risks related to facility aging. These risks can in fact the facilities, based on the latest available scientiﬁc knowledge. lead in some cases to the creation of environmental liabilities. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 329 A3 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY 2. Environmental information Environmental impact studies using risk assessment methods are also used to Prevention of Legionnaires’disease is also a priority for the entities involved, prevent environmental hazards (protection of plant and animal life). These studies particularly as concerns domestic hot water systems. are performed for each new facility and for each notable change in existing facilities. Each site manages the prevention of more speciﬁc noise, olfactory, light and visual For the latter, environmental monitoring regulations also include speciﬁc measures pollution locally as a function of local issues (such as whether or not there are to assess their impact on the environment, such as monitoring of radiological and/or residences close to the sites) and constraints, and regulatory requirements. chemical markers in diﬀerent environmental matrices, supplemented as necessary by measures for eco-monitoring of plant and animal life. The Tricastin site, for instance, added ecological monitoring measures to its environmental monitoring 2.2.4. TECHNOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL HAZARDS program speciﬁc to local ecological issues (periodic inventories and standardized ecological indices). The French law of July 30, 2003 on the prevention of risks of technological and natural origin and on compensation for damages, together with its implementing Concerning the asbestos risk, the group’s asbestos directive was revised in 2014 regulations, introduced a new tool for controlling urban development around the to factor in regulatory changes and operating experience from the sites, and was group’s three “high threshold” Seveso sites in France: the deﬂuorination facility at deployed in 2015. the AREVA NC Tricastin site, the conversion facilities of AREVA NC Malvési and Since September 2008, the carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic substances Tricastin, and the AREVA NP Jarrie site. Called the Technological Risk Prevention directive (CMR) has applied to all sites where the group is the principal operator. Of Plan (TRPP), the tool is used to reduce risks, deal with existing situations, plan for the two sections in the directive, one deals with managing workstation risk, while the future and stimulate dialogue with stakeholders, including local governments. the other addresses environmental risk management. The objectives of the directive In accordance with AREVA’s second environmental policy goal, the focus is on the include identifying and eliminating all class 1A and 1B CMRs if it is technically and prevention and management of environmental hazards, particularly operational economically feasible to do so, and ensuring the traceability of employee exposure risks, based on periodic updates to the hazards analyses for the industrial sites through measurement and follow-up. (see Section 4.3.2.1. Seveso risks). 2.3. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 2.3.1. SUSTAINABLE USE OF RESOURCES, LAND equilibrium. In France, where mining operations ceased nearly 15 years ago, AREVA AND RAW MATERIALS manages about 250 former mining sites representing some 14,000 hectares of land. All of the former mines have been reclaimed and replanted to limit the residual Sustainable use of resources impacts and integrate the sites into the natural landscape while restoring habitat for diﬀerent species, in harmony with the natural environment and in agreement with To minimize its environmental footprint, the group acts to reduce withdrawals local stakeholders. An inventory of these sites shows that nearly half of the land from the natural environment and its consumption of materials and energy, and occupied and managed by AREVA is considered remarkable from an ecological continually searches for opportunities to recycle waste. point of view by its ranking as a Natura 2000 area or other (e.g. natural area of In the projects, AREVA’s eco-design approach contributed to the early identiﬁcation ecological interest, ZNIEFF). of the environmental impacts of major projects and thus to optimization eﬀorts, in particular as concerns projects in the Mining, Front End and Back End Business Use of raw materials Groups, with support from the group’s engineering companies. Controlling the consumption of raw materials is one of our objectives in waste Concrete examples of projects contributing to the sustainable use of resources by recovery, which includes materials recovery and energy recovery. Some of the limiting the consumption of raw materials are presented in the following sections group’s waste is recovered internally or externally and is then recycled into the on energy management at AREVA, on the reduction of water usage and on process, limiting raw materials consumption. For example: management of the group’s waste. 96% of the content of used nuclear fuel is recoverable. These materials are p extracted at the AREVA NC la Hague site and used in the MOX fabrication Land use process (mixed oxide fuel) at the MELOX plant site to resupply reactors. Such AREVA’s industrial and mining operations use land. While the land use of its main recycling limits our consumption of natural uranium; industrial operations remains practically unchanged throughout the group, the land p the chips produced by the manufacturing of large forgings and castings at the use of its mining operations depends directly on the mining technologies employed: AREVA NP Creusot site are recycled externally to foundries and recycled into an underground mine requires little land compared with an open-pit mine, which the process; requires a larger land area. Roads and related supply systems to the facilities may also inﬂuence land use. AREVA is aware of these issues and tries to minimize them. p the potassium diuranate generated by the AREVA NC Pierrelatte site from the conversion of uranium ore is recycled at the AREVA NC Malvési site. In addition, it is important to include the operating cycle in land management eﬀorts. Rehabilitation at the end of operations will condition the return to a state of 330 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY 2. Environmental information A3 2.3.2. ENERGY MANAGEMENT AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY p 29,584 metric tons of non-hazardous waste, including 10,796 metric tons from exceptional operations. The group’s total energy consumption came to 2,828,046 MWh in 2015, down 7.2% from 2014, when it was 3,046,986 MWh. Programs are being implemented in all of the group’s facilities to reduce ﬁnal waste quantities, and speciﬁcally to: All of the group’s sites continued their eﬀorts to improve energy eﬃciency through targeted audits, particularly as concerns the production and distribution of p minimize and control waste generation at the source; compressed air, and through the systematic valuation of energy savings investments p promote sorting by providing bins for selective waste collection or by creating by drawing on the regulatory system of the second period of Energy Savings in-house sorting centers; Certiﬁcates (ESC). p select suitable methods for materials recycling and waste reuse; and AREVA had four sites with ISO 50001 certiﬁcation in 2015: AREVA NP Ugine, p improve the processing and packaging of non-reusable waste. AREVA Advanced Nuclear Fuels in Lingen and Karlstein, Germany, and the Katco site of AREVA Mines. PCBs and PCTs All of the group’s legal entities launched an energy audit in 2015 in accordance In accordance with the European Council Directive 96/59/EC of September 16, with the requirements of the Grenelle II environmental law. 1966, AREVA’s sites in France have eliminated equipment containing more than 500 ppm of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and polychlorinated terphenyls (PCTs). A second elimination plan was established under decree no. 2013-301 of April 10, 2.3.3. WATER USAGE 2013. That plan now concerns equipment containing 50 to 500 ppm of PCBs or PCTs. The sites must gradually phase out this equipment according to a schedule The group consumed a total of 12.5 million m3 of water in 2015, compared with set by regulation based on the manufacturing date of the equipment. The new plan 12.2 million m3 in 2014, representing an increase of 2.5%, partly due to the ramp-up concerns approximately 80 equipment items. of operations at the McClean Lake mine in Canada. It should also be noted that a change in the reporting protocol now takes into account Radioactive waste all volumes of mine drainage water from the mining sites, water used in cooling and Radioactive waste is produced mainly during the operation, dismantling and geothermal systems, and water tapped for the treatment of environmental liabilities cleanup of nuclear facilities. It is initially sorted following speciﬁc zoning to separate and for hydraulic containment systems. waste likely to be radioactive from conventional waste, then characterized based on its radiological activity (very low-level, low-level, medium-level or high-level) and 2.3.4. WASTE the half-life of the radioelements it contains (very short-lived, short-lived or longlived). Each type of waste requires a speciﬁc management method, as shown in the table below. Conventional waste The gross production of conventional waste totaled 41,857 metric tons in 2015, as follows: p 12,274 metric tons of hazardous waste, including 2,365 metric tons from exceptional operations; Very short-lived (half-life < 100 days) Short-lived (half-life ≤ 31 years) Long-lived (half-life > 31 years) Very low-level waste (VLLW) Centre de l’Aube near-surface disposal facility for VLLW Management through radioactive decay Research carried out under the French Low-level waste (LLW) at the production site law of June 28, 2006 (intermediate-depth Centre de l’Aube near-surface disposal of 15-200 meters) disposal facility for LLW Medium-level waste (MLW) and MLW Research carried out under the French law of June 28, 2006 (deep disposal, followed by conventional disposal 500 meters) High-level waste (HLW) Research carried out under the French law of June 28, 2006 (disposal in a deep geological repository, 500 meters) Directives are sent to each operational unit that may produce radioactive waste performance experience from nuclear waste management is shared within the specifying the objectives and the organizational and implementational means to AREVA Radioactive Materials and Waste Department’s network of coordinators, be used for safe radioactive waste management. In particular, they outline the in addition to regular contacts. By pooling problems and solutions, the network course of action pertaining to issues such as the strict separation and rigorous of coordinators helps boost performance in radioactive materials and waste management of conventional waste and radioactive waste, the inclusion of management. During group-level meetings of the network, a tour of the host facility performance improvements, shipping risks, the containment-concentration strategy, is organized so that its members can gain an on-the-spot understanding of actions and the use of any ﬁnal waste disposal method. taken and improvements mentioned in previous meetings. The purpose of these The operations in question are followed up during multiyear exchanges at visits is to avoid compartmentalizing the ideas and work of each facility. AREVA France meetings of the waste coordinators, and safety and operating 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 331 A3 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY 2. Environmental information The nuclear waste produced by AREVA’s sites is processed in speciﬁc facilities at Regarding radioactive releases, AREVA is strongly committed to the standardization those sites, or by partners with appropriate facilities. As a minimum, processing program for measurements of eﬄuent radioactivity established in 2007 by the consists of the following operations, in sequence: M60-3 Committee of the Bureau de normalisation des équipements nucléaires isotopic characterization and activity assessment to choose the right packaging (BNEN, the French nuclear equipment standards organization) and has designated p for a given activity level; a representative from each major nuclear site to participate in this eﬀort. p volume and/or size reduction (cutting operations); Concerning the monitoring of environmental radioactivity, it has been possible since February 2010 for any member of the public to go to the website managed p packaging in containers suitable to the type of waste and level of radioactivity by IRSN (www.mesure-radioactivite.fr) to see all of the environmental radioactivity (e.g. big bags for VLLW, metal drums for LLW, and stainless steel canisters for measurements carried out by the operators in the vicinity of their sites as part of the vitriﬁed HLW). prescribed environmental monitoring. Each site has acquired the tools needed to A quality program including quality control is carried out throughout processing manage and submit the data. The group’s six laboratories – AREVA NC la Hague, operations. Best available technologies (BAT) are used for processing and are AREVA NC Pierrelatte, Eurodif Production, FBFC Romans, SEPA Bessines and chosen based on multicriteria analyses that factor in the industrial, environmental Comurhex Malvési – were issued licenses by the French nuclear safety authority and radiological impacts. ASN for the analyses that they must carry out. These licenses are renewed periodically based on inter-laboratory comparison tests organized by the IRSN. Dissemination of information The tests are based on an analytical framework deﬁned by the French national Information related to waste ﬂows and volumes stored in AREVA’s nuclear facilities is environmental radiation measuring network (RNM). communicated to the competent authorities in the form of annual waste inventories, AREVA performs some 100,000 measurements annually on samples taken at supplemented by declarations made for the national inventory. 1,000 locations to monitor environmental radioactivity around its sites. In France, AREVA contributes actively to updates of the national inventory of radioactive waste managed by the Agence nationale pour la gestion des déchets Releases in water radioactifs (Andra, the national radioactive waste management agency), which is Nitrogen and uranium releases are directly related to the activity levels and types published every three years. The summary report for 2015 gives waste and materials of products processed in the group’s facilities. inventories as of the end of 2013, along with forecasts post-2030 and for end of the AREVA NC la Hague accounts for most of the group’s nitrogen releases (about operating period of existing or licensed facilities: http://www.inventaire.andra.fr/. 550 metric tons per year). These releases are directly related to the site’s production The inventory also gives: level (use of nitric acid in the process). They have declined since the new plants have p the storage capacities for radiferous and tritiated high-level waste (HLW), longcome onstream with deployment at the end of the 1990s of eﬄuent management lived medium-level waste (LL/MLW) and long-lived low-level waste (LL/LLW); aimed at recycling the acid. They have been relatively constant since then. p storage requirements for HLW and LL-MLW destined for deep disposal; Taken together, uranium releases in aquatic media from the group’s sites totaled p the quantities of radioactive materials, radioactively contaminated sites, and a little less than 400 kilograms in 2015. They have been stable for several years. information on storage sites for mill tailings. The changes observed are mainly due to legacy mining sites, now shut down, with residual uranium releases varying as a function of rain levels. The French National Radioactive Materials and Waste Management Plan (PNGMDR) draws up an exhaustive inventory of the diﬀerent radioactive waste management Atmospheric releases methods, identiﬁes gaps between them, and deﬁnes areas for improvement and performance improvement actions to be taken. AREVA considers the PNGMDR to The group’s operations release some gases which contribute to global warming, be an essential performance improvement tool for radioactive waste management, depletion of the ozone layer and atmospheric pollution. These are primarily: especially when it comes to informing the public. AREVA is represented for the p direct emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) associated with the burning of PNGMDR by the Radioactive Materials and Waste Department, which manages fossil fuels (CO2) and with nitrogenous releases (N2O) from operations related and coordinates cross-business actions and studies involved in developing and to the treatment of uranium oxide; following the Plan. p indirect emissions of greenhouse gases associated with the use of electricity and thermal power; and 2.3.5. RELEASES p gaseous releases such as volatile organic compounds (VOC), acid-forming gases and ozone-depleting gases. Control of releases and environmental monitoring Greenhouse gas releases AREVA devotes considerable resources to limiting and monitoring releases and Since its establishment, the group has led a strongly proactive strategy for reducing to environmental monitoring, upstream from monitoring performed by the French its direct emissions of greenhouse gases. The aim of the current environmental authorities. strategy is to maintain a high level of performance in terms of environmental footprint. The resources deployed take into account regulatory reporting requirements, Direct emissions of greenhouse gases in 2015 amounted to 526,865 metric tons including in particular declarations for the European Pollutant Emission Register of CO2 equivalent, compared to 444,629 metric tons of CO2 equivalent in 2014. (EPER), reduction of greenhouse gas emissions under the National Quota Allocation This increase is due to a breakdown in the N2O emissions treatment facility at the Plan, and renewal of release permits for the nuclear facilities. Among other things, Malvési site. The releasing facility will be shut down in April 2016. the “INB order” of February 7, 2012 sets general rules for reporting releases from regulated nuclear facilities. 332 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY 2. Environmental information A3 Radioactive releases greater than on the reference populations, this is made public. Independent experts Radioactive releases have fallen sharply in the past 30 years, reflecting the conducted epidemiological studies to assess the direct health eﬀects of radioactive continuous improvement initiatives deployed by the group’s entities. For example, releases on exposed members of the public. All of the studies conducted over the the radiological impacts of the la Hague site have been divided by ﬁve to seven past 20 years have concluded that the site has a very low impact, with the added in the past 30 years, and the impacts on the reference group have been stable eﬀective dose for one year being equivalent to about one day of exposure to naturally for several years now at around 10 μSv/year, down from approximately 70 μSv in occurring radioactivity in the Nord-Cotentin region of France. 1985. These eﬀorts paved the way for compliance with more stringent regulatory The group has set a goal of optimizing its management of radiological impacts and standards in the European Union, as transposed into French law, which set the standardizing its radiological impact assessment models at all sites with radioactive maximum added eﬀective dose to the public at 1 mSv per year, compared to releases, taking into account special local circumstances related to the life style about 2.4 mSv per year for exposure to naturally occurring radiation in France and eating habits of the population. The order of magnitude of the impacts from and 1 mSv to 10 mSv per year in the rest of the world. Nevertheless, AREVA is the group’s nuclear facilities is very low, at equal to or less than 0.01 mSv (1). continuing its studies on the feasibility of further reducing radioactive releases from In France, AREVA provides all of the necessary information to the Local Information the la Hague plant, particularly within the framework of the plant’s release permit. Commissions (CLI) set up by the government in the vicinity of major energy facilities These actions are also consistent with the ALARA initiative (“as low as reasonably to foster dialogue with local populations. achievable”) and the use of best available technology (BAT) to the extent that this is technically and economically reasonable, considering the characteristics of the The group also takes measures to limit as much as possible the impacts of added facility, its geographic location and local environmental conditions. external radiation at the site boundary to 1 mSv/yr. This corresponds to an extreme theoretical scenario in which an individual stays at the site boundary for an entire The environmental reports published by the group’s French nuclear sites since 1995 year without interruption, i.e. 8,760 hours. More realistic exposure scenarios are and the annual safety reports made available to the public in application of article 21 taken into consideration when acceptable solutions on an economic and social of the French law on transparency and nuclear safety (“TSN Law”) list radioactive level cannot be found. To ensure the continuity of the program to reduce the dose releases and their trends. Measurements of these releases are subject to crossat the site boundary, the sites have bolstered dosimetry-based monitoring systems checks and unannounced inspections by the French nuclear safety authority ASN. when necessary. The radiological impacts of the nuclear sites on the most exposed members of adjacent populations (reference groups) are estimated each year. These impacts Climate change are expressed as the added eﬀective dose in millisieverts per year (mSv/yr.), an Adapting to the consequences of climate change is reflected in the safety indicator of health eﬀects. The radiological impacts are calculated based on actual assessments of the facilities carried out periodically. Assumptions are regularly gaseous and liquid radioactive releases measured during the year and account for reviewed to factor in the latest scientiﬁc knowledge in terms of global warming and the diﬀerent possible exposure pathways to the populations in question. the impacts on water resources and on extreme climate phenomena. The radiological impact assessment model of la Hague factors in the various types These assessments are used to adapt facility designs if necessary and to establish of radiation (alpha, beta and gamma), the two potential exposure pathways (external signiﬁcant margins of safety in relation to foreseen natural events and an appropriate exposure and internal exposure by ingestion or inhalation), and the speciﬁc behavior emergency management organization (detection of extreme weather phenomena, of each radionuclide in the human body. It is the result of collaborative eﬀorts protection of the facilities). with French and international experts and associations under the umbrella of the Groupe Radioécologie Nord-Cotentin (GRNC, the Nord-Cotentin radioecology In 2015, several unusual weather events occurred, including heavy rains on several group). Following the recommendations of the GRNC, the site performs a sensitivity occasions at the group’s sites in southeastern France. AREVA suﬀered no damage analysis each year. Radiological impacts are calculated for ﬁve nearby towns, where or other impacts, demonstrating the robustness of its facilities in the face of this radiological monitoring stations are located. If the impacts on one of the towns are type of event. (1) To be compared with the average of about 2.4 mSv per year for naturally occuring exposure in France. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 333 A3 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY 3. Societal information 2.4. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT 2015 2014 2013 Consumption Quantity of energy consumed (MWh) 2,828,046 3,046,986 3,193,661 of which for AREVA NC 1,558,251 Quantity of water tapped (m3) 12,495,078 12,190,745 13,475,084 of which for AREVA NC 4,081,233 Conventional waste Total tonnage of conventional waste 41,857 42,979 60,671 (normal and exceptional operations) of which for AREVA NC 16,600 Quantity of hazardous waste (MT) related to normal operations 9,908 8,586 10,834 Quantity of non-hazardous waste (MT) related to normal operations 18,788 19,856 20,917 Releases Direct greenhouse gases (MT CO2) ✓(1) 526,865 444,629 422,021 of which for AREVA NC 301,530 Volatile organic compounds (MT VOC) 1,103 952 1,248 of which for AREVA NC 85 (1) Indicator subject to reasonable assurance. 3. SOCIETAL INFORMATION 3.1. LOCAL ECONOMIC AND LABOR IMPACTS OF OPERATIONS CONTRIBUTING TO THE LOCAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT with stakeholders, multiyear action plans and the corresponding budgets, and the priority community investment projects. As of 2015, the committees have covered AREVA is actively pursuing its commitment to community involvement through all of AREVA Mines’scope of operations. The committees bring together the heads regional programs. of the subsidiaries, local community development managers, teams in charge of At the group’s industrial sites, AREVA’s philanthropic initiatives further advance its project coordination, and corporate support staﬀ. community involvement agenda in countries in which it is based by supporting For local economic development reasons, we prefer to hire our employees locally. projects in the general interest and solidarity projects focused on health, education AREVA Mines is also attentive to the local communities. This is the case, for instance, and culture. To be selected, these projects must be sustainable and meet a speciﬁc in North Saskatchewan, Canada, where several initiatives are in progress to promote need identiﬁed at the local level. local access to jobs and to give preference to local contractors. Today, in every In communities in which the Mining Business Group is based, Societal Committees country in which we are present, a majority of the employees at every level of the for the Mines identify internal prospects for local development and commitment organization are local nationals. 334 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY 3. Societal information A3 3.2. STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS The group creates and coordinates organizations for dialogue and consensus them. In Canada, the Athabasca Working Group (AWG) brings together six North building near AREVA sites in each of the countries in which it is based. They are Saskatchewan communities and representatives of the mining companies (AREVA integral to an approach aimed at long-term dialogue with our local and internal Resources Canada Inc. and Cameco Corporation) for dialogue on employment, stakeholders. training, environmental protection and ﬁnancial support for the communities. These Consensus building activities near the French sites have been in place for several meetings are summarized in an annual report published by the AWG. decades and are institutionalized in legislation which serves as a legal foundation for the missions and contributions of local information organizations, i.e. the Local AREVA CORPORATE FOUNDATION Information Commissions (Commissions locales d’information, CLI) for the nuclear sites and the Site Monitoring Commissions (Commissions de suivi des sites, CSS) The AREVA corporate foundation was created in 2007 to support philanthropic for former mining sites and Seveso sites. These commissions are bodies for and public-interest projects in three ﬁelds: dialogue and consensus building between the operator and local stakeholders. p health: the fight against AIDS and malaria, access to healthcare, and the The commissions comprise a number of collegial bodies: local elected oﬃcials and acquisition of medical equipment; communities, government representatives, resident associations, environmental education: the prevention of illiteracy, literacy training, access to education and p protection associations, industrial companies, employee representatives and support for students; competent individuals (physicians, experts, etc.). AREVA maintains regular relations with these commissions. In 2015, for example, it participated in information seminars p culture: cultural outreach for members of the public who would not otherwise for CLI members on mediumand high-level radioactive waste and on environmental beneﬁt. radioactivity monitored, and it attended the national CLI conference. The group is The Foundation supports targeted, concrete programs carried out near the also a member of multiparty forums, i.e. the Senior Committee for Transparency group’s facilities in France and overseas. These are long-term programs beneﬁtting and Information on Nuclear Safety (HCTISN) and the National Radioactive Waste disadvantaged people, especially children. It also fosters employee commitment and Materials Management Plan (PNGMDR). by developing projects speciﬁcally for them: calls for internal projects, volunteering opportunities, leave for humanitarian activities, and mentoring of young scholarship A number of bodies have been created within AREVA Mines to structure stakeholder students. relations. In Mongolia, for example, Local Cooperation Committees were established voluntarily and met with elected oﬃcials and representatives of the local communities In 2015, the AREVA corporate foundation supported 39 projects in 5 countries in to present the mining project during the exploration phase and to discuss the related which the group is based, 9 of which involved its employees. challenges with stakeholders. In Niger, a Bilateral Orientation Commitee (CBO) With a budget of 7.5 million euros until 2017, the Foundation is pursuing a multiyear brings together local elected oﬃcials, relevant government agencies and civil society program with major national and international partners such as Institut Pasteur, the to help strengthen local governance of community development projects in the best François-Xavier Bagnoud association, Secours populaire français, the Mécénat interests of the public. These bodies deﬁne local development policy, select projects Chirurgie Cardiaque association, the National Agency for the Fight against Illiteracy, based on local priorities, issue recommendations for the projects and help fund the Coup de Pouce association and the Quai Branly Museum. 3.3. SUBCONTRACTING AND SUPPLIERS AREVA has deﬁned and implements a purchasing policy that contributes to the nature and the environment) in the supply chain process since 2013. The objective company’s economic performance while respecting human rights, protecting its is to deﬁne and implement a group standard on each phase in the supply chain environment, complying with the laws that protect them, anticipating risk, and process, from the expression of requirements to the evaluation of proposals to the committing to responsible initiatives with suppliers that create innovation and value. assessment of the service. As part of its responsible purchasing policy, the group incorporates its social and To that end, the group procedure deﬁning the supply chain management system sustainable development commitments into the supply chain (purchasing) process of AREVA and its operating entities was redeﬁned. This procedure outlines a and into the management of its supplier relations. In particular, AREVA asks its management process that formally integrates consideration of safety-health-securityservice providers to support its sustainable development policy by signing its environment and sustainable development issues. In particular, it introduces the “Sustainable Development Commitment applicable to suppliers”, which sets the concept of the proportionality of supply chain actions to market risks. standards and commitments expected by the group. In 2008, as part of a professional training program, the Supply Chain Department created a training module on responsible purchasing. In 2015, the subject of subcontracting led to greater inclusion of safety-healthsecurity-environment and sustainable requirements in the Supply Chain process, a strengthening of reporting and steering tools, and the implementation of local initiatives aimed at strengthening the inclusion of subcontractor companies in work collectives. The Supply Chain and Safety-Health-Security-Quality-Environment Departments have been engaged with the operating entities in an initiative to strengthen consideration of protected interests (nuclear safety, public health, protection of 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 335 A3 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY 3. Societal information From that same perspective, the speciﬁcation for the supplier management system Strengthening the repository of documents and implementing these tools will was redefined. The specification formalizes requirements supplementing the facilitate relations with subcontractor companies, in particular for consideration of ISO 9001:2008 standard with which a supplier or service provider must comply safety, health, security and environment requirements. for the execution of a contract awarded by an AREVA entity that operates an INB, In addition, in accordance with the commitment it made in July 2012, AREVA in connection with the protection of the AREVA site’s interests. It was presented continued the operational roll-out of the Social Speciﬁcation developed in the during the Supplier Days and was sent to all suppliers which have or could have a Commission on Nuclear Industry Strategy (CSFN). contract in which protected interests are an issue. The status of compliance with the requirements or directives of the Social The group also launched work in the fourth quarter of 2014 to standardize tools Speciﬁcation at all relevant AREVA sites in France was assessed in May and used to analyze market risks (in advance of the drafting of the speciﬁcation of June 2015. The compliance statement, which has been ﬁlled in annually since requirements). Issuance of the group standard was planned for the end of 2015 with 2013, shows that notable progress has been made. The average compliance with operational deployment in early 2016. It optimizes the organization of supply chain the Social Speciﬁcation went from less than 50% to 75% in two years. actions, supplier audits, requirements for expressing needs and service surveillance actions in terms of the protected interest issues. Twice a year, within the framework of the CSFN, AREVA also participates in a presentation to stakeholders on the status of its implementation of the In addition, in 2014 and 2015, AREVA provided training to more than 600 employees Social Speciﬁcation. Lastly, as it has done each year since 2011, AREVA drew likely to carry out work or actions for the surveillance of services awarded to up an annual subcontractor report for 2014 which was sent to a wide range of subcontractors. The program includes a module to raise awareness of protected stakeholders in July 2015. A communication plan and actions to disseminate, interests, a safety culture awareness module, and a training module with a test of explain and discuss the report were conducted from August to October 2015. the knowledge acquired to deﬁne and ﬁll in a surveillance plan. 3.4. FAIR PRACTICES Actions to prevent corruption and support human rights are described in Appendix 6 of AREVA’s 2015 Reference Document. 336 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY 4. Table of concordance for data required under article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code A3 in matters of social, societal and environmental responsibility 4. TABLE OF CONCORDANCE FOR DATA REQUIRED UNDER ARTICLE R. 225-105-1 OF THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL CODE IN MATTERS OF SOCIAL, SOCIETAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Sections of the 2015 Reference Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code Document Human resources information Section 17 Employment Section 17.1. Total workforce and distribution by gender, age and geographical area Section 17.1.1. Staﬃng and layoﬀs Section 17.1.2. Compensation and trends Section 17.1.3. Organization of work Section 17.2. Organization of working hours Section 17.2.1. Absenteeism Section 17.2.2. Labor relations Section 17.3. Organization of social dialogue, in particular procedures for information, consultation and negotiation with personnel Section 17.3.1. Status of collective bargaining agreements Section 17.3.2. Appendix 3 Health and safety Section 1.1. Health and occupational safety conditions Section 1.1. Status of agreements on health and occupational safety signed with labor organizations or employee representatives Section 17.4.2. Frequency and severity rates of occupational injuries and accounting of occupational diseases Section 1.1. Training Section 17.5. Training policies Section 17.5.1. Total hours of training Section 17.5.2. Equal treatment Section 17.6. Measures in favor of gender equality Section 17.6.1. Measures in favor of employment and integration of persons with disabilities Section 17.6.2. The ﬁght against discrimination Section 17.6.3. Promotion and compliance with the stipulations of fundamental agreements of the International Labor Organization concerning: Section 17.7. Respect for the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining Section 17.7.1. Elimination of discrimination related to employment and occupation Section 17.7.2. Elimination of forced or compulsory labor Section 17.7.3. Eﬀective abolition of child labor Section 17.7.4. Environmental information Appendix 3 General environmental policy Section 2.1. Company organization for addressing environmental issues and environmental assessment or certiﬁcation initiatives as applicable Section 2.1.2. Employee training and information concerning environmental protection Section 2.1.2. Resources devoted to preventing pollution and environmental risk Section 2.1.2. Amount of provisions and guarantees for environmental risk, unless this information could seriously prejudice the company in an ongoing dispute Section 2.1.3. Information on AREVA’s commitments in favor of the circular economy Section 2.1.3. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 337 A3 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY 4. Table of concordance for data required under article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code in matters of social, societal and environmental responsibility Sections of the 2015 Reference Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code Document Pollution control and waste management Prevention, reduction or mitigation of releases in the air, water and ground seriously impacting the environment Section 2.2. Measures to minimize, recycle and dispose of waste Section 2.3.4. Consideration of noise pollution and any other form of pollution speciﬁc to an activity Section 2.2.3. Sustainable use of resources Section 2.3. Water consumption and supply based on local conditions Section 2.3.3. Energy consumption and measures to improve energy eﬃciency and the use of renewable energies Section 2.3.2. Consumption of raw materials and measures to improve the eﬀectiveness of their use Section 2.3.1. Land use Section 2.3.1. Climate change Greenhouse gas releases Section 2.3.5. Consideration of the impacts of climate change Section 2.3.5. Biodiversity preservation Section 2.2.1. Measures to preserve or increase biodiversity Section 2.2.1. Societal information Appendix 3 Local, economic and labor impacts of the business Section 3.1. 1 in terms of employment and regional development Section 3.1. 1 on the local or neighboring population Section 3.1. Stakeholder relations Section 3.2. Conditions for dialogue with stakeholders Section 3.2. Partnership and philanthropic programs Section 3.2. Subcontracting and suppliers Section 3.3. Inclusion of social and environmental aspects in the purchasing policy Section 3.3. Importance of subcontracting and social and environmental responsibility in relations with suppliers and subcontractors Section 3.3. Fair practices Section 3.4. Actions taken to prevent corruption Section 3.4. Measures in favor of consumer health and safety Section 3.4. Other actions taken in favor of human rights Section 3.4. 338 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT APPENDIX 4 NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING METHODOLOGY AND INDEPENDENT THIRD-PARTY REPORT ON SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL DATA A4 1. REPORTING METHODOLOGY 339 2. INDEPENDENT VERIFICATION OF CONSOLIDATED SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL DATA IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT 340 2.1. Certiﬁcation of presence of CSR information 341 2.2. Opinion on fairness of CSR information 342 2.3. Report of reasonable assurance on a selection of CSR information 343 1. REPORTING METHODOLOGY The indicators published in Section 17 and Appendix 3 of this report are used to measure the leading social, environmental and societal impacts and challenges related to the AREVA’s activities. These indicators were developed by a group of experts representing the group’s diﬀerent businesses and departments, and reﬂect the regulatory framework of article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code and international standards such as GRI version 3 (1) and WBSCD (2). SCOPE AND CONSOLIDATION Reporting period: the reporting period is the calendar year (January 1 to Consolidation rules: for “Environment, Health and Safety” data, the full consolidation December 31). method is used (data from majority-owned subsidiaries are fully consolidated). The Scope of reporting: the scope of reporting covers all of the group’s worldwide consolidation method selected for data pertaining to human resources is aligned operations. By “group”, we mean AREVA, its subsidiaries and all of the operational with the method used for ﬁnancial consolidation. Thus, data for subsidiaries in and functional entities in which AREVA’s interest is 50% or more at December 31, which AREVA has a minority interest are reported in proportion to AREVA’s interest. 2015. Some minority-owned subsidiaries are included on an exceptional basis, For projects conducted at customer locations, social data (occupational safety, along with the majority-owned subsidiaries, to reﬂect the group’s operational health, workforce, dosimetry) and governance data (ISO 14001 certiﬁcation) are involvement; this is the case for example for Cominak in Niger. Units whose sale consolidated at the group level. For AREVA investment projects (e.g. Comurhex II was in progress and irreversible in 2015 were not included in the scope of reporting. and Georges Besse II), all of the environmental, health, safety and social data are Newly acquired entities are not consolidated in the year of their acquisition so that consolidated at the group level. systems for collecting and inputting data can be set up and data reliability ensured. Changes in consolidated group: the main changes in the consolidated group Oﬃce buildings with a total surface area of less than 1,000 m2 must as a minimum were as follows in 2015: report indicators in the ﬁelds of occupational safety, health, employment and p Deconsolidated: Wind Energy and Solar Energy. dosimetry (if applicable) and, if possible, the other ﬁelds of the reporting procedure if the issue is a major one. (1) Global Reporting Initiative (www.globalreporting.org). (2) The Greenhouse Gas Protocol is developed by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) [www.wbcsd.org] and the World Resources Institute (WRI). 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 339 A4 NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING METHODOLOGY AND INDEPENDENT THIRD-PARTY REPORT 2. Independent veriﬁcation of consolidated social, environmental and societal data in the management report METHODOLOGY Reference base: The measurement methods used for environmental, social and Independent verification: The group had an independent third-party organization safety indicators and the related reporting criteria are documented in an “AREVA verify its key environmental, social and societal performance indicators. The scope sustainable development and continuous improvement measurement and reporting of this veriﬁcation was deﬁned for all 42 categories of information identiﬁed in procedure”. This procedure, which is updated each year, is provided to anyone, at the implementing order for article 225 of the Grenelle II law. In accordance with any level, involved in developing and reporting data. these regulations, the veriﬁcations concern the consolidated social, environmental Tools used: Dedicated software − STAR for environmental indicators, AHEAD for and societal data presented in Section 6 of the management report. The data safety, and POLYPHEME for social data − are used to report the indicators presented are presented in Section 17 and Appendix 3 of the Reference Document. The in Section 17 and in Appendix 3. independent third-party report is presented below in this Appendix 4. Internal controls: The data reported by the sites are subject to checks of consistency by site managers and HSE managers of the Business Groups. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON SELECTED INDICATORS Dosimetry: The performance indicators for dosimetry are collected every 6 months review is limited to the sum of individual external doses resulting from occupational and concern a reference period of 12 consecutive months, with a 6-month lag exposure to radiation by the group’s employees. for data acquisition. For the annual campaign of January 2016, the data concern Direct greenhouse gas emissions: The following gases were taken into account: the period from July 2014 to June 2015. The mean internal and external dose CO2, CH4, N2O and halogen compounds (CFC, HCFC, HFC, PFC and SF6). The calculation includes all monitored personnel, including personnel that received a ﬁgures disclosed in this report do not include indirect greenhouse gas emissions non-detectable dose or no dose at all. For reasons of conﬁdentiality, the independent related to purchases of electricity, heating or cooling. third-party organization did not review internal dosimetry data. For this indicator, the 2. INDEPENDENT VERIFICATION OF CONSOLIDATED SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL DATA IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT To the Shareholders, In our capacity as an independent veriﬁer accredited by COFRAC (1) under the number 3-1050, and as a member of the network of one of the statutory auditors of AREVA, we hereby present our report on the consolidated social, environmental and societal information for the year ended December 31, 2015, presented in Section 6 of the management report, hereinafter referred to as “CSR Information”, pursuant to the provisions of article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code. (1) Scope of accreditation available at www.cofrac.fr. 340 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING METHODOLOGY AND INDEPENDENT THIRD-PARTY REPORT 2. Independent veriﬁcation of consolidated social, environmental and societal data in the management report A4 RESPONSIBILITY OF THE COMPANY It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to establish a management report including CSR Information referred to in article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code, in accordance with the company’s internal social and environmental reporting standards (the “Guidelines”), a summary of which is provided in Appendix 4 of the Reference Document. INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL Our independence is deﬁned by the regulatory requirements, the code of ethics of our profession and the provisions of article L. 822-11 of the French Commercial Code. In addition, we have implemented a quality control system including documented policies and procedures to ensure compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards, and applicable laws and regulations. RESPONSIBILITY OF THE INDEPENDENT VERIFIER It is our role, based on our work: Our veriﬁcation work was undertaken by a team of ﬁve people from October 2015 to attest whether the required CSR Information is present in the management and the date of signature of our report, for an estimated time period of ﬁfteen weeks. p report or, in the case of its omission, an appropriate explanation has been We conducted the work described below in accordance with the professional provided, in accordance with paragraph 3 of article R. 225-105 of the French standards applicable in France and the order of May 13, 2013 determining the Commercial Code (Attestation of presence of CSR Information); conditions under which an independent veriﬁer performs its mission and, concerning p to express a limited assurance on whether the CSR Information is presented, the opinion of fairness, in accordance with the international standard ISAE 3000 (1). in all material aspects, in accordance with the Guidelines (Opinion on fairness of CSR Information); p to express, at the request of the company, a reasonable assurance on whether direct greenhouse gas emissions identiﬁed by the sign ✓ in Section 6 of the management report is presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the Guidelines. 2.1. CERTIFICATION OF PRESENCE OF CSR INFORMATION We obtained an understanding of the company’s CSR issues, based on interviews We veriﬁed that the CSR information covers the consolidation scope, namely the with the management of relevant departments, a presentation of the company’s company and its subsidiaries under the meaning of article L. 233-1 of the French strategy based on the social and environmental consequences linked to the activities Commercial Code, and the companies which it controls under the meaning of of the company and its societal commitments, as well as, where appropriate, article L. 233-3 of that same Code, with the limitations speciﬁed in the methodological resulting actions or programs. note presented in Appendix 4 to the Reference Document. We compared the information presented in the management report with the list Based on this work, and given the limitations mentioned above, we conﬁrm the contained in article L. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. presence in the management report of the required CSR Information. In the absence of certain consolidated information, we veriﬁed that the explanations were provided in accordance with the provisions of article R. 225-105, paragraph 3, of the French Commercial Code. (1) ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical information. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 341 A4 NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING METHODOLOGY AND INDEPENDENT THIRD-PARTY REPORT 2. Independent veriﬁcation of consolidated social, environmental and societal data in the management report 2.2. OPINION ON FAIRNESS OF CSR INFORMATION NATURE AND SCOPE OF WORK p at the level of the representative selection of sites and entities which we chose (1) based on their activity, their contribution to the consolidated indicators, their We undertook about ten interviews with people responsible for the preparation of location and a risk analysis, we undertook interviews to verify the correct CSR Information in the departments charged with information gathering and for application of the procedures and undertook detailed tests based on a basis internal control procedures and risk management to: of samples, consisting in verifying the calculations and linking them with the p assess the appropriateness of the Guidelines as regards their relevance, information in supporting documentation. The sample selected represented 16% completeness, neutrality, clarity and reliability, taking into consideration, where of the workforce and between 7% and 54% of the quantitative environmental applicable, the good practices in the sector; information (3). p verify the implementation of a process for the collection, compilation, treatment For the other consolidated CSR Information, we assessed its fairness and and control of the CSR Information for its completeness and consistency, as well consistency in relation to our knowledge of the company. as obtain an understanding of internal control and risk management procedures Finally, we assessed the relevance of the explanations given in the event of the related to the preparation of the CSR Information. partial or total absence of certain information. We determined the nature and extent of our tests and controls based on the nature We consider that the sampling methodologies and the size of the samples that and importance of the CSR Information in terms of company’s characteristics, we considered, by exercising our professional judgment, allowed us to formulate social and environmental issues related to its activities, its orientation in terms of a limited assurance on the CSR Information, considered as a whole; an assurance sustainable development and sectorial best practices. of a higher level would have required more extensive veriﬁcation work. Due to the For the CSR information which we considered the most important (1): use of sampling techniques and other limitations inherent in the functioning of any p at the level of the consolidating entity, we consulted documentary sources and information and internal control system, the risk of non-detection of a signiﬁcant conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (organization, anomaly in the CSR Information cannot be entirely eliminated. policies, actions, etc.), we implemented analytical procedures on the quantitative information and veriﬁed on a test basis the calculations and data consolidation, and we veriﬁed their coherence and consistency with the other information contained in the management report; CONCLUSIONS Based on our work, we have not identiﬁed any signiﬁcant misstatement that causes us to believe that the CSR Information, taken together, has not been presented sincerely, in compliance with the Guidelines. COMMENTS Without qualifying our conclusion above, we draw your attention to the following points: p AREVA does not communicate quantitative data relative to training in France. The data will be communicated in April; p the sites of the AREVA Solar entity were not the subject of environmental indicator reporting. The estimated impacts of these exceptions to scope are not signiﬁcant. (1) Environmental and societal information: the general environmental policy (number of sites with ISO 14001 certiﬁcation); prevention measures; air release reduction or restoration measures (VOC emissions); waste prevention, recycling and disposal measures (metric tons of conventional waste produced); the sustainable use of resources and climate change (energy consumption, water consumption, greenhouse gas emissions); the extent of subcontracting; and the inclusion of social and environmental aspects in the purchasing policy and in supplier and subcontractor relations. Social information: employment (total workforce and distribution, hires and lay-oﬀs); occupational injuries, including their frequency and severity; occupational diseases; and diversity and equal opportunity/equal treatment (measures taken for gender equality, anti-discrimination eﬀorts). (2) AREVA Mongol LLC (Mongolia), AREVA NC la Hague (France), AREVA NC Malvési (France), AREVA NC Melox (France), AREVA NP Jarrie (France, water indicator), AREVA NP Saint Marcel (France), AREVA TA Cadarache (France). (3) Coverage rate by environmental theme: Energy 32%, Waste 30%, Greenhous gas emissions 54%, Water consumption 19%, VOC emissions 7% for the group’s footprint/ 69% excluding the sites of the Mining Business Group. 342 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING METHODOLOGY AND INDEPENDENT THIRD-PARTY REPORT 2. Independent veriﬁcation of consolidated social, environmental and societal data in the management report A4 2.3. REPORT OF REASONABLE ASSURANCE ON A SELECTION OF CSR INFORMATION NATURE AND SCOPE OF WORK Concerning scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions, we conducted work similar to that described in paragraph 2 above but in a more thorough manner for the CSR information considered to be most important, in particular as concerns the number of tests. We believe that this work enables us to express reasonable assurance on this data. CONCLUSION In our opinion, direct greenhouse gas emissions identiﬁed with the sign ✓ in Section 6 of the management report were drawn up fairly in all material respects, in accordance with the Guidelines. Paris-La Défense, March 31, 2016 Independent Veriﬁer ERNST & YOUNG et Associés Christophe Schmeitzky Bruno Perrin Sustainable Development Partner Partner 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 343 A5 APPENDIX 5 ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS OF MAY 19, 2016 ORDER OF BUSINESS 344 PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS FOR THE ORDINARY ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS OF MAY 19, 2016 345 ORDER OF BUSINESS p Approval of the corporate financial statements of the financial year ended p Advisory opinion on the items of compensation due or allocated for ﬁnancial year December 31, 2015 (1st resolution); 2015 to Mr. Philippe Knoche as a member of the Executive Board and Chief p Approval of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the ﬁnancial year ended Operating Oﬃcer until January 8, 2015 (8th resolution); December 31, 2015 (2nd resolution); p Advisory opinion on the items of compensation due or allocated for ﬁnancial p Appropriation of the results of the ﬁnancial year ended December 31, 2015 year 2015 to Messrs. Olivier Wantz and Pierre Aubouin as members of the (3rd resolution); Executive Board and Senior Executive Vice Presidents until January 8, 2015 (9th resolution); p Approval of an agreement subject to the provisions of articles L. 225-38 et seq. of the French Commercial Code concerning an equity and industrial partnership p Advisory opinion on the items of compensation due or allocated for ﬁnancial between EDF SA and AREVA SA dated July 30, 2015 (4th resolution); year 2015 to Mr. Philippe Varin as Chairman of the Board of Directors as from January 8, 2015 (10th resolution); p Approval of an agreement subject to the provisions of articles L. 225-38 et seq. of the French Commercial Code concerning the amendment of the letter of p Advisory opinion on the items of compensation due or allocated for ﬁnancial support from AREVA SA in favor of its subsidiary AREVA TA dated July 2, 2015 year 2015 to Mr. Philippe Knoche as Chief Executive Oﬃcer as from January 8, (5th resolution); 2015 (11th resolution); p Approval of an agreement subject to the provisions of articles L. 225-38 et seq. p Authorization to be given to the Board of Directors to conclude transactions of the French Commercial Code concerning the debt forgiveness by AREVA SA involving the company’s shares (12th resolution); in favor of its subsidiary AREVA TA dated July 2, 2015 (6th resolution); p Powers for legal formalities (13th resolution). p Approval of an agreement subject to the provisions of articles L. 225-38 et seq. of the French Commercial Code concerning the debt forgiveness by AREVA SA in favor of its subsidiary AREVA TA dated December 17, 2015 (7th resolution); 344 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS OF MAY 19, 2016 Proposed resolutions for the ordinary annual meeting of shareholders of May 19, 2016 A5 PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS FOR THE ORDINARY ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS OF MAY 19, 2016 FIRST RESOLUTION THIRD RESOLUTION Approval of the ﬁnancial statements of the ﬁnancial year ended Appropriation of the result of the ﬁnancial year ended December 31, December 31, 2015 2015 The Shareholders, deliberating under the conditions for quorum and The Shareholders, deliberating under the conditions for quorum and majority majority required for ordinary general meetings, having perused the Board of required for ordinary general meetings, decide to appropriate the full amount Directors’management report and the report on the annual ﬁnancial statements of of the net loss for the ﬁnancial year ended December 31, 2015, amounting to the statutory auditors, approve the corporate ﬁnancial statements of the ﬁnancial 2,915,937,581.28 euros, to “Retained earnings”, which will be brought from the year ended December 31, 2015, as presented to them, showing a net loss in the amount of (1,413,174,747.60 euros) to the amount of (4,329,112,328.88) euros. amount of 2,915,937,581.28 euros as well as the transactions reﬂected in those The Shareholders note, in accordance with the law, that there has been no dividend ﬁnancial statements or summarized in those reports. distribution for the three previous ﬁnancial years. Pursuant to the provisions of article 223 quater of the French Tax Code, the Shareholders approve the expenses and charges recognized by the company and mentioned in article 39-4 of said Code in the total amount of 81,068 euros, which FOURTH RESOLUTION reduced the loss carry-over proportionately in view of the tax loss. Approval of an agreement subject to the provisions of articles L. 225-38 et seq. of the French Commercial Code concerning an equity and industrial partnership between EDF SA and AREVA SA SECOND RESOLUTION dated July 30, 2015 The Shareholders, deliberating under the conditions for quorum and majority Approval of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the ﬁnancial year ended December 31, 2015 required for ordinary general meetings, having perused the special report of The Shareholders, deliberating under the conditions for quorum and majority required the statutory auditors on regulated agreements and commitments mentioned in for ordinary general meetings, having perused the Board of Directors’management article L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Code, approve the framework agreement report and the report of the statutory auditors, approve the consolidated ﬁnancial between EDF SA and AREVA SA concerning an equity and industrial partnership statements of the ﬁnancial year ended December 31, 2015, as presented to them, authorized by the Board of Directors on July 29, 2015 and signed the following day. showing a net loss in the amount of 2,038,000,000 euros, as well as the transactions reﬂected in those ﬁnancial statements or summarized in those reports. FIFTH RESOLUTION Approval of an agreement subject to the provisions of articles L. 225-38 et seq. of the French Commercial Code concerning the amendment of the letter of support from AREVA SA in favor of its subsidiary AREVA TA dated July 2, 2015 The Shareholders, deliberating under the conditions for quorum and majority required for ordinary general meetings, having perused the special report of the statutory auditors on regulated agreements and commitments mentioned in article L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Code, approve the amendment letter to the support letter of AREVA SA in favor of its subsidiary AREVA TA, authorized by the Board of Directors on July 2, 2015 and signed the same day. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 345 A5 ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS OF MAY 19, 2016 Proposed resolutions for the ordinary annual meeting of shareholders of May 19, 2016 SIXTH RESOLUTION NINTH RESOLUTION Approval of an agreement subject to the provisions of articles Advisory opinion on the items of compensation due or allocated for L. 225-38 et seq. of the French Commercial Code concerning the ﬁnancial year 2015 to Messrs. Olivier Wantz and Pierre Aubouin debt forgiveness of AREVA SA in favor of its subsidiary AREVA TA as members of the Executive Board and Senior Executive Vice dated July 2, 2015 Presidents until January 8, 2015 The Shareholders, deliberating under the conditions for quorum and majority The Shareholders, consulted in accordance with the recommendation of required for ordinary general meetings, having perused the special report of paragraph 24.3 of the Afep-Medef Code of Corporate Governance for publicly the statutory auditors on regulated agreements and commitments mentioned traded companies of November 2015, to which the company defers pursuant to in article L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Code, approve, following the article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, deliberating under the conditions authorization of the Board of Directors of July 2, 2015, the debt write-oﬀ carried for quorum and majority required for ordinary general meetings, issues a favorable out on July 28, 2015 by AREVA SA in favor of its subsidiary AREVA TA in the opinion on the items of compensation due or allocated for ﬁnancial year 2015 to amount of 49 million euros. Messrs. Olivier Wantz and Pierre Aubouin as members of the Executive Board and Senior Executive Vice Presidents until January 8, 2015, as they appear in Section 15 of the 2015 Reference Document, paragraph 15.1, and in the report SEVENTH RESOLUTION of the Board of Directors. Approval of an agreement subject to the provisions of articles L. 225-38 et seq. of the French Commercial Code concerning the debt forgiveness of AREVA SA in favor of its subsidiary AREVA TA TENTH RESOLUTION dated December 17, 2015 Advisory opinion on the items of compensation due or allocated for The Shareholders, deliberating under the conditions for quorum and majority ﬁnancial year 2015 to Mr. Philippe Varin as Chairman of the Board of required for ordinary general meetings, having perused the special report of Directors as from January 8, 2015 the statutory auditors on regulated agreements and commitments mentioned The Shareholders, consulted in accordance with the recommendation in article L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Code, approve, following the of paragraph 24.3 of the Afep-Medef Code of Corporate Governance of authorization of the Board of Directors of December 17, 2015, the debt write-oﬀ November 2015, to which the company defers pursuant to article L. 225-37 of carried out on December 18, 2015 by AREVA SA in favor of its subsidiary AREVA TA the French Commercial Code, deliberating under the conditions for quorum and in the amount of 17.175 million euros. majority required for ordinary general meetings, issue a favorable opinion on the items of compensation due or allocated for ﬁnancial year 2015 to Mr. Philippe Varin EIGHTH RESOLUTION as Chairman of the Board of Directors as from January 8, 2015, as they appear in Section 15 of the 2015 Reference Document, paragraph 15.1, and in the report Advisory opinion on the items of compensation due or allocated of the Board of Directors. for ﬁnancial year 2015 to Mr. Philippe Knoche as a member of the Executive Board and Chief Operating Oﬃcer until January 8, 2015 The Shareholders, consulted pursuant to the recommendation of paragraph 24.3 of the Afep-Medef Code of Corporate Governance for publicly traded companies of November 2015, to which the company defers pursuant to article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, deliberating under the conditions for quorum and majority required for ordinary general meetings, issue a favorable opinion on the items of compensation due or allocated for ﬁnancial year 2015 to Mr. Philippe Knoche, member of the Executive Board and Chief Operating Officer until January 8, 2015, as they appear in Section 15 of the 2015 Reference Document, paragraph 15.1, and in the report of the Board of Directors. 346 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS OF MAY 19, 2016 Proposed resolutions for the ordinary annual meeting of shareholders of May 19, 2016 A5 ELEVENTH RESOLUTION ○ hold them and deliver them at a later date (for exchange, payment or other) in connection with transactions for external growth, merger, spinoff or Advisory opinion on the items of compensation due or allocated for contribution, within the limit of 5% of the company’s equity and in compliance ﬁnancial year 2015 to Mr. Philippe Knoche as Chief Executive Oﬃcer as from January 8, 2015 with market practice accepted by the Autorité des marchés ﬁnanciers, or in the event of a takeover bid on the company’s securities, or during the preThe Shareholders, consulted in accordance with the recommendation bid period, in compliance with article 231-40 of the general regulations of of paragraph 24.3 of the Afep-Medef Code of Corporate Governance of the Autorité des marchés ﬁnanciers, and in the pre-bid or public exchange November 2015, to which the company defers pursuant to article L. 225-37 of oﬀer or mixed public takeover and exchange oﬀer period initiated by the the French Commercial Code, deliberating under the conditions for quorum and company in compliance with legal and regulatory provisions, and in particular majority required for ordinary general meetings, issue a favorable opinion on the the provisions of article 231-41 of the general regulations of the Autorité des items of compensation due or allocated for ﬁnancial year 2015 to Mr. Philippe marchés ﬁnanciers; or Knoche, Chief Executive Officer as from January 8, 2015, as they appear in Section 15 of the 2015 Reference Document, paragraph 15.1, and in the report ○ hedge securities giving the right to the grant of shares of the company by of the Board of Directors. delivering shares when exercising rights attached to securities giving the right to the grant of the company’s shares by redemption, conversion, exchange, presentation of a warrant or in any other manner; or TWELFTH RESOLUTION ○ implement any market practice that is accepted or may be accepted by the Authorization to be given to the Board of Directors to trade in the market authorities, it being understood that the buyback program is also company’s shares intended to enable the company to work towards any other end authorized The Shareholders, deliberating under the conditions for quorum and majority under the law or applicable regulations or that may become so. required for ordinary general meetings, having perused the report of the Board 3. decide that the maximum price per share is set at 40 euros excluding acquisition of Directors and in accordance with the provisions of the general regulations of expenses, and the maximum number of shares acquired may not exceed 10% the Autorité des marchés ﬁnanciers, of articles L. 225-209 et seq. of the French of the number of shares composing the authorized capital (e.g., for information Commercial Code and of the European Commission Regulation no. 2273/2003 only, a maximum of 38,320,485 shares at December 31, 2015, not including of December 22, 2003: shares already held by the company, for a cumulative acquisition price net of 1. authorize the Board of Directors, with the power to sub-delegate authority as expenses of 1,532,819,400 euros); provided by law, to buy or cause to buy, in one or more transactions and at the 4. give full authority to the Board of Directors in the event of trading in the company’s times that it shall set, ordinary shares of the company within the limit of a number share capital, in particular modiﬁcation of the par value of the share, capital of shares representing up to 10% of the total number of shares forming the share increase by incorporation of reserves followed by the issuance and free grant capital on the date that these purchases are made, or 5% of the total number of of equity securities, or a stock split or a reverse split of securities, to adjust the shares forming the share capital if the shares are acquired by the company to above-mentioned maximum purchase price accordingly; be held and subsequently transferred in payment or in exchange in connection with a merger, spinoﬀ or contribution. The number of shares that the company 5. grant full authority to the Board of Directors, with the power to sub-delegate will hold at any time may not exceed 10% of the equity securities forming the as provided by law, to decide on and implement this authority, to carry out company’s capital on the date considered; the buyback program as provided by law and according to the terms of this resolution, to place all orders on the stock market, to sign all documents, to 2. decide that the acquisition, sale or transfer of these ordinary shares may be conclude all agreements for the keeping of registers of share purchases and carried out, in one or more transactions, by any means, on market or oﬀ market, sales, to accomplish all formalities and make all statements, in particular with the including the acquisition or sale of blocks, takeover bid, the use of derivatives or Autorité des marchés ﬁnanciers and, more generally, to do all that is necessary. the establishment of option strategies, as provided by the market authority and in compliance with applicable regulations, in particular to: This authority is granted for a period of eighteen (18) months as from the date of this General Meeting. It invalidates as from this day any previous delegation of ○ grant or sell them to employees, oﬃcers of the company and/or related authority having the same purpose. companies or that will become related as provided by applicable regulations, in particular in the framework of stock option purchase plans of the company, in accordance with the provisions of articles L. 225-177 et seq. of the French THIRTEENTH RESOLUTION Commercial Code, or any similar plan of free share grant transactions, as Powers to carry out formalities provided in articles L. 225-197-1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code, or The Shareholders, deliberating under the conditions of quorum and majority implementation of any employee savings plan as provided by law, in particular required for ordinary and extraordinary general meetings, grant full authority to the articles L. 3332-1 et seq. of the French Labor Code; or bearer of the original, a copy or an excerpt of the minutes of this General Meeting for ○ provide liquidity and liquidity services for the company’s share by an investment the purpose of accomplishing all publication, ﬁling and other necessary formalities, services provider acting independently under a liquidity contract that complies and generally do all things necessary. with the Code of Ethics recognized by the Autorité des marchés ﬁnanciers in compliance with the market practice accepted by that authority; or 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 347 A6 APPENDIX 6 VALUES CHARTER 1. PREAMBLE 348 4. RULES OF CONDUCT 351 2. OUR VALUES AT AREVA 349 5. THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE U.N. GLOBAL COMPACT 353 3. ACTION PRINCIPLES 350 1. PREAMBLE A Shared and Responsible Vision endorse the U.N. Global Compact, and sustainable development and continuous As a commercial company in a competitive market, we oﬀer low-carbon solutions improvement form the core of AREVA’s industrial strategy. We also comply with for power generation in the nuclear and renewable energies ﬁelds. Our goal is to the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, with the Extractive Industries achieve the highest possible returns and performance by designing, marketing Transparency Initiative (EITI) and with the Nuclear Power Plant Exporters’Principles and supplying products and services that are competitive, safe and harmless to the of Conduct published by the Carnegie Endowment. environment, and that help improve standards of living for our planet’s inhabitants. In a complex, changing and multicultural world, Our Values at AREVA, the group’s We expect every one of our employees to work towards this goal. The AREVA Values Charter, oﬀers guidance to our employees. Not only will they ﬁnd in them a employee complies with the laws of the country in which he or she works, and clear explanation of their rights and responsibilities with regard to AREVA and all in compliance with the principles of Human Rights as deﬁned in the Universal of our stakeholders, they will also ﬁnd values with which they can identify, values Declaration of Human rights. worth defending. Energy is a basic requirement for worldwide economic development, particularly in AREVA’s values express the group’s responsibility to our customers, our less developed countries, but the greenhouse eﬀect depends to a great extent on employees, our shareowners and all of the communities in which we play a how that energy is produced. AREVA feels a strong sense of responsibility towards role, directly or indirectly. our neighbors on this planet and towards the generations that will succeed us. We 348 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT VALUES CHARTER 2. Our Values at AREVA A6 2. OUR VALUES AT AREVA Our values at AREVA are all about the best possible economic performance Responsibility as a company while respecting human rights, the environment in the broadest As a major player in the energy market, we have a special responsibility not only to sense of the term, and the laws that protect them. In a word, these values seek our direct stakeholders, but to the public at large, which will ultimately beneﬁt from to satisfy stakeholder requirements, in the present and over the long term. our products and services. Safety and Physical Security Integrity The very nature of our businesses demands an acute sense of professionalism. For Honesty, integrity and fairness govern all our actions and practices. We comply AREVA this translates into implementation of the highest standards for safety and scrupulously with the laws and regulations of every country in which we operate. physical security. It also implies superior know-how as well as constant vigilance in the ﬁelds of quality and environmental protection. AREVA fosters team spirit and Customer Satisfaction creates working conditions that are conducive to professional fulﬁllment. Our growth and sustainability as a group, and thus our ability to meet our Transparency commitments to our stakeholders, are conditioned on customer satisfaction. Transparency, sincere communications and openness to dialog are hallmarks of our Partnership communication programs. Our goal is to provide reliable and pertinent information AREVA seeks to build frank and constructive relationships with all stakeholders. To enabling an objective assessment of our environmental, ﬁnancial, social and societal meet their needs, we cultivate a spirit of partnership based on mutual responsibility, performance. receptiveness and dialog. Our approach is to become involved in every one of the Proﬁtability communities in which we do business. It is based on respect for local customs and on understanding the communities’ wishes. We have a duty to achieve and maintain high returns for our shareowners, our employees and all of our stakeholders. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 349 A6 VALUES CHARTER 3. Action Principles 3. ACTION PRINCIPLES With Regard to AREVA’s Stakeholders Employee Commitments to AREVA Employees are expected to comply with the AREVA Values Charter. They are Customers the owners and the defenders of these values, individually and as a group. AREVA’s goal is to oﬀer products, services and expertise enabling our electric The same is expected of temporary personnel. utility and manufacturing customers to grow while meeting their responsibilities AREVA employees are customer-oriented. with regard to their own stakeholders. They demonstrate an acute sense of professionalism, skill, precision and rigor, AREVA’s ears are always open to our customers. We try to anticipate as well as and obey laws and regulations. They shall keep a formal trace of all operations meet their needs. We deliver what we promise and we don’t promise more than they perform, as well as of those subcontracted to others. They have integrity and we can deliver. abide by laws and regulations. At AREVA, we respect our customers’culture and work to protect their image and Alerting management to a malfunction or a legal or regulatory non-compliance is their interests. both a reﬂex and a duty. When it comes to AREVA’s proper operation, there shall Our technologies and services are designed, supplied and marketed in be no internal hierarchical barrier to the transmittal of the alert. accordance with the highest safety, physical security, environmental AREVA employees take pride in achieving and maintaining excellence in product protection and quality standards. and service quality. They impart knowledge to each other to ensure that everyone We protect the conﬁdentiality of the data and know–how that our customers and does the same. Lessons learned are systematically put into practice. partners entrust to us with the same degree of care as if they were our own, to the fullest extent of the law and regulatory requirements. Suppliers and Subcontractors AREVA seeks, through a competitive process, lasting partnerships with its Shareholders suppliers and subcontractors as a means of oﬀering its customers the best AREVA is guided by principles of corporate governance, particularly in its possible level of service. pursuit of shareholder returns and the growth of their invested capital. AREVA shall do its utmost to ensure that regular suppliers to its core businesses, Our shareholders deserve accurate and pertinent ﬁnancial information, and we at subcontractors, ﬁnancial partners, consultants and commercial intermediaries AREVA make every eﬀort to ensure that they receive it. (distributors, agents, etc.) subscribe to this Charter. Their own regular suppliers and We believe that all shareholders should be treated equally, and we go beyond the subcontractors and AREVA’s manufacturing partners are also urged to subscribe minimum requirements set by stock market regulators to ensure that we do so. to it, at least for those activities directly relating to AREVA. We are committed to frank, fair, unbiased and mutually respectful relations Employees with all of our suppliers, subcontractors and partners from the very beginning of the procurement process. AREVA’s Commitments to its Employees We protect their image and conﬁdential data with the same degree of care as if AREVA’s workforce is constituted without discrimination as to, in particular, they were our own. race, color, religion, age, gender, sexual orientation, political opinions, national extraction or social origin. We believe that management should increasingly We reserve the right to verify that supplier and subcontractor practices are consistent mirror this diversity. with the AREVA Values Charter at any time and at any point in the supply chain for goods and services. We are committed to creating good working conditions and providing our employees with the resources they need to achieve professional fulﬁllment. When our subsidiaries serve as suppliers, they are treated with the same fairness and respect as other suppliers. We trust our employees and are committed to honest, frank, two-way dialog with them and the organizations that represent them. The Public, the Planet We wish to help employees maintain and increase their know-how in every aspect At AREVA, we are committed to openness and involvement in public forums, and we of their job, and we oﬀer training programs for that purpose. use our information and communication resources ethically. We make every eﬀort At AREVA, we respect the privacy of our employees. AREVA remains neutral to provide straightforward information on our business strategy, our technologies regarding political opinions, philosophical beliefs and religious faiths. We expect and our performance to decision-makers and citizens alike. our employees to respect the beliefs of others and to refrain from any proselytizing. For AREVA, protecting the common good that is our environment encompasses every aspect of human welfare in its interaction with nature. AREVA’s environmental policy and its risk management programs are based on this principle and aim at reducing the environmental footprint of its activities and at preserving biodiversity in the regions where the Group is an industrial or mining operator. Preserving natural resources through recycling also demonstrates AREVA’s care for the Planet. 350 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT VALUES CHARTER 4. Rules of Conduct A6 4. RULES OF CONDUCT International Treaties Corruption, Gifts and Unfair Advantage In the nuclear business, we supply products, services and technologies only to nations and companies from those nations that comply with international provisions General practice in force relative to non-proliferation, IAEA safeguards and export controls. This is There is zero tolerance for corruption. Relations between group employees and an absolute condition. We also comply with the governmental export policies, laws the group’s customers, suppliers, partners and public services are handled with and regulations of the nations in which AREVA is located. objectivity and integrity. Management shall be notiﬁed forthwith of any known cases of corruption, be it active or passive, and of any attempts to corrupt third parties, Conﬂicts of Interest and shall immediately take measures it deems appropriate to determine the veracity All employees shall show loyalty to AREVA. Any situation in which their personal of the situation, notably by performing the appropriate audits, and put an end to interests or those of their relations might conﬂict with the business interests of the such unlawful behavior should it be proven. group should be immediately called to the attention of their immediate supervisor. AREVA prohibits corruption in any form whatsoever, whether public or private, Such conﬂicts include relationships with suppliers, customers, known competitors active or passive. AREVA shall refrain from giving, proposing, promising or or any organization or person associated with AREVA or that seeks such association. soliciting, either directly or indirectly, all payment or supply of services, gifts Employees shall not intentionally place themselves in a conﬂict of interest or leisure activities from or to a government oﬃcial or private agent, in order situation and may not participate in any evaluation, meeting or decision to illegally obtain or conserve a market or a competitive advantage. relative to subjects in which they or their relations have a personal interest. Employees shall avoid all situations in which they might ﬁnd themselves beholden To avoid any ambiguity or appearance of favoritism, a spouse, child or other relation to a third party, however temporarily, as well as all ambiguous situations and all of the employee may be hired or given an assignment of any kind only with the situations in which misunderstanding is possible. permission of the employee’s supervisor, following the same conﬂict of interest rules, and only based on objective criteria. The employee in question may not participate Gifts in the selection of his or her relation. AREVA is perfectly aware that exchanging small gifts or invitations of nominal Conﬂicts of interest called to the attention of a supervisor are reviewed case by case value can, on occasion, make a legitimate contribution to good business relations. by both the supervisor and the supervisor’s supervisor. They shall settle the conﬂict However, in both the public and private sectors, gifts or invitations shall be in accordance with the law and regulations in eﬀect. oﬀered and received by employees in strict compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and in a totally transparent manner. Gifts or invitations should It is not possible to list every conceivable conﬂict of interest situation. The following never inﬂuence decisions, or be seen as having an inﬂuence on those giving and potential conﬂicts of interest shall in particular be declared by employees: receiving them. p a manager or a relation holding personal interests in a company that is a In this respect, employees must demonstrate sound judgment and a customer, supplier (including consultants, ﬁnancial partners and others) or heightened sense of responsibility. If an employee is obliged to accept or give competitor of the group; a gift or invitation of considerable value to comply with local custom, protocol p an employee sitting on the board of directors or who is an executive of an outside and other circumstances, he/she shall refer the matter to the appropriate company associated with the group; managerial level where a decision will be taken as quickly as possible in p an employee or a relation who is a consultant or occupies a management position accordance with all applicable laws and regulations. or is a member of the marketing and sales or purchasing department of another Gifts between AREVA business units or subsidiaries and any other internal company associated with the group or that seeks such association; marketing expenses are not allowed. p an employee or a relation who provides premises, equipment or personal property to the group for a fee. Payments All AREVA entities and all managers must be able to justify the actual source and Insider Trading use of any sum at all times. This also applies to interim project accounting. Business conﬁdential information is identiﬁed to management and employees and All sums, whether paid or received, must be completely and exactly described it is their duty to maintain the conﬁdentiality of such information with regard to in a contract and recorded as such in the corporate accounts. others, including their relations. They are aware of the insider trading risks that this information entails and shall comply with the procedure for good conduct in force Payment methods that intentionally or unintentionally hide the identity of a payer in the Group with respect to inside information. or a beneﬁciary are forbidden. Managers agree not to acquire or to sell, directly or indirectly, shares or securities All contracts with commercial intermediaries must have been duly approved in subsidiary companies, whether publicly listed or not, as provided by law, except beforehand in accordance with the group’s procedure. as provided in an AREVA group procedure relative to the protection of inside information. They further agree to inform the appropriate management control body of their company immediately if any such acquisition or sale is made. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 351 A6 VALUES CHARTER 4. Rules of Conduct Political Financing Persons No AREVA group company shall provide funds or services to a political party, a AREVA shall ensure that operations performed at its sites comply with applicable holder of a public oﬃce, or a candidate for such oﬃce. rules and regulations and with the group’s policies on health, safety and However, in member nations of the OECD, where corporate contributions of this environmental protection. kind are legal, electoral campaign funding that complies with the legislation in eﬀect We conduct our operations with the utmost respect for human dignity and will in those nations is allowed. These contributions are subject to the prior written not tolerate harassment of any kind nor any violation of human and children’s approval of the senior executive of the subsidiary in question, who shall endeavor rights. to keep them to a minimum. Any failure to meet these obligations shall be called to the attention of the appropriate The amount of the funding and the recipients shall be listed in the summary report level of management, which shall immediately ascertain whether such practices attached to the annual compliance letter prepared by the senior executive of the have occurred, call for the necessary audits to be conducted, and put a stop to subsidiary. such practices immediately. Philanthropy, Donations, Humanitarian Activities Reputation and brand image The AREVA Foundation deﬁnes policy and establishes programs for such activities. AREVA’s reputation is one of its most vital assets. Employee involvement in the programs is of particular interest to the AREVA Foundation. Employees shall neither do or say anything that could have a deleterious eﬀect on AREVA’s reputation, image or credibility. Spirit Criticism, smugness, rudeness and disregard for others in an international setting are AREVA’s philanthropical and sponsorship activities follow the principles set forth a sign of disrespect for one’s host and are unacceptable behavior in our employees. in the Preamble to this Charter. These activities are strictly benevolent and are not contingent upon a commercial or administrative beneﬁt to the group. Intangible corporate assets Employees shall ensure that conﬁdential information, whether marked as such or Conditions not, is protected from infringement, theft, loss, deterioration, diversion, disclosure, AREVA’s role in these activities is limited to sponsorship. AREVA takes no reproduction, falsiﬁcation or use for non-work-related, illicit or secret purposes, responsibility for the management or execution of the activities it sponsors and particularly on the Internet and intranet. agrees to sponsor projects or activities on the express condition that the organizers This relates in particular to technical and administrative data; ﬁles on customers, take sole responsibility for them and have met all of the pertinent legal and prospects and suppliers; software; passwords; documentation and drawings; administrative requirements and secured the necessary approvals and guarantees. methods and know-how; proprietary manufacturing methods, skills and parameters; Donations to governmental agencies, local administrations or individuals are intellectual and industrial property; estimates; contracts and agreements; not allowed, nor are cash payments for any reason. unpublished cost and sales prices; strategic and commercial objectives; R&D information; ﬁnancial and labor-related information; and the names of specialists Competition and experts and their contact information. AREVA and its employees shall comply with all applicable French, European and Primacy of Our Values at AREVA international competition laws and with the laws in force in all countries in which the Group does business. Any employee who receives an order that is manifestly contrary to the AREVA Values Charter may legitimately refuse to comply, shall immediately report AREVA and its employees shall refrain from distorting, either directly or indirectly, the matter to the AREVA group, and will not suﬀer any kind of retaliation if a free spirit of competition in all of its commercial transactions. They shall also the facts cannot be questioned. refrain from all unfair behavior towards competitors and shall not enter into illegal competition agreements. All information on third parties, particularly AREVA’s competitors, shall be collected or used in strict compliance with all applicable laws. Threats against Persons and Property Employees shall immediately call any situation that may threaten persons or property to the attention of management. 352 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT VALUES CHARTER 5. The Ten Principles of the U.N. Global Compact A6 5. THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE U.N. GLOBAL COMPACT The Global Compact’s principles in the areas of human rights, labor and the Principe 5 environment enjoy universal consensus derived from: the eﬀective abolition of child labor; and p the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; p the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles Principe 6 and Rights at Work; the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. p the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. The ten principles are: Environment Principe 7 Human Rights Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental Principe 1 challenges; Businesses are asked to support and respect the protection of international human rights; and Principe 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principe 2 make sure their own corporations are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principe 9 encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Labor Anti-corruption Principe 3 Businesses are asked to uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective Principe 10 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Principe 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; OUR VALUES SAFETY, SECURITY – TRANSPARENCY – PROFITABILITY – RESPONSIBILITY – INTEGRITY – CUSTOMER SATISFACTION PARTNERSHIP 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 353 A7 APPENDIX 7 TABLE OF CONCORDANCE OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT Sections of the 2015 Headings of the Board of Directors’Management Report Reference Document 1 Situation and activities of the company and its subsidiaries 1.1 Overview Section 9.1. 1.2 Situation and activities of the company and its subsidiaries by business segment during the year Section 9.2. 1.3 Research and Development activities Section 11.1.1. 1.4 Key non-ﬁnancial performance indicators related to the company’s speciﬁc activities Appendix 3, Section 2.4. 1.5 Foreseeable developments and future prospects Section 12. 1.6 Signiﬁcant events between the date of closing and the date of preparation of the management report Section 9.3. 1.7 Description of major risks and uncertainties confronting the company Sections 4.1./4.2./4.3./4.4./ 4.5. and 4.7. 1.8 Company exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash management risk Section 4.6. 1.9 Information on accounts payable to suppliers Section 20.6. 1.10 Acquisitions during the year of a signiﬁcant interest in or control of companies whose head oﬃce is on Section 25.1. French territory 2 Presentation of the annual ﬁnancial statements Sections 20.1 to 20.4. 3 Information on the share capital 3.1 Share capital and treasury shares Section 21.1. 3.2 Status of employee shareholding as of the last day of the period. Percentage of share capital held by Section 18.1. employees of the company and of its associates 4 Information on directors and oﬃcers 4.1 List of oﬃces and functions exercised in any company by each of the directors and oﬃcers Section 14.1. 4.2 Status of directors and oﬃcers: appointment, renewal, notiﬁcation of cooptation Appendix 1, Section 3.1. 4.3 Compensation and advantages of any kind paid during the reporting period and criteria applied to their Section 15.1. calculation or the circumstances under which they were established 4.4 Detail of commitments of any kind made by the company towards its directors and oﬃcers, and in particular Section 15.2. any item of compensation, payments or beneﬁts due or likely to be due as a result of the assumption, cessation or change of and in these functions or thereafter. Description of methods for determining said commitments as well as their amounts if they appear in the agreements. 4.5 Stock options allowing subscription or acquisition of shares for no consideration Section 15.2. 5 Miscellaneous information 5.1 Resolutions submitted to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Appendix 5 5.2 Injunctions and ﬁnes for anti-competitive practices Sections 20.2., Note 34/20.8. 5.3 Agreements referred to in article L. 225-102 paragraph 13 of the French Commercial Code Section 21.3 5.4 Review of agreements authorized during previous ﬁnancial years with continuing eﬀect in the last ﬁnancial Section 21.4 year 6 Social, societal and environmental information 6.1 Human resources information Sections 17.1./17.2. and 17.3. 6.2 Health and safety Section 17.4/17.5/17.6 and 17.7, Appendix 3, Section 1 6.3 Environmental information Appendix 3, Section 2. 6.4 Societal information Appendix 3, Sections 3. and 4. 6.5 Reporting methodology and report of the Statutory Auditors on certain social, environmental and societal Appendix 4 information 7 Documents to be appended to the management report 7.1 Five-year ﬁnancial summary Section 20.5. 7.2 Summary of delegations of competence and authority in eﬀect given to the Executive Board by the Section 21.1.9. Shareholders concerning capital increases 354 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT GLOSSARIES 1. TECHNICAL GLOSSARY 355 2. FINANCIAL GLOSSARY 367 1. TECHNICAL GLOSSARY > Actinide > ANDRA (Agence nationale pour la gestion des déchets Chemical element whose nucleus contains from 89 to 103 protons. In ascending radioactifs) order: actinium, thorium, protactinium, uranium and transuranics (more than An établissement public à caractère industriel et commercial (public industrial and 93 protons). Neptunium, americium and curium are often called minor actinides. commercial agency) created by French law on December 30, 1991 in charge of long-term radioactive waste management and disposal operations. > Activation It has three areas of responsibility: Process by which a stable atomic nucleus is transformed into a radioactive nucleus. p an industrial mission, by which the agency provides for the management, The transformation mainly takes place when an atomic nucleus bombarded by a operation and monitoring of radioactive waste disposal centers, designs and neutron ﬂux captures a neutron. builds new centers for waste that is not acceptable in existing facilities, and > Air treatment system deﬁnes radioactive waste packaging, acceptance and disposal speciﬁcations in accordance with nuclear safety rules; Generally used to reduce emissions of pollutants to the atmosphere (CO, dust, NOx, SOx, HCl, dioxins, etc.). p a research mission, by which the agency participates in and contributes to research programs pertaining to the long-term management of radioactive May also be used to maintain an atmosphere that is favorable to machinery placed waste, in particular in cooperation with the Commissariat à l’énergie atomique in a corrosive environment, such as oﬀshore wind turbines, where the humidity and (CEA); and salinity of the air can cause rapid deterioration of the equipment. p an information mission, in particular through the periodic development of a register of all radioactive waste and materials on French territory. > ALARA (“as low as reasonably achievable”) Concept used to keep public and personnel exposure to ionizing radiation as low > ARIA scale as reasonably achievable, taking into account social and economic factors. European severity scale for industrial accidents made official in 1994 by the Committee of Competent Authorities of the Member States, which implements > Alloy the Seveso directive. It is based on eighteen technical parameters designed to Metallic compound consisting of a mixture of several metals. objectively characterize the eﬀects or consequences of accidents: each of these eighteen parameters includes six levels. The highest level determines the accident’s > Americium severity index. Artiﬁcial element included in transuranics. It has several isotopes, all of which are radioactive. It is formed in nuclear reactors by neutron capture on the uranium and plutonium, followed by radioactive decay. > Anaerobic Characteristic of a medium defined by the absence of oxygen. Anaerobic fermentation is the biological degradation of organic matter by microorganisms in the absence of oxygen. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 355 GLOSSARIES 1. Technical glossary > ASN (Autorité de sûreté nucléaire) > CEA (Commissariat à l’énergie atomique et aux énergies The ASN is an independent administrative authority charged by the French State alternatives) to regulate nuclear safety and radiation protection and to keep the public informed A public scientiﬁc, technical and industrial research organization that is in a category of these subjects. It reports to the French Parliament. by itself in France. In addition to its fundamental research activities in materials and life sciences, the > Atom CEA is active in three major ﬁelds: defense and global security, energies that do not Component of matter consisting of a nucleus containing positively charged or emit greenhouse gases, and technologies for information and health. It is tasked neutral particles (protons and neutrons), which account for almost all of its mass, with promoting the use of nuclear power for scientiﬁc and industrial purposes and around which negatively charged particles (electrons) spin. for national defense. > Becquerel (Bq) > Centrifugation See unit of measurement. Uranium enrichment process that takes advantage of the difference in mass between the 235 and 238 isotopes of uranium, whereby a gaseous mixture of > Biomass isotopes is spun at high speed and the centrifugal force is used to modify the Any organic matter of plant, animal or human origin. Biomass can be classiﬁed by composition of the mixture. Ultracentrifugation currently has the highest eﬃciency origin, chemical composition or its use for energy. When used to produce energy, of the enrichment processes. solid biomass from forestry, agriculture and agri-food activities, wet biomass such as waste, eﬄuents, or treatment plant sludge, and other biomass may be chosen, > Chemical element in addition to energy crops, which are plants cultivated exclusively for energy Category of atoms that all have the same number of protons in their nucleus. production (algae, corn silage, soybeans, etc.). > Cladding > Biomass burner Sealed metal tube constituting the outside of the fuel rod in which the nuclear fuel Component of a biomass power plant in which a solid biomass fuel is burned. The is inserted to protect it from corrosion by the coolant and prevent the dispersion heat released by combustion is used to raise the temperature and/or pressure of a of ﬁssion products. Cladding constitutes the primary containment barrier. For heat transfer ﬂuid (typically water) for diﬀerent types of applications. pressurized water reactor fuel, the cladding is made of zircaloy, an alloy of zirconium. > Biomass power plant > Cleanup Typically, a power plant that generates heat and/or electricity from the combustion All technical operations to eliminate the risks related to industrial operations and of a solid biomass fuel. Its main components are a fuel handling system including radioactivity in a nuclear facility, consisting of decontaminating the structures, a storage silo, a system to feed the fuel into the burner, the burner itself (including ﬁxtures, ﬂoors and walls of the buildings. the ﬁxed or ﬂuidized bed combustion technology and the dog leg system), a steam turbine-generator combination, and combustion fumes to reduce the emission of > Cogeneration pollutants to the atmosphere. Combined production of heat and electricity in the same power plant. One or more fuels may be used, including biomass, biogas (methane), natural gas, coal > Burnup and fuel oil. Assessment of fuel depletion expressed in gigawatt days per metric ton of heavy metal (GWd/MTHM). This is the unit of measurement for the thermal energy > Compact linear Fresnel reﬂector (CLFR) supplied by the fuel during its irradiation in the reactor. The term “heavy metal” Technology using rows of ﬂat or very slightly curved mirrors to concentrate the sun’s designates isotopes starting with uranium and up. rays towards a ﬁxed horizontal linear receptor consisting of a tube or a bundle of tubes in which the heat transfer ﬂuid ﬂows. The operating ﬂuid is heated by the > BWR (boiling water reactor) incident rays of the sun. When the ﬂuid is water, it is referred to as direct steam Nuclear reactor moderated and cooled by light water brought to the boiling point generation technology (DSG). The luminous energy is converted into thermal in the reactor core under normal operating conditions. energy; the water is heated and converted into steam, and may subsequently be superheated. The steam can then be used directly as process steam for industrial > Carbon credits applications or sent to a turbine to generate electricity. Units allocated to companies leading projects that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The credits can be sold to help ﬁnance the projects. Usually calculated > Concentrated solar power plant (CSP) in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, one carbon credit represents a reduction of one Power plant in which the source of heat is a solar ﬁeld. The ﬁeld consists of mirrors metric ton of CO2. It can be used to compensate for greenhouse gas emissions in that concentrate the sun’s rays on a ﬂuid, raising its temperature, so that luminous any sector: industrial, transportation or residential. energy can be converted to thermal energy. The thermal energy is then converted Countries that have signed the Kyoto Protocol use carbon credits to achieve their into mechanical energy and ﬁnally into electrical energy via a turbine. greenhouse gas emissions reduction objectives. > Cask Structure designed to safely contain the radioactive material transported. It may include a variety of special materials, such as radiation-absorbing materials or thermal insulation materials, as well as service equipment, impact limiters, and devices for handling and securing. 356 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT GLOSSARIES 1. Technical glossary > Containment > Decay System of protection that consists of containing radioactive products inside a Natural reduction of the activity of a radioactive substance through spontaneous deﬁned area. disintegration. > Containment area > Decommissioning During the construction of a facility designed to contain radioactive materials, Administrative procedure consisting of removing a facility from the list of regulated a series of containment barriers is put up between the materials inside and the nuclear facilities. At that point, the facility is no longer subject to the legal and environment outside the facility as part of the engineered structures. This creates administrative requirements pertaining to regulated nuclear facilities. separate areas called “containment areas”. > Decontamination > Containment barrier Decontamination is a physical, chemical or mechanical operation designed to System capable of preventing or limiting the dispersion of radioactive materials. eliminate or reduce the presence of radioactive or chemical materials deposited on a person or equipment, or in a facility or open area. > Contamination Presence of radioactive substances (dust or liquid) on the surface or inside a > Defense in depth medium. Contamination in humans may be external (on the skin) or internal (via A series of lines of defense designed to prevent the appearance, or limit the the skin or the respiratory or digestive tracts). consequences as necessary, of human or technical failures that could lead to accidental situations. > Controlled areas Areas where access and conditions for residence time are restricted for reasons > Deuterium of radiation protection. Isotope of hydrogen whose nucleus consists of one proton and one neutron. > Control rods > Dismantling Made of neutron-absorbing chemical elements such as boron or hafnium, these Technical and administrative procedures carried out following the ﬁnal shutdown of a rods, often assembled as “clusters”, are inserted in the core of a nuclear reactor to nuclear facility to achieve a designated ﬁnal state enabling it to be decommissioned. control the chain reaction, i.e. to regulate the neutron ﬂux. Besides the physical dismantling of all machinery and equipment, dismantling includes decontamination and radioactive waste management. > Conversion Series of chemical transformations that convert the solid uranium concentrate > Dose (usually in the form of an oxide) into uranium hexaﬂuoride (UF6, which sublimates Measurement of the exposure of an individual to radiation. Exposure is a function at about 56°C) for the purpose of enriching it in ﬁssile uranium (235U), and vice versa. of the energy received and the eﬀects related to the type of radiation. Doses are measured in millisieverts (mSv), a subunit of the sievert (1 Sv = 1,000 mSv). The > Coolant, heat transfer ﬂuid mean annual dose from exposure to natural background radiation in France is Fluid ﬂowing in the core of a nuclear reactor (coolant) or in the recipient of a solar 2.4 mSv/person. steam generator (heat transfer ﬂuid) to transfer heat. > Dosimeter > Criticality The instrument for measuring radioactive doses received by an individual, or by A medium containing a ﬁssile nuclear material becomes critical when neutrons certain of that individual’s organs (passive or operational dosimetry), or by the are produced by ﬁssion of the material at the same rate as they dissipate through environment (site dosimetry). absorption and/or escape to the outside. To sustain a ﬁssion chain reaction, a continuously operating reactor must be maintained in a critical state. In a subcritical > Ecodesign state, not enough neutrons are produced and the reaction stops. In a supercritical Design of a product or an industrial installation that helps reduce the consumption state, too many neutrons are produced and a runaway nuclear reaction can occur of natural resources and limit releases likely to impact the environment. that can rapidly get out of control. > Electrolyzer > CSP (concentrated solar power) Electrochemical system (energy receptor) in which liquid water is separated into Concentrated solar power is one way to use solar radiation directly. The technology oxygen and hydrogen by an electrical current that passes between two electrodes. consists of concentrating solar radiation to heat a ﬂuid to a high temperature and The ions produced by the oxidation-reduction reactions flow freely from one then generate electricity using a turbine, or provide process steam or heat to industry. electrode to the other. The two electrodes (cathode: reduction reaction; anode: oxidation reaction) are linked by the electrolyte and the electric current generator. > Cumac In the alkaline electrolyzer, the electrolyte is a potash solution that circulates or is Name of the accounting unit used in the French system for “white certiﬁcates”, or immobilized in a retention matrix; in the membrane electrolyzer, the electrolyte is energy consumption reduction certiﬁcates. “Cumac” is a combination of the French in the form of a proton conduction ion exchange membrane. words for cumulative (cumulé) and discounted (actualisé) over the product lifecycle. kWh Cumac and GWh Cumac are typically used. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 357 GLOSSARIES 1. Technical glossary > End-of-lifecycle operations > Fertile All of the regulatory obligations for shutting down and dismantling nuclear facilities Said of a nuclide that can be converted into a ﬁssile nuclide via capture of a neutron, and managing radioactive waste. possibly followed by a series of disintegrations. > Enriched uranium, depleted uranium > Final radioactive waste Before it is used to fabricate fuel elements for reactor systems moderated and Radioactive waste that can no longer be treated, in particular by extracting its cooled with ordinary water, natural uranium is enriched in 235U to a concentration reusable content, under current technical and economic conditions. of 3-5%. Natural uranium is used to produce uranium enriched in 235U. The physical or chemical processes used to enrich uranium also produce uranium that has a > Fissile lower concentration of 235U than natural uranium (0.2 to 0.4%): this is known as Describes a nuclide capable of undergoing ﬁssion; the ﬁssion of atoms gives rise depleted uranium. to several neutrons. > Enrichment > Fission Process used to increase the abundance of ﬁssile isotopes in a chemical element. The spontaneous or forced splitting of a heavy nucleus – generally after absorption Naturally occurring uranium essentially consists of 0.7% 235U (ﬁssile isotope) and of a neutron – into two or three smaller nuclei, or ﬁssion products, accompanied by 99.3% 238U (non-ﬁssile isotope), and must be enriched in 235U for it to be used in the emission of neutrons and radiation and the release of a considerable amount a pressurized water reactor. The proportion of 235U is brought to around 3 to 5%. of heat. The substantial energy released is the principle underlying nuclear power generation. > Environmentally regulated facility Installations and facilities “listed in the nomenclature of regulated facilities that may > Fission products represent hazards or drawbacks, whether for the convenience of the surrounding Fragments of heavy nuclei produced during nuclear ﬁssion or the subsequent area, for health and safety, for agriculture, for the protection of nature, the environment radioactive decay of nuclides formed during that process. These ﬁssion fragments and the countryside, or for the preservation of sites and monuments as well aspects and their decay products are collectively referred to as “ﬁssion products”. of an archeological nature.” > Fuel assembly > Environmental Management System (EMS) A monolithic assembly of nuclear fuel rods ﬁlled with fuel pellets (in the case of Part of the overall management system, which includes the organizational structure, MOX fuel, made of a mixture of uranium and plutonium oxides). Depending on planning activities, responsibilities, practices, procedures, processes and resources its generating capacity (e.g. from 900 MWe to 1,600 MWe), the reactor core of a to develop, implement, carry out and maintain the environmental policy. pressurized water reactor (PWR) contains from 150 to 240 fuel assemblies. The dimensions of the assemblies and the quantity of ﬁssile material they contain are > EPR reactor a function of the reactor type. Generation III + pressurized water reactor (PWR). It generates 1,600 MWe of electric power and features a greater level of safety than generations II and III reactors > Fuel cell and simpliﬁed operations and maintenance. It also has a projected service life of Electrochemical system that converts the chemical energy of the oxidation reaction 60 years, compared with an initial service life of about 40 years for the reactors of a fuel directly into electrical energy. currently in operation around the world. In its simplest form, a fuel cell consists of two electrodes (anode and cathode) and > ERU is powered with oxidation-reduction couples likely to achieve a balance with the ions contained in the electrolyte. The oxidant in the fuel cells is either pure oxygen or the Fuel made with recycled uranium. oxygen in air. The most commonly used reducing agents are gaseous (hydrogen or methanol), liquid (hydrocarbons or methanol) or solid (zinc, aluminum, etc.). > Euratom Unlike accumulators, whose energy is dependent on the active matter incorporated Treaty signed in Rome on March 25, 1957, together with the treaty that founded the into the electrodes, a fuel cell uses reactive chemical species from an external source European Economic Community (EEC). It institutes the European Atomic Energy (outside the cell), and the species formed are constantly eliminated, theoretically Community, which aims to establish “the conditions necessary for the formation ensuring continuous operation. and rapid growth of nuclear industries.” Its mission consists of contributing, through the development of nuclear energy, to the sharing of knowledge, infrastructure and > Fuel cycle ﬁnancing and to ensuring the security of supply within the framework of centralized control. It brings together the 27 member states of the European Union. The combination of industrial operations involving nuclear fuel. These operations include uranium ore mining and processing, uranium conversion and enrichment, > Exposure fuel fabrication, used fuel treatment, recycling of recovered ﬁssile materials to fabricate new fuel, and radioactive waste management. The cycle is said to be Exposure of an organ or an organism to a source of radiation, characterized by “open” when it does not include the recycling of the used fuel, considered as waste the dose received. to be sent directly to disposal following use in the reactor. Conversely, the fuel cycle is said to be “closed” when it includes used fuel treatment and recycling of ﬁssile materials recovered by such treatment. 358 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT GLOSSARIES 1. Technical glossary > Fuel rod > Glove box Sealed metal tube made of a zirconium-based alloy measuring about 4 meters long A transparent enclosure in which equipment or materials can be handled in isolation (about 13 feet) and 1 centimeter in diameter (2/5 of an inch) and ﬁlled with about from the operator. Handling is done with gloves attached in leak-proof manner 300 pellets of nuclear fuel. The tube is known as cladding. to openings in the wall of the enclosure or with mechanical manipulators. The enclosure is generally kept at slightly negative pressure to contain radioactive > Fundamental safety rules (Règles fondamentales de sûreté, materials. RFS) Rules designed to clarify the conditions with which compliance, for the speciﬁc > HCTISN (Senior committee for transparency and type of facility under consideration and for its purpose, is deemed to constitute information on nuclear safety) compliance with French regulatory practice. A body for information, consultation and discussion of the risks related to nuclear operations and their impact on public health, the environment and nuclear > Gaseous diﬀusion security. As such, it may issue opinions on any matter in these ﬁelds, as well as Process for the isotopic separation of molecular species that uses the diﬀerence on related oversight and information. It can also examine any matter pertaining to in the velocity of diﬀusion of these molecules (related to their diﬀerent mass), and the accessibility of information on nuclear safety and recommend any measure to thus the diﬀerent rates at which they pass through a semi-permeable membrane. ensure or improve transparency in nuclear matters. The uranium hexaﬂuorides 235UF6 and 238UF6 can be separated in this way, causing enrichment in 235U, the ﬁssile isotope of uranium, for nuclear fuel. > Heat recovery Heat recovery power plants use the residual heat from industrial processes to > Gear box generate electricity. The technology consists of transferring heat to a heat recovery The operating concept of wind turbines involves converting the kinetic energy boiler to produce more heat and electricity via a steam turbine. Heat recovery power produced by the rotor at slow rotations of around 5 to 15 RPM into electrical energy plants can reduce demand for energy from industrial facilities and therefore reduce that is directly supplied to the grid at a frequency of 50 Hz. their CO2 emissions. The conventional design of wind turbines is based on the use of proven quadripole > Heavy metal electrical generators and requires an input speed of 1,500 RPM. A gear box is necessary to adapt the rotor rotation speed to the generator while transmitting Heavy metal is the nuclear material in fuel: uranium and possibly plutonium in the energy. A gear box consisting of one or more simple or epicycloidal gear trains is case of MOX fuel. The unit of measurement commonly used for heavy metal is the needed to transmit eﬀort while adapting rotation speed. metric ton of heavy metal (MTHM). Hybrid transmission wind turbines such as the AREVA M5000 are based on a > HFDS (Senior defense and security oﬃcial) multipolar generator (some 40 poles) requiring much lower reduction ratios which The French Defense Code tasks the minister of Energy with the control of civilian are aﬀordable and thus allow the use of much more compact gear boxes. nuclear materials. To date, due to the current division of powers within the French Direct transmission wind turbines use heavily multipolar generators that are more government, that responsibility has been shared by the Minister of the Economy, costly but eliminate the gear box stage completely. Finance and Industry and the Minister of Ecology, Sustainable Development, Transportation and Housing. To carry out these responsibilities, the ministers rely > General operating rules (règles générales d’exploitation, on the Defense, Security and Economic Intelligence Service and its employees in RGE) charge of examining cases and drafting regulations. The service answers to the Document describing the operating rules (règles générales d’exploitation, RGE) Senior Defense and Security Oﬃcial (HFDS), who acts as the nuclear safety authority defined for the facility and identifying items important for safety. It describes for the Minister of Ecology, Sustainable Development, Transportation and Housing. measures to be taken if facility performance is outside the normal operating mode. > Hulls > General radiation protection rules Pieces about 3 centimeters long produced by the shearing of the metal cladding Document containing rules (règles générales de radioprotection, RGR) describing (fuel rods) that had contained nuclear reactor fuel. the combination of measures taken to protect people and prevent the risk of exposure to radiation. > IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency) International organization under the aegis of the United Nations whose role is to > Generation IV reactor promote the peaceful use of nuclear energy and to verify that nuclear materials in An innovative reactor system or reactor type that could go on line by the 2040 users’ possession are not diverted to military uses. to 2050 timeframe. These reactor systems are being designed in the framework of international cooperation known as the Generation IV International Forum, in which France is participating. The systems aim to respond to the need to reduce waste volumes, conserve resources, and ensure greater safety and reliability in the nuclear reactors of the future. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 359 GLOSSARIES 1. Technical glossary > INES (International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale) > Irradiation International scale designed by the IAEA to facilitate communication about nuclear Exposure of an organism or an organ to radiation when the radiation source is events. It provides comparative elements that can be used to assess the seriousness outside the organism. of an event. The scale ranges from level 0 (deviation with no safety signiﬁcance) to level 7 (major accident with considerable health and environmental consequences). > IRSN (Institut de radioprotection et de sûreté nucléaire) Three criteria apply in the application of the INES: The French institute for radiation protection and nuclear safety, a public industrial and commercial agency whose mission, in particular, is to conduct research and p oﬀsite radioactive releases; assessments in the ﬁelds of nuclear safety, protection of people and the environment p the consequences inside the installation (damages or personnel injuries); from ionizing radiation, and nuclear materials safeguards. IRSN provides technical p degradation of defense in depth. support to the ASN and the HFDS. > Information commission > ISO standards Established near nuclear sites falling within the realm of National Defense whose From the International Standards Organization. The ISO series 9000 standards set mission is to inform the public on the health and environmental impacts of the organizational and management system requirements for quality to demonstrate the nuclear operations. conformity of a product or service, in particular to customer requirements. The ISO series 14000 standards set requirements for the environmental organization and > In situ recovery management system designed to prevent pollution and reduce the environmental Mining method consisting of recovering a mineral by injecting an acidic or alkaline eﬀects of an activity. oxidizing solution directly into the geologic stratum containing the mineral, thus dissolving it. The term “in situ leaching” is also used. > Isotopes Nuclides whose atoms have the same number of protons in their nuclei, but a > Instrumentation and control system diﬀerent number of neutrons. For example, three main types of uranium isotopes Combination of electrical and electronic systems used for control, i.e. to perform are found in nature: 234U (92 protons, 92 electrons, 142 neutrons), 235U (92 protons, measurements, operate control systems, and ensure the operating safety of a 92 electrons, 143 neutrons), and 238U (92 protons, 92 electrons, 146 neutrons). All nuclear power plant or any other complex industrial system. of the isotopes of a given element have the same chemical properties, but diﬀerent physical properties (mass in particular). > Internal emergency management plan Describes the organization, response methods and resources to cope with > Isotopic assay emergency situations (incident or accident) to protect personnel, the public and Ratio of the number of atoms of a given isotope of an element to the total number the environment from radiation, and to maintain the safety of the regulated nuclear of atoms of that element contained in matter. Isotopic assay is expressed as facility. a percentage. > Internal operation plan (Plan d’opération interne, POI) > Isotopic separation cascade Describes organizational procedures and resources available at an industrial site Arrangement of separative elements (“stages”), which are interconnected to increase to minimize the consequences of a potentially major disaster for people, property the separative eﬀect of a unit element. The gaseous diﬀusion and centrifugation and the environment. It may be required by regulation, pursuant to article R. 512enrichment processes separate uranium-238 and uranium-235 by exploiting the 29 of the French Environmental Code (environmentally-regulated facility with AS diﬀerence in mass between those isotopes. Because the separative potential of classiﬁcation, any other facility following a prefectorial decision, and certain special these processes is low to very low, the basic step must be repeated a large number facilities such as storage depots of more than 50,000 m2). of times in a cascade to achieve the desired level of enrichment. These elementary stages take place in diﬀusers or centrifuges, which together form a cascade. > Ionizing radiation Flux of electromagnetic waves (radio waves, light waves, ultraviolet or X rays, cosmic > ITER (International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor) rays, etc.), of particles of matter (electrons, protons, neutrons), or of a group of such Research initiative that is the product of international scientiﬁc cooperation whose particles. The ﬂux carries energy which rises with the wave frequency or with the objective is to build a controlled fusion demonstrator to validate the potential of particle speed. The eﬀect of radiation on objects and living organisms is to strip nuclear fusion energy. electrons from the atoms that make up their matter (whether living or inert), leaving ionized atoms in their wake, which carry electrical charges, hence the generic name > Leaching, in situ leaching, heap leaching of “ionizing” radiation. Extraction of metals through selective dissolution of ore using chemical solutions, whether acidic or alkaline. Leaching may be static, in the case of ore that is placed > IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) in a heap on an impermeable pad and sprayed; dynamic, in the case of ore mixed Created in 1988 at the initiative of the G7 countries and made up of UN experts, with solutions in a processing plant; or in situ, where solutions are injected into the the IPCC is now part of the World Meteorological Organization in the framework geologic layer containing the ore and pumped out. of the UN Environment Program. Its role is to assess scientiﬁc, technical and socioeconomic information concerning the risk of human-induced climate change. > Light water In this regard, it publishes several reports that forecast, among other things, an Consisting of hydrogen and oxygen (whereas heavy water is a combination of average increase in global temperatures in one century. oxygen and deuterium), it is used in some reactors both to cool the fuel and to recover the energy produced, and to slow the neutrons so as to increase the probability of ﬁssion. 360 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT GLOSSARIES 1. Technical glossary > Local information and concertation committee > National radioactive waste and materials plan Established near all “Seveso high threshold” chemical industry facilities, the (Plan national de gestion des matières et des déchets committee’s mission is to create a framework for dialogue and information on action radioactifs, PNGMDR) taken by the operators of regulated facilities, under the oversight of government The PNGMDR is an operational tool for broad-based planning of waste and agencies, to prevent the risk of a major accident at the facilities. materials management. Governed by the law of June 28, 2006 on the sustainable management of radioactive waste and materials, its chief goal is to regularly report > Local information and follow-up committee on the radioactive materials management policy, to assess new requirements, and Established near the Bure underground research laboratory in France, it is tasked to set future objectives to be met. The PNGMDR is updated every three years in the with a general mission of follow-up, information and consultation on radioactive form of a published report. The current version is the 2013-2015 edition. waste management, and in particular on the disposal of such waste in deep geological formations. > NEA (Nuclear Energy Agency) Specialized agency of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development > Local information commission (OECD) whose mission is to assist its member countries in maintaining and further Established near a site with one or more regulated nuclear facilities. Their general developing, through international cooperation, the scientiﬁc, technological and legal mission is to provide follow-up, information and consultation in matters pertaining bases that are indispensable to the safe, environmentally friendly and economical to nuclear safety, radiation protection and the impacts of nuclear operations on use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. people and the environment. The CLI publishes the results of its work in a form that is easily understood by the public. > Neutron Electrically neutral particle that enters into the composition of the atom’s nucleus, > Local information commission for major energy facilities of along with the protons. the Tricastin site Local information commission set up for the Tricastin nuclear site in France. > Neutron poison Substance which, when placed or produced in a nuclear reactor, can slow or stop > Mine tailings the ﬁssion chain reaction by absorbing neutrons. Earth, sand or rock that contains little or no uranium, but that must be extracted to gain access to the ore itself. Their naturally occurring radioactivity is comparable > Non-proliferation to that of the surrounding rock. Designates the political and/or technical means used to prevent nuclear proliferation. The international non-proliferation regime consists of the set of international > Moderator policies and instruments that work to prevent states from acquiring weapons of Material designed to slow neutrons produced by nuclear ﬁssion. mass destruction or the means of acquiring them, in violation of their international commitments. The Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) is based on distinguishing > MOX between nuclear weapons states (NWS) and non-nuclear weapons states (NNWS). MOX fuel is a conventional nuclear fuel. It diﬀers from UO2 fuel, a basic nuclear The NWS pledge not to transmit their nuclear weapons knowledge to the NNWS, fuel fabricated only with uranium, in that fact that it contains a low proportion of which agree not to acquire a nuclear deterrent capability. In exchange, the NNWS plutonium from recycled used fuel mixed with uranium (MOX means Mixed Oxides are entitled to access nuclear technologies for peaceful purposes. of uranium and plutonium). The proportion of plutonium varies according to the type of fuel, and is generally between 5 and 10%. > Nozzle Metal component located at the top (top nozzle) or bottom (bottom nozzle) of a fuel > MSNR (Mission de sûreté nucléaire et de radioprotection) assembly. The top nozzle is used for handling of the assembly. The nuclear safety and radiation protection mission (MSNR) reports to the French Ministries of the Environment and Economy; it participates in government missions > NRC (Nuclear Regulatory Commission) concerning nuclear safety and radiation protection. In particular, in liaison with the Counterpart of ASN in the United States. Autorité de sûreté nucléaire (ASN), it recommends government policy in matters of Field of jurisdiction: nuclear safety and radiation protection. nuclear safety and radiation protection, except for operations and facilities involving national defense and radiation protection for workers. It oversees the activities of the > Nuclear engineering ASN on behalf of the ministers in charge of nuclear safety and radiation protection. Any activity relating to the design, construction or optimization of nuclear facilities. > Nacelle > Nuclear fuel The nacelle is installed at the top of the wind turbine tower and generally houses Material designated by the French Defense Code as requiring measures to physically the mechanical, pneumatic, electrical and electronic components needed for the protect them against theft or diversion. operation of the wind turbine (directional system, gear box, generators, converters, instrumentation and control system, etc.). > Nuclear island Almost all horizontal axis wind turbines use forced direction. The nacelles are A system encompassing the nuclear steam supply system and the fuel-related therefore equipped with a system that uses electrical motors and gear boxes to facilities, as well as the equipment required for the system’s operation and safety. make sure that the rotor – and thus the nacelle – is always oriented in the direction A “conventional island” consists of the alternating current turbogenerator coupled of the wind. to the nuclear island, and the equipment required for its operation. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 361 GLOSSARIES 1. Technical glossary > Nuclear materials safeguards > Periodic inspection Safeguards are of two kinds: Combination of inspections performed periodically in a facility during a scheduled any measure taken by an operator to secure the materials they hold, including outage. p monitoring and accounting, containment, surveillance, physical protection of materials and facilities, and protection during transportation; > Plutonium Chemical element with the atomic number 94 and conventional symbol Pu. p inspections performed by the State (in France, the Senior Oﬃcial for Defense Plutonium has many isotopes, the most common of which go from 238 to 242. and Security) or international agencies such as the IAEA and Euratom to verify Plutonium-239, a ﬁssile isotope, is produced in nuclear reactors by neutron capture the eﬀectiveness and reliability of these measures. on uranium-238. In both cases, the purpose of safeguards is to prevent any loss or theft of material, particularly with malicious intent. > Pressurized nuclear equipment Equipment that is specially designed for nuclear applications and whose failure > Nuclear safety could give rise to radioactive releases. Encompasses all of the technical provisions and organizational measures pertinent to the design, construction, operation, shut-down and dismantling of regulated Pressurized nuclear equipment is classiﬁed: nuclear facilities, and to the transportation of radioactive materials, and is designed p into three levels, from N1 to N3, in particular as a function of the magnitude of to prevent accidents and limit their consequences. radioactive releases that could result from their failure; and p into ﬁve categories, from 0 to IV, based on risk, and in particular risk related to > Nuclear security the temperature and pressure of the ﬂuids they contain. According to the French law on transparency and nuclear safety (the “TSN law”), In France, the order of December 12, 2005, which came into eﬀect on January 21, nuclear security includes nuclear safety, radiation protection, prevention and control 2011, establishes the conditions for the marketing of all nuclear equipment and of acts of malevolence, and emergency preparedness in the event of an accident. In devices. another sense that is closer to the IAEA’s deﬁnition, it is the prevention of, detection of and response to the theft, sabotage, unauthorized access and illegal moving of > Pressurizer nuclear materials, or any other malicious act concerning nuclear materials, any other radioactive substances, or the facilities containing them. Equipment used to create and maintain pressure in the primary cooling system of a pressurized water reactor (PWR) at a level designed to prevent the primary cooling > Nuclear steam supply system (NSSS) water from reaching the boiling point. The pressurizer functions at a temperature that is higher than the rest of the cooling system and is where liquid/steam balance A steam production system in which the heat is supplied by a nuclear reactor. is achieved. In a pressurized water reactor (PWR), the system consists of heavy components (steam generator, pressurizer and reactor vessel), mobile components (reactor > PWR (pressurized water reactor) coolant pump sets and control rod drive mechanisms), and the piping that connects Nuclear reactor moderated and cooled by light water maintained in the liquid state them. All of these interconnected components circulate hot water and keep it in a in the core through appropriate pressurization under normal operating conditions. liquid state inside the reactor’s primary cooling system. The heat is produced by the ﬁssion of atomic nuclei contained in the fuel that is placed in the reactor core, > Pyrolysis inside the reactor vessel. Thermal decomposition of a solid fuel (biomass, coal, etc.) in the absence of oxygen to produce other products (gas and matter). > OHSAS 18001 standard Occupational health and safety management system speciﬁcation designed to > Radiation prevent risk in the workplace. The objective is to provide interested companies with Also referred to as “ionizing radiation”, designates a release and transmission of a tool for assessing and certifying their occupational health and safety management energy or matter in thermal luminescent, electromagnetic or corpuscular form. systems which is compatible with international management system standards such as ISO 9001 for quality, ISO 14001 for the environment and ILO-OSH 2001 > Radiation protection, radiological protection for occupational safety and health. Set of rules, procedures and means for prevention and monitoring aimed at > ONR (Oﬃce for Nuclear Regulation) preventing or reducing employee and environmental exposure to the harmful eﬀects of radiation. Counterpart of the Autorité de sûreté nucléaire (French nuclear safety authority, ASN) in the United Kingdom. > Radiferous material Field of jurisdiction: nuclear safety and radiation protection. Material containing daughter products of uranium, including solid radium and radon, which is released in gaseous form. > Ore Rock, mineral or combination of minerals containing one or more useful chemical > Radioactive decay elements at suﬃciently high grades and which can be extracted by an industrial Spontaneous transformation of a radionuclide into another nuclide, accompanied process. by particle emission. 362 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT GLOSSARIES 1. Technical glossary > Radioactive half-life > Reactor system The time it takes for half of the nuclei of a given radionuclide to disintegrate in Family of reactors presenting common general characteristics. a quantity of matter. At the end of that time, the radionuclide’s radioactivity has decreased by half. No external physical action can modify the half-life of a > Reactor vessel radioelement, except its “transmutation” into another radionuclide, through neutron A thick steel container enclosing the reactor core and the control systems for the capture, for example. The radioactive half-life is thus a physical characteristic of a ﬁssion chain reaction. The primary cooling water circulating in the reactor vessel is given radionuclide. heated by recovering the energy produced. > Radioactive material > Recycling of used nuclear fuel Radioactive substance for which an immediate or later use is planned or foreseen, After a reactor residence time of three to four years, the used nuclear fuel must be after treatment if required. unloaded. At that time, about 96% of the fuel materials are reusable (95% uranium and 1% plutonium), while 4% are ﬁssion products and minor actinides (ﬁnal waste). > Radioactive substance Treatment consists of separating the reusable radioactive materials from the ﬁnal Substance containing natural or manmade radionuclides whose activity level or radioactive waste contained in the used fuel (which are packaged for disposal) concentration warrants radiation protection measures. for purposes of recycling. Recycling allows for signiﬁcant conservation of natural resources. > Radioactive waste Waste consisting of radioactive substances for which there are no plans for further > Regulated nuclear facilities (installation nucléaire de base, use. INB) In France, an installation nucléaire de base (INB) is a regulated nuclear facility > Radioactive waste disposal which by its nature or by the quantity or activity of any radioactive substances it In France, this consists of placing radioactive waste in a facility especially designed contains, within the meaning of the INB nomenclature, is subject to the French to isolate them permanently from man and the environment, in accordance with Nuclear Safety and Transparency Law of June 13, 2006 and to its implementing the principles laid down in the Environmental Code. regulations. Monitoring of regulated nuclear facilities is carried out by the inspectors of the Autorité de sûreté nucléaire (French nuclear safety authority ASN). By way of > Radioactive waste disposal in a deep geological formation example, a nuclear reactor, an enrichment plant, a fuel fabrication plant and a used Disposal of radioactive waste in a specially designed underground facility in fuel treatment plant are all regulated nuclear facilities. accordance with the principle of retrievability. > Renewable Energy > Radioactivity Energy produced from renewable, non-fossil sources that can be replaced within Phenomenon in which a nuclide is transformed, releasing radiation. Radioactivity a human generation. may be natural or artiﬁcial (manmade). The radioactivity of an element gradually decreases over time as the unstable nuclei dissipate. > RepU Recycled uranium from used fuel treatment. > Radionuclide Atom that emits ionizing radiation. > Reserves / Resources Reserves consist of ore inventories known with certainty that can be feasibly mined > Radon in the short term at a competitive economic cost. Resources consist of reserves Radioactive gas (222 isotope) resulting from the natural decay of the uranium and of ore inventories whose existence is only assumed or estimated with a certain and thorium contained in the ground. It reaches the atmosphere through natural probability, and that are potentially mineable over the medium to long term. cavities and cracks in the ground and may build up in caves, cellars, homes, etc. if not suﬃciently vented. > Residual power Power released by the radioactivity of the nuclear fuel and other materials in a > Reactor, nuclear reactor nuclear reactor that is shut down or in a used fuel assembly. Nuclear facility in which controlled nuclear reactions are conducted, producing heat that is used to make steam. The steam activates a turbine, which drives an > Rod cluster control assembly (see control rod) electric generator. Equipment containing the neutron-absorbing elements used to control the ﬁssion chain reaction in a nuclear reactor. The chain reaction can be slowed or stopped > Reactor coolant pump by introducing the rod cluster control assembly into the fuel core. Motor-driven pump that circulates the water in the primary cooling system of a pressurized water reactor. It turns at close to 1,500 rotations per minute, pumping > Rotor about 20,000 cubic meters of water per hour. Component of a wind turbine consisting of several blades (usually three) attached to a central hub, which are themselves attached to the nacelle. > Reactor core The wind turns the rotor, producing mechanical energy which is then converted Consists of the nuclear fuel inside the reactor vessel, arranged in such a way that into electrical energy by the generator. the ﬁssion chain reaction can be maintained. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 363 GLOSSARIES 1. Technical glossary > Rotor blades > Stator Wind turbine rotor blades capture kinetic energy from the wind and convert it into Static component of an electric motor (such as a reactor coolant pump set) or an mechanical energy in the form of aerodynamic lift. alternator. As they are assembled as a rotor by means of a central hub, this linear thrust can be converted into more easily exploitable torque load. > Steam generator Heat exchanger in a pressurized water reactor (PWR) that transfers the heat from the > Safety analysis report water in the primary cooling system to the secondary system, where it is converted Report describing the design of regulated nuclear facilities and the measures taken into steam that drives a turbine connected to an alternator to generate electricity. to ensure safety. It identiﬁes the risks presented by the facility and describes the measures taken to prevent them as well as measures conducive to reducing the > Storage probability of accidents and their eﬀects. Temporary storage of radioactive materials or waste in a facility that is speciﬁcally designed for that purpose, pending their removal. > Safety review The safety review of a facility is used to assess the facility’s status in terms of the > STUK rules applicable to it and to update the assessment of the risks and drawbacks that Counterpart to the Autorité de sûreté nucléaire (French nuclear safety authority ASN). the facility may present, taking into account in particular the condition of the facility, Field of jurisdiction: nuclear safety and radiation protection. the experience acquired from operations, the accumulation of knowledge, and the rules applicable to similar facilities. > SWU (separative work unit) An enrichment plant’s production is expressed in SWU. This unit is proportionate > Safety system to the quantity of uranium processed and is a measure of the work required to A set of documents presenting measures taken to ensure the safety of a facility; the separate the ﬁssile isotope. safety analysis report is one such document. In particular, it includes: p a license decree (in France, if the facility was created or modiﬁed after 1963) > TDG order and the license application ﬁle; French modal order of May 29, 2009 on the transport of dangerous goods (“TDG p requirements issued by the Autorité de sûreté (ASN); order”). p a safety analysis report (SAR) and general operating rules (règles générales The order applies to the national or international carriage of dangerous goods d’exploitation, RGE) or general monitoring and servicing rules (règles générales by road, rail and inland navigation in France, including loading and unloading de surveillance et d’entretien, RGSE); operations, intermodal transfers and halts required by transportation circumstances. p a waste management study for the facility stating the goals for minimizing waste The order stems from international and European Community laws and applies in volume and toxicity; particular to the carriage of radioactive materials (class 7 carriage). p an internal emergency management plan (plan d’urgence interne, PUI), which may include sections that are common to the entire nuclear site in which the > Ten-year inspection facility is located. Every ten years, nuclear reactors are inspected thoroughly, including a detailed inspection of its principal components: the reactor vessel, the primary cooling > SEA sites (sites with signiﬁcant environmental aspects) system, and the reactor containment. In AREVA’s frame of reference, nuclear sites, sites with facilities representing major manmade risk per Seveso regulations, operating mine sites, plant sites > Thermonuclear fusion with facilities subject to public inquiry, and industrial or oﬃce building sites which The energy from the stars, such as the sun, is produced by the nuclear process make a signiﬁcant contribution to the group’s environmental accounting in terms of fusion of light atoms, such as hydrogen. Fusion is the opposite of ﬁssion, for it of consumption, releases or hazards. corresponds to the merging (rather than the splitting) of atomic nuclei. > Shielding, biological shielding, biological protection >Thorium Protective shielding from radiation used to limit exposure of people. Natural radioelement (232 isotope) that can produce the ﬁssile uranium isotope of uranium, 233U, through neutron capture. > Shipping cask Another name for a cask used to ship radioactive materials. > Tokamak Acronym from the Russian expression toroidalnaya kamera magnitaya katushka, > Speciﬁc burnup which means “toroidal chamber and magnetic coil”. The Iter reactor aims to study See burnup. hot plasmas in this conﬁguration. > Speciﬁc response plan (Plan particulier d’intervention, PPI) Describes the emergency response organization set up by government agencies in the event of an accident in a nuclear facility with potential oﬀ-site consequences. The mobilization and coordination of necessary resources, tailored to the circumstances, are placed under the authority of the Prefect. 364 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT GLOSSARIES 1. Technical glossary > Torrefaction > Units of measurement Torrefaction (or depolymerization) of biomass is a mild form of thermo-chemical p Becquerel (Bq): international unit of measurement of activity (1 Bq = one atomic treatment (from 200 to 320°C) used to eliminate water and change part of the organic particle disintegration per second). The becquerel is a very small unit. Previously, material used in biomass to break down its ﬁbers. During the torrefaction process, nuclear activity was measured in Curies (one curie = 37,000,000,000 Bq, light organics are removed and the structure of the biomass is depolymerized and corresponding to the activity of one gram of natural radium). changed, causing the ﬁbers to break. Torreﬁed biomass, also called biocoal, is a p Sievert (Sv): Legal unit of dose equivalent, used to determine the biological eﬀects high-quality solid fuel that is ideal for certain types of industrial applications, both produced by a given absorbed dose on a living organism. Dose equivalent is general and speciﬁc, including electricity generation, heat production, cogeneration not a measurable physical quantity; rather, it is calculated. It is determined by and central heating. This new fuel opens up new possibilities for renewable energies. multiplying the absorbed dose (expressed in grays, where 1 gray = 1 joule per kg) by two coeﬃcient factors which depend on the type of radiation and the type > Trading of tissue aﬀected. The millisievert (mSv), which represents a thousandth of a Commercial transactions in the natural uranium market not directly connected to sievert, and the microsievert (μSv), which represents a millionth of a sievert, are the group’s mining operations, in the form of the purchase, sale, exchange, lease used for low doses. By way of example, the average annual natural radioactivity or loan of uranium. per person in France is 2.4 mSv, a chest x-ray represents about 0.1 mSv, and a round trip by air between Paris and New York is from 50 to 150 μSv. > Transportation emergency response and management plan Instantly activated in the event of a transportation incident involving radioactive > UO2 powder materials. It covers the phases of alert, situational analysis and response in the UO2 is the symbol for uranium oxide. which comes in powder or pellet form. It is ﬁeld following an incident or accident involving the transportation of radioactive the constituent component of nuclear fuel. It is also the formula for pitchblende materials. It makes available specialized human resources and special equipment (natural uranium ore). to the competent authorities. The entire plan is tested on the national scale once a year on average with the leading players, and in particular the competent authorities. > Uraniferous material Material containing uranium. > Transuranic elements Chemical elements in which the nucleus contains more protons than uranium, > Uranium which has 92. The ﬁrst transuranic elements are, in increasing order, neptunium, Uranium is a radioactive heavy metal. It is a chemical element with the atomic plutonium, americium and curium. number 92 and the atomic symbol U, with three radioactive natural isotopes: 238U (99.28% fertile), 235U (0.71% ﬁssile), and a very small quantity of 234U. Uranium-234, > Tritium which comes from the radioactive decay of uranium-238, is not ﬁssile. Isotope of hydrogen whose nucleus consists of one proton and two neutrons. It emits beta rays and is present in the natural state in the air and in eﬄuents from light > Used fuel storage pool water reactors. Tritium and deuterium are the two reagents chosen for controlled Pools in which used fuel is stored for cooling after it is unloaded from a reactor. fusion projects. > Used nuclear fuel > Turbine Fuel permanently removed from a reactor core after having been irradiated. Device used to convert the energy contained in a ﬂuid (water, steam, gas, etc.) into a rotary motion. The turbine is also used to drive the rotation of a current generator > Vitriﬁcation in units that generate electrical energy. Process used to incorporate concentrated solutions of ﬁnal radioactive waste (ﬁssion products and minor actinides), which have been chemically separated from the > UF4 used fuel, into a glass structure by mixing it with a glass matrix at high temperature. Uranium tetraﬂuoride. > Waste packaging > UF6 Radioactive waste packaging: operation consisting of packaging waste in a form Uranium hexaﬂuoride. suited to radioactive materials containment, enabling its shipment, storage and ﬁnal disposal. > Unit, nuclear unit p Very low level radioactive waste such as vinyl or cleaning rags is packaged in Unit for power generation consisting of a nuclear steam supply system, including drums, in special “big bags”, or in very large bins. Very low level radioactive the reactor, and a turbogenerator. Nuclear power plants generally have several rubble is placed loose inside special big bags. units on one site. p Low level and medium level waste is ﬁrst reduced in volume as much as possible, then packaged in speciﬁc ways (immobilized or embedded in a special concrete, bitumen or resin matrix). The immobilizing or embedding matrix keeps the toxic and radiotoxic substances contained within the waste package. p High level waste is vitriﬁed and poured into stainless steel canisters. 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 365 GLOSSARIES 1. Technical glossary > Wind tower > Zircaloy Used to place the rotor at a suﬃcient height to reach higher wind velocities and Type 2 or 4 zirconium-based alloys containing tin, copper, iron and nickel. Other facilitate its movement; in other words, to extract a much higher energy capacity. alloys, to which only niobium or vanadium are added, do not bear the name zircaloy. The tower houses certain electrical and electronic components, such as the air treatment system, the transformer station and the converter. > Zirconium Metal chosen for its mechanical strength and corrosion resistance in high> Wind turbine temperature water, combined with its very low thermal neutron absorption, to make Device that converts kinetic energy from the wind into mechanical energy. This the alloy used in the cladding of light water reactor fuel elements. Zirconium is highly energy is usually converted into electrical energy. resistant to corrosion at high temperature. It is therefore used in the form of an alloy to fabricate nuclear fuel assemblies, including spacer grids, rods, guide tubes, etc. > Yellowcake Magnesium, sodium, ammonium uranate or uranium peroxide in solid form resulting from the mechanical and chemical treatment of uranium ore. This marketable concentrate contains about 80% uranium. 366 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT GLOSSARIES 2. Financial glossary 2. FINANCIAL GLOSSARY > Backlog p plus prepayments received from customers during the period on non-current The backlog is valued based on economic conditions at the end of the period. It assets; includes ﬁrm orders and excludes unconﬁrmed options. Orders in hedged foreign p plus acquisitions (or disposals) of consolidated companies (excluding equity currencies are valued at the rate hedged; unhedged orders are valued at the rate associates), net of the cash acquired. in eﬀect on the last day of the period. The backlog reported for long-term contracts recognized under the percentage of completion method and partially performed > Gearing as of the reporting date is equal to the difference between (a) the projected The ratio of net debt to net debt + equity. sales revenue from the contract at completion and (b) the sales revenue already recognized for this particular contract. Accordingly, the backlog takes into account > Net cash ﬂow escalation and price revision assumptions used by the group to determine the Net cash ﬂow is equal to the sum of the following items: projected revenue at completion. p operating cash ﬂow; > Cash ﬂow from end-of-lifecycle operations: p cash ﬂow from end-of-lifecycle operations cash ﬂow; This indicator encompasses all of the cash ﬂows linked to end-of-lifecycle operations p change in non-operating receivables and liabilities; and to assets earmarked to cover those operations. It is equal to the sum of the p ﬁnancial income; following items: p tax on ﬁnancial income; p income from the portfolio of earmarked assets; cash from non-operating investment or divestment activities; p p cash from the sale of earmarked assets; dividends paid to minority interests. p p full and ﬁnal payments received for facility dismantling; Net cash ﬂow is equal to the change of net debt except for transactions with AREVA p minus acquisitions of earmarked assets; shareholders. p minus cash spent during the year on end-of-lifecycle operations; > Net debt (cash) p minus full and ﬁnal payments made for facility dismantling. Net debt (cash) is deﬁned as the sum of current and non-current borrowings minus > Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation cash and cash equivalents. NOTA: the AREVA’s deﬁnition of the net debt was and amortization (EBITDA) modiﬁed on December 31, 2013 to conform to the deﬁnition published by the EBITDA is equal to operating income plus net amortization, depreciation and Autorité des Normes Comptables. The deﬁnition used previously was the following operating provisions. EBITDA excludes the cost of end-of-lifecycle operations one: “the net debt is deﬁned as the sum of current and non-current borrowings performed in nuclear facilities during the year (facility dismantling, waste retrieval minus cash, cash equivalents and other current financial assets”. The 2012 and packaging). It should be noted that the cash ﬂows linked to end-of-lifecycle comparative data were restated according to the new deﬁnition. operations are presented separately. > Operating margin Note: AREVA modiﬁed its deﬁnition of EBITDA as of June 30, 2014 in order to The ratio of operating income to sales revenue. exclude all non-cash items of operating income for purposes of greater consistency. The deﬁnition used previously was “EBITDA is equal to operating income plus > Operating working capital requirement (OWCR) net amortization, depreciation and operating provisions (except for provisions for impairment of working capital items).” Operating WCR represents all of the current assets and liabilities related directly to operations. It includes the following items: > Free operating cash ﬂow p inventories and work-in-process; Free operating cash ﬂow represents the cash ﬂow generated by operating activities, p trade accounts receivable and related accounts; before corporate income tax. It is equal to the sum of the following items: non-interest-bearing advances; p p EBITDA; p other accounts receivable, accrued income and prepaid expenses; p plus losses or minus gains included in operating income on sales of property, p currency hedges on operating WCR; plant and equipment (PP&E) and intangible assets; p minus: trade accounts payable and related accounts, trade advances and p plus the decrease or minus the increase in operating working capital requirement prepayments received (excluding interest-bearing advances), other operating between the beginning and the end of the period (excluding reclassiﬁcations, liabilities, accrued expenses, and deferred income. currency translation adjustments and changes in consolidation scope); p Note: Operating WCR does not include non-operating receivables and payables p minus acquisitions of Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE) and intangible assets, such as income tax liabilities, amounts receivable on the sale of non-current net of changes in accounts payable related to ﬁxed assets; assets, and liabilities in respect of the purchase of non-current assets. p plus sales of PPE and intangible assets included in operating income, net of changes in receivables on the sale of ﬁxed assets; 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT 367 GLOSSARIES 2. Financial glossary > Return on average capital employed (ROACE) Capital employed comprises the following: Return on average capital employed (ROACE) is an internal and external indicator p net property, plant and equipment and intangible assets; used to measure proﬁtability and assess the group’s performance. In the group’s p goodwill, other than goodwill related to equity associates; opinion, this performance indicator measures the long-term productivity of the p prepayments and borrowings funding non-current assets; group’s capital. p inventories, trade receivables and other operating receivables; ROACE is a performance measurement indicator of capital employed by the group, as deﬁned by management rather than by accounting standards. This should be p less customer advances, trade payables and other operating liabilities; taken into account when using ROACE to make comparisons with other companies. p less employee beneﬁts and provisions for contingencies and losses, excluding The group deﬁnes ROACE as the return on average capital employed. provisions for end-of-lifecycle operations and provisions for tax risk. ROACE represents the after-tax operating proﬁtability of capital employed by the company for its operating requirements. ROACE is equal to the ratio of net operating income to average capital employed. Net operating income is equal to operating income less the corresponding pro forma income tax derived by applying the nominal tax rate applicable to the operating income of each subsidiary of the group. 368 2015 AREVA REFERENCE DOCUMENT Business corporation with a Board of Directors Capital of 1,456,178,437.60 euros Head oﬃce: 1, place Jean Millier 92400 Courbevoie – France Tel.: +33 1 34 96 00 00 Fax: +33 1 34 96 00 01 www.areva.com This document is printed in France by an Imprim’Vert certiﬁed printer on PEFC certiﬁed paper produced from sustainably managed forest. AREVA supplies high added-value products and services to support the operation of the global nuclear ﬂeet. The company is present throughout the entire nuclear cycle, from uranium mining to used fuel recycling, including nuclear reactor design and operating services. AREVA is recognized by utilities around the world for its expertise, its skills in cutting-edge technologies and its dedication to the highest level of safety. AREVA’s 40,000 employees are helping build tomorrow’s energy model: supplying ever safer, cleaner and more economical energy to the greatest number of people. www.areva.com FINANCIAL COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT Tour AREVA 1, place Jean Millier 92400 Courbevoie – France Tel.: +33 1 34 96 06 47 Fax: +33 1 34 96 99 00 Energy is our future, don’t waste it!
