SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability at Sembcorp is about striving for excellence and continuous Sustainability Performance Snapshot More performance data, including qualitative data, The table below shows quantitative data that reflects is available in the individual sections for each focus improvement in identifying, understanding and responding to evolving our performance in areas that have been identified area in this report, as well as in the Sustainability environmental, social and governance challenges facing our businesses. as material to our businesses and stakeholders. section of our website. 2015 2014 2013 MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY Economic Capital and Portfolio Management 1 At Sembcorp, we believe in building sustainable Sembcorp’s Sustainability Steering Committee Turnover (S$ million) 9,545 10,895 10,798 businesses that deliver long-term shareholder value (SSC) provides strategic direction for managing Net profit (S$ million) 549 801 820 and growth. We believe that a truly sustainable sustainability-related risks and opportunities. Return on equity (%) 9.4 15.2 17.1 Return on total assets (%) 3.7 7.5 9.1 business not only creates economic value, but does It also guides the development and improvement Total debt-to-capitalisation ratio 0.46 0.40 0.23 so in a way that benefits its stakeholders. of frameworks, policies, guidelines and processes Total debt-to-capitalisation ratio (less cash and cash equivalents) 0.35 0.26 Net cash Environmental, social and governance (ESG) to ensure that sustainability issues are effectively Total shareholder returns 2 (%) (28.8) (15.6) 7.7 considerations are embedded in our business managed. The SSC is a high-level committee chaired decisions and processes. We believe that taking ESG by the Group Chief Financial Officer, and comprises People considerations into account helps us understand our senior executives across various functions, including People Development Employee turnover (voluntary and non-voluntary) (%) 11.0 18.4 12.4 risks and responsibilities in a holistic manner. We asset management, human resources, health, safety Average training hours per employee (hours) 20.6 22.3 13.7 also believe that when our strategy and business and environment (HSE) and corporate relations. decisions incorporate ESG concerns, we are better At the business unit level, economic, operational, Health, Safety and the Environment prepared to respond to the challenges we face. as well as health and safety issues and other risks are Occupational Health and Safety 3, 4 The management of our sustainability issues is reviewed by the head of operations at bi-monthly Number of fatalities 3 0 0 centred on five focus areas. Our key sustainability business unit management meetings and risk Lost time injury rate per million man-hours 5 1.3 3.5r 2.6r Accident severity rate per million man-hours 5 12.9 59.4r 41.4r principles are set out in our Sustainability Policy. management committee meetings. The Group’s These principles are applied throughout our performance in these areas is evaluated against Climate Change management systems and processes. We aim to internal targets. Business units also provide quarterly Direct greenhouse gas emissions 6 (million tonnes of CO2 equivalent) 6.9 5.7 6.4r continually improve our management systems, governance assurance certifications on the adequacy and evaluate our management approach by of their risk management and internal control Environmental Protection Water withdrawal (million m3) 1,823.1 1,593.7r 1,595.7r benchmarking it against industry best practice. systems in line with Sembcorp’s Governance Waste disposal 7 (thousand tonnes) 39.3 43.8r 31.7 We adopt a precautionary approach to avoid or Assurance Framework (GAF). Hazardous waste (thousand tonnes) 10.4 12.6 9.4 minimise negative impacts. A list of our policies, Non-hazardous waste (thousand tonnes) 28.9 31.2r 22.3r certified facilities as well as memberships and In 2015, Sembcorp became a signatory to the participation in external initiatives can be found United Nations (UN) Global Compact, joining Community in the Sustainability section of our website. Community contributions 8 (S$ million) 3.3 2.4 1.8 more than 8,000 companies globally who have Sustainability is addressed at the highest levels taken a stand for a sustainable future. Notes: at Sembcorp. Our Board of Directors oversees the Please refer to the section on Reporting Framework and Scope on page 130 for details on our scope. 1 Financial figures reported are for the Group, including Sembcorp Marine, as per audited financial statements. business affairs of the Group and is collectively Sembcorp was also selected as an index 2 Source: Bloomberg responsible for our long-term success. The main component of the Dow Jones Sustainability 3 Health and safety data reflects group-wide performance within the reporting scope stated for each respective year. For 2015, it covers both assets in operation and under construction. A detailed breakdown of health and safety data is available on our website. duties of the board include providing leadership Asia / Pacific Index 2015. 4 Data covers employees and contractors engaged to work on our sites. Details of fatalities are reported on page 150. 5 In 2015, we adopted standards set out by the US National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) and the International Association of Oil and Gas on Sembcorp’s overall strategy, which takes into Producers (IOGP), and now report on a per million man-hour basis. Figures for 2014 and 2013, which were reported on a per 200,000 man-hour basis have been restated accordingly. consideration sustainability issues. The board also Sustainability contact 6 Data covers operations that produce direct greenhouse gas emissions from the combustion of fossil fuel. ensures the adequacy of the Group’s framework Sembcorp welcomes feedback on our sustainability 7 Data for waste disposal excludes waste that is collected and incinerated for our customers. 8 Figure excludes contributions from Sembcorp Marine. Including contributions from Sembcorp Marine, the Sembcorp Group’s contributions amounted to S$7.1 million. for risk management and internal controls. issues and reporting at sustainability@sembcorp.com. r Indicates restated figure. Details can be found in the respective sections of this Sustainability Report and the Global Reporting Initiative content index in the Sustainability section of our website. 126 BUILDING THE FUTURE S E M B CO R P I N D U S T R I E S A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 015 127 Sustainability Report Materiality Sembcorp’s Materiality Matrix Materiality analysis enables Sembcorp to define customers, suppliers and non-governmental sustainability issues that are of greatest significance to organisations. The survey, commissioned in 2012, HIGH our businesses and stakeholders over the long term. was conducted by an independent firm to ensure Sustainability Urbanisation As we seek to make progress in our sustainability anonymity for respondents. On the whole, strategy journey, drive performance and transparency, and respondents agreed on where our focus should Industrialisation Importance to external stakeholders Stakeholder embed sustainability into Sembcorp’s culture, this lie. Their responses also helped us refine aspects engagement focus on materiality is vital. of the material issues that our key stakeholders Globalisation Included Our reporting is currently focused on 11 material were interested in, and provided input on how PROCESSES MEGATRENDS in print report issues, grouped into five focus areas. Each focus area we could better communicate these issues. and / or company is owned by an appointed SSC member. The five Sembcorp embarked on reviewing and updating website Governance Growing focus areas and 11 material issues are recognised our materiality issues in late 2015. As part of this framework energy needs by both internal and external stakeholders. For each materiality review process, we will be undertaking Risk management material issue, we report the sustainability context, a stakeholder engagement survey, and gathering Global water its relevance to Sembcorp, and our management input from internal and external stakeholders scarcity Not Reporting on approach and performance. across our different business units globally and reported key performance Climate change Sustainability issues were identified in line at the corporate level. We will review and use indicators with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. the information we gather from our stakeholders LOW The materiality review took into account GRI’s to refresh our material issues and ensure that Electric Utilities Sector Supplement, the Dow Jones Sembcorp continues to align our sustainability Importance to internal stakeholders Sustainability Index and other relevant frameworks efforts with business growth. The results of this and peer reviews. We prioritised issues using materiality review and the corresponding updates a materiality matrix, taking into account their to our material issues and indicators will be significance to Sembcorp and our stakeholders presented in our 2016 report. according to clearly defined criteria based on In 2015, we strengthened the link between the AA1000AS five-part materiality process. risk management and sustainability at Sembcorp, The materiality assessment and review were by developing risk appetite statements for each conducted with input from an independent of our sustainability focus areas. The risk appetite sustainability consultant. To increase the robustness statements and associated key risk indicators set of this assessment, we incorporated feedback from the direction and boundaries for the execution our stakeholders, including shareholders, financial of our strategy, and provide early warning of institutions, the investment community, regulators, increasing risk exposure in each focus area. 128 BUILDING THE FUTURE S E M B CO R P I N D U S T R I E S A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 015 129 Sustainability Report Reporting framework and scope New acquisitions and subsidiaries are given one year Data measurement and quality US National Institute for Occupational Safety and Our annual Sustainability Report is prepared in or more upon the completion of construction or All data measurements are in line with GRI G4 Health (NIOSH) and the International Association accordance with GRI G4 Core requirements. agreement to integrate their reporting systems with recommendations for our chosen indicators. of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP). It is guided by SGX Guidelines on Sustainability that of the Group. Thereafter, their sustainability data Greenhouse gas (GHG) emission factors are based While there are inherent limitations to the Reporting as well as the Ten Principles of the UN will be reported externally once a full calendar year of on the 2006 Intergovernmental Panel for Climate accuracy of data, we seek to minimise any errors and Global Compact. Our GRI content index can be data is collected. Data pertaining to entities divested Change (IPCC) guidelines, except for those relating irregularities by strengthening our internal controls. found in the sustainability section of our website. during the year is excluded from our report. This year, to our operations on Teesside, UK, which use emission Our report provides information on Sembcorp’s we expanded the scope of our occupational health factors adapted from the US Environmental Protection Focus Areas and Material Issues subsidiaries and covers the calendar year. It excludes and safety reporting to also include assets and Agency and the 2013 and 2014 Government Sembcorp manages sustainability through five areas joint ventures, partnerships and associates for which projects under construction, with data reported from Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company of focus. These focus areas are aligned with how we Sembcorp does not have management and / or the onset of construction activities. We aim to work Reporting issued by the UK’s Department for drive success for the Group. Under each focus area, operational control. As our Marine business is towards external assurance of the report. Environment, Food & Rural Affairs and Department we discuss our management approach to the separately listed in Singapore and reports its activities The table below shows our reporting scope of Energy & Climate Change. Occupational health relevant material issues and our performance separately, it is therefore excluded from this report. by business line and focus area. and safety indicators follow standards set out by the against each issue. FOCUS AREAS Economic Governance, People Health, Safety Community MATERIAL ISSUES Risk and and the Compliance Environment Focus Areas Material Issues Economic Capital and portfolio New income streams People development Risk and regulatory Occupational health • To deliver long-term value and growth • Capital and portfolio management Governance and Climate change • Reliability Environmental MATERIAL Community • Innovation Innovation ISSUES management Reliability compliance and safety • New income streams ethical business protection integration Governance, Risk and Compliance UTILITIES • To maintain high standards of behaviour and integrity • Governance and ethical business and be best in class for governance practices • Risk and regulatory compliance Existing assets Energy • • • • • • • • • • • People • To provide a fair, diverse and inclusive workplace, and continually • People development Water • • • • • • • • • • improve our human resource management and people development Solid waste management • • • • • • • • Health, Safety and the Environment Assets under • To instil sound and practical health and safety management as • Occupational health and safety construction • • • • • • • • part of our workplace culture, and protect the environment in • Climate change our business activities, products and services through good • Environmental protection MARINE • Our Marine business (Sembcorp Marine) is listed separately and reports its activities separately. environmental practices URBAN DEVELOPMENT • • • • • • Community OTHER • To be a responsible business, making a positive contribution • Community integration BUSINESSES • • • • • • to our communities Information provided in the Sustainability Report relates to the subsidiaries of Sembcorp, excluding Sembcorp Marine. It excludes joint ventures, partnerships and associates for which Sembcorp does not have management and / or operational control. 130 BUILDING THE FUTURE S E M B CO R P I N D U S T R I E S A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 015 131 Sustainability Report Stakeholder Engagement Economic generate employment, contracts for local suppliers We recognise the importance of building was conducted to invite feedback on our material To deliver long-term value and growth and tax revenues for governments and result in relationships and communicating openly with issues from selected key stakeholder groups. infrastructure development in our host communities. our stakeholders. This allowed us to understand the concerns and Why this is material For more information on our contributions to We identified our stakeholder groups following perspectives of our external stakeholders in relation Long-term economic viability is at the core of communities, please refer to the Community section a stakeholder mapping exercise, done in accordance to our material issues, in order to formulate our Sembcorp’s approach to building sustainable of this report. We drive our economic sustainability with the AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement sustainability priorities. It also helped to guide our businesses. As we build successful, sustainable by monitoring and managing four key facets of our Standard by an independent consultant in 2012. communication to stakeholders on our performance businesses, societies and communities benefit. Our business: capital and portfolio management, reliability Using a structured approach, stakeholders were and progress on our material issues. businesses deliver the economic engine to support of our assets, products and services, innovation and mapped based on their level of influence and More information on the platforms we use to industrialisation and urbanisation. Our operations business development for new income streams. interest. The level of stakeholder interest against regularly engage our stakeholders can be found in each material issue was also reviewed and a survey the Sustainability section of our website. DIRECT VALUE TURNOVER CASE STUDY GENERATED & S$9.5 billion DISTRIBUTED Working together to respond to also met key stakeholders face-to-face, including BY SEMBCORP a drought crisis: Sembcorp Siza Water local councillors and authorities, as well as the ratepayers’ association, chamber of commerce As a result of El Niño, South Africa is facing one and local business leaders, and held media of its worst droughts in 30 years. The drought, interviews and briefings. The response to these which began in late 2014, has been declared a measures led to the community reducing its DIRECT Materials and Employees Governments Capital Communities crisis by the government. Amongst the worst-hit water usage by 5,000 cubic metres per day. VALUE services costs providers areas in the country is the Dolphin Coast, where DISTRIBUTED S$7.8bn* S$832m* S$137m S$551m S$7.1m** our municipal water business Sembcorp Siza In the course of engaging consumers and local TO OTHERS These include This includes This includes This includes This includes Water operates. councillors, the need to find innovative solutions materials and wages, salaries income taxes dividends, donations and to the water crisis was raised. Arising from this, subcontract costs, and benefits paid, net of distributions sponsorships which comprise refunds received on perpetual from our As the local water provider, Sembcorp Siza Water we commissioned boreholes to augment water purchases securities and businesses’ has played a key role in managing the impact supply. In addition, we conducted a month-long from suppliers, interest paid engagement of the drought from an early stage. When the online survey, during which 96% of consumers contractor with charitable drought hit, it became apparent that it would be voted in favour of introducing recycled water costs and other organisations impossible for the conventional water system to to their potable water. We then completed a operating or activities expenses be fully operational. Sembcorp Siza Water facility that reclaims potable water from effluent, worked out a drought plan with local authorities increasing the water supply by 4,000 cubic and the bulk water supplier, and rolled this out to metres. This has been a great success, eliminating the community through an intensive the need for water shedding in the community. communications campaign. Through daily slots DIRECT S$263 million on local radio, regular updates in newspapers and This experience demonstrates that technical VALUE on the company website, flyers and text message expertise is only part of the solution. To change RETAINED alerts, we educated consumers on the crisis, public behaviour and generate sustainable BY SEMBCORP called for support for the drought plan and solutions, engagement and partnership with communicated tips on how to save water. We stakeholders is also key. * On an accrued basis ** Figure is based on the reporting scope stated in the Sustainability Report, and includes Sembcorp Marine’s community contributions 132 BUILDING THE FUTURE S E M B CO R P I N D U S T R I E S A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 015 133 Sustainability Report Capital and portfolio management New income streams Our approach includes stringent inspections and the installation of Sembcorp’s businesses often involve large-scale, To deliver long-term growth, we continuously Capital and portfolio management meters and sensors at both our and our customers’ long-term projects that require significant initial explore new business opportunities and maintain We have robust frameworks and processes in place facilities. To ensure the safe delivery of our products, capital outlay. Strong financial health and a a pipeline of upcoming projects, which includes to ensure our investment and business decisions we have rigorous maintenance regimes in place and disciplined approach to investment are therefore both greenfield and brownfield investments. take into account long-term considerations. regularly inspect our delivery systems, including necessary for us to succeed. At the same time, as In addition, potential acquisitions and growth checking pipelines for leaks. We also conduct regular Sembcorp continues to grow, we believe it is opportunities are evaluated based on strict sampling and laboratory tests to meet regulatory Positioned for Growth in the Right important for us to maintain a balanced portfolio of Businesses, in the Right Markets investment guidelines. Depending on criteria requirements and to ensure that the water we businesses across geographical regions and business such as project value and country risk, approval produce is safe for our customers and end users. segments, with the appropriate level of risk. Capital As part of our strategy to ensure long-term for projects may involve the Senior Management allocation, including the geographical distribution of growth, we continue to expand our operations Committee, the board and / or its Executive or our investments, is managed from this perspective. overseas. In 2015, overseas contributions Risk Committee. amounted to 60% of our Utilities business’ We actively manage our risk portfolio, including Reliability net profit excluding corporate costs and monitoring balance sheet liquidity ratios and The reliability of our supply, assets and products significant items. country risk profiles. For more information on is vital not only for our reputation, but also for risk management at Sembcorp, please refer to the our long-term profitability. Our Group is heavily We leveraged our strong development Risk Management and Internal Controls chapter. invested in the Utilities business, which involves capabilities to grow through greenfield projects the development and sustained operation of energy in rapidly developing economies, announcing Reliability and water facilities. We are committed to long-term our first energy projects in Myanmar and Reliability of our assets, products and services customer contracts and our products and services, Bangladesh. In addition, we expanded our The reliability of our assets is of critical importance, such as power, steam, water and wastewater desalination capacity in the UAE and wind and is rigorously managed from the design phase treatment, are essential to our customers. By power assets in China. These projects, through to the operation and maintenance phase. In investing in the proper care and maintenance of when completed, will provide us with new the design and construction phases, we focus on our assets, we ensure that their useful life, and income streams. installing sufficient operational flexibility and selecting therefore their ability to generate stable recurring quality equipment. In the operation and maintenance income and a reliable supply of products and services, phases, regulatory and manufacturers’ standards are is sustained throughout our long investment horizon. strictly adhered to. The reliability of our plants is further monitored through monthly performance Innovation indicators which our management oversees. Technical We recognise that technology and innovation audits and checks are also conducted on our plants. is important in maintaining and enhancing our relevance, profitability and competitive advantage. Product safety and compliance This includes applied research and development Product safety is a priority in our business, as (R&D) and improvements that optimise our non-compliance can result in serious health, safety operations and enhance our efficiency, as well and operational issues for our customers, many of as new technologies and methodologies that whom depend on us for basic utilities or require our offer wider sustainability benefits. products for their industrial processes. We implement a robust maintenance and monitoring regime, which 134 BUILDING THE FUTURE S E M B CO R P I N D U S T R I E S A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 015 135 Sustainability Report Innovation Our Supply Chain Sembcorp’s Technology Advisory Panel, which Promoting Clean Technology includes our Chairman, Group President & CEO and Sembcorp’s main suppliers consist of equipment assessed based on their track record with respect other invited experts, provides strategic direction Sembcorp pioneered the commercial manufacturers, raw material suppliers and to project type, size and location experience, for our technology and innovation programmes. reclamation of water from treated industrial engineering, procurement and construction among other criteria. We value the opportunity The panel oversees the development and application and municipal wastewater effluent in (EPC) contractors. to positively influence our suppliers towards of significant emerging technologies in the energy Singapore. We have established ourselves as Equipment manufacturers supply us with greater HSE awareness and social responsibility. and water sectors and provides guidance to a trusted wastewater treatment provider in large-scale equipment such as gas turbines and We believe that securing a pool of suppliers that Sembcorp’s leadership on technological trends Singapore as well as in industrial clusters in desalination units as well as process equipment share our commitment to sustainability will and opportunities. It is supported by an in-house China. By integrating wastewater treatment, such as switchgears and control systems. Raw mitigate risks to our operations and reputation. Group Technology department. water reclamation and water supply in a closed material suppliers supply fuel and chemicals Headed by our Chief Technology Officer, loop, Sembcorp helps its customers reduce needed to run our plants, while EPC contractors Supplier diversification our Group Technology department oversees our their water consumption and conserve this develop and construct our greenfield plants. Our efforts to ensure supply chain security include R&D and innovation efforts. Besides tracking our precious resource. Our plants are designed and built to have a diversifying supply to mitigate concentration risk. investment in innovation and its corresponding long, productive lifespan, and it is with this In Singapore, for instance, Sembcorp’s operations returns, we also track indicators such as the number Sembcorp has also established a dedicated perspective that we procure our equipment. maintain at least one primary and one secondary of projects screened. This ensures that we have a Renewables department to pursue clean We seek to ensure we procure high-quality and supplier for key spare parts and consumables, pipeline of innovation projects being developed and technology opportunities. In 2015, Sembcorp technologically advanced equipment that will wherever possible. implemented in a timely manner. acquired Green Infra, a leading renewable last. We have stringent requirements for quality To further encourage innovation from bottom energy company in India, and expanded its wind and therefore engage reputable suppliers who Fuel procurement up, Sembcorp’s !DEA Awards programme rewards power capacity in Huanghua, Hebei, China. abide by global environmental, social and Fuel is a significant cost component for Sembcorp’s innovative ideas and efforts across the Group. Past governance standards. power and steam generation operations. The winning entries have included process innovations Our Group Procurement Policy provides security of our fuel supply is also vital to the that have resulted in cost savings and improved HSE guidelines and control principles for various sustained performance of our assets. In view of this, performance, as well as innovations that have led to stages of the procurement process. we have a Group Fuel Management department the development of new products and services. We also recognise the importance of that looks into issues such as security of supply, Our ongoing engagement with venture evaluating our suppliers to ensure supply chain monitoring of price fluctuations and optimisation capitalists, technology companies and tertiary risks and negative impacts are minimised. For of fuel mix. To further diversify our fuel mix and research institutes helps us keep abreast of the example, our operations in Singapore carry out tap sustainable sources, Sembcorp has increased latest technological advancements. In looking at an annual vendor performance evaluation for our use of alternative fuels and renewables. new technology, we prioritise innovations that our top suppliers by volume and dollar value. In Singapore, for instance, our solid waste address the needs of our operations, but also Through this process, we rate these suppliers on management operations provide a reliable supply consider more general proposals. health, safety and the environment (HSE), as well of waste wood for our woodchip boiler plant. In as quality assurance and service level criteria. our biomass power plant in the UK, waste wood We also review their audited financial reports. from sustainably-managed forests and sawmills, In addition, for EPC contracts, contractors are as well as arboricultural residues, is used as fuel. 136 BUILDING THE FUTURE S E M B CO R P I N D U S T R I E S A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 015 137 Sustainability Report New income streams grants from the authorities and other partners, Governance, Risk and Compliance Communicating Our Code of Business Sembcorp’s Group Business Development & are worth up to S$18 million. To maintain high standards of behaviour Conduct Through Electronic Learning Commercial department is structured and equipped In 2015, we acquired Green Infra, a renewable and integrity and be best in class for to pursue new business opportunities with agility energy company in India. This acquisition not only governance practices The Sembcorp Code of Business Conduct and focus. Dedicated teams look into growing marked our entry into India’s renewable energy expresses the high standards of behaviour our businesses in both existing and new markets. market, but also signified a major step in our Why this is material and integrity expected from our employees To ensure our continued growth, we identify strategy to grow our renewable business. In Governance and ethical business worldwide. and develop a healthy pipeline of projects. We Myanmar, we were selected to develop the largest Responsible business conduct ensures the longalso seek to grow through strategic partnerships independent gas-fired power plant in the country. term viability of our businesses and builds trust An e-learning course in multiple languages with our customers, by continuously developing This project marked Sembcorp’s entry into and confidence with our stakeholders. We commit was launched globally to further communicate innovative and competitive solutions that meet Myanmar’s fast-growing power market. We also to high standards of behaviour and integrity in our Code of Business Conduct and help their evolving needs. announced our entry into the Bangladesh power everything we do, and comply with all laws and employees better understand its requirements, We actively invest in sustainable and market and expanded our renewable energy regulations wherever we operate. We believe in guiding principles and application in their daily green business lines, which will give us an business in Huanghua, China, with the conducting our business legally, fairly, honestly and course of work. edge in an increasingly resource-scarce world. development of two wind farms. with integrity, and expect the same of those with We take a disciplined approach and employ a A strong push for innovation, coupled with whom we do business. Sembcorp has zero tolerance stringent evaluation process to all our projects a keen pursuit of growth opportunities, puts for fraud, bribery and corruption. Our approach and investments. Sembcorp in an excellent position to build a Governance and ethical business strong future. Risk and regulatory compliance Sembcorp is led by an effective board mainly Our performance Risk management is an integral part of Sembcorp’s comprising of independent non-executive directors. Sembcorp’s financial performance and key Going forward approach to operating sustainably. As we continue The board is collectively responsible for the long-term economic indicators can be found in our Group The Group will maintain a disciplined approach to to grow and expand our global footprint, we are success of the Group. Part of its role is to ensure that Financial Review chapter and Financial Statements. managing its financial position and portfolio. We will inadvertently exposed to diverse risks, such as political the Group’s internal control and risk management As a global energy and water company with continue to deepen our asset management as well as and regulatory, market, competition, supply chain, systems are adequate and effective, and that our a rich history of being driven by technology and business development and commercial capabilities, human resources, project and cost management risks, obligations to key stakeholders are understood and innovation, Sembcorp hopes to contribute towards optimise plant performance and grow our asset environmental and social risks, as well as the risk of met. Several board committees, including the board’s raising Singapore’s profile as a hub for applied portfolio for a greater recurring income base. possible fraud, corruption and bribery. Risk Committee, have been established with clearly R&D, while supporting the long-term growth of We will continue to identify and develop Besides helping to preserve our bottom line by written terms of reference, both to assist the board the energy and water sectors. To this end, we new and innovative technologies and leverage reducing the likelihood and impact of potential losses, in fulfilling its responsibilities, and to provide an have collaborated with several partners in various investments made for technologies relevant to risk management provides a common basis on which independent oversight of management. The board’s innovation projects. Ongoing partnerships include our business. In addition, we will build on our to evaluate new business opportunities. It also Risk Committee has oversight of our Fraud Risk the Sembcorp Industrial Living Laboratory with culture of innovation through the recognition assures our board and shareholders that key enterprise Management and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy. the Singapore Economic Development Board and implementation of !DEA Awards projects and business risks faced by the organisation have been Sembcorp complies with the Code of Corporate and the Sembcorp-EMA Energy Technology and other innovation proposals. In the near identified, assessed and managed with appropriate Governance 2012 issued by the Monetary Authority Partnership with the Energy Market Authority (EMA) future, we expect to implement further phases risk mitigation and controls. of Singapore, and reports our governance processes of Singapore. These projects leverage Sembcorp’s of the Virtual Brain predictive maintenance and Sembcorp is committed to a high standard and activities with reference to the principles set facilities for late-stage test-bedding and cooptimisation project and develop it for application of regulatory compliance. Non-compliance with out in it. innovation of energy, water and environmental to other water treatment processes. We will also applicable laws and regulations may subject us to In addition, Sembcorp’s core values of Insight, technologies, and explore the commercialisation continue to engage our partners in our ongoing statutory and regulatory fines, resulting in material Integral and Integrity define our approach to of R&D solutions. The investments in these projects, while scanning the landscape for more litigation. It may also affect our reputation, sustainable growth and form the foundation multi-year projects, which include matching innovation opportunities. financials and licence to operate. of Sembcorp’s Business Principles and Code of 138 BUILDING THE FUTURE S E M B CO R P I N D U S T R I E S A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 015 139 Sustainability Report Business Conduct (CBC). Employees are required • Develop and foster good and respectful Emergency response plans are in place and crisis engage them on our whistle-blowing policy and to comply with the requirements of the CBC, which professional relationships with all tax authorities, simulation exercises are conducted to ensure that we guidelines through fraud awareness workshops with addresses Sembcorp’s stance in the following areas: government bodies and other related third parties are adequately prepared for foreseeable emergencies. updated case studies and training sessions. This is to ensure that in the event of an emergency, Sembcorp received the Most Transparent • Providing a fair, equitable workplace Risk and regulatory compliance we are better able to handle the crisis and can Company Award in the oil and gas category at the environment that is free from harassment Risk management and system of internal controls minimise any negative impacts. Securities Investors Association (Singapore) Investors’ • Corruption and bribery Sembcorp actively equips our management with tools For more information on Sembcorp’s governance Choice Awards 2015. We were also ranked sixth in • Money laundering to manage and control any risks associated with our and risk management systems, please refer to our the 2015 edition of the Governance & Transparency • Political contributions existing business activities and investment decisions. Corporate Governance Statement and Risk Index, a well-respected index assessing the • Contributing to communities We also closely monitor key risk indicators as part Management and Internal Controls chapter. transparency of 639 Singapore-listed companies. • Health, safety and the environment of the requirements of our Risk Appetite Framework. Two significant incidents resulting in fines Our enterprise risk management (ERM) Training and performance management amounting to S$109,000 were incurred by Requirements of the CBC are communicated framework and GAF are aligned with best practice The Group provides awareness training and our operations in Chile for non-compliance to to employees globally through an e-learning course standards such as ISO31000 and standards issued workshops on ERM, GAF, as well as fraud risk water quality and discharge standards. Additional delivered in multiple languages. The CBC is also by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of management and business continuity management treatment plants as well as facility enhancements published on our website. Employees are required the Treadway Commission (COSO). on a periodic basis. Desktop exercises and simulation have been installed to ensure non-recurrence. to acknowledge that they agree to abide by its The Group’s risks and monitoring of internal for crisis management, emergency response drills and Our operations in Singapore incurred a penalty principles and requirements and promptly report controls are managed through: business continuity exercises are also conducted of S$50,000 due to an unsuccessful gas turbine any violation through available reporting channels. regularly to validate and fine-tune our procedures fuel changeover. Suppliers and contractors who work with Sembcorp • Periodic review and reporting of corporate and and plans and improve our preparedness. As part of our ongoing effort to build in-house are expected to respect and follow the CBC as well. operational risks and controls through detailed In order to enhance corporate governance capabilities, readiness and resilience to crisis and The standards of our CBC are also applied in risk and controls registers and risk management excellence at Sembcorp, emergency response situations, we have conducted our approach towards tax risk management. It is • Review of major occurrences, key risk areas key risk and governance performance indicators regular crisis simulation exercises and awareness our policy to: and significant control lapses at business unit have been identified and incorporated as part trainings. Notably, we successfully conducted an management meetings and risk management of the remuneration requirements for senior exercise simulating a raw water contamination • Observe compliance with relevant taxation committee meetings management. For more details on senior incident at our Fuzhou municipal water operations. laws and regulations and other regulatory • Risk assessments at the investment appraisal management remuneration and reward, please This exercise was conducted in partnership with disclosure requirements and due diligence stages refer to our Corporate Governance Statement. the local authorities, and received media coverage • Apply diligent professional care and judgement • Monitoring of key risks and control lapses highlighting Sembcorp and the local government’s to arrive at well-reasoned recommendations, through a quarterly governance assurance Our performance resolve in being prepared for such incidents. supplemented by advance rulings from tax certification submission Through the successful global roll-out of two In Singapore, we also successfully conducted a authorities, written advice and confirmation e-learning courses on anti-bribery, corruption crisis preparedness exercise simulating a pipeline from external tax advisors / experts, as appropriate An internal controls policy and manual have also and the CBC, we continued to emphasise leakage and used our incident management system • Ensure that all decisions are taken at an been established to provide a clear framework for the importance of fraud risk management and to monitor the incident remotely from the crisis appropriate level and supported by a business what constitutes an effective and adequate system measures to guard against the risk of bribery and command centre. The exercise included involvement purpose / commercial rationale and the of internal controls. They also provide guidelines on corruption in our business. Employees are required of the Singapore Civil Defence Force and a customer appropriate documentation the appropriate segregation of duties and a to pass a test to affirm their knowledge and that would be affected by such an incident. • Establish and maintain adequate documentation checklist of recommended internal controls for understanding of the subject. They are also required of the Group’s tax risk evaluation and tax risk our business units to put in place. to acknowledge that they agree to abide by the Going forward management, and update the Group’s tax risk Internal audits are regularly performed based on principles and the requirements of the CBC. We We understand that the pursuit of excellence in management policies including internal controls, an approved audit work plan, and cover high-risk continued to communicate our zero tolerance for corporate governance and risk management is a as and when appropriate areas such as possible fraud, bribery and corruption. fraud, bribery and corruption to our employees and continuous journey. Hence, we will continue to 140 BUILDING THE FUTURE S E M B CO R P I N D U S T R I E S A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 015 141 Sustainability Report strengthen our frameworks and policies to align Further details on our approach and initiatives operate. In countries where our operations are them with industry best practice. To build a Developing Capabilities for the Future on labour relations, remuneration and employee covered by collective agreements, procedures for positive risk and governance culture, we will welfare and engagement can be found in the People grievance handling are specified in the agreements. continue to communicate and engage our To meet the demands of our growing business, portion of the Sustainability section of our website. employees and stakeholders through continuous specialised training programmes were People development awareness workshops and training sessions. organised in different countries and operations Human rights and labour relations People development is driven at the board level by We will also provide the right systems and to ensure a pipeline of qualified employees The Group is committed to uphold and respect the Executive Resource & Compensation Committee. tools to enhance the risk management and who demonstrate both core and functional the spirit of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Our “My Career Journey @ Sembcorp” governance process. competencies. For instance, in Andhra Pradesh, Rights and the International Labour Organisation’s programme guides the identification, development India, more than 160 graduates of local Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights and deployment of employees across the organisation. engineering colleges have been admitted to at Work. We fully support the UN Global Compact The programme encompasses three aspects: People our training programme since 2013. This principles on human rights and labour, and abide by To provide a fair, diverse and inclusive programme is equivalent to a postgraduate the Employers’ Pledge of Fair Employment Practices i. Strategic workforce planning workplace, and continually improve diploma course in thermal power plant under Singapore’s Tripartite Alliance for Fair and ii. Competency framework our human resource management and engineering, and is offered free of charge. After Progressive Employment Practices. Our CBC sets out iii. Development journeys people development the course, suitable participants are recruited our stand on fairness, opportunity, non-discrimination, for full-time positions at our power plant. In dignity, respect and harassment. We do not hire The framework aligns the development of the Why this is material China, the general managers of our operations forced or child labour, and comply with local organisation and the individuals within it, addressing Our employees play a vital role in ensuring underwent training which covered our core regulations restricting forced or child labour wherever both organisational needs and employee aspirations. we achieve our business strategy and goals. competency framework, business conduct, we operate. While our operations span five continents Of the issues relating to our people, such as fair internal audit procedures, as well as operational where labour laws, regulations and practices differ Employee learning and development employment, labour relations and human rights, case studies. In Singapore, executives attended widely, we remain committed to high standards of Employees at Sembcorp are empowered to be we have identified people development to be renewable energy teach-ins to increase depth human resource management globally. We abide by responsible for their learning and development, the most material. of knowledge in that area. local laws wherever we operate, including meeting or supported by their supervisors. exceeding minimum wage requirements where such Our engineers and technicians receive up-to-date People development Our approach requirements exist. Examples of other regulations our technical training by experts. All employees are also To be a high-performance organisation, it is crucial Human resource policies and management global operations comply with include the Broadencouraged to attend relevant professional courses. to develop a competent, capable and motivated The Senior Management Committee, supported based Black Economic Empowerment Amendment We offer our employees the opportunity to workforce that can meet the business challenges by the Group Human Resources department, Act 2013 in South Africa, and localisation develop their careers and gain international of today and tomorrow. is responsible for setting key policies relating to requirements at our operations in Oman and the UAE. exposure through job rotations and attachments The nature of our business is such that we require our employees. We recognise the value and benefit of mutual in different cultural and operational settings. We specialist technical expertise. However, some of the Country-specific human resource policies, as discussion. Our grievance handling policy seeks currently have more than 50 employees of different markets in which we operate lack a qualified labour well as all other company policies and guidelines, to manage employee grievances in a fair and nationalities seconded from our Singapore offices force with the necessary technical skill sets that our are available and accessible to employees on reasonable manner, with an escalation path to the to various overseas operations. We also provide business demands. In other markets, these skill sets our intranet. Group President & CEO where necessary. We seek internships and industrial attachments that offer are highly sought after across several industries. In We stay abreast of the latest developments to maintain good labour management relations, and students and Sembcorp scholars practical experience addition, the commercial and regulatory environment and best practice for human resource management hold constructive ongoing exchanges with employee and exposure to our operations. we operate in is also becoming increasingly complex. through our membership and participation in unions in our various operations. All Sembcorp We support our employees in their pursuit Therefore, there is a critical need to attract, retain external organisations such as the Singapore employees are entitled to practise freedom of of continuous improvement and sponsor selected and develop competent employees who possess National Employers Federation, the Temasek Human association and to be covered by collective employees who wish to pursue higher qualifications a deep understanding of the company and its Resource Council and The Conference Board, agreements in the workplace, within the regulatory in fields relevant to their work. To develop our industry sectors. as well as numerous local roundtable groups. boundaries of each of the jurisdictions in which we leaders, we sponsor senior executives’ enrolment in 142 BUILDING THE FUTURE S E M B CO R P I N D U S T R I E S A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 015 143 Sustainability Report programmes at leading institutes such as Harvard Performance appraisals Employee Turnover 1 (%) Average Training Hours Per Employee 1 Business School, The University of Pennsylvania All employees undergo half-yearly performance Wharton School, INSEAD and Temasek’s Business appraisals, where performance, expectations, 20 25 18.4 22.3 Leadership Centre. Sembcorp scholarships are also training needs and targets for the coming year are 20.6 16 20 offered to promising students at various tertiary discussed and agreed upon by the employee and institutions. Once they graduate, a comprehensive supervisor. An assessment of core competencies and 12 12.4 11.0 15 13.7 development plan is mapped out to groom them areas for improvement is embedded in the appraisal 8 10 for management positions. format. Going through the appraisal process helps As a leader in our industry sectors, Sembcorp us inculcate our core values in every employee, and 4 5 encourages our employees to share and exchange clearly articulate the competencies and functional best practices through seminars, roadshows and skills needed for their development. 0 0 local and international conferences. 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Our performance Following a restructuring of our operations in the UK We have changed the indicator used to report training Developing local capability The continued implementation of our competency in 2014, our employee turnover rate returned to an within the Group from training cost per employee We believe in recruiting, grooming and retaining framework and the enhancement of our learning expected range in 2015. The voluntary turnover rate to average training hours per employee, to better local talent as a long-term investment in our future and development framework were our main areas of was 8.5%. capture participation in in-house training programmes. and an integral part of our strategy for our overseas focus in 2015. We revamped our approach towards Training hours fell slightly from 2014, when they operations. This leads to knowledge transfer and learning and development, with a focus on engaging had increased significantly due to the roll-out of our competency framework programmes that year. capability development in the local community. internal stakeholders to ascertain the learning and Going forward, we aim to leverage our LMS to Localisation is an important part of our strategy development needs across the business. Through increase training. to grow our overseas projects sustainably. We aim this process, we developed our learning model and to progressively localise the workforce at our framework and documented methods of learning. 1 The data covers both voluntary and involuntary turnover of permanent 1 Training data covers both permanent and contract employees of employees of Sembcorp and its subsidiaries, excluding Sembcorp Marine. Sembcorp and its subsidiaries, excluding Sembcorp Marine. The other overseas operations across all positions, including These will form the basis for the implementation of indicators in the People section relate to permanent employees of management positions, in line with each our learning management system (LMS). This system Sembcorp and its subsidiaries, excluding Sembcorp Marine. jurisdiction’s regulatory and operating environment. was launched in late 2015 with initial e-learning When we begin operating in a new market, courses on our CBC, as well as on anti-bribery and employees who are seconded from our head office corruption awareness. Going forward to start up the operations are given a clear We embarked on a review of our global A study was commissioned in 2015 to harmonise Mentors’ Network Programme organised by the responsibility to develop local talent. As the employee health benefit packages, and aim to our employee health benefit (EHB) programme Ministry of Education. As part of this initiative, capabilities of local employees grow, the team is work towards harmonising our employee health globally. We aim to execute country specific EHB students from polytechnics in Singapore will be gradually localised, and the number of expatriates benefit entitlements globally. This ensures that programmes in 2016. We will continue to roll out matched with mentors from Sembcorp, who will seconded from head office progressively reduced. our health benefits are transparent and consistent more e-learning courses while promoting greater provide advice on career goals. The students will All employees across the Group are offered the across the Group. availability and use of the LMS throughout the also have the opportunity to shadow their mentors same development opportunities. At our overseas We remain committed to meeting localisation organisation. We will participate in the new Industry at work or networking functions. operations, local employees are also encouraged to targets and to training local talent at our overseas develop their professional and managerial skills operations. In 2015, our operations in Singapore through international exposure, such as on-the-job hosted 30 student interns from Singapore as well as training in Singapore or at other Sembcorp China, India, Oman, Chile, Indonesia and Australia. operations around the world. 144 BUILDING THE FUTURE S E M B CO R P I N D U S T R I E S A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 015 145 Sustainability Report Health, Safety and the Environment support common policy positions adopted by Our approach certifications achieved by Sembcorp’s businesses, To instil sound and practical health governments on climate change. We also keep please refer to the Awards, Memberships and and safety management as part of abreast of the wider body of academic and Certifications portion of the Sustainability our workplace culture, and protect the institutional research on the subject. section of our website. environment in our business activities, By employing innovative technology and Continuous HSE Policy In addition, we believe in actively engaging products and services through good renewable resources, we provide competitive and Improvement Standardised both internal and external stakeholders to help environmental practices reliable energy and water solutions to customers Management HSE policy keep our workplace and environment safe. review framework and and communities, while mitigating the impact of management Health, safety and the environment (HSE) is our activities on climate change. Training and audits a top priority at Sembcorp and an area in which Providing our employees with relevant training HSE we are committed to continuous improvement. We Environmental protection Validation Management ensures that we have a competent team that and Verification recognise the importance of incident investigation, Sembcorp recognises its duty to protect the System & Guidelines works safely. Specific training needs are identified Audits, gap and set aside resources to ensure that all incidents environment and conserve resources. Since our analysis and Training, and customised based on job requirements. awareness and are thoroughly investigated, corrective actions are utilities businesses consume natural resources monitoring cross-learning Once a year, the Group HSE department implemented and any areas of improvement are directly, it is here that our responsible stewardship organises a workshop for HSE officers from shared across the organisation. can have the greatest impact. various global sites to keep them abreast of corporate initiatives. The workshop is also aimed at Why this is material encouraging and facilitating the exchange of ideas Occupational health and safety Increasing Our Renewable Energy Portfolio HSE policy and guidelines and best practices across our global operations. This It is important to us that occupational health The Group’s HSE department establishes key HSE annual event provides a platform for the planning and safety is stringently managed. As a global As part of our strategy to maintain a balanced operating philosophy and standards, including of group-level HSE goals and initiatives, and allows developer, owner and operator of power and water portfolio, we grew our renewable energy benchmarks and key performance indicators to participants to learn from their colleagues. plants, we recognise our responsibility in ensuring assets in 2015 with the acquisition of a leading drive improvements across Sembcorp’s global sites. HSE assurance audits are conducted regularly to that all workers and contractors are competent and renewable energy company in India present It works closely with regional HSE coordinators to review key internal controls and ensure compliance equipped to work in the safest way possible. Many across six states, and expanded our wind farms ensure that issues across the Group are managed with regulatory and corporate requirements. Our of our plants are in developing economies and it is in China. Today, we have 918 megawatts of in an effective and timely manner. Our Group assurance process is supported by a validation and often a challenge to build a local workforce that is wind and solar power in operation and in HSE Policy articulates our commitment to our on-site verification process which involves in-depth attuned to our global health and safety standards. development in India, and 544 megawatts stakeholders with respect to health, safety and examination of the site’s HSE Management System By effectively and proactively managing workof wind power in China. the environment. and its implementation. To further enhance our related hazards, we minimise health and safetyOur Group HSE Guidelines are part of a broader performance in this area, we leverage expertise related incidents wherever we operate and protect HSE management system, which establishes tools across business units, and weave training and peer our workforce, including staff of our contractors. and requirements to monitor and report HSE assistance elements into an assurance programme indicators based on Sembcorp’s “four zero” (4/0) to promote good practices across the Group. Climate change targets. The 4/0 targets are: zero harm to people, We recognise the threat that climate change zero damage to the environment, zero damage to Occupational health and safety represents to the planet and the impact this would assets and zero instances of non-compliance with We actively monitor and manage the risks associated have on our businesses. The 2015 United Nations legal and regulatory requirements. Our board’s Risk with our activities and services, including those at Climate Change Conference reflected the Committee reviews our HSE performance quarterly. assets that are still under construction, to prevent and commitment of governments to reduce global We are committed to meeting or exceeding our reduce workplace injuries and occupational illnesses. warming. Hence, to mitigate potential regulatory, regulatory obligations as well as the HSE standards Our approach towards managing health and safety physical and supply risks, we adhere to and and certifications we subscribe to. For a list of the risks is to strive to eliminate any risks that we identify. 146 BUILDING THE FUTURE S E M B CO R P I N D U S T R I E S A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 015 147 Sustainability Report Our health and safety framework is anchored Project and asset life cycle risk assessment and Environmental protection chemical oxygen demand and salinity to meet by Sembcorp’s 10 Elements for Good HSE. injury prevention At Sembcorp, we aim to ensure compliance to effluent discharge standards. Our comprehensive Each element is linked to a set of expectations Integrating HSE considerations into all phases of environmental regulations and adequate resource water sampling and testing regime ensures and standards, with emphasis on effective risk our operations demonstrates our commitment to allocation for the maintenance of environmental consistent compliance with such standards. Treated management and good planning for safe proactive HSE management. The asset life cycle quality wherever we operate. effluent from our wastewater treatment facilities operations and construction. For example, the assessment approach is embedded in our project We conduct environmental studies in may be further treated to produce demineralised setting up of a Safe Operation Committee is a conceptualisation phase, development and accordance with national and / or international water at our water reclamation facilities. mandatory requirement at all our operations and construction phase, as well as operation phase. standards and methodologies for new projects and Our large-scale water reuse and seawater projects. This is to ensure that adequate review Project due diligence studies provide a good major expansions. These include environmental desalination facilities offer high-quality water to and assessment of risks and controls for critical understanding of the potential impact of our impact assessments, environmental baseline studies, industries and households in water-scarce areas activities is conducted prior to approval being operations and allow the most appropriate solutions and pollution control studies. Recommendations such as the UAE and Oman. granted to carry out the work. to be applied in order to prevent or reduce the from the assessments form part of our management Every year, the Group HSE department sets likelihood of incident occurrence. For example, of HSE risks and these recommendations Waste and spills and drives the year’s objectives and targets based hazard and operability studies during the design are incorporated into the planning, design, We apply stringent controls in the management of on a performance gap analysis to improve on and construction stages identify potential risks, legal construction and commissioning of new plants. waste generated from our operations. We adhere areas of weakness. requirements and safety considerations. Final design to discharge and emission limits set by local and construction activities are organised to avoid Atmospheric emissions authorities, and implement containment measures or minimise the impact of the risks identified. Our approach to managing atmospheric emissions is to minimise any direct impact to the environment, Sembcorp’s 10 Elements for Good HSE We seek to ensure that operation and process through reducing fuel consumption and increasing vegetation and the surrounding community. controls are implemented to prevent harm to energy efficiency. We adhere to local regulatory All waste generated by our operations or Strong Ownership of HSE people and the environment. emission limits and aim to minimise our impact on collected by us on behalf of our customers is by Every Employee the environment and the surrounding community. disposed of in accordance with local regulations. Climate change In the event that an emergency occurs from, for The quest for greater energy efficiency presents Water example, a major spillage or hazard at our industrial Safety in Design both cost and opportunities for Sembcorp. We apply integrated water and wastewater facilities, we will immediately activate emergency Continual Assessment and Improvement We recognise that investing in energy-efficient, management solutions for better efficiency response plans that have been put in place. System of Risk Assessment & Controls renewable and low-carbon technologies not only and resource use. For example, by integrating Sembcorp also actively develops its capabilities helps manage emissions, but also makes business wastewater treatment, water reclamation and water to recover energy from waste. For example, at our Document Control sense. We are committed to setting achievable supply in a closed loop, we help our customers Sembcorp Woodchip Boiler Plant in Singapore, energy efficiency and renewable energy targets, reduce their water consumption and conserve this woodchips processed from waste wood collected by Work Plan Management and developing strategies to mitigate the impact precious resource. We bring the same expertise to our solid waste management operations are used to Competent Resources of our operations on the environment. our own operations so as to consume water produce economical and renewable steam. This We take a four-pronged approach to this issue: responsibly and efficiently. way, we are able to manage the entire energy-fromOperations Integrity We treat wastewater in the most effective and waste value chain and take advantage of the i. Maintaining a diversified energy generation energy-efficient manner. With our strong technical synergies between our energy and solid waste Effective Communication portfolio expertise, we tailor the treatment process and management businesses. ii. Growing our renewable energy business as technical configuration based on the expected Third Party Selection and Qualification part of a balanced portfolio wastewater profile. Treatment processes applied Our performance iii. Maintaining and building efficient energy include mechanical, chemical, biological or This year, we expanded the scope of our and water facilities membrane technologies, or a combination of these. occupational health and safety reporting to Validation and Verification iv. Actively engaging stakeholders Sembcorp is able to effectively treat multiple include assets and projects under construction. streams of industrial wastewater with wide-ranging These projects are generally undertaken by our 148 BUILDING THE FUTURE S E M B CO R P I N D U S T R I E S A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 015 149 Sustainability Report contractors and sub-contractors. In recognising Lost Time Injury Rate Per Million Man-hours1, 2, 3, 4 Every incident was investigated thoroughly to Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions1 that we have a responsibility as developers of identify root causes and the necessary corrective (million tonnes of CO2 equivalent) 5.00 any project, we aim to promote health and safety actions have been taken. amongst all companies and individuals within 4.00 We remain committed to ensuring the efficiency 7.0 6.9 6.4 r our sphere of influence. We believe that this 3.45 r of our operations while optimising the use of 6.0 5.7 commitment will become increasingly important 3.00 2.60 r resources. In 2015, we grew our renewable energy 5.0 as we strengthen our presence in emerging 2.00 capacity with the acquisition of Green Infra, 4.0 markets, where local health and safety regulations 1.33 a leading renewable energy company in India, 3.0 and enforcement may not be as mature as in 1.00 and new wind farm capacity in Huanghua, 2.0 developed countries. Hebei province, China. 0 1.0 Our health and safety performance charts reflect Our nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions amounted 2013 2014 2015 group-wide performance and cover both assets to 3,700 tonnes, sulphur oxide (SOx) emissions 0 2013 2014 2015 in operation and under construction. A detailed amounted to 800 tonnes and particulate matter breakdown of health and safety data is available Accident Severity Rate Per Million Man-hours 1, 2, 3, 5 (PM) emissions amounted to 200 tonnes in 2015. The increase in direct GHG emissions was largely due on our website. We also adopted NIOSH and IOGP 70.00 to our second cogeneration plant in Singapore and standards in our health and safety reporting, as 60.00 59.44 r an increase in activity at our operations in Fujairah. part of our efforts to adopt best practice. The new cogeneration plant commenced operations 50.00 41.38 r in late 2014, and with the availability of a full year’s As our operations expanded in 2015, we continued to strengthen health and safety 40.00 data, it is included in our reporting scope this year. Direct greenhouse gas emissions for 2013 have been management and made process improvements. 30.00 restated as 6.4 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent Key initiatives included: 20.00 following retrospective application of more accurate 12.88 10.00 calculation methodology for data from operations • Strengthening ownership of HSE by all 0 in Fujairah, instead of 5.8 million tonnes of CO2 employees across all levels of seniority 2013 2014 2015 equivalent as reported previously. • Focusing on mitigating risk for critical activities with high potential for serious consequences We report emissions from the combustion of biomass The lost time injury rate4 and the accident severity separately, in accordance with GRI guidelines. These • Enforcing compliance to safety requirements rate5 improved in 2015 compared to 2014. In emissions amounted to 1.0 million tonnes of CO2 and expectations particular, we saw a decrease in the frequency and equivalent in 2015 compared to 1.1 million tonnes • Promoting active engagement of on-site staff, severity of incidents at our solid waste management in 2014. including those employed by our contractors operations, arising from focused efforts to improve safety standards and practices. 1 Emissions data covers entities that produce direct GHG emissions from the combustion of fossil fuel. It excludes emissions from anaerobic It is with great regret that we report three 1 Group figures are based on the reporting scope stated for each year. wastewater treatment plants, as well as emissions from the use of We expanded our scope in 2015 to include assets under construction. diesel in vehicles and maintenance and servicing equipment. CO2 , fatalities in 2015. One fatality was the result of a 2 Occupational health and safety data covers both employees and CH4 and N2O emissions are included in the calculation of direct GHG vehicular accident involving our employee in contractors. emissions. HFCs, PFCs, SF6 and NF3 emissions are excluded. Global 3 In 2015, we adopted standards set out by NIOSH and IOGP, and now warming potential factors used are from the IPCC Fourth Assessment Mbombela, South Africa. The other two fatalities report on a per million man-hour basis. Figures for 2014 and 2013, Report for the 100-year time horizon. respectively resulted from a fall from height at which were reported on a per 200,000 man-hour basis, have been r Indicates restated figure. restated accordingly. the site of our Thermal Powertech Corporation 4 The lost time injury rate includes fatalities. India facility in India and a forklift accident at a 5 The accident severity rate (ASR) is charted excluding fatalities. ASR including fatalities is reported in our detailed performance data online. construction site in Singapore where our design Lost time due to one fatality is taken as 6,000 lost work days. and construction business was carrying out work. r Indicates restated figure. 150 BUILDING THE FUTURE S E M B CO R P I N D U S T R I E S A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 015 151 Sustainability Report Water Withdrawal (million m3) Waste Disposal 1, 2 (thousand tonnes) n Hazardous waste n Non-hazardous waste Community understand these different needs but also to forge 2,000 50 To be a responsible business, making a the necessary partnerships with relevant local 1,823.1 1,595.7r positive contribution to our communities stakeholders to address them. Therefore, while the 1,593.7r 40 1,500 Group provides the strategic framework, tools and 30 Why this is material guidelines to ensure consistency and acceptable 31.2r 1,000 28.9 Community integration standards, community integration is managed at 20 22.3r Sembcorp provides solutions that are essential to the local level. 500 10 everyday life. We view our integration with, support Our business grows through the development 12.6 of and contribution to our host communities as part or acquisition of utilities assets. In the development 9.4 10.4 0 0 of our licence to operate. We are committed to of greenfield plants, we recognise that there is 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 assessing and responsibly managing our impact on often a social and environmental impact on the The increase in our water withdrawal was largely due We registered a decrease in waste that we disposed of. our local communities, as well as investing in them. communities around us. Therefore, environmental to the commencement of operations of our second The decrease in hazardous waste for disposal was due and social impact studies are carried out in cogeneration plant in Singapore. The plant started to our ceasing to manage a process which had formerly operations in late 2014, and with the availability of a contributed to hazardous waste generated. The Sembcorp Gives Back Day: accordance with both international and national full year’s data, it is included in our reporting scope this reduction in non-hazardous waste that we disposed of Celebrating the 20th Anniversary standards for major new projects and expansions. year. Water withdrawal for 2013 and 2014 has been was largely due to optimisation trials at our wastewater of our Utilities Business These studies typically include social management restated to 1,595.7 and 1,593.7 million cubic metres plants in China, which reduced the volume of sludge plans that are implemented by the operations respectively after an internal verification exercise, discharged and disposed of. The figures for nonAt Sembcorp, we recognise that our success teams through the various stages of the instead of 1,502.2 and 1,593.0 million cubic metres hazardous waste disposed of in 2013 and 2014 have is made possible by the trust that our site’s development. as previously reported. been restated as 22.3 and 31.2 thousand tonnes communities place in us. This year, we Sembcorp’s global corporate social responsibility respectively after an internal verification exercise, instead marked the 20th anniversary of our Utilities (CSR) framework provides a strategic and consistent of 22.4 and 30.5 thousand tonnes as previously reported. business on August 12 in a meaningful way, approach for our charitable contributions and r Indicates restated figure. 1 The data excludes waste that is collected and incinerated for our with Sembcorp Gives Back Day. community investments. We focus on fostering customers. 2 Hazardous waste and non-hazardous waste are defined by relevant environmental stewardship and improving the country regulations in each market. As part of this global initiative in aid of our quality of life of the communities we are in. r Indicates restated figure. communities, employees in more than 10 countries, including Singapore, China, India, Going forward Vietnam, Oman, UAE, South Africa, UK, Chile, As Sembcorp continues to grow its businesses and Specific programmes tailored around these Panama and Antigua, volunteered their time footprint globally, we expect more challenges ahead key themes have been implemented progressively and participated in activities in support of local Environment Community in the management of on-site HSE. across our global sites. We will continue to build worthy causes. These activities included helping In 2016, we will concentrate on strengthening upon these foundations in response to the out at hospices, orphanages and old folks’ We are committed We are committed to the foundations of our HSE management based on challenges ahead. We believe that the application homes, installing or repairing facilities to to fostering improving the living the key themes of: of validation and verification will be the key to provide drinking water for the local community, environmental standards and quality continuous improvement. Therefore, our internal improving shower and sanitation facilities at stewardship in our of life of the • Visible HSE leadership validation and verification peer assist programme schools, and cleaning up local beaches. community through community, such as • Project HSE management will be instrumental in the compliance and contributions to through providing • Management of critical risks with Life-saving continuous improvement in HSE management. Our approach sustainability and access to energy and Rules and Safe Operations Committees The needs of one community can be very different environmental water, social welfare • Promoting active engagement within sites from those of the next. It is our belief that our initiatives. and education. and with all stakeholders local operations are best placed to not only 152 BUILDING THE FUTURE S E M B CO R P I N D U S T R I E S A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 015 153 Sustainability Report Our CSR framework aligns the tracking and public green education programmes such as the contributions. These contributions supported policy to ensure that our businesses, especially those reporting of our community contributions with Festival of Biodiversity. In celebration of Singapore’s causes such as youth development, environmental at project development stage, adopt a structured guidelines set by the London Benchmarking Group. golden jubilee in 2015, Sembcorp pledged and water conservation education, as well as process to engage stakeholders within their This allows us to account for our total community S$10 million through the fund to expand and apprenticeships and job training programmes. communities and ensure grievances are addressed. giving – or the amount disbursed through enhance the Cool House at the Singapore Botanic Total volunteer man-hours amounted to more than In 2015, 89% of our operations had local sponsorships or donations – using standard Gardens’ National Orchid Garden. This is a 9,200 hours, of which 16% were spent outside community engagement and / or development definitions and valuations, and helps us ensure temperature-controlled glasshouse where visitors of working hours due to event requirements. programmes. that the contributions recorded are meaningfully can view rare and beautiful orchids from Asia, We continued to work on improving internal spent on community investment activities. the Americas and Africa. guidelines and controls with regard to community Going forward We encourage open communication with the and social impact. We established our Group In line with our focus on managing community communities we operate in. At our local sites, we The Sembcorp Water Technology Prize and the stakeholder and community engagement policy and social impact responsibly, we aim to enhance use various communication platforms, including Sembcorp-EMA Energy Challenge as well as our community grievance management our internal processes with an environmental and community liaison panels and meetings, as well as Established in 2010 and 2014 respectively, these social investment framework. This framework telephone and email exchanges, to connect with competitions give young people exposure to the aims to embed environmental and social impact Community Contributions1 (S$ million) our communities. water and energy challenges faced by countries considerations at the onset of projects during and governments, and aim to inspire bright young the investment approval process. By highlighting Key programmes minds to consider a career in the water and energy 3.5 3.3 potential environmental or social impacts, this will The Sembcorp Water Initiative industries. The Sembcorp Water Technology Prize is 3.0 help mitigate impact and support integration with In many of the emerging markets which we have an annual competition co-organised with Singapore’s 2.5 2.4 our communities, while ensuring that obligations recently entered, communities surrounding our national water agency PUB for secondary school and 2.0 1.8 to our communities, partners and capital providers sites lack access to clean water. The Sembcorp junior college students, while the Sembcorp-EMA are met. 1.5 Water Initiative was established in 2013 to address Energy Challenge is co-organised by Sembcorp and 1.0 this problem. Under the initiative, we work with the EMA for students from institutes of technical 0.5 local authorities to implement solutions or facilities education, polytechnics and universities. to improve access to water for communities in the 0 2013 2014 2015 immediate vicinity of our operations. To date, the Sembcorp Gives Back Sembcorp Water Initiative has been launched for Sembcorp’s operations all over the world actively Despite a challenging business environment, we communities in Quang Ngai and Nghe An in contribute to a range of causes, whether in cash, remained committed to investing in our communities Vietnam, where we are developing urban in kind or through lending its employees’ time in 2015. In celebration of the 50th anniversary of development and power projects, as well as in and expertise. Sembcorp encourages employee Singapore’s independence, we made a S$2 million Andhra Pradesh in India, where we have two volunteerism by organising regular volunteering contribution to enhance the Cool House at the power projects. So far, this initiative has benefited events and by giving volunteers time off from National Orchid Garden, as part of a S$10 million more than 23,000 people. work to help out with local worthy causes. commitment over four years. In addition, during the year, we organised Sembcorp Gives Back Day, a global initiative in aid of communities in which we operate. The Sembcorp Garden City Fund Our performance Employees in more than 10 countries took part in the The Sembcorp Garden City Fund was established In 2015, Sembcorp and Sembcorp Marine initiative by volunteering their time and participating in 2010 to support the conservation of Singapore’s contributed a total of S$7.1 million to charities in activities in support of local worthy causes. Total natural heritage. Through the fund, we have and community investments globally. Excluding employee volunteer hours in 2015 amounted to more sponsored the establishment of the Sembcorp Sembcorp Marine’s contribution, S$3.3 million in than 9,200 hours. Forest of Giants, a living gallery of rare giant tree cash and in-kind donations was contributed by 1 Data excludes contributions by Sembcorp Marine. species under threat. The fund has also supported Sembcorp, of which S$19,700 comprised mandatory 154 BUILDING THE FUTURE S E M B CO R P I N D U S T R I E S A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 015 155
