COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SEPTEMBER 2016 2 Communication on Progress Nefab SUPPORT STATEMENT CEO , STAFFAN PEHRSON The Global Compact is a global strategic business initiative on corporate responsibility initiated by the former UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan in 1999. The UN Global Compact works with business to transform our world, aiming to create a sustainable and inclusive global economy that delivers lasting benefits to all people, communities and markets. Nefab became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in October 2008. Reflected in our core values and underlined in our code of conduct, we continuously strive to integrate the principles of Global Compact into our business. We realize that continuous work is needed in order to promote and further integrate the ten principles of Global Compact within and outside Nefab, and that this work has no end. Nefab wants to secure a place in a sustainable future society. To achieve this, we work within our supply chain, our own operations as well as with our value proposition to achieve sustainable development and manage our stakeholders’ requirements and expectations. We focus on the key aspects of the company’s social and environmental impact, based on stakeholder dialogue and the strategic importance of each area for the company. After analyzing our social, economic and environmental impact, we have concluded that our strategic priority should be to support our customers’ ambitions in reducing their environmental impact. A common example of that is when we support customer objectives of CO2-reductions by analyzing current and proposing new packaging solutions which reduce not only cost, but also environmental impact. In our yearly staff survey, we can see that a majority of our employees believe that it is important to work for a company who takes sustainability seriously and that most of them think Nefab is working with sustainability in a good way. We believe that our continuous commitment to the Global Compact Initiative will be beneficial for Nefab and its stakeholders and at the same time help to improve the conditions in general for the global community.Consequently, I am pleased to confirm Nefab’s continuous support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this Communication on Progress (COP), we express our aim to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. Jönköping, September 2016 Staffan Pehrson CEO, Nefab AB Communication on Progress Nefab 3 SUSTAINABILITY NEFAB OFFERS COMPLETE PACKAGING SOLUTIONS THAT REDUCE COST AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT. DOING THIS, NEFAB INTEGRATES SUSTAINABILITY IN THE VALUE PROPOSITION TO THE MARKET. WORKING WITH SUSTAINABILITY MEANS THAT WE CARE FOR THE WELFARE OF OUR EMPLOYEES AS WELL AS OTHER STAKEHOLDERS AND TRY TO BALANCE ECONOMIC WITH SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS OF OUR BUSINESS. A STRUCTURED APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY LEADS TO A FAVOURABLE BUSINESS CLIMATE THAT ATTRACTS SKILLS AND STRENGTHENS THE BRAND. IT ALSO FACILITATES BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT BY ATTRACTING CUSTOMERS HAVING THE SAME MIND-SET. THE SUSTAINABILITY WORK IS GOVERNED BY NEFAB’S VISION, CORE VALUES AND CODE OF CONDUCT AS WELL AS OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES, TOGETHER WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND REGULATIONS. NEFAB’S CORE VALUES Internal processes The corporate culture is based on our shared core values: Nefab continuously work with certification according to “Simplicity”, “Respect” and “Empowerment”. ISO 14001. During 2015, no new certificates were obtained, Our continuous work to communicate the core values to all but plans were laid out for another two sites in the US. One employees continued during 2015 and in the yearly employre-certification was successfully made for the subsidiary in ee survey, 93 % answered that they could stand by our core Sweden. values either “OK” or “Good”. In April 2015, Bureau Veritas certified that Nefab GreenCALC delivers Life Cycle Assessment results according to ISO VISION AND STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABILITY 14040 and ISO 14044. To obtain this certification was a mileThe overall goal is to position Nefab as a leading “green” stone in our efforts to provide reliable information designed company within industrial packaging. Nefab uses the term to support our customers in their sustainability work. “green” to communicate its sustainability work from a broad perspective. For this to be achievable, three basic strategies Customer offering have been developed: With the use of GreenCALC we have been able to offer important reductions of GWP (Global Warming Potential) to our • Nefab will ensure sustainability throughout the supply customers. Introducing new materials that are environmentally chain. friendly is an area where we continue to work. We still find it • Sustainability shall be more clearly instilled into Nefab’s quite challenging to implement them on a larger scale and own operations and internal processes. here the question of secure supply is a major concern for our • Sustainability will be an integrated part of Nefab’s customers. During 2015, Nefab presented 200 GreenCALC customer offering. projects to customers around the world. During 2015, sustainability work has been focused on impleOrganization menting “GreenCALC”, which is Nefab’s tool for Life Cycle Nefab’s sustainability work is directed by its “Green Team”, Analysis (LCA). a network with representatives from various parts of the global organization, with responsibility to initiate new Supply chain concepts and tools and to govern implementation of the In our process for supplier evaluations, we made about 60 sustainability strategies. evaluations during 2015 with an approval rate of 88 %. One area of evaluation concerns how the supplier works with STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE environment. The supplier also have to accept to comply Stakeholders to Nefab’s business are employees, customers, with Nefab’s Code of Conduct. suppliers, owners, environment and society (e.g. authorities and various interest groups). The company engages in a relevant dialogues with the stakeholders on multiple levels. 4 Communication on Progress Nefab Employees and customers Environment and society Every year, employees and customers are given the opporAuthorities in the countries where Nefab operates are tunity to express their views and wishes in comprehensive mainly concerned about safety, working conditions and surveys. In the 2015 customer survey we asked our customhealth issues. The dialogue primarily takes place through ers about what factors were the most important when they recommendations and inspections. choose packaging for their products. Environmental impact was one factor, but it was ranked only as number five out ENVIRONMENT of seven. Price and product protection were the two factors Nefab’s greatest contribution to the environment is directly ranked highest by our customers. The product protection linked to the business offering, in which the customer is factor is actually linked to environmental impact, as reducpresented not only with the most cost efficient packaging tion of waste normally is positive for the environmental solution, but also its environmental impact. With the use impact. The employee survey addresses issues relating to of GreenCALC, customers are offered life cycle analysis, health, leadership, job satisfaction, working conditions and showing how a (new) packaging solution can impact CO2 sustainability. Response rates for 2015 were recorded at 29 emissions, comparing different solutions. % for the customer survey and 83 % for the staff survey. Designing the packaging properly leads to more efficient Suppliers loads in trucks and containers, which means that customers The dialogue with suppliers is on-going in daily contacts as carry less air and can reduce C02 emissions. As far as poswell as in the work of supplier evaluations. Questions about sible, all packaging solutions from Nefab are also designed code of conduct, including human rights, working condiwith consideration to recycling. The customer offering tions, quality, delivery precision and environment are asked, includes a range of smart returnable packaging and rental following a standard process established in our global prosystems that increase utilization and reduce the consumpcurement guidelines. tion of materials and energy. Owners Environmental policy IIn board meetings and through direct questions, owners Nefab’s environmental policy is based on the principle that question the business model and how it can be sustainable with our complete packaging solutions, we can avoid wastin its value creation. Various initiatives and priorities are dising resources both in the packaging itself and in terms of cussed and the organization is always prepared to answer damages. The goal is that the packaging products should specific questions. During 2015, Nefab got new co-owners, have low environmental impact throughout their life cycles. when FAM bought 50 % of the company from the family The minimum requirement in our own production is to Nordgren/Pihl. comply with current laws and regulations and the aim is to Key ratios 2015 2014 2013 Economic value creation Plywood consumption (m3) 82,567 88,816 89,691 Sustainability work affects both revenues and costs and is part Steel consumption (tons) 5,832 6,754 7,293 of Nefab’s long-term value creation, which is of vital imporConsumption of paint/coatings (tons) 22 35 49 tance not only for the company but also for society as a whole. Energy consumption (MWh) 31,087 32,704 33,131 Water consumption by source (m3) 1) Created and distributed economic value, SEK m 2015 Surface wa 806 Direct economic value generated Ground water 5,296 Revenues 3,323.9 Rain water 443 Economic value distributed Waste water from other organization Operating costs 2,509.0 Municipal water supplies or similar 60,613 Employee wages and benefits 689.2 Not specified 6,431 Payments to providers of capital 77.1 TOTAL2) 73,589 46,279 51,029 Payments to goverment 30.9 Direct and indirect emissions of Community investments 0.5 greenhouse gases (tons)3) 938 830 917 Economic value retained 17.2 1 2015 was first year of measuring per source. 2 A major water leakage in our Swedish factory explains the big increase in consumption. 3 Emissions from our own production, excluding inbound and outbound transportation. Communication on Progress Nefab 5 surpass them. As per end of 2015, sixteen of Nefab’s faciliment measures. The employee survey is conducted by an ties are certified in accordance with ISO 14001 with the aim external partner to ensure the methodology and integrity of all production facilities becoming certified – a process in every aspect. that will take a few years. Within the framework of ISO, local entities are involved in Internal trainings – Web Academy & Pakademy various improvement projects, like energy efficiency and reWeb Academy is Nefab’s intranet-based skills portal. As duction of emissions from own vehicles. Concerning energy part of Web Academy, employees are offered a variety of consumption, the main parameter affecting the consumpbasic tutorials on the company’s packaging solutions and tion is temperature as especially cold winters require a lot sales processes, as well as courses dealing with the comof energy for heating of the premises, while the production pany’s social responsibility, environment and human rights. itself is not very energy consuming. Pakademy started in China in order to address the need to educate newly recruited engineers and salespeople. The EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY three-week training program includes theory and practice Nefab’s market-leading position is maintained by focusing regarding packaging materials, sales processes and testing on the individual employee’s development, ensuring continmethods. Classes are organized on a needs basis and duruous competence development. Nefab will offer attractive ing 2015, we run one class with 28 students of twelve (12) opportunities to ensure that employees choose to remain different nationalities. while allowing valuable new skills to be recruited. Nefab is characterized by a customer-oriented corporate culture where employees are encouraged to develop a proactive Key ratios 2015 2014 2013 approach. Nefab’s values and code of conduct form the Percentage of employees who have union agreements 21% 21 % 24 % basis for the corporate culture to reflect the Group’s global Hours of training per employee 15.3 15.1 12.7 expertise and diversity. Percentage of employees who All employees are invited to participate in a yearly employee have regular development talks 45 % 47 % 42 % survey in which they respond to a number of questions Board members for the 8 % female 7 % female 10 % female concerning health, job satisfaction, leadership, physical Group, gender breakdown 92 % male 93 % male 90 % male and psychological working conditions, etc. Based on the Presidents and other 18% female 20 % female 20% female senior executives* 82 % male 80 % male 80 % male outcome, a so called “Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI)” is Percentage of employees trained measured, which easily can be compared year by year. in anti-corruption policies 17 % 14 % 8% Units that scored the lowest index are subject to improve* Management team members and similar. EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION AGE DISTRIBUTION ALL EMPLOYEES INDEX (ESI) – ALL EMPLOYEES – BY FUNCTION 100% 75% 11%11% 20% 31% 71 68 67 50% 31% 59% 25% 10% 38% 2015 2014 2013 EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION INDEX (ESI) EMPLOYEES UP TO 29 YEARS OLD MANUFACTURING/ENGINEERING RESPONSE RATE EMPLOYEES 30–39 YEARS OLD ADMINISTRATION EMPLOYEES 40–54 YEARS OLD SALES, MARKETING & DISTRIBUTION EMPLOYEES 55 YEARS OR OLDER 6 Communication on Progress Nefab GENDER DISTRIBUTION AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES ALL EMPLOYEES – BY REGION – ALL EMPLOYEES 100% 3,000 24% 24% 24% 2,506 75% 76% 76% 76% 2,000 2,330 2,363 25% 31% 50% 1,000 25% 44% 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 MEN ASIA WOMEN EUROPE AMERICAS COMMITMENT was reported through Nefab’s internal “whistle-blower” Nefab will continuously seek to implement the ten princinetwork. A thorough investigation was made which showed ples of the United Nations Global Compact. that no violation to the Code of Conduct was at hand. HowThe Nefab Code of Conduct is an important tool to fulfill ever, the incident highlighted the need for further training, this commitment, as it guides employee behavior to be in which has been planned and executed during 2016. line with Global Compact principles. For 2015, one issue Comparison of UNGC principles and the Nefab Code of Conduct UNGC PRINCIPLES NEFAB CODE OF CONDUCT Human Rights Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed huinternationally proclaimed Human Rights man rights and ensure that the company is not complicit in human rights abuses. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Labour standards 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Freedom of association effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. As local or relevant laws allows, all employees are free to form, join or not to join unions and have the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced Forced and compulsory labour and compulsory labour. No form of forced or compulsory labour is tolerated and all employees have the right to leave their employment as stated by contracts or local laws. Employees shall not be required to leave deposits of money or identity papers with their employer. 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Child labour No person shall be employed who is below the minimum legal age for employment. We are not complicit in any form of child labour or other forms of child exploitation. A child means a person below the age of 18 years. No one is employed below the completion of compulsory school or under the age of 15 and no one under the age of 18 is employed for hazardous work. Children shall not be employed for any work that is inconsistent with the child’s personal development, including health or physical, mental, spiritual, moral or social development. Communication on Progress Nefab 7 UNGC PRINCIPLES NEFAB CODE OF CONDUCT Labour Labour standards 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in Workplace respect of employment and occupation. We provide a working environment that is healthy, safe and in accordance with international standards and local laws for all employees. Appropriate health and safety information and training shall be provided to employees including, but not limited to, safe evacuations of buildings and correct handling and marking of chemicals and machinery. Discrimination Diversity among our employees is a positive attribute and no one regardless of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, nationality, parental status, marital status, pregnancy, religion, political opinion, ethnic background, social origin, social status, age, union membership or disability shall be discriminated. Harassments in the form of physical or psychological abuse are strongly prohibited, as are any kinds of intimidation or other threats. Employees with the same qualifications, experience and performance shall receive equal pay for equal work. Environment Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Precautionary approach environmental challenges. Sustainable development is a key concept and finite resources are avoided as often as possible. We also have a precautionary approach towards environmental challenges whereby dangerous materials are avoided when suitable and more environmentally friendly alternatives are available. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Environmental responsibility environmental responsibility. We strive to improve environmental performance in our own operations and to promote environmental responsibility within our sphere of influence 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion We support innovative developments in products and services that ofof environmentally friendly technologies. fer environmental and social benefits as well as greater environmental responsibility. Anti-corruption Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Nefab’s reputation of honesty, integrity and responsibility must be upheld including extortion and bribery. and any involvement in bribery, extortion or corruption is not tolerated by Nefab in any form. Nefab’s Anti-corruption policy further outlines our responsibility in this area. Consumer interests When dealing with consumers, we act in accordance with fair business, marketing and advertising practices. We also ensure that the goods or services we supply meet all agreed and legal standards. Human rights administrated through an external partner, using a cloud Using our e-learning system (Web Academy), Nefab develbased standard program. The response rate for 2015 was 83 oped a basic course in “Human Rights”, which was launched %, which is considered to be very good. in June 2010. At the end of 2015 we had in total 320 (of From the Staff Survey a combined key ratio, ESI (Employee which 50 during the reporting period) employees with a Satisfaction Index), is communicated as a generic output diploma in this course. from each survey. The idea of a combined key ratio is to The course material contains the Universal Declaration on make it simple to communicate and simple to set targets in Human Rights as well as the principles from Global Comterms of improvements from one year to another. pact and more business oriented issues in terms of Human Rights. Environment Nefab’s business concept is to offer engineered complete Labour packaging solutions that reduce total cost and environmenNefab’s annual Staff Survey gives each employee the right tal impact. In line with this, Nefab has developed a tool to to provide feedback on working conditions, managers’ quantify environmental impact from packaging solutions, behavior, physical and psycho-social working environment, the Nefab GreenCALC. In April 2015, Bureau Veritas certistress and more. In addition, free text comments can be fied that Nefab GreenCALC delivers Life Cycle Assessment submitted. All answers are anonymous and the survey is results according to ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. To obtain 8 Communication on Progress Nefab this certification was a milestone in our efforts to provide reliable information designed to support our customers in In 2015, as the second consecutive year, Nefab supported their sustainability work. the World Wildlife Foundation (WWF) tree planting project on Borneo. During 2015 we also entered into a partnership GreenCALC – features: with a NGO supplying computers to schools in developing • A Life Cycle Assessment method analyzing environnations. In this partnership, Nefab provides support in kind mental impact from raw material, production, logistics, by supplying packaging solutions for the transportation. use phase and end of life. • Analyzing multiple impact categories, such as Global Warming Potential (GWP), water and energy consumpAnti-Corruption tion. Nefab’s Web academy course about Anti-corruption was • The impact calculations are based on the databases of launched in 2015 and by the end of 2015, 389 employees the World’s leading LCA software; SIMA Pro. had this diploma. During 2015 the number of diplomas was 65. Plans to train management teams globally were outlined By using GreenCALC Nefab can support customers in their during the end of the year, for realization during 2016. green initiatives by: • Quantifying environmental impact in packaging solution. • Identify areas of improvements. • Quantify improvements in reduction of Global Warming Potential. • Implementing engineered complete packaging solutions that are optimized in terms of total cost and environmental impact. Your mission is our mission. We develop complete packaging solutions optimized to reduce total cost and environmental impact in your supply chain. With our global engineering and supply capabilities we serve you in every corner of the world. N E FA B .CO M
