2015 Sustainability Report MTU Aero Engines AG Table of contents Foreword by the Chief Executive Officer 5 1 Strategy 11 About this report 6 1.1 Sustainability strategy 12 MTU Aero Engines AG 8 1.2 CR management 15 1.3 Ethics and integrity 16 1.4 Human rights 18 1.5 Stakeholder dialog 20 4 Environmental protection 52 5 Employees 64 4.1 Energy management 56 5.1 Occupational health and safety 69 4.2 Emissions 58 5.2 Attractiveness as an employer 72 4.3 Water usage 60 5.3 Employee development 74 4.4 Material efficiency 62 5.4 Diversity and equal opportunities 77 2 2 Economics 24 3 Product Responsibility 36 2.1 Sustainable added value 26 3.1 Innovation management 38 2.2 Compliance 29 3.2 Fuel efficiency 39 2.3 Supply chain 32 3.3 MTU’s climate strategy 41 3.4 Aircraft noise 46 3.5 Product quality and safety 48 Masthead Publisher MTU Aero Engines AG Eckhard Zanger Senior Vice President Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Project management and contact point for questions regarding content Ute Schwing Senior Manager Corporate Online Services, Internal Communications and CR corporateresponsibility@mtu.de www.mtu.de Photo credits Cover Lufthansa Pages 4-5 Jetblue, MTU Aero Engines 6 Society Pages 6-7 MTU Aero Engines 80 Pages 8-9 Bombardier, Jetblue, Airbus, Boeing, MTU Aero Engines, Mitsubishi 6.1 Corporate citizenship 82 Pages 10-11 Airbus Pages 12-13 MTU Aero Engines 6.2 Donations/Sponsorship 84 Pages Pages 14-15 15-37 Boeing, MTU Aero Engines MTU Aero Engines Pages 40-41 Mitsubishi, Bombardier, Airbus, MTU Aero Engines Pages 44-45 MTU Aero Engines, Bauhaus Luftfahrt Goals and goal attainment for 2015 86 Pages 46-71 MTU Aero Engines Pages 72-73 Fotolia, MTU Aero Engines GRI-Index 93 Pages 74-84 MTU Aero Engines Geared Turbofan™ is a registered trademark of Pratt & Whitney. 3 4 2 Foreword by the Chief Executive Officer Dear readers, Balancing our experience and expertise of decades Now in the fifth year of our membership in the UN with innovations that move us into the future, we Global Compact, we are unwaveringly committed to create persevering value for our stakeholders by observing and upholding its principles: protecting conducting our business in a sustainable and human rights, promoting fair working conditions, and responsible way. The financial year 2015 was an combating corruption. As an attractive employer for enormously successful one for MTU Aero Engines, our some 9,000 employees worldwide, we create in which we once again improved our performance a fair and safe working environment that is ready and set new records. We prioritize long-term value for the needs of tomorrow. Yet we also realize that, creation over short-term profits. even as a top employer, MTU cannot afford to rest on its laurels. This is why we continuously hone our Our focus is on product responsibility. The new HR activities and, for example, address our employgeneration of geared turbofan engines™ is a shining ees’ demand for more flexibility with the mobile example of how we combine commercial success working project. with sustainable goals. Since January 2016, the turbofan-equipped A320neo As we look ahead, our plan is to continue developing has been in service with Lufthansa and ourselves further. With this in mind, we have pinned other international airlines, proving itsustainability as a corporate objective for the curself to be considerably cleaner, quieter rent financial year 2016, in order to lend it still and more fuel-efficient. This is but one more weight. Our Munich location is party to the instance where we have made considcity’s climate protection agreement in order to erable progress on key sustainability reduce the industry’s regional CO2 footprint even topics and moved forward with our further. We will assume responsibility, now and in Clean Air Engine agenda: by 2050, we the future, for infusing sustainability into all aspects aim to reduce CO2 emissions by up of our business and working life. to 40 percent and decrease noise by as much 65 percent. In times of We hope you will continue to support us on this decarbonization—defined in the goals path. agreed upon at the 2015 Paris climate conference—as well as resource scarcity and globalization, we are strongly Yours sincerely, committed to sustainable aviation. But sustainability goes beyond that. We have integrated mandatory social and environmental standards along the value chain, in manufacturing Reiner Winkler facilities at our own locations, and in collaboraCEO of MTU Aero Engines AG tion with our suppliers around the world. We have launched a range of measures to curb our demand for energy and raw materials as well as to reduce our emissions. We aim at manufacturing processes that reduce resources consumption and pollution. In November 2015, the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) named MTU as Germany’s Best Improver—recognition of the fact that we have increased transparency regarding our environmental impact. 5 About this report Sustainability Report 2015 internal and external perspective. It serves as the basis for selecting the key aspects and perfor MTU Aero Engines AG formance indicators for this report. MTU Aero Engines AG has compiled this sustainability report in order to inform its stakeholders about corporate responsibility (CR) within the UN Global Compact— company. The report provides information about Communication on Progress the company’s CR strategy, goals, and achievements. It describes the priorities for the various This sustainability report incorporates the ComCR spheres of activity in 2015 and the progress munication on Progress according to the ten made in them, and continues where the previous principles of the UN Global Compact, a measure Sustainability Report for 2013/2014 left off. designed to facilitate stakeholder access to CRGerman and English versions of the report are relevant information. In the GRI Index at the end available on our website as downloadable PDFs. of the report, you will find cross-references to the UN Global Compact’s ten principles. • MTU Sustainability Report (German) • MTU Sustainability Report (English) Questions about the report can be addressed to Scope of validity corporateresponsibility@mtu.de The reporting period spans the 2015 calendar year (January 1 to December 31), which also corresponds to the 2015 financial year for MTU Reporting in accordance Aero Engines AG. In order to better organize how information is presented and to provide explanawith GRI tory context for readers, activities from outside the reporting period are also cited in some cases. The 2015 Sustainability Report was drawn up in The report covers those of MTU’s European locompliance with the Global Reporting Initiative cations that are treated as fully consolidated in guidelines and meets the new GRI G4 standard. the company’s financial reporting. This includes In our estimation, the report satisfies the requireMTU Aero Engines, the company’s headquarters ments for a “Core” report. Accordingly, we report in Munich, MTU Maintenance Hannover, MTU on all required standard disclosures as well as Maintenance Berlin-Brandenburg in Ludwigsfelde on management approaches for key aspects and near Berlin, and MTU Aero Engines Polska in on selected indicators for each aspect (to faciliRzeszów, covering the majority of the MTU Group. tate comparison, tables and diagrams are cross(In terms of total workforce, the report applies referenced to the corresponding indicator). For to 94 percent of employees.) ease of reference, the GRI Index at the end of the report links the contents with the GRI requireThe joint venture MTU Maintenance Lease ments. A materiality matrix (in the Strategy chapServices B.V. in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, is ter) presents the topics relevant to sustainability not included in the report, because it has no for MTU and how they are weighted from an measurable effect on MTU’s sustainability per6 formance. The JV is responsible for leasing aircraft engines, with MTU Maintenance Hannover Further information handling operational implementation of the You can find supplementary information, more leasing agreements. The key performance indidetailed analyses and older sustainability publicators in the report refer to the scope of validity cations online: specified above; any deviations from this are indicated. • Corporate responsibility at MTU • Compliance at MTU We plan to expand the scope of our reporting step by step to include all the MTU Group’s fully In addition, we regularly report on important consolidated locations. sustainability topics in central MTU publications and communication channels. Key performance indicators Forward-looking statements (KPIs) This report contains forward-looking stateAll data and information was collected by the ments. These statements reflect the current responsible departments for the reporting period understanding, expectations and assumptions of using representative methods. Environmental MTU Aero Engines and are based on the inforKPIs were collected via the environmental manmation available to management at the present agement systems at the individual locations and time. Forward-looking statements provide no then consolidated in the CR database according guarantee that certain results and developments to agreed criteria. Using an electronic HR manwill actually occur in the future, and they are agement system, the HR KPIs were collected associated with risk and uncertainty. and evaluated centrally at the headquarters in Consequently, the actual future results of MTU Munich for Germany and at the Rzeszów location Aero Engines may deviate substantially from the for Poland. Once the data was evaluated, it was expectations and assumptions expressed here sent to the CR database. All other data was refor a variety of reasons. MTU Aero Engines quested from the CR center coordinators in the assumes no obligation to update the statements relevant departments and compiled centrally in contained in this communication. the CR database. Financial KPIs were collected and published in accordance with the InternatioMTU’s integrated sustainability report appears nal Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). annually, and we expect to publish the next report in the spring of 2017. External validation of report The CR reporting for this sustainability report is not subject to external auditing or validation. The majority of corporate processes that underlie data collection for CR reporting are certified. • MTU’s certifications 7 MTU Aero Engines AG In the aviation industry, three simple letters stand for top-notch engine technology: MTU. With a workforce of about 9,000 people Germany’s leading engine manufacturer has been providing propulsion systems to power aircraft for more than 80 years now, having become an established global player. The company engages in the development, manufacture, marketing and support of commercial and military aircraft engines and industrial gas turbines. MTU Aero Engines in figures The engine programs of MTU that currently yield the highest sales 1934 launched in Munich V2500 for the A320 familiy of aircraft 9,000 employees (approx.) GP7000 for the A380 14 company locations around the world GEnx for the B787 und B747-8 4,4 billion euros in sales in fiscal year 2015 PW2000 and As part of its commercial activities, MTU Aero Engines designs, develops and manufactures engine modules and components. Its technologiCF6-80 for mediumand long-haul aircrafts Ziviles Triebwerksgeschäft cal expertise in the field of low-pressure turbines, high-pressure compressors and turbine center frames as well as manufacturing processes and Commercial engine business repair techniques have made MTU a leading manufacturer of subsystems and components in the With its products, MTU has content on engines global engine business. in all thrust and power categories, from powerplants for small business jets to the world's most powerful jetliners. The company is a riskand-revenue-sharing partner in the major commercial engine programs. Under the partnership arrangements, MTU assumes full development and production responsibility for the components and modules forming part of its work share. Its cooperation partners are the world's big-league players in the engine industry—Pratt & Whitney, GE Aviation, and Rolls-Royce. 8 MTU program work shares depending MTU Maintenance in figures on the valuation of the module up to 20 % 4,000 employees (approx.) To gird for the future, MTU has taken stakes in over 16,000 Shop Visits a number of significant engine programs and is well positioned in the marketplace. Among these future programs are the GP7000 for the 35 years of company history Airbus A380 megaliner, the GEnx engine to power the Boeing 787 Dreamliner and Boeing Apart from its outstanding technical and engi747-8 long-range widebody airliner and the neering know-how, customer proximity is one of GE9x for Boeing’s 777X. The advanced geared MTU’s greatest strengths. A network of locations turbofan™ technology is applied in Pratt & in Europe, Asia and North America as well as Whitney’s PurePower® engine family. To date, representative offices, IGT service centers and five major aircraft manufacturers have selected joint ventures around the globe ensure that its the PW1000G models to power their latest aircustomers’ expectations are fulfilled timely and craft. Airbus is offering the PW1100G-JM for the with the same high standard of quality. These A320neo. Bombardier has chosen the propulsion include dedicated centers of excellence, e.g. for system as the sole engine choice for its CSeries, parts and accessory repairs. In addition, on-site as has Mitsubishi for its MRJ regional jet. Irkut teams are able to carry out repair jobs at every will equip its MS-21 with the engine. Last, but corner of the world at short notice. not least, Embraer has opted for the PW1000G family as the exclusive powerplant for its secondgeneration E-Jets. To date, over 70 airlines worldThe Munich headquarters wide have ordered up to 7,000 geared turbofan engines. Munich is home to MTU Aero Engines’ corporate headquarters. This is from where the In the military arena, the company is the German group’s subsidiaries and most of its research Armed Forces’ major industrial partner for pracand development activities are controlled and tically all engine types flown by them. MTU prowhere military and commercial engine compovides a full range of services, from maturing nents are produced in various shops. With its enabling technologies through developing and stake in Pratt & Whitney’s geared turbofan manufacturing engines and engine components, engines, MTU’s production volumes are growing to providing maintenance and comprehensive rapidly: Whereas the company manufactured customer support services. around 600 blisks a year so far—for various engine programs—the total number produced will exceed 5,000 blisks annually from 2020 on. Commercial engine maintenance To cover the demand for titanium compressor blisks, MTU has built a blisk center of excellence MTU Maintenance, a division of MTU Aero that boasts a high degree of automation and an Engines, is one of the top five providers of intelligent control and logistics system. The maintenance services for aircraft engines and shop on the company’s premises in Munich industrial gas turbines. With more than 30 accommodates the most advanced production engine types, it boasts one of the largest portsystem of its kind worldwide. folios worldwide, including the bestsellers V2500 and CFM56, and the world’s largest engine, the GE90-110/-115B. New engine programs are The Munich site in figures continuously added to offer customers the most popular variants and to secure the company’s position in the aftermarket for next generation 500,000 square meters engines. 4,700 employees (approx.) 9 1 Strategy Sustainability is important to us, which is why we incorporate ecological and social aspects into our business activities. With innovative products, we can secure more than just MTU’s economic success and its future viability: we can have a positive effect on the environment and on our society. We generate sustainable added value. Our focus is the product. As an innovative provider in the aircraft engine sector, we play a role in the move toward more sustainable mobility. Growing passenger numbers, dwindling resources and climate change are challenges that we meet head on. 6 10 MTU has always demonstrated a sense of reoutstanding working environment for multitalsponsibility in everything it does. With our corented specialists and managers at our company. porate responsibility (CR) management, we have This ensures our long-term success and comintegrated this responsibility into our work and petitiveness. The basis for our actions is formed business relationships and guide it according to by ethical principles that apply to all employees, our sustainability strategy. We want to continue managers and the Executive Board members. to drive sustainability both internally and exterThroughout the whole company, we uphold and nally and in the process take the interests of protect human rights, which for us provide an our stakeholders into account. To ensure the important foundation for responsible action. involvement of important stakeholder groups, we rely on various forms of dialog. We use existing resources efficiently, promote sustainable mobility with innovative products, and offer an 11 7 Strategy • 1.1 Sustainability strategy 1.1 Sustainability strategy We have implemented sustainability in our business practices and pinned it as an overriding principle. In line with our sustainability strategy, we strive to make continuous progress in all areas of CR activity. We want to generate sustainable added value Sustainability as a corporate objective and achieve this primarily through sustainable In order to integrate our responsibility even more products. We are an innovative provider in the firmly into MTU’s business operations, in 2015 aircraft engine sector. Climate change, mobility we incorporated it into our corporate goals for and scarcity of resources are global challenges the upcoming financial year. It states: “Sustainfacing society, politics and the economy and inability drives our actions.” fluence our business. Consequently, we have placed product responsibility at the heart of our Materiality analysis sustainability strategy, with which we can make Which topics are relevant for MTU and its busiour largest contribution to sustainable developness, and which are relevant for its stakeholders? ment. Our sustainability strategy encompasses We identify important sustainability topics based all areas at MTU in which the key topics we have on a materiality analysis that we carry out each identified have measureable effects (see Mateyear. In this way, we recognize in good time new riality matrix). Our strategy takes into account challenges for our business or anticipate what upstream added value and downstream use of is expected of us and then align our activities our products. with that. We take these relevant topics and insert them into a matrix. This materiality matrix weights the topics according to their importance from an internal company perspective and from the point of view of our most important stake“We take a long-term approach to value creation holders. In 2015, we conducted a materiality analysis during an internal workshop with the and link it to MTU’s sustainable development. Our CR coordinators. responsibility towards the environment and society is an integral part of our business operations.” MTU’s materiality analysis led to several changes. We have differentiated product responsibility topics more strongly in order to emphasize their importance and increase visibility to stakeholders. This allows us for instance to better illustrate aircraft noise, a very important issue for us and our stakeholders. As a result, the topical issue of environmentally friendly engines has been divided up into fuel efficiency of products, noise emissions of products and exhaust emissions of products. Product quality is the only new individual topic in the matrix and has a high degree of relevance. This topic was previously Reiner Winkler Dr. Rainer Martens Michael Schreyögg part of product safety. We want to weight comChief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief Program Officer pliance, human rights and responsible sourcing MTU Aero Engines AG MTU Aero Engines AG MTU Aero Engines AG even more heavily, and have ranked them significantly higher within our strategy. Regional dialog will be incorporated into the new topic of stakeholder dialog, which encompasses all MTU stake-holder groups. From now on, joint research 12 Strategy • 1.1 Sustainability strategy Materiality matrix: important sustainability topics for MTU Aero Engines Long-term Product fuel efficiency value creation Product safety very high Product exhaust fumes Product noise emissions Innovation Product quality Human rights Environmental management/performance Attractiveness as an employer Compliance Relevance for stakeholders Employee training and development high Stakeholder Dialogue Responsible sourcing Occupational safety Corporate citizenship Health management Demographic change Work-life balance Donating/Sponsoring Diversity medium medium high very high Relevance for MTU Group ventures will be included under social commitWe act on stakeholder feedback. In the assessment and long-term value creation. Following the ment of important topics for MTU, the results of workshop, we also adjusted our online stakeour survey from 2015 have shown that human holder survey to reflect the new matrix. Stakerights, occupational safety, employee training holders have been able to assess and evaluate and development, corporate citizenship and the changed topics on our website since the diversity have increased in relevance. These beginning of May 2016. have been taken into account in the current materiality matrix. MTU’s CR stakeholder survey: http://survey.mtu.de/corporate-responsibility 13 Strategy • 1.1 Sustainability strategy We use a multi-stage technology process to develop the basis for new engine programs. MTU is contributing the turbine center frame to the GE9X for the new Boeing 777X. Sustainability risks ready for the market in the next couple of deMTU has established appropriate risk managecades, we define pilot concepts. These are tested, ment and risk controlling that incorporates susevaluated and prioritized in studies. From these tainability risks into the evaluation, such as proprioritized pilot concepts, we derive the necesduct, environmental or compliance risks. We sary enabling technologies that have to go into have reported extensively on the risks and opdevelopment right away. Pilot concepts that portunities in the Annual Report 2015 (Risk and already have a specific market are elaborated in opportunity report, pp. 121-133). further detail to become advance product designs. These ultimately form the basis for actual techFor MTU, any risk of possible effects from climate nology developments and new engine programs. change lies primarily in restrictive environmental protection policy that limits air traffic and could Further information therefore lead to a decline in sales. However, • about sustainability risks: Chapter 1.4 Human somewhat stricter environmental regulations rights, 2.2 Compliance, 2.3 Supply chain can provide opportunities because MTU can win additional market share with its eco efficient products. We continuously analyze risks and opportunities created by climate change, for example through workshops organized by the German Aerospace Industries Association (BDLI) or via studies about the long-term future of aviation carried out by Bauhaus Luftfahrt. Internally, we determine and manage our product-related sustainability risks using a defined, multi-level technology process. On the first level, we investigate drivers of future aviation, such as stricter environmental regulations due to climate change or dwindling resources. At the same time, we search for new technological possibilities using a technology radar. For new engine concepts that are to be 14 Strategy • 1.2 CR management 1.2 CR management To drive sustainable development both inside and outside of MTU, we have named CR officers in the various areas and functions. They work with a central steering committee and CR coordination team to implement the sustainability strategy and its goals throughout the company. We govern our sustainability strategy, sustainUsing an integrated database, the CR specialist ability performance and sustainability goals by coordinators report validated key performance means of a CR management system. The CR indicators and information about commitment to steering committee is an MTU-wide body under sustainability and progress achieved to the centhe supervision of senior management. The tral CR coordination team. Furthermore, the CR steering committee reports once a year directly bodies meet several times a year to exchange to the Executive Board, which decides on the information, coordinate measures and approve next steps in the sustainability strategy. As the goals. highest decision-making body, the Executive Board is responsible for sustainability at MTU. To increase employee awareness about sustainA central CR coordination team supports the ability and to inform stakeholders about our straimplementation of the sustainability strategy tegy and our goals in a more targeted way, we in CR activity areas and oversees stakeholder are launching CR training for selected areas. In communication regarding CR topics. fall 2016, we will start training for purchasing employees, among others. The CR specialist coordinators have an important task: they work up CR measures in their areas, implement them, and are responsible for monitoring the defined goals. In this way, they are crucial in designing the strategy and its further development. In the long term, we plan to expand the network of specialist coordinators to include other MTU locations. MTU’s CR management system Board of Management CR Steering Committee CR Coordination CR Divisional Coordinators Employees play an important role in helping MTU implement sustainability. 15 Strategy • 1.3 Ethics and integrity 1.3 Ethics and integrity Ethical principles form the basis of our work and business relationships and are binding for all employees, managers and Executive Board members. Of fundamental importance to us is the need to Further information safeguard human rights; to observe labor laws; • about the Code of Conduct for employees and to maintain fair working conditions, business reporting procedures: Chapter 2.2. Compliance relationships and high health and safety stanand chapter 5 Social and labor standards dards at work; to refrain from corruption; and to • about the Code of Conduct for suppliers and ensure employees have suitable qualifications. our responsible sourcing approach: Chapter 2.3 Managers have a particular responsibility and Supply chain act as role models when it comes to observing laws, regulations and internal guidelines. MTU principles An overarching set of principles under the motto Code of Conduct “We help shape the future of aviation” is a major A Code of Conduct ensures sustainable and recomponent of MTU’s corporate culture and helps sponsible behavior throughout the MTU Group, the company to act in a consistent, reliable manboth within the company and in its dealings with ner. It describes the company’s direction as well the outside world. The principles address: as its basic goals and values. • Integrity • Conflicts of interest and insider trading It is founded on five pillars: • Responsibility in industrial relations • Products, technology and growth • Environmental protection • Cooperation and conduct • Fair business practices • Employees and management • Partners, customers and shareholders These principles apply to all employees through• Environment and society out the company. New employees receive a copy of the Code of Conduct when they begin work at For each of these pillars, principles have been MTU and sign a statement that they have underformulated that express the related values and stood those rules and pledge to follow them. We guidelines. These also apply for all employees also discuss the Code of Conduct during the worldwide. MTU’s world changes constantly— introductory week for new employees at all Euroboth the company and its surroundings. We inpean locations. Furthermore, in cooperation with corporate these changes into our principles and the compliance organization, we regularly train revised them to reflect that in 2015. The current selected areas in the Code of Conduct. In 2015, MTU principles are communicated to employees we trained 2,247 participants on compliance using corporate communications media channels matters over the course of 449 training days at and dialog events. all German locations. Additional training was held for 24 participants at North American locations and subsidiaries. Behavior that violates laws or regulations is not tolerated by MTU, and any detected violations will be punished. If stakeholders suspect any improper behavior, they can contact an ombudsman confidentially. As in 2014, no violations of the Code of Conduct were reported in 2015. These internal measures have been supplemented by the Supplier Code of Conduct with the same standards for procurement. 16 Strategy • 1.3 Ethics and integrity The MTU Principles summarize the company’s values and objectives, accompanied by a dialog picture to illustrate the MTU world. International standards company’s strategic direction, sees that it is In the implementation of CR, MTU follows interimplemented and ensures that an appropriate nationally recognized principles. The company risk management and control system is in place. joined the UN Global Compact in 2011 and as a It reports to the Supervisory Board in a regular member, acknowledges its responsibility for proand timely manner on existing opportunities and tecting the environment, promoting human rights, risks and how they are developing. upholding labor standards and combating corruption. This pact between international corpoThe Executive Board is also responsible for rations, NGOs and the United Nations was drawn the measures taken to comply with laws and up with the goal of making globalization more regulations and the company’s own guidelines. socially and ecologically compatible. As an active In Germany, where the company has its headmember, we report annually on our observance quarters, the rules for responsible corporate of the Compact’s ten principles and on the progovernance are laid down principally in the Stock gress we have made. The present Sustainability Corporation Act (AktG), in the Co-Determination Report integrates this Communication on ProAct (MitbG) and in the German Corporate Governgress. A cross-referencing of the report’s conance Code (the Code). MTU complies with all tents to the principles of the Global Compact recommendations of the German Federal Ministry can be found in the GRI Index in the Notes. of Justice’s Corporate Governance Code (version dated May 5, 2015) with one exception regarding We are guided by the following internationally subsequent changes to the remuneration for the recognized principles Executive Board, because a new system was • The ten principles of the UN Global Compact implemented on January 1, 2016. Pursuant to • The UN’s Universal Declaration of recommendations of the German Corporate Human Rights Governance Code, we have aligned Executive • The principles set out in the International Board remuneration with the long-term success Labour Organization’s (ILO’s) core labor of the company. standards • German Corporate Governance Code Further information • about corporate governance: Annual Report Responsible corporate governance 2015, page 32 et seq. As the executive body of MTU, the Executive • about management board compensation: Board’s goal is to create sustainable added value, Annual Report 2015, page 38 et seq. on its own responsibility and in the company’s interest, taking into account the interests of its stakeholders. In coordination with the Supervisory Board, the Executive Board decides on the 17 Strategy• 1.4 Human rights 1.4 Human rights MTU respects the internationally proclaimed human rights set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights and ensures that they are safeguarded within the company. We also require all of our suppliers to support these fundamental human rights. MTU is committed to respecting the individuality containing a risk of compulsory or forced labor and dignity of all, maintaining equality of opporcould be detected during the reporting period. tunity in recruitment and preventing discrimination. The company promotes employment diverAn essential preventative measure is employee sity and the integration of employees with distraining, especially the training of focus groups abilities. As the employer of some 9,000 people on the MTU Code of Conduct. worldwide, we create fair working conditions based on legally binding employment contracts. Further information This includes the right to unionize and to adopt • about human rights aspects in responsible collective agreements. As such, it is built into our sourcing: Chapter 2.3 Supply chain Code of Conduct for employees. Furthermore, • about Code of Conduct: Chapter 1.3 Ethics as members of the UN Global Compact, we have and integrity pledged to uphold human rights. • about training: Chapter 2.2 Compliance In the materiality matrix, human rights are high on the agenda for the company as well as for our stakeholders. We see a link between the topic of human rights and the employees at our locations and also at our subsidiaries. MTU addresses the issue of human rights in the supply chain through a responsible sourcing policy. We also expect our business partners to uphold human rights as a basis for long-term cooperation. The key instrument is our suppliers’ commitment to MTU to protect human rights in their own area of responsibility and to not be complicit in human rights abuses. This is enshrined in all MTU procurement contracts as a matter of course. Risk management and assessment MTU considers the risk of human rights violations occurring in the company’s business operations at its European locations (Munich, Hannover, Berlin and Rzeszów) to be low, because they are governed by the provisions of German and Polish law, which vouchsafe human rights. In the reporting period, there were no complaints relating to a human rights infringement via internal reporting channels and no information about violations at suppliers. MTU has taken steps specifically to increase transparency in the supply chain to prevent conflict minerals from getting into MTU products. In addition, no business activity 18 Strategy • 1.4 Human rights 19 Strategy • 1.5 Stakeholder dialog 1.5 Stakeholder dialog We aim for a proactive stakeholder dialog and are in continuous discussion with our stakeholders about sustainability topics. We act on suggestions, expectations and criticism and respond in an open dialog based on mutual trust. In our stakeholder dialog, we can also elicit new topics and challenges in a timely fashion. Stakeholders are individuals, groups or organexternal point of view. Furthermore, to involve izations that have a reciprocal relationship with the stakeholders more closely and gather feedMTU. Our key stakeholders include employees, back, we have established communication chancustomers, business partners, suppliers and nels and forms of dialog specific to the various shareholders. We are also in regular contact stakeholder groups. with representatives from science and research, analysts, journalists, politicians, industry associWe take up and investigate topics that came ations, employee representatives, our neighbors to our attention in 2015 through the CR stakeand local government authorities. holder survey or other communication platforms. These topics were primarily concerned with ecoAn important instrument for MTU as it seeks to efficient engines in product responsibility, comdetermine the expectations and demands placed pliance, MTU as an attractive employer and coron the company regarding relevant CR topics is porate citizenship as a regional responsibility for an ongoing, open and international stakeholder locations. survey. With it, we present our sustainability strategy and open it up to discussion and evaluWe want to intensify our dialog even further in ation. In the reporting period, we have revised the future through CR training courses for emthe survey to reflect the results of our internal ployees in roles that involve direct contact with materiality analysis. relevant stakeholder groups. We also wish to intensify our dialog with employees at MTU about MTU’s CR stakeholder survey: CR; to that end, we are planning a sustainability http://survey.mtu.de/corporate-responsibility action day at MTU’s Munich location for next year so we can better inform employees about Conversely, assessments and opinions from the responsible behavior and encourage it. survey are incorporated into the materiality matrix on the stakeholder axis. With the new survey, we expect to better identify measures and improvements in the CR areas of activity from an In our stakeholder dialog, we engage with the expectations and demands of our stakeholders. 20 Strategy • 1.5 Stakeholder dialog Stakeholder dialog GRI G4-24, 26 Stakeholder Topics Forms of dialog Employees • Health and safety • Internal media • Career and advanced training opportunities • Employee surveys • Compensation and Benefits • HR services • Work-Life-Balance • Dialog and information events • Diversity & Equality of opportunities • Company suggestion scheme • Co-determiniation Business partners • Product quality and safety • Voice of the Customer and customers • Sustainable technologies • Trade fairs • Product fuel efficiency • Corporate communications • Human Rights media channels • Compliance Suppliers • Product quality and safety • Voice of the customer • Sustainable technologies • Trade fairs • Product fuel efficiency • Corporate communications • Human Rights media channels • Compliance Capital market • Product innovation/eco-efficiency • Annual General Meeting • Responsible corporate governance • Conferences and roadshows • Human rights • Investor discussions • Compliance • Trade fairs • Environmental protection • Ratings • Risk management • Financial communications • Supplier management Science and research • Developing new technologies • Joint research projects • Promoting research and teaching • Work in MTU centers of excellence • Networking between industry and research • Trade fairs • Study of engineering and scientific disciplines • Visits from university student groups • Recruiting • Presentations/discussions at universities Media • Innovation and technologies • Press releases • Aviation sector/eco-efficiency • Press conferences and briefings • MTU as employer • Plant tours • Financial • Internet/Social Media • Site development • Trade fairs • Compliance Region • Social commitment • Museum open house days • Environmental protection • Community partnerships • MTU as employer • Internet/Social media • Site development • Compliance Politics, • Developing and promoting technology • Parliamentary evening public agencies • Environmental protection, eco-efficiency • Plant visits • Political frameworks and regulations • Trade fairs • Mobility concepts • Political discussions • Site development • Background talks • Demographic change • Visits by political delegations • Globalization • Compliance Associations and • Eco-efficiency • Meetings and committees organizations • Promoting innovation and technology • Participation in forums and events • Economic and labor policies 21 Strategy • 1.5 Stakeholder dialog 22 Strategy • 1.5 Stakeholder dialog Political dialog Organizations of which MTU is a member The German aviation industry is greatly affected Through numerous memberships, we contribute by political decisions at the national, European our expertise to a range of specific issues. and international levels—more so than many other sectors. To stay informed about developments in Selected list: the political administration sphere that are rele• Association of German Engineers (VDI) vant to MTU, we regularly meet with legislators • Aviation Initiative for Renewable Energy and decision-makers in ministries at the EU, fedin Germany e.V. (aireg) eral and state levels as well as in subordinate • Bauhaus Luftfahrt e.V. government agencies and the German armed • bavAIRia e.V. forces. Topics include innovation, technology • Chamber of Commerce and Industry for development and promotion, environmental proMunich and Upper Bavaria (IHK) tection, noise reduction, the social relevance of • Deutsches Verkehrsforum e.V. air transport, site development, economic and (industry association for all modes of labor market policies, and support for exports. transport) We represent industry-specific interests through • Employers’ Associations for the Bavarian membership in associations, including the GerMetalworking and Electrical Industries man Aerospace Industries Association (BDLI) (bayme and vbm) and the Vereinigung der Bayerischen Wirtschaft • Enterprise for Health e.V. (Bavarian business association). • European Aerospace Quality Group • Federation of German Security & Defence All activities are subject to the applicable laws Industries (BDSV) and guidelines and the MTU Code of Conduct. • Forum Luftand Raumfahrt e.V. We do not make any financial donations to polit(forum for the aerospace industry) ical parties; all donations are subject to approval • Friends and Sponsors of the Deutsches from the Executive Board. To ensure these reMuseum quirements are met, MTU’s office in Berlin organ• German Aerospace Center (DLR) izes and advocates a dialog with political and • German Aerospace Industries Association administrative bodies. (BDLI) • German Association of Environmental Management e.V. • German Society for Aeronautics and Astronautics (DGLR) • IATA Strategic Partnerships • Münchener Bildungsforum gem. n.e.V. (Munich-based network for employee training and HR development) • Stifterverband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft (sponsors’ association for German science) • Trace International, Inc. • UN Global Compact • Vereinigung der Bayerischen Wirtschaft e.V. (Bavarian business association) 23 2 Economics Sustainability is the watchword in all of our activities. It relies on the observance of the applicable laws and our own internal guidelines and is also a major reason why our company has been so successful. As a globally active and commercially successful company, we create value for our stakeholders and stand up to our responsibilities even beyond the factory gates. We involve the supply chain. MTU’s purchasing department manages a total of 4,582 suppliers worldwide and ensures that MTU’s sustainability standards are upheld in the supply chain as well. By pursuing an approach of responsible sourcing, MTU confronts the challenges of a complex and globalized system of value creation. 24 Our economic performance has a positive impact Sustainable added value is a very important on many levels, both inside and outside the topic of wide-ranging interest to MTU and to its company and in local and global markets. MTU stakeholders, because sustainable, profitable drives progress in innovation, the employment growth has a positive impact on other areas of market and industry in general. We provide atcorporate responsibility (job creation, social tractive jobs in high-tech professions for a global change). Compliance, in the sense of observing workforce of around 9,000 employees and offer legal requirements and internal guidelines, is numerous training programs for young profesalso very important to MTU and applies to all sionals. We have built up a supply chain in which business units. And, finally, responsible sourcing we cooperate with more than 4,000 suppliers means taking responsibility for the supply chain around the world. And we promote sustainable by means of CR-oriented supplier management. mobility through our innovative product technologies. The main elements that define our interpretation of sustainable business practices are: • Sustainable added value • Compliance • Responsible sourcing 25 Economics • 2.1 Sustainable added value 2.1 Sustainable added value As a listed company, it is our duty to increase the value of our business on a long-term basis. By implementing a business strategy that supports profitable growth, we can be sure of maintaining strong earnings, remaining competitive, and securing our financial assets well into the future. MTU aims to generate sustainable added value for added value. MTU has stepped up its capital its stakeholders in the broadest sense, including expenditure to build up capacity for this new type employees, business partners, customers, supof engine, which is a resounding market success. pliers, shareholders, researchers, trade and inThe construction of a new high-tech blisk produstry associations, government organizations, duction center in Munich and the expansion of the media and society in general. Our overriding MTU’s plant in Poland have enabled the company goal is to achieve profitable growth across all to safeguard jobs in Germany and create addibusiness units based on a long-term strategy tional jobs abroad. The improvements made designed to consolidate and expand the compapossible by the innovative geared turbofan techny’s market position in each sector in which we nology (fuel savings and lower CO2, NOX and operate. The resources that underpin this strategy noise emissions) benefit our airline customers are a future-oriented product portfolio, stable and both financially and in terms of environmental long-established customer relationships, skilled impact as well as providing ecological benefits and motivated employees, and a global presence by reducing the effect of aviation on climate in growth markets. To implement this strategy, change. Society in general also benefits because we apply a three-pillar approach: building on our these engines reduce noise nuisance. In other already outstanding technological position, acwords, our corporate strategy not only creates quiring stakes in new engine programs with added value for our customers and partners but growth perspectives, and improving our competialso helps to make the global aviation industry tiveness by promoting a culture of continuous more ecologically acceptable and promotes susimprovement. This in turn makes MTU an indistainable mobility. pensable partner to OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) such as Pratt & Whitney or GE MTU’s policy of long-term value creation benefits Aviation, who develop and manufacture their the company’s stakeholders in other ways too. engines in international cooperative networks. For shareholders, the MTU share is an attractive Another positive effect of sustainable added capital investment offering an increasing divivalue is that it increases the financial resources dend. For local communities in the neighborhood available to MTU to hire the best employees and of our locations, MTU brings benefits in the form subcontractors, invest in local industry and supof attractive jobs and social commitment, for port outreach projects. instance in the domain of science and education, where MTU participates in research projects that The geared turbofan illustrates the widespread help to strengthen ties between universities and impact of this policy geared toward sustainable industry. The geared turbofan is extremely successful on the market and it is much cleaner and quieter, too. 26 Economics • 2.1 Sustainable added value Key financial data (in million euros) GRI G4-EC1 Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 2011* 204.1 2012* 696.7 2013 251.2 2014 395.5 2015 309.7 Revenue 2011* 2,821.7 2012* 3,242.7 2013 3,574.1 2014 3,913.9 2015 4,435.3 MTU was first listed on the MDAX in 2005, and since then has firmly Operating profit (EBIT)** established its position there. 2011* 290.2 2012* 295.4 Economic performance 2013 317.3 The key indicators of MTU’s economic perform2014 333.5 ance have followed a distinctly upward trend over 2015 385.6 the past five years. The company’s results have increased steadily from year to year. 2015 was yet another outstandingly successful financial Income taxes** year, in which MTU achieved new records for revenues, operating profit and earnings after tax. 2011* 73.2 Revenues increased by 13.3 percent to 4,435.3 2012* 93.7 million euros. Adjusted earnings were also higher 2013 107.1 than in any previous year. The company’s order 2014 83.3 backlog amounted to 12.5 billion euros at the 2015 103.2 end of 2015 (2014: 11.2 billion euros), which corresponds to a production span of nearly three years. It is an advantage for MTU that the engine programs in which it is a partner are precisely Earnings after tax** those relating to types of aircraft for which the airframe manufacturer also has a high order 2011* 161.8 backlog. Consequently, MTU has once again in2012* 174.6 creased its earnings forecast for 2016. 2013 166.3 2014 195.4 For MTU, successful operating results go hand in 2015 217.6 hand with higher dividend payments. Given the excellent results achieved in the financial year 2015, MTU increased the dividend paid to share* Data from 2011 to 2012 have been retroactively adjusted to reflect new reporting standards but have not been reexamined by an holders to 1.70 euros per share, an increase of external auditor. 17 percent compared with the previous year. In ** as indicated in the Annual Report total, MTU paid out 86.9 million euros to its shareholders, in keeping with the company’s established, earnings-related dividend policy. 27 Economics • 2.1 Sustainable added value The net value added created by MTU has remained at a consistently high level over the years, and increased to 985.6 million euros in 2015. At 66 percent, the biggest share of this amount was distributed to employees in the form of wages, salaries and other benefits. Payments to lenders and other creditors accounted for 1.4 percent, and a further 10.5 percent was utilized to pay taxes levied by public authorities. The amount reserved to pay a dividend to shareholders amounted to 8.8 percent. After deduction of these amounts, remaining profit of 130.7 million euros was retained by the company to finance future business activities. Profitable growth depends on having adequate financial resources to invest in the future. This strategy enables us to keep the MTU group on a stable trajectory. In November 2015, MTU was a CDP award winner in climate change reporting (Best Improver Germany’s). Sustainable investment MTU’s performance is also regularly assessed by capital-market analysts and independent experts with regard to non-financial indicators. More information In the reporting period, MTU was included in the • on all ratings and awards granted to MTU: following sustainability indexes and rankings: www.mtu.de • STOXX ESG Leadership 2015/2016 • oekom prime status • CDP ranking: in 2015, MTU was awarded the status of Germany’s Best Improver. MTU’s inclusion in these indexes is further proof of our excellent standing with regard to environmental protection, social commitment and responsible corporate management. Value-added components, 2015 and 2014 (in million euros) GRI G4-EC1 2015 Net value added 2014 985.6 share 903.4 66.0 % Employees 67.5 % Gross 1.4 % Lenders 1.7 % Gross value added value added 10.5 % Public authorities 9.2 % 4,441.8 8.8 % Shareholders 8.2 % 3,913.9 13.3 % Group 13.4 % Net value added 985.6 Net value added 903.4 Cost of materials/Other expenses 3,288.6 Cost of materials / Other expenses 2,839.5 Depreciation/amortization 167.6 Depreciation/amortization 158.0 28 Economics • 2.2 Compliance 2.2 Compliance The long-term success of any business is founded on compliance with the prevailing laws and regulations and the company’s own internal guidelines. We expect all employees, partners and suppliers to act in accordance with these requirements. The company acts as a fair employer, business policy. The key instrument for rooting complipartner and client, and advocates transparent ance in organizational practices is a superordicompetition where all parties are on an equal nate Compliance Board, which was created footing. Integrity and responsible behavior are many years ago and adjudicates on compliance key values in our corporate culture and are emissues throughout the group. It is made up of bedded in our Code of Conduct, which is binding the heads of the legal, internal auditing and corfor all employees from the boardroom to the shop porate security departments. The Compliance floor. Compliance strengthens the confidence of Board holds both regular and ad hoc meetings, our stakeholders and bolsters MTU’s good interand reports directly to the Executive Board and national reputation. As a signatory to the UN the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board Global Compact, we are committed to punishing corrupt behavior within the company and advocating fair, social and transparent business prac“Compliance is the basis for our conduct tices with our 8,700 or so partners around the and our success. We are consistent in world. observing statutory provisions and internal guidelines. To ensure this remains true in MTU condemns corruption of any kind and all the future, we rely primarily on preventive other forms of white-collar crime. It conducts its action, such as employee training and business within the applicable legal framework, raising awareness.” paying special attention to the rules of fair competition, antitrust laws and commercial legislaReiner Winkler tion, and consumer and data protection laws. Chief Executive Officer MTU Aero Engines AG Export compliance We systematically verify all transactions involving the purchase or sale of engine components from every quarter. The group has also appointed or by our suppliers and customers in the OEM special officers to deal with issues such as data segment (sanction list screening in the SAP Global security, environmental protection and IT security. Trade Services (GTS) application). Our military customers include the defense ministries of counWe have set up a confidential global whistletries whose armed forces deploy aircraft powered blower system that allows employees and external by our engines, and companies that work under stakeholders to report suspected cases of corcontract to these ministries. For every product ruption or illegal activities or violations of the that we deliver to a military customer, we require code of conduct to an ombudsman. The ombudsan export license issued by the German Federal man can be contacted by email from anywhere Office for Economic Affairs and Export Control in the world or a personal meeting can be ar(BAFA). MTU does not deliver or export any miliranged. Information for employees on the reporttary engines or components of such engines ing channels open to them is provided through without the express approval of the competent the in-house media. The identity of the whistleauthorities. As a second-tier supplier working blower and the information he or she imparts under contract to OEMs, MTU is not exposed to are treated in strict confidentiality—even if the the risk of corruption arising from reciprocal suspicion turns out to be unfounded. It goes withdeals. out saying that whistleblowers acting in good faith are not penalized by the company in any Compliance structures way. In addition, employees can confide in their MTU has established an enterprise-wide set of superiors, the legal department or the appointed compliance rules to ensure that behavioral guidesecurity officer. Whenever violations are proven, lines and statutory requirements are observed we always duly punish them. MTU applies the throughout the company. As the final decisionprinciple of zero tolerance in matters of complimaking authority, the CEO is responsible for the ance and accepts no excuses for infringements company’s business ethics and anti-corruption of the law or of the company’s internal guidelines. 29 Economics • 2.2 Compliance Compliance and anti-corruption training Assessment of compliance risks An important area of the Compliance Board’s Compliance risks arise when managers or emduties is to take preventive measures by raising ployees of the company fail to comply with laws employees’ awareness of possible forms of misand regulations or fail to observe internal guideconduct. It does so first and foremost by organlines. These risks can arise in all areas of the izing compliance and anti-corruption training company. The Compliance Board carries out courses for all employees and special seminars regular assessments of all business units with a for managers and employees who hold positions view to identifying potential risks or suspected of trust. These courses are offered repeatedly at contraventions of the law. The appointed officers regular intervals. In the reporting period, employat group level are responsible for ensuring that ees of selected business units in Germany and specific legal requirements are complied with North America were invited to take part in such and that corresponding, uniform standards are training courses, at which attendance is compulestablished on a company-wide basis. Additionsory. Further courses will be offered in 2016. ally, MTU’s internal auditors conduct regular The selection process was revised in 2015 and compliance audits, in which business processes the criteria used to identify sensitive functions and procedures are inspected for conformity and the areas of the company of specific releto legal requirements and adherence to internal vance to compliance management were redeguidelines. Corruption risks are regularly asfined. Such changes ensure that we continue to sessed within the corporate risk management provide adequate training in the areas where it system and additional compliance rules are reis most needed. The Compliance Board also procommended where necessary. Moreover, MTU is vides individual advice to employees and memregularly evaluated by Transparency International, bers of the Executive Board who request its asa non-governmental organization that promotes sistance in urgent cases. transparency and the fighting of corruption. In its latest evaluation, in 2015, MTU was rated B (good evidence) on a scale that extends from A (extensive evidence) to F (almost no evidence). In other words, Transparency International finds that MTU has provided solid evidence of acting in accordance with an anti-corruption program based on ethical values. No violations of MTU’s code of conduct were identified in the reporting period and as in previous years no suspected cases of corruption were notified. Furthermore, no significant charges subject to fines or criminal prosecution were filed against MTU, nor were any such proceedings pending. Respecting legal and ethical rules and principles is crucial at MTU. 30 Economics • 2.2 Compliance Business partners and compliance Membership in anti-corruption initiatives To ensure that business relationships are sound • Aerospace and Defense Industries Association and dependable, the Compliance Board inspects of Europe consulting contracts for possible corruption risks • UN Global Compact before they are signed or extended. The potential • TRACE International consultants are reviewed by TRACE International, an independent provider of due diligence services. For a new or extended contract to be valid, it must be approved by the CEO. Such approval is granted only if the Compliance Board has issued a positive recommendation. In 2015, the Compliance Board reviewed all contracts with sales partners prior to signing, the majority of which were also double-checked by the due diligence experts at TRACE. Compliance management along the supply chain is based on responsible sourcing. More information • on risk management at MTU: Annual Report 2015, pp. 121-133 • on MTU’s ranking by Transparency International http://companies.defenceindex.org • on TRACE International www.traceinternational.org • on responsible sourcing at MTU: Section 2.3 Supply chain Compliance instruments Compliance Board training Riskinform management Employees Compliance audits inform Stakeholders Ombudsman 31 Economics • 2.3 Supply chain 2.3 Supply chain To underpin our responsibility as an engine manufacturer, we aim to apply the principles of sustainable management throughout our supply chain. Responsible sourcing is our answer to the challenges of managing a complex, global supply chain. Suppliers represent an important link in our value and for the MRO (maintenance) business chain and play a dominant role in our value creamounted to around 1.86 billion euros. Of this ation strategy. For this reason, we have estabtotal amount, 45.3 percent was not subject to lished environmental and social standards for any purchasing restrictions, unlike the remaining members of our supply chain as part of our res54.7 percent, where the OEMs impose strict conponsible sourcing policy. We work together with ditions, especially in the maintenance business. a large number of suppliers and subcontractors. The main regions of the world from which the The complexity of present-day supply chains aircraft industry obtains its supplies, from raw obliges us to concentrate our efforts with respect materials to finished components, are Western to sustainability on the elements directly upEurope and North America. All cast and welded stream from MTU. parts are sourced externally, as are special parts for which MTU doesn’t possess the necessary In 2015, we procured goods and services from manufacturing expertise, such as electronic cona total of 4,582 different suppliers. The total cost trol systems. Wherever possible, we source our of these production and indirect materials for the supplies directly from the producer of raw mateOEM (manufacturing and spare parts) business rials or manufacturer of finished parts. MTU Suppliers for MTU’s European sites in 2015, by region GRI G4-12 3,174 Germany 413 Other Western European countries 474 Eastern Europe 4,582 8 Israel suppliers 36 Asia 474 North America Germany 3 Mexico North America 69.3 % Eastern Europe 10.3 % Other Western 10.3 % Asia European countries 0.8 % Israel 9.0 % Mexico 0.2% 0.1 % 4,582 485/10.6 % suppliers new suppliers Supplier base for production materials and indirect materials for the OEM (new and replacement parts) and MRO (maintenance) business units 32 Economics • 2.3 Supply chain procures only a minor proportion of its raw materials directly. On average, approximately 75 percent of the parts required for commercial engine programs are outsourced. MTU does not have any business policy that explicitly defines a purchasing quota giving preference to local suppliers. MTU procures materials and services from vendors all over the world. It is nonetheless in MTU’s interests to cultivate a strong relationship with German industry and intensify these ties where necessary. Local content, both in Germany and in Poland, is of particular importance when it comes to procuring indirect materials and services, which are only indirectly related to our products. This category covers a wide variety of different goods and services. In 2015, MTU Maintenance procured commercial maintenance materials from a total of 416 suppliers worldwide. Purchasing volume in 2015 (in million euros), by region GRI G4 -12 140 Germany 299 213 Other Western European 14 countries Production material 6 Eastern Europe 17 Indirect material 1,514 25 Israel 0 56 Asia 0 350 1,063 North America 20 11 Mexico 0 Purchasing volume of production materials and indirect materials by the OEM (new and replacement parts) and MRO (maintenance) business units at the European locations 33 Economics • 2.3 Supply chain Sustainability in the supply chain audited on a recurrent basis concerning quality We have established a binding Code of Conduct and reliability. In 2015, MTU’s purchasing and for Suppliers that forms the basis of all contracts quality control teams carried out a total of 344 with our suppliers. It defines the social and enaudits on the main suppliers to the company’s vironmental standards we require them to obEuropean sites, including local inspections and serve, which are identical to those we apply oursurveys. In the reporting period, no transactions selves. They include respecting human rights as with suppliers were identified that represent a laid down in international accords, complying significant risk to MTU. Risk assessments are with workplace standards, protecting the environcarried out by the company’s purchasing experts. ment and warding off corruption. The Code of If any such risks should be discovered, the apConduct for Suppliers is based on the ten principroval of the supplier in question may be withples of the UN Global Compact and is a fixed drawn. In 2015, no business relationships were element of all contracts. Each contract signed terminated on the grounds of non-compliance by a supplier includes the commitment to abide with sustainability or similar requirements. by these principles. The Code of Conduct for Suppliers plays an important role in integrating Transparency in the supply chain sustainability issues in the procurement process. MTU’s commitment to sustainability includes a We expect our suppliers to communicate MTU’s transparent value chain that excludes the use of standards to their own supply chains and take conflict minerals. We never deliberately purchase measures to ensure that they are complied with. conflict minerals, but they do find their way into our products due to the complex links at the Suspicions that the Code of Conduct may have various levels of our global supply chain. Such been breached can be reported to MTU’s omminerals include tantalum, tin and tungsten, budsman (ombudsmann@mtu.de). Should a which can be found in certain components of supplier be implicated in charges of corruption, engines manufactured by MTU. Conflict minerals extortion, embezzlement or the utilization of child can cause problems for a company with a reslabor in the execution of a contract for MTU, the ponsible procurement policy because many of collaboration agreement will be terminated withthem are mined in countries of Central Africa out notice. If other principles of the code are where the profits of the government-controlled violated, the supplier must demonstrate that mining industry are used to finance armed consuitable corrective measures have been initiated flicts in which human rights are not respected. and implemented and must guarantee this in According to the provisions of the Dodd-Frank writing. No accusations of possible breaches of Act applicable to companies listed on stock the Code of Conduct were reported during the exchanges in the United States, MTU’s American period under review. MTU reserves the right to partners have the right to demand that MTU carry out on-the-spot audits to verify compliance reveals the origin of conflict minerals used in the with the Code of Conduct. manufacture of the modules and components it supplies as a subcontractor, and limits its More information • on the content of the Code of Conduct for Suppliers: www.mtu.de Risk management and assessment MTU prefers to build on long-term relationships with its suppliers. Around 85 percent of the materials it procures are based on contracts with a term of two or more years. All suppliers are vetted before being accepted as a member of MTU’s supply chain. In the course of this approval process, the supplier is required to voluntarily provide relevant information and officially agree to comply with the code of conduct. To cover the environmental aspects, we demand proof of certification to standards such as ISO 14001. The guidelines concerning the approval of suppliers are currently being revised with a view to placing greater emphasis on verification From a new logistics center at the Munich location, of compliance with environmental requirements. purchasers are able to manage incoming and outgoing goods from a central hub. Existing contracts with suppliers are regularly 34 Economics • 2.3 Supply chain A large part of the added value comes from suppliers. Collaboration has led to the implementation of sustainability standards. sources to mining companies and primary-alloy More information producers included in the CFS Compliant Smel• on the Compliant Smelter List: ter List. www.conflictfreesourcing.org • on the Dodd-Frank Act: www.gpo.gov In turn, MTU demands that its suppliers should reveal the origin of any conflict minerals they might use, in order to ensure that the value chain contains only conflict-free raw materials beyond the direct supply stage. MTU’s procurement guidelines require suppliers to provide information of the source of minerals in accordance with the EICC/GeSi Conflict Minerals Reporting Standard. To date, no infractions have come to the knowledge of MTU that infringe on the principles of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Code of Conduct for Suppliers moreover prohibits the use of child labor. MTU reserves the right to terminate any contract with a supplier using child labor to manufacture products supplied to MTU, without prior notice. In the reporting period, no suppliers were identified as presenting a risk with respect to the use of forced or child labor. For the first time in 2016, our purchasing staff will be offered training in the compliance aspects of supplier management. In this way, we aim to increase their awareness of the possible risks On average, some 75 percent of commercial engine components are outsourced. associated with the supply chain and help them to minimize such risks. 35 3 Product Responsibility In a time of limited resources, globalization and climate change, we are committed to sustainable mobility. For us that means developing engines that are more efficient, quieter and safer while producing fewer emissions. Because this represents the greatest contribution we can make to the sustainable growth of the economy and society at large, product responsibility is one of our most important objectives within corporate responsibility. We develop sustainable products. Developers from the various engineering disciplines at MTU were involved in designing the high-speed low-pressure turbine. The turbine is a key component of the geared turbofan, an engine that makes takeoff considerably quieter, cleaner and more fuel-efficient. 36 We understand our product responsibility in the These areas of focus are of the utmost imporbroadest sense, encompassing development, tance in the materiality matrix, which represents manufacture and repairs in all applications, prorelevant sustainability topics for MTU and its cesses and systems. Through responsible sourcstakeholders, together with long-term value creing, we can also monitor the upstream value ation. In addition, eco-efficiency is enshrined in chain. The material aspects in our vision of prothe MTU Principles as the principle of sustainduct responsibility are able product development, including reduced fuel consumption, noise emissions and pollu• Product quality tants. These Principles also put forth our high • Product safety expectations for quality. Innovations are strate• Fuel efficiency of products gically important to MTU as a recognized tech• Exhaust emissions of products nology leader in its core competencies of low• Noise emissions of products pressure turbines, high-pressure compressors, • Innovations repair processes and production methods. The company embraces environmental aspects of product responsibility as part of its overarching Clean Air Engine agenda, which includes a climate strategy for achieving tiered climate protection goals by 2050. Clean Air Engine also embodies the company’s objectives for reducing fuel consumption and engine noise. We use a comprehensive innovation and technology management system to ensure that research work is highly focused and continuously aligned with corporate objectives. At the center of our efforts is the geared turbofan, an engine concept that we co-developed. Having spent the last few decades preparing it for market launch, we intend to use it as a platform to achieve our sustainable product goals. Flawless quality and safe operation of MTU products over the entire lifecycle are the cornerstones for business operations in product development, manufacture and repair. Using a quality management system, MTU ensures compliance with all statutory regulations and relevant standards within the aviation industry. More information • about the materiality matrix: Chapter 1.1 Sustainability strategy • about Clean Air Engine: 3.1 Innovation management, 3.3 Climate strategy, 3.4 Aircraft noise 37 Product Responsibility • 3.1 Innovation management 3.1 Innovation management MTU’s technologies distinguish themselves by being highly innovative. In our role as a global high-tech firm and technology leader within the aviation industry, innovations are essential for our business success, and so form a pillar of corporate strategy. At MTU, we conduct exhaustive research. We are involved in roughly 150 technology projects, Investment in product and technology which we methodically align with our objectives. development (in EUR m) The needs of current and planned engine proGRI G4-EN31 grams determine the shortto medium-term technology developments while all long-term tech2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 nology developments are dictated by the Clean 261.9 Air Engine agenda. In 2015, 210 million euros 241.4 were spent on research and development, which 210.0 193.2 195.3 represented 4.7 percent of revenues. MTU has maintained that level for years. Our system of intellectual property management ensures that we protect our technological expertise. We file more than 400 patents each year. Total research and development costs At the end of 2015, the MTU patent portfolio Research and development costs relating encompassed 2,947 property rights, primarily in to eco-efficiency goals the technology areas of manufacturing, compressors and turbines. Approximately 1,000 emThe majority of MTU’s investment in the developployees work directly in engineering worldwide. ment of new technologies and engines goes toward saving fuel and reducing weight. This directly imThe company maintains its own research departproves the environmental performance of new MTU ment, which works hand in hand with product products, as it reduces emissions of CO2 and other development. pollutants. Special technology programs and developments focus on reducing noise. Long-term technology developments come before product developments and are generally the result of national or European research projects. In addition, MTU operates a national network in One important research project during the Germany comprising joint research ventures with reporting period was Clean Sky. MTU played a select universities on certain topics. We have major role in the European Commission’s largestimplemented a defined technology process to ever aviation research program. Over 600 partdevelop innovative products and methods. ners are collaborating on new technologies to improve the industry’s environmental performance. With SAGE 4 (Sustainable And Green Engines), MTU has taken on responsibility for one Environmentally friendly materials of five Clean Sky engine demonstrators, which One example of MTU’s highly innovative work is the new material was tested at the company at the end of 2015. titanium aluminide (TiAl), which MTU experts developed with its Previously, aviation experts had developed new partners as a lightweight material for blades that can withstand high innovative drive technologies and incorporated temperatures. Titanium aluminide combines the properties of metals them into the demonstrator. The goal is to show and ceramics, reducing blade weight by half while maintaining the that weight-saving construction methods, designs same reliability and service life. A lighter engine directly impacts and materials are at an advanced stage. In 2016, fuel efficiency and, by extension, CO2 emissions. The new material is MTU will provide a detailed analysis of the test used in the geared turbofan’s high-speed low-pressure turbine, which results before Clean Sky 1 comes to an end at is subject to high temperatures and pressures. Materials engineers the close of the year. At the same time, MTU is are currently working on further applications and improvements to preparing for its successor program, Clean Sky 2, titanium aluminide, which has been part of series production since in which demonstrators will again be tested by 2015 in the PW1100G-JM for the Airbus A320neo. 2020 for the purpose of trying out new technologies. 38 Product Responsibility •3.2 Fuel efficiency MTU’s participation in EU research programs More information (selection) • about MTU’s technology programs and joint • Clean Sky, Clean Sky2 research ventures: www.mtu.de • Enoval • about joint ventures between MTU and • Lemcotec universities/centers of excellence: Chapter • E-Break 6.1 Science & education • ULTIMATE (new) 3.2 Fuel efficiency Climate change and scarcity of resources mean that aircraft engines have to use less energy. To reduce fuel consumption, further improvements can be made to the aircraft gas turbine design. MTU is actively engaged in several efforts to do so. The technical foundation is the geared turbofan. Aircraft engine development focuses mostly on energy efficiency—in other words, reducing fuel Energy-efficiency objectives* of the consumption in flight. Saving fuel not only miniStrategic Research and Innovation mizes the use of limited resources, but also sigAgenda (SRIA) nificantly reduces the operating costs of airlines. GRI G4-EN7 Kerosene fuel accounts for around 30 percent of these costs. In addition, energy efficiency is SRIA SRIA SRIA also crucial to the aviation industry’s environ2020 2035 2050 mental performance because fuel consumption and CO2 emissions are directly proportional to -20 % -30 % -43 %** each other. When less kerosene is burned in flight, the airplane has less impact on the environment. This allows the airlines to accommo-43 % date their passengers’ growing environmental awareness. -60 % -75 % The efficiency of aircraft engines has improved by 45 percent since the 1960s, and additional efficiency increases are in the works. By adopting the new Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda (SRIA), European firms and research Total fuel reduction institutions are striving to reduce air-traffic fuel including engine consumption, goals which MTU is vigorously supporting as part of its Clean Air Engine agenda. * Changes compared to 2000, per passenger kilometer **While also improving airplane and engine 39 Product Responsibility • 3.2 Fuel efficiency Orders for airplanes and engines are based on a • Successful maiden flight of the Mitsubishi service life of 20 years, so the current low price Regional Jet using the PW1200G of oil will have no impact on how engine manu• Approval of the Airbus A320neo with facturers develop their products or on what longPW1100G-JM by aviation authorities in Europe term decisions airlines will make for their fleets. (EASA) and the United States (FAA) Investments in new, eco-efficient airplanes con• Approval of the Bombardier CSeries with the tinue to be an economical course of action for PW1500G by the Canadian aviation authority customers. Engine manufacturers are also making upgrades Greater thrust efficiency, higher thermal efficiento products already in service. The improved cy, and improvements to component efficiency— version of the V2500 for short-haul and mediumall of which MTU is currently working on—can haul aircraft, the V2500SelectOne, consumes result in greater energy efficiency for the engine. 1 percent less fuel while the V2500SelectTwo The new generation of geared turbofans already consumes 1.5 percent less. Both have a 20 perfeatures 15 percent less fuel consumption than cent longer operating time on the wing. the previous model. By putting a transmission between the turbofan and low-pressure turbine, More information engineers have created high bypass ratios for • about Clean Air Engine: Chapter 3.3 MTU’s high thrust efficiency. This allows both compoclimate strategy nents to operate at an optimal rotational speed • about the PW1000G geared turbofan engine with greater efficiency, reducing the number of family: www.mtu.de low-pressure turbine stages and, by extension, weight. Having developed this new concept together with Pratt & Whitney, MTU is now delivering the high-speed low-pressure turbine and front section of the high-pressure compressor as core components. In 2015, we achieved the following milestones on the path to industrial-scale production: Geared turbofan technology has been selected to power the new Mitsubishi Regional Jet, A320neo and CSeries (clockwise). 40 Product Responsibility • 3.3 MTU’s climate strategy 3.3 MTU’s climate strategy As a transportation company, we are working on solutions to combat climate change. We have adopted a climate strategy in which we are actively collaborating on reducing the carbon footprint of air traffic. Our products put us in an optimum position to make a difference, because the lion’s share of CO2 emissions is produced during the service life of aircraft engines, which can last several decades. In addition, we plan to improve the net CO2 impact in production by taking appropriate actions. Climate change is one of the greatest global challenges of our time. It is generally accepted that CO2 emissions caused by human activity are largely responsible for global warming, and that the increasing mobility of the human population is a contributing factor. Global air traffic also contributes to CO2 emissions. In light of the fact that industry analysts predict that the aviation sector will grow by 5 percent each year until at least 2020, the aviation industry has set specific targets to reduce its impact on the environment. MTU is committed to these targets and aims to meet them by designing engine components that in the medium term will help the aviation industry to grow without increasing its CO2 emissions, and reduce them in the long term. Our responsibility to protect the planet is anchored in our MTU Principles, where we state our commitment to reducing emissions and limiting consumption of natural resources and energy. These Principles apply in equal measure to our products and our production process. More information • about climate protection measures in production: Chapter 4.1 Energy management, The PW1000G in flight testing: Geared turbofan technology is the technological 4.2 Emissions underpinning of our product climate strategy. Our climate change strategy will enable us to gain a decisive edge over our competitors. This is because engines with a smaller carbon foot“When it comes to climate protection, we print consume less fuel and thus help reduce want to be the forerunner. That’s why customers’ costs. The proof that our assessment we have set ourselves an ambitious goal: is correct comes in the form of our new product, aircraft engines that emit 40 percent less the geared turbofan: it is already a success story. CO2 by 2050.” More than 7,000 orders and options were in hand by the end of 2015, right before market launch. Michael Schreyögg Member of the Executive Board In addition, the strategy will help us meet the CO2 Chief Program Officer requirements defined by the International Civil Aviation Organization ICAO, which will become mandatory in 2020. 41 Product Responsibility • 3.3 MTU’s climate strategy Overview of aviation emissions carbon dioxide, CO 2 acts as greenhouse gas nitrogen oxide, NO X leads to formation of ozone, O3 leads to breakdown of methane, CH 4 water vapour, H2O acts as greenhouse gas sulfur dioxide SO 2 form contrails and possibly cirrus hydrocarbons, HC clouds, depending on climatic and soot, C geographical conditions Source: BDL Aviation changes our climate by generating car• Contrails/cirrus clouds are created at high bon dioxide (CO2) and nitrogen oxide (NOX) altitudes under certain meteorological condiemissions and producing cirrus clouds and contions. Modifying flight routes or flying at a trails. CO2 emissions have the greatest impact lower altitude can have an impact, but that is on climate while NOX emissions are the biggest a job for air traffic management. pollutant in a group that also includes carbon monoxide (CO), unburned hydrocarbons and The main leverage point for MTU consists in soot. reducing CO2 emissions through eco-efficient compressors and turbines. As the combustion • CO2 emissions have already fallen by 70 perchamber is not part of the company’s standard cent per passenger kilometer over the past product portfolio, emissions of NOX, CO, hydro50 years. Higher bypass and overall pressure carbons and soot during flight lie outside MTU’s ratios in engines have been the greatest facsphere of influence. tor at roughly 45 percent. • Pollutants are produced when kerosene is burned in the combustion chamber. But new designs can reduce this. Emissions of these pollutants are subject to the ICAO’s legally binding specifications for engines. Climate targets* of the Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda (SRIA) ACARE 2020** SRIA 2020 SRIA 2035 SRIA 2050 CO2-emissions, air traffic -50 % -43 % -60 % -75 % CO2-emissions, engine -20 % -20 % -30 % -43%*** NOX-emissions, mostly engine -80% — -84 % -90 % * Changes compared to 2000, per passenger kilometer ** By way of comparison: original ACARE 2020 targets 32 *** While also improving airplane and engine 42 Product Responsibility • 3.3 MTU’s climate strategy Climate protection goals pressure ratios and temperatures. Such actions By adopting the Strategic Research and Innovaare intended to reduce the carbon footprint by tion Agenda (SRIA), the European aviation indus25 percent. To that end, MTU will improve its try and research community has committed itself high-speed low-pressure turbine using new techto ambitious savings targets for air traffic. nologies such as lightweight high-temperature and ceramic materials. Technologies for highThe International Air Transport Association (IATA), pressure compressors with an extremely high the world’s leading airline representative body, pressure ratio are necessary for the high total has formulated equally demanding targets. pressure ratio. The engine is expected around 2030 in time for the next generation of aircraft. Clean Air Engine 2050 As part of its preliminary design work, MTU is Our climate strategy reflects the voluntary comworking on these projects over a broad range of mitment under SRIA, and we consider its targets research activities and initiatives like Clean Sky. to be binding. Through Clean Air Engine, MTU has initiated an ambitious three-stage model for Stage 3: 2050 climate protection in which engines for future In the third and final stage of Clean Air Engine, passenger aircraft will produce 40 percent fewer entirely new concepts will be put into practice, CO2 emissions by 2050. such as integrated and distributed fans to increase thrust efficiency or highly efficient heat Stage 1: 2015 engines. The latter combine gas turbines with In the first stage, a geared turbofan will reduce piston engines for extremely high pressures and CO2 emissions by about 15 percent. The new entemperatures, or recuperate energy from exhaust gine design, incorporated in the Airbus A320neo gas using heat exchangers. The goal is to enable (neo stands for new engine option), was brought a 40 percent CO2 reduction. We have already to market in early 2016. Stage 1 was therefore begun initial studies to examine these concepts, completed on schedule. The geared turbofan has and they should be ready for mass production also been chosen to appear in other new aircraft by 2050. models, which will be rolled out in phases for volume production by 2020. As an integral part of our research activities, we regularly compile interim reports in which we Stage 2: 2030 compare our progress to our objectives and Stage 2 of Clean Air Engine will involve refining measure our goal attainment. We are currently the geared turbofan. Engineers want to increase on schedule with all Clean Air Engine agenda the bypass ratio even more and improve thermal projects and already have achieved set goals. efficiency of the core engine by means of higher Clean Air Engine (Claire) GRI G4-EN27 Entry into Propulsion Core engine Service component Stage 1 2015 Geared turbofan Gas turbine -15 % Geared Turbofan bypass ratio ~ 12 overall pressure ratio ~ 50 Stage 2 2030 Geared turbofan Gas turbine -25 % Ultra-High Bypass Ratio bypass ratio 15-20 overall pressure ratio Engine up to 70 Stage 3 2050 Integrated engine Highly efficient heat -40% Integrated Ultra Efficient low specific thrust exchanger Engine CO2 emissions 43 Product Responsibility • 3.3 MTU’s climate strategy Alternative fuels MTU actively promotes efforts to spread the use Sustainably sourced fuels constitute another imof biofuels, e.g. through Bauhaus Luftfahrt, field portant approach in efforts to reduce aviationtests, or the Aviation Initiative for Renewable induced CO2 emissions. Compared to ground Energy in Germany (aireg e.V.). The latter was traffic, however, their use in aviation is heavily established by MTU along with airlines, manurestricted: to factor in range, they must have a facturers and research organizations to bring very high energy density, a low freezing point— together all relevant activities and technical extemperatures of -50°C at cruising altitude are pertise in Germany. In 2015, MTU experts met typical—and for safety reasons, a high flashpoint. with important stakeholder groups at an aireg conference to discuss the use of alternative fuels. The decisive factors determining CO2 reduction are the base substances and the manufacturing Researchers are still at the beginning stages processes used to produce these fuels. Bio-based in their effort to develop an economical way to fuels absorb the same amount of CO2 from the change aviation energy policy. Several secondatmosphere while the biomass is growing as they generation biofuels have currently been approved release again during combustion, permitting sigfor flight operations, so-called drop-in fuels nificant CO2 reductions compared to conventionhaving the same properties as conventional keral kerosene. However, the crops involved must osene. They can be used in all aircraft and at all not have a negative impact on food production airports. or compromise biodiversity. Such problems can be addressed by selecting suitable species. Sustainable alternative fuels (drop-in fuels): Base substances and manufacturing processes Power Hydroprocessing to liquid of oil (HEFA) Kerosene Electricity and CO2+H2O Sun to liquid Oleaginous fruits Solar heat and CO2+H2O Waste Alcohol Biomass to liquid to jet to liquid Hydrocarbons from plastic waste Starch/sugar (ligno)cellulosic material Source: Bauhaus Luftfahrt 44 Product Responsibility • 3.3 MTU’s climate strategy One futuristic aircraft concept is the Claire Liner (to be seen here a model of its engine, the Clean Air Engine-Claire)-developed by Bauhaus Luftfahrt, a think tank in which MTU is involved. Synthetic fuels represent a long-term alternative passenger airplane like the A320. Fundamental to biofuels. MTU is part of the SolarJet project, advances in the efficiency of batteries and elecwhich is in the process of establishing the printric engines are still needed to achieve this. ciples for making solar kerosene. This would Electric drive systems with battery and electric allow the production of aviation fuel directly from engine are now available for motor gliders and solar energy in desert areas—without competing small aircraft. If batteries continue to advance with the food supply. The project was awarded at the same pace, short-range regional aircraft the first aireg award for innovative energy techmight be possible in 30 years. But at present nologies in aviation in 2015. there are no known battery concepts that would be appropriate for medium-haul and long-haul In the InnoTreib project, established by the Geraircraft. Hybrid drive concepts consisting of a man Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and gas turbine with a generator and electric fans, by Energy and supported by MTU, researchers are contrast, are opening up completely new possitrying to develop “designer” fuels that are better bilities for lowering aircraft resistance. MTU is than today’s kerosene: higher energy densities now testing these drive concepts as an integral for greater range or reduced emissions by means part of the Clean Air Engine stage 3 technology of a lower percentage of aromatic compounds. agenda. For these “near-drop-in” fuels, the combustion chamber and the fuel system of the engine must More information also generally be overhauled. • www.bauhaus-luftfahrt.net • www.aireg.de MTU is also closely following the issue of electric • www.solar-jet.aero flight. We believe that current technical capabilities are still several decades away from being able to support electric flight on the scale of a 45 Product Responsibility • 3.4 Aircraft noise 3.4 Aircraft noise Aircraft noise plays a key role in society’s acceptance of air traffic. Because the engine is one source of aircraft noise, we are using new technologies to reduce the noise emissions from our components. The noise that aircraft produce also contributes 2018. The new standard will be 7 EPNdB (cumuto the environmental impact. Engines produce latively) below the current stage 4. Furthermore, the most noise during takeoff, and most of this at almost every airport in the world, the fees comes from the fan and airflow. The aircraft charged for landing and takeoff are dependent itself is also a noticeable source of noise because on the noise generated by the aircraft. These of turbulence generated at the fuselage, wings policies are putting more and more restrictions and landing gear. Since the 1960s, aircraft noise on the operation of noisy planes. has been reduced by about 17 EPNdB (Effective Perceived Noise Decibels); that is equivalent to Engines in which MTU is involved are always around 70 percent. The main reason for this is among the quietest on the market, coming in engines with ever higher bypass ratios. Aircraft significantly below the legally prescribed limits. and their engines must meet the noise emissions Noise reduction is an active goal for MTU engilimits set down by the International Civil Aviation neering. Every time MTU redesigns or optimizes Organization (ICAO) as part of the certification an engine, it incorporates measures designed to process. A new noise standard (stage 5) is curreduce noise. Our team of acoustics experts is rently in preparation and will come into effect in involved in every stage of product design. The Development of aircraft and engine noise emissions in comparison to the ICAO limits (stages 2-5) GRI G4-EN27 12 Stage 2 10 B737-200 Noise level (cumulative margin in EPNdB)* 8 JT8D 6 4 Stage 3 B747-100 JT9D 2 A300B3 CF6-50 A320-211 CFM56 Stage 4 0 A310-304 CF6-80 B737-800 2 A320-231 V2500 CFM56 Stage 5 4 A340-500 Trent 560 A340-500 Trent 972 A321neo PW1133G 6 A380 GP7000 8 Cut perceived 10 noise levels in half SRIA 2035 12 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 Year of aircraft certification * calculated from the sum of the individual measurement results (approach, side, flyover) 46 Product Responsibility • 3.4 Aircraft noise Engines from the MTU product portfolio: even on their entry into service, the V2500 (left) and CF6-80 (middle) came in beneath the limit imposed by the Chapter 4 noise standard, which was in force at the time. V2500 for the A320 family and the GP7000 for Thus the Clean Air Engine agenda is already a the A380 represented significant advances when major success for us in just the first stage. And they came onto the market. Both the V2500 and future generations of the geared turbofan will the GP7000 are below stage 4 while the four-enbe quieter still: our goal is to cut noise by up to gine A380 is even below the upcoming stage 5. 50 percent by 2030 and 65 percent by 2050. The brand-new geared turbofan engine PW1000G Through Clean Air Engine, we are supporting the in particular significantly reduces noise comSRIA goals of reducing aviation noise by 55 perpared to its predecessor (40 percent), putting it cent by 2035 and by 65 percent by 2050 (most well below stage 5. Because the fan is large and goals are intended for the engine). decoupled and rotates slowly, the geared turbofan becomes much quieter. MTU’s high-speed low-pressure turbine turns three times faster than a conventional turbine. As a result it does not generate the low-frequency noise that is so poorly absorbed in the atmosphere. The geared turbofan’s noise footprint (the distribution of aircraft noise in the area surrounding an airport) is reduced by 70 percent. 47 Product Responsibility • 3.5 Product quality and safety 3.5 Product quality and safety Quality and safety are the utmost priority in aviation. The law requires safe flight operations. As one of the world’s largest subsystem providers in the aircraft engine market, we guarantee fault-free quality and fail-safe operation over the entire lifecycle of our products. We examine our engine modules for their impact Each and every part in the engine must be apon health and safety throughout the entire lifeproved. Our principle is that “Safety takes prioricycle-development, production and operation. Acty in what we do,” which is why we use only cordingly, we cover all major stages of a product’s approved, fault-free and clearly identifiable comservice life 100 percent. MTU’s experts incorpoponents. This refers to parts that have been aprate all safety and environmental requirements proved by the appropriate aviation authority, are for aviation products as legally mandated by the based on approved development documentation industry’s regulatory authorities. Such regulatory and have been produced or overhauled in comrequirements must be met in the early stages of pliance with aviation regulatory processes by a planning new engines for later use, followed by certified company. Moreover, the aviation sector testing to document compliance. This includes has strict rules governing documentation in order being able to guarantee safe operation during a to verify the airworthiness of components and bird strike or hailstorm and complying with strict engines. There must be no gaps in documentalimits on pollutants and noise emissions. MTU tion, which means that the entire product lifecomponents frequently exceed aviation authority cycle must be traceable. We adhere to this prinrequirements. In addition, the manufacture of ciple at each stage of the production process. We engine parts and modules in production halls have adopted internal policies on the handling meets all required standards concerning occuand storing of documents, data and records in pational safety and environmental protection. order to meet the requirements of regulatory authorities, partners and customers. Engine safety More information One way to measure the reliability and safety of aircraft engines is • about MTU’s certifications www.mtu.de the in-flight shutdown rate (IFSD). This figure indicates how often the engine was forced to switch off per flight hour. Engines nowadays achieve a 5x10-6 IFSD rate per flight hour, meaning that an engine has to have been switched off once for every 200,000 flight hours. In other words, the pilot of a two-engine airplane has to switch off an engine once in the span of a hundred years. The reliability of aircraft engines has improved by a factor of 10. Certifications MTU has all the requisite approvals and certifications from national aviation authorities to develop, manufacture and maintain flight-ready engine parts and modules. An integrated management system (IMS) certified under EN9100 guarantees compliance with laws and regulations and clear assignment of responsibilities within the company. Corporate Quality is a separate department directly subordinate to the Chief Operating Officer (COO) and reporting quarterly to the Executive Board. In the aviation sector, the entire product lifecycle must be seamlessly documented to provide transparency. 48 Product Responsibility • 3.5 Product quality and safety Monitoring We have implemented comprehensive monitoring and testing processes to ensure compliance with quality and safety requirements. Monitoring takes place throughout the entire value chain. Stringent audit, review and gating procedures are well established across all product phases. In addition, the airplane manufacturer and the airlines conduct field tests on all specifications independent of the manufacturer’s own data. Safety-critical components (engine components are categorized into various safety classes) are subjected to particularly rigorous testing, for example using non-destructive ultrasound and x-ray examination methods. Each component goes through different testing stations during the course of the production process to check that it is being manufactured in precise accordance with set tolerances and to release it for more added value. Manufacturing to the highest quality standards is not merely enormously important for safety reasons, but also for economic ones. MTU employs high-tech testing techniques to guarantee the quality and Engine components increase in value throughout safety of its components. the course of their production, which means a lot of capital is tied up. inspection department, where we examine them Strict requirements also apply to materials. Failusing a wide variety of technical methods before safe materials are a basic prerequisite for aviation releasing them for further processing. Each supsafety. We employ a comprehensive testing plier must be approved by MTU and is routinely program involving test builds and series tests to audited by MTU’s quality controllers. verify safe flight operation. All engine components, including all materials we use, must be More information approved by the aviation authorities. • about supplier management: Chapter 2.3 Supply chain We comply with our customers’ requirements, regulations and laws as well as internal standards throughout the entire production process. Aviation authorities conduct compliance audits to “We guarantee high quality and strictly monitor any engine we manufacture, and safety in all our engine programs. the customer routinely performs both internal Thanks to innovative technologies, and external audits. Audits at all MTU sites we can constantly work on making ensure that our standards are upheld worldwide. our products more efficient, cleaner In 2015, we carried out 468 audits containing and quieter.” quality aspects at the Munich, Hannover, Berlin and Rzeszów locations. In addition, we passed Dr. Rainer Martens 92 audits conducted by customers and certificaMember of the Executive Board tion bodies. In 2015, there were also no breaches Chief Operating Officer of statutory regulations in connection with the purchase or operation of our products, nor were any fines imposed on MTU. We have equally high expectations of the quality provided by our suppliers and their vendor-supplied parts. As soon as any finished or unfinished parts arrive they must pass through our goods 49 Product Responsibility • 3.5 Product quality and safety Sustainable product lifecycle During development, production, use and disposal, we test and evaluate the environmental and safety impact over the entire lifecycle of an aircraft engine. Development is the most important thing. Our mission in any collaboration is to design every new engine so that it is more fuel-efficient, less polluting, and quieter than its predecessor. Development: Aircraft engines can spend up to 30 years in service. This extremely long service life is a design specification, meaning that during product development, the service life of each component is made to match that of the engine. By developing new technologies and materials, MTU has extended—in some cases, doubled—the service life of these life-limited parts. MTU’s ERCoateco erosion protection for compressor blades and vanes also extends service life in desert regions while cutting fuel consumption by making these blades wear-resistant. In 2015, MTU introduced a new method to provide corrosion protection for combustion chambers. The patented thermal layer lasts twice as long. Service life: Generally, an engine will complete between Special surface treatments, such as plating, protect against wear and extend service life. 20,000 and 30,000 flight hours before it is taken off the wing and has to be given its first overhaul. MTU Maintenance has developed its own innovative repair processes, which gives it capabilities that are unique worldwide. This translates Sustainable lifecycle into increased material efficiency and resources saved. MTU is continually expanding this repair Lifecycle Actions capability by developing the special processes Development • Clean Air Engine required for it. MTU offers MTUPlus Engine Trend Production • Environmental management Monitoring for efficient and therefore eco-friendly • Additive manufacturing and safe operation in flight. • Sustainability standards for suppliers Service life • MTUPlus Engine Trend Monitoring As a result of non-stop in-flight monitoring of • MTUPlus Repairs operating parameters, the system can warn of Recycling • MTUPlus Mature Engine Solutions any malfunctions or drop in engine performance so that appropriate repair work can be undertaken at an earlier stage. This reduces damage to materials. applications. Recyclers melt down the remaining materials, for instance, and alloy manufacturers Recycling: put them back into circulation as metals. As a High prices for titanium and nickel, plus some vendor, MTU has no direct influence over the alloying elements such as platinum and rhenium, scrapping of engines, which is carried out by make engines very valuable, so that they are specialist companies. For older engines, we offer almost fully reused in different ways at the end our customers tailored solutions for disassemof their service life. Components that have not bling and recycling components. yet reached the end of their maximum service life are reused as spare parts. Certain materials can also be directly employed in non-aviation 50 Product Responsibility • 3.5 Product quality and safety Customer orders in Hannover will now be processed with even more speed and flexibility. Customer satisfaction pricing. In turn, we use the feedback to further Customer satisfaction is a key metric for product improve our performance and to position ourquality. It is also important to a company’s longselves even more closely in line with our custerm success. In our new engines and spare tomers’ wishes. Thanks to the voice of the cusparts business (OEM segment), we achieved an tomer survey, we can identify areas where there on-time delivery rate of 93 percent. In 2016, we is room for improvement and take suitable action. expect to increase this rate to 96 percent. We Our goal is to constantly increase levels of cusalso hope to be recognized again in 2016 with tomer satisfaction so that we can remain comthe Supplier Gold Award from our OEM partner petitive. Adopting the slogan “Customer first— Pratt & Whitney, which is given every two years. better every day!” we initiated forward-looking discussions as part of the Response program MTU Maintenance offers maintenance and addiat the Hannover location in 2015. This will allow tional services for aircraft engines and industrial us to handle customer orders even faster and gas turbines. Most of its customers are airlines, more flexibly than ever by implementing greater leasing companies and energy producers. To standardization across the entire engine product deliver customer care, MTU Maintenance uses a range. customer relationship management system. One important component of the system is the “voice of the customer” survey, which measures current customer satisfaction. The survey takes place once a quarter for all important sites and products. Through voice of the customer, each customer has the option of providing regular feedback about product quality, service, logistics and 51 4 Environmental protection Climate change and the scarcity of resources are global challenges we must meet as a manufacturing company. Our response is based around energy-efficient production that minimizes emissions and raw material consumption so that we can make our ecological footprint as small as possible. We employ sustainable manufacturing. MTU’s manufacturing experts have successfully implemented additive manufacturing techniques in industrial engine manufacture. The advantage of 3D printing is its high level of material efficiency that conserves resources. 52 Environmental protection is an important prinThe most significant way we can help protect ciple guiding our corporate behavior and, as the environment is by means of ecologically such, is implemented in our business processes. efficient products. Through our climate strategy, It is enshrined in our Code of Conduct and in we are reducing the amount of climate-affectthe MTU Principles, and it is established in our ing CO2 emissions produced during the service annual corporate goals and in a dedicated prolife of our products. gram of environmental measures. More information Our sense of environmental responsibility en• about product climate protection: compasses product development, manufacturing Chapter 3.3 MTU’s climate strategy and repair. For MTU, the following are key elements of our environmental management apMTU’s energy-efficient approach to manufacturproach for manufacturing and repairs: ing and maintenance minimizes emissions and the consumption of raw materials. Our minimum • Energy demand standard is the observance of statutory regula• Emissions tions and the requirements of machinery and • Water/waste water installation licenses. We ensure this by means • Waste/recycling of regular measurements and calculations. Also, • Material efficiency we keep neighborhood noise pollution from the operation of our engine test rigs below the officially prescribed limits. The test rigs are fitted with sophisticated soundproofing equipment. We use resources such as raw materials, energy and water sparingly. This also has the effect of reducing our energy costs. We are aware that the use of resources—and therefore emissions and consumption—are dependent on production capacity utilization. As numerous new engine programs ramp up, we are seeing an increase in manufacturing volumes. In spite of this, we are working to ensure that energy consumption, and therefore emissions, do not rise proportionately. We treat waste and discharge waste water properly and in accordance with legal requirements. MTU pursues a policy of integrated environmental protection, which consists of: • Continuous improvements • Precautionary approach • Employee involvement • Restriction of environmental impact • Careful compliance with statutory limit values and requirements • Processes that use resources and energy sparingly 53 Environmental protection • Management approach Environmental protection investment and expenditure (in Euros) GRI G4-EN31 2015 Waste management Use of renewable 740,980 energy 102,000 Total Nature and landscape 2,230,476 conservation 34,000 Soil remediation Air pollution control 9,722 159,100 Water protection 1,184,674 2014 Waste management Use of renewable 901,375 energy* 851,341 Total Nature and landscape 2,857,199 conservation 14,000 Soil remediation Air pollution control 0 145,792 Water protection 944,691 From 2014, we record the data via the sustainability database (*adjusted value); the data refers to MTU’s German locations. We achieve improvements in our energy and cases, they go further than the legal requirecarbon footprints through various measures that ments. The stringent environmental criteria apply involve investments. In 2015, MTU invested a to all divisions and processes and are laid down total of 2.2 million euros in improving the environin documented process flows and special stanmental compatibility of its operating activities dards applying to the company’s production units. (2014: 2.8 million euros). Dedicated environment departments have been set up at MTU’s various sites. Certified environmental management Responsibility for company-wide environmental In addition, the European sites have external protection is assumed by the Board of Managecertifications for environmental management ment. Implementation is carried out through a systems in accordance with ISO 14001 or are certified environmental management system with validated according to the European EMAS high standards that apply consistently throughregulations. MTU’s Berlin site is planning EMAS out the company. All processes, responsibilities validation for 2016. and objectives are defined in the system. Internal standards are binding for MTU’s sites; in many 54 Environmental protection • Management approach The environmental protection management officer holds a senior position within the company’s organizational structure and is responsible for implementing the environmental management system. Individual managers are directly responsible for environmental protection. They are advised and supported in their environmental protection efforts by the relevant specialist departments at their site. More information • about certifications: www.mtu.de Monitoring and assessments Independent external auditors and environmental consultants conduct annual reviews to confirm implementation of and adherence to the applicable environmental protection requirements. This monitoring is supplemented by internal inspections and audits. MTU’s management conducts management reviews to control and steer environmental management in the company and to influence its further development. In 2015, there were no incidents with a negative environmental impact at MTU’s European sites. In such cases, emergency management plans kick in. This includes regular staff drills and instruction on what to do in the event of an emerOn HSE day (Health, Safety and Environment), MTU Maintenance Berlin-Brandenburg gency. MTU has comprehensive fire protection also provides information for employees about environmental topics. measures in place that fulfill all legal directives on fire protection. Moreover, no fines for breaches ors and promotes environmentally conscious of statutory requirements relating to the environbehavior through action days and information ment were levied against the company during campaigns (e.g. Environmental Information Day, the reporting period. Hannover; Trainee Eco Day, Munich; Health, Safety and Environment Day, Berlin). We inform As a principle, MTU acts on a long-term basis in the public annually about our environmental imall divisions and areas of the company. With pacts and environmental management through regard to environmental risks, the company takes statements issued by MTU for its two largest a precautionary approach. As part of our risk sites, Munich and Hannover; from 2016, statemanagement, we carry out regular analyses of ments will also be issued for Berlin. environmental risks at production sites in order to record and avoid them. In our environmental In addition, we promote greater environmental management, we have defined structures and protection in industry and business through our processes and assigned responsibilities. Meanmembership in initiatives such as the following: while, the company’s main production and main• German Environmental Management tenance locations have a certified environmental Association (B.A.U.M.) management system. • Bavarian Environmental Pact • Energy Efficiency Network for Munich and More information Upper Bavaria • about risk management: Annual Report 2015, • UN Global Compact p. 121 ff • CDP • Climate protection agreement among Munich Discussing environmental impacts and businesses management with stakeholders We are in a dialog with our stakeholder groups about MTU’s environmental impacts. The company involves its employees as important stakeholders in its environmental protection endeav55 Environmental protection • 4.1 Energy management 4.1 Energy management We are committed to the principle of efficient energy supply and, in view of increasing resource scarcity, to limiting the raw materials and energy we need to manufacture and repair our engine products. MTU relies on a mix of renewable and non-reMeasures for energy-efficient production newable energy sources and chooses energy • Using well water for cooling purposes resources based on security of supply, cost • Modernizing the district heating network effectiveness and environmental sustainability. • Improving thermal insulation As regards non-renewable primary energy, we • Using building automation systems use natural gas, the aviation fuel kerosene, diesel, • Using heat recovery systems a small amount of heating oil, and an even smaller • Using renewable energy amount of liquefied gas. We use renewable ener• Energy-efficient compressed air supply gy in our cogeneration plant, which runs on • Energy-efficient lighting systems vegetable oil. A solar thermal power plant is in operation at the Hannover site. We also achieve We have implemented a comprehensive energy greater energy efficiency by using the heat genmanagement system, with which we manage erated during production within a site as thermal and control above all the consumption of our energy. main energy sources electricity and natural gas. Because of the new geared turbofan programs (PW1000G engine family), MTU is currently ramping up production, which resulted in higher Energy sources used in 2015 (consumption in MWh and as %) GRI G4-EN3 Natural gas Palm oil 80,136 11,291 27.1 % 3.8 % Diesel Electricity 721 Total energy (external) 0.2 % consumption 118,143 295,921 39.9 % Kerosene 80,622 27.2 % District Heating oil heating 610 4,398 0.2 % 1.5 % Fossil fuels: natural gas, diesel, kerosene, heating oil Non-fossil fuels: palm oil 56 Environmental protection • 4.1 Energy management Energy supply (in MWh) GRI G4-EN3 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Fossil fuels (natural gas, diesel, heating oil, kerosene) 120,815 125,667 143,929 124,539 162,089 Non-fossil fuels (vegetable oil) 9,811 13,631 9,812 10,134 11,291 Electricity, district heating (external) 108,356 107,570 108,362 108,150 118,143 Includes site in Rzeszów, Poland from 2013 onward energy demand in 2015 compared to previous Progress in energy management in 2015 years. Kerosene is used as a fuel for engine tests GRI G4-EN6 on test benches. The consumption of aviation • Green IT: server virtualization for greater fuel fluctuates very strongly and depends on the energy efficiency in data processing (approx. scope of the test run and the size of the engine. 4.3%); server room moved to outside area for For example, the consumption of kerosene at effective cooling MTU’s main site in Munich tripled from 12,000 • Use of waste heat from compressed air MWh in 2014 to 46,000 MWh in 2015 on acgeneration for heating count of a long endurance test on the powerful • Green building: use of energy-saving LED GP7000 engine for the A380. illumination • Reduction of air pressure leaks through use of MTU has no influence on the type and duration ultrasound technology of test runs. By using state-of-the-art computeraided simulation techniques, we are trying to minimize engine development testing. However, all research and development processes still result in a prototype that is tested under real conditions on a test bench. For reasons of knowhow and cost effectiveness, MTU strives to carry out as many of these test runs on its own test benches as possible. Our use of green electricity is determined by the extent to which our suppliers either procure or themselves produce electricity from renewable sources. The proportion of green electricity lies between 29 and 50 percent per site in Germany and 13,5 percent for Rzeszów/Poland. We want to make production processes as energy efficient as possible. 57 Environmental protection • 4.2 Emissions 4.2 Emissions As a manufacturing company, we are committed to energy-efficient processes and climate protection. We want to continuously reduce the airborne emissions produced by manufacturing and repair work in our plants. We measure emissions at our production sites total CO2 emissions. Demand for electricity and in accordance with the international standard of natural gas, which is dependent on production the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. MTU emits utilization capacity, increased during the reportgreenhouse gases that have an effect on the ing period. The rise in CO2 emissions from aviaclimate as defined by the Kyoto Protocol. The tion fuel was caused by the GP7000 endurance following gases come under this definition: cartest. bon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), partially fluorinated hydrocarbons, perfluThe Clean Air Industrial Site (CLAIR-IS) program orinated hydrocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride operates at MTU’s headquarters in Munich. With (SF6). The only one of these relevant to MTU’s the help of this program, we are engaged in emissions is CO2. Our carbon footprint is made reducing the CO2 emissions at the company’s up of direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope largest plant by 25 percent by 2020 (baseline 1) that come from sources owned by the comyear: 1990). In total, we have already saved pany and of indirect greenhouse gas emissions 101,000 tons of CO2. The program also serves (Scope 2) that come from the consumption of as an example of best practice for other MTU bought-in electricity and district heating. sites. In addition, we participate in the new climate protection initiative organized by the city In 2015, electricity accounted for the lion’s share of Munich, whereby large companies undertake of CO2 emissions with 61.7 % (2014: 63 %), folto collectively save at least 40,000 tons of CO2 lowed by aviation fuel, which is used for aircraft emissions by 2017. The initiative starts in 2016. engine test runs, with 19% (2014: 15 %). Natural gas was responsible for 18.5 % (2014: 21 %) of Examples of progress in CO2 emissions in 2015 (Scope 1) GRI G4-EN19 • Use of well water for cooling purposes: roughly 2,115 tons of CO2 CO2 emissions (in t) • Climate-neutral cogeneration plant through GRI G4-EN15, 16 use of renewable energy: roughly 7,400 tons 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 of CO2 • Energy-efficient lighting systems in manuScope 1 facturing halls: roughly 138 tons of CO2 • Switching off machinery during longer interruptions to operations: roughly 945 tons of CO2 26,950 27,401 32,060 27,439 41,754 • Switching off ventilation systems: roughly 31 tons of CO2 Scope 1 • Electric cars in fleet: 330 tons of CO2 biogenic • Conversion of lighting to LED technology: 45 17.1 tons of CO2 emissions (equivalent) • Optimization of ventilation for offices in the Scope 2 interior of buildings (mixture of fresh and from electricity, recirculated air) district heating • Renovation of window fronts and switch to high-speed gates (reducing the amount of 50,884 50,653 58,479 48,426 68,584 heat loss) Scope 1: Includes site in Rzeszów, Poland from 2013 onward; biogen in CO2-equivalents, from 2015, we record the data via the sustainability database Scope 2: 2011-2012 exclude district heating, as of 2015 includes site in Rzeszów/Poland Source for emission factors: ProBas 58 Environmental protection • 4.2 Emissions Through various measures to increase energy efficiency, we achieved total savings of roughly Airborne emissions (in t), Scope 1 and 2 11,000 tons of CO2 emissions across all EuroGRI G4-EN21 pean sites in 2015. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 In 2015 we took part once again in the CDP ratCarbon monoxide ing to increase the transparency of companies’ CO climate data. The international organization, 33 37 38 35 57 which collects and evaluates company data that is relevant to climate protection, recognized Nitric oxide MTU’s efforts in 2015 with a Best Improver in NOX Germany award. 124 118 131 103 155 Transport and logistics We also involve our transport and logistics chain Sulfur dioxide in climate protection. Measures include optiSO2 mizing logistics routes for in-plant transportation and using vehicles with better environmental 23 23 24 21 115 performance. In 2015, we switched our internal mail delivery system in Munich to electric, reFine particles placing two conventional diesel cars with e-Golfs. Furthermore, MTU promotes sustainable com2 2 2 2 7 muting practices among its workforce. Since 2015, we have offered our Munich employees Volatile organic a special discounted “job ticket” for the local compounds VOC* 1.8 public transport network. This offer was already available to staff at our Hannover site, where Includes site in Rzeszów, Poland from 2013 onward; *not all sites recorded since 2016 we have also been developing a conSource for emission factors: ProBas cept to promote e-mobility among employees. Airborne emissions In addition to CO2 emissions, the use of energy is responsible for further airborne emissions. Kerosene, natural gas, electricity and district heating from fossil fuels cause the emission of carbon monoxide, nitric oxide, sulfur dioxide and dust. Once again, the rise in these emissions in 2015 is attributable to the production ramp-up and the GP7000 endurance test. For the year 2015, we also began recording our emission of volatile organic compounds (VOC), which are produced primarily during electroplating processes. As part of our environmental protection, we also want to minimize these emissions. Our emissions in the air and use of resources depend on the type and duration of the engine tests. 59 Environmental protection • 4.3 Water usage 4.3 Water usage Water is a vital natural resource for industry and society in general. Accordingly, we protect water sources and use water efficiently in the manufacture and repair of our products. We also strive to minimize our consumption of water. We use water for manufacturing and maintenance on-site wells. We covered our slightly increased processes and consume drinking water in saniwater demand in 2015 by extracting more well tary facilities and cafeterias and to a small extent water. in production. To reduce our consumption of drinking water, we use well water for cooling proEffective water management systems are in place cesses as well as various water-saving techniques at all European sites. The company’s plants in and process water recirculation. In 2015, we Europe are not located in water-stressed regions. consumed a total of 7.4 million cubic meters of We use recirculated water as much as possible water. Of this, almost 2 percent was drinking in chemical process baths for applying protective water compared to 98 percent groundwater. At coatings to blades and also for the process water our Munich headquarters, MTU increasingly uses in installations for testing component damage. In quarternary groundwater extracted from its own this way, we are able to reuse large volumes of Water consumption and discharge (m3 ) GRI G4-EN8, EN22 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Water consumption (m3 ) Drinking water Groundwater 129,218 134,443 129,822 147,611 147,555 5,112,218 5,786,443 6,373,563 7,103,759 7,393,200 4,983,000 5,652,000 6,243,741 6,956,148 7,245,645 Water intake (m 3 ) Sewer system Surface water Groundwater 179,607 199,297 216,721 1,319,482 150,768 1,442,397 133,489 1,563,758 5,342,607 5,514,297 6,167,713 6,994,127 7,504,852 5,163,000 5,315,000 4,631,510 5,400,962 5,807,605 *Includes site in Rzeszów, Poland from 2013 onward 60 Environmental protection • 4.3 Water usage MTU uses water in its production processes and has implemented an effective water management system at all its European locations. water and have to treat only a small amount of Water quality waste water before discharging it into the muniMTU treats waste water in suitable sewage cipal sewers. Our sustainable water management systems according to the type and extent of also includes the systematic inspection and renpollution. The quality of the discharged waste ovation of the well water and sewer duct netwater complies with the official permits issued works. for the respective location. Strict monitoring ensures that legal limit values are observed. We want to progressively reduce the discharge Water sources are not negatively impacted by of waste water into bodies of water and muniour operating activities. cipal sewers. In 2015, the proportion of water discharged into public sewers decreased from 2.2 percent to 1.8 percent. 61 Environmental protection • 4.4 Material efficiency 4.4 Material efficiency MTU uses raw materials and other materials sparingly in production and maintenance. In our manufacturing and repair methods, we pay attention to efficiency and seek to avoid waste. MTU uses manufacturing and repair methods— methods and is continuously refining its methods. some of which have been developed within the As part of the Clean Sky technology program, company – that are characterized by their high for example, MTU worked on an additively manumaterial efficiency. They include: factured seal carrier for high-pressure compres• Removing coatings by means of water jet sors in 2015. • Laser and electron beam melting • Inductive high-frequency pressure welding With 104 patents relating to additive manufacturing, MTU is among the top 10 patent holders Additive manufacturing worldwide in this field. Additive manufacturing permits the rapid 3D production of very complex components. MTU REACh uses the new additive techniques in its engine Wherever possible, we avoid using environmenmanufacturing. Components are laser-melted tally hazardous materials in our manufacturing directly from a powder bed according to CAD processes and products. According to the Eurodata, which significantly reduces the amounts of pean REACh (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisamaterial used. MTU is already manufacturing its tion and Restriction of Chemicals) regulation, first mass-produced components using additive certain substances of very high concern (SVHCs) containing chromium6+ are subject to authorization from September 2017. Chromium trioxide, ammonium dichromate, sodium dichromate and Material consumption* potassium chromate are the substances used in GRI G4-EN1, EN28 MTU manufacturing processes that are affected 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 by the regulation. For these substances, MTU punctually submitted an authorization application Nickel-base to the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA), and alloys (t) a decision is currently pending. In a project to 1,979 1,732 1,703 2,061 2,020 implement the REACh regulation, we are pushing ahead with the long-term elimination of these Titanium-base and further SVHCs that will require authorization alloys (t) 121 99 128 255 192 after 2017, insofar as possible, either by replacing them or rejecting new authorizations. MTU Consumables and is punctually implementing all provisions of the supplies** EU regulation for protecting employees and the (t) environment. 6,032 5,639 5,474 4,232 11,417 Product recycling With its “repair beats replacement” philosophy, Technical gases (t) MTU Maintenance achieves a truly impressive depth in aircraft engine repair. Using special techniques the company has developed in-house, 2,349 2,316 2,229 2,309 2,325 we repair engine components that in other maintenance shops would have to be replaced with * 2011-2014 German sites only; non-renewable materials only; externally sourced new parts. As a result, we achieve high levels **Consumables and supplies include packaging materials. Increase in 2015 due to an of material efficiency and conserve resources. endurance test for the GP7000 at the Munich site. For engine parts, MTU uses returnable packaging that can be reused several times. Around 70 percent of all engine blades can be reused two, three or even four times. We are constantly adding new product recycling techniques to our repertoire. 62 Environmental protection • 4.4 Material efficiency Waste footprint (in t) GRI G4-EN23 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Waste produced Waste for recycling Waste for disposal 5,297 4,790 4,349 4,336 5,786 86.7 % 81.4 % 78.2 % 75.1 % 89.0 % 6,113 5,884 5,558 5,773 6.495 816 1,094 1,209 1,437 709 13.3 % 18.6 % 21.8 % 24.9 % 10.9 % Of which hazardous waste for recycling Waste for recycling Waste for disposal 1,027 898 837 737 1,809 1,413 1,426 1,353 1,407 2,472 23.1 % 24.2 % 24.3 % 24.4 % 38.1 % 386 528 516 670 663 Construction waste Includes site in Rzeszów, Poland from 2013 onward 698 Waste management/recycling MTU practices sustainable waste management with the safe disposal of waste sorted according to waste type and recycling process. As our chief priority, we try to avoid waste in the first place. Leftover materials are reused, while waste is used either for its materials or as energy; if recycling is not possible, waste is properly disposed of. In this way, we seek to minimize material consumption and waste disposal volumes. For years now, we have reached high recycling rates averaging of 83.9 percent. In 2015, the total amount of waste produced was 6,495 tons. Of this, we recycled 89 percent and disposed of 11 percent. The amount of waste produced and recycling routes are dependent on production capacity utilization and on building activities. In 2015, an increased production volume at the site in Poland led to a higher amount of hazardous waste. 63 5 Employees Our employees are a key factor in our success. As a hightech company, we depend on their ability, experience and performance. We are eager to attract new talent and retain expertise within the company. To remain attractive as an employer, we create a work environment at MTU that is safe, fair, and sustainable. We support our employees in their continuing professional development, and we are committed to a cooperative leadership culture. We cultivate talent. Managers lead by example and shoulder responsibility. We support them in this by providing special training initiatives. MTU offers all of its employees a wide range of opportunities and the chance for personal development. 64 MTU has a global workforce of some 9 000 emBoth the company and the stakeholders attach ployees. Their motivation and skill are extremely the greatest weight to human rights, occupationimportant for the successful development of the al safety, employee training and development, Group. We combine a corporate culture focused and attractiveness as an employer. on development and performance with a high degree of social responsibility. As far as we are concerned, essential sustainability issues in the area of employment are: • Attractiveness as an employer • Human rights • Occupational safety • Health management • Diversity • Work-life balance • Demographic change • Employee training and development 65 Employees • Management approach MTU employees in Europe GRI G4-10 Germany (in %) Poland (in %) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 94.5 % 5.5% 93.9 % 6.1 % 93.7 % 6.3 % 93.2 % 6.8 % 92.7 % 7.3 % Total workforce in Total workforce in Total workforce in Total workforce in Total workforce in Europe Europe Europe Europe Europe 7,454 7,715 7,850 7,756 7,734 Reporting date: Dec. 31, 2015 The MTU Group had a total of 8,334 employees worldwide in 2015 (2014: 8,333). The responsibility for employment issues resides are issues that need to be addressed—and in with the Executive Board: the CEO is also the 2016 we will work to improve that situation with Director of Labor Relations. The human resources workshops and measures developed from these. center sets policy that is in line with the annual The next employee survey in Germany will take and long-term growth targets laid down in our place in 2018. In Poland we conduct a survey corporate strategy – and helps to achieve these every two or three years, the last one having targets. The full Executive Board receives regular taken place in 2015. Here too, the participation reports about human resources policy. Responof employees was high with a response rate of sibility for successful implementation lies with 80 percent. The great majority of employees local human resources departments and the (88 percent) declared that they were very happy respective specialist departments and managers. with MTU Aero Engines Polska as an employer. We regularly review the measures and offers we All aspects of working life were consistently have in place—and develop these further, as necevaluated on a high level. From the employees’ essary. Important drivers in this respect are the point of view, we only need to address the issues need to adapt to new statutory regulations, the of communication and flow of information as well expectations of stakeholders, and social chalas staff appreciation for further development. lenges that have an impact on MTU’s work environment. In addition, secondary benefits undergo Additional opportunities for feedback are availexternal certification. able via tools such as Leadership Feedback and the Team Barometer, which gauges the mood The company gets important insights as to how within a team and helps to develop the way manit can develop further from its employee survey, agers and their teams work together. which took place at our German sites in 2015— so taking in 86.7 percent of the total workforce. The survey offers employees the opportunity to play an active part in helping to shape the corporate and working environment. Large numbers of employees took advantage of this opportunity: the response rate was around 79 percent. The results reveal a high level of overall satisfaction, good communication about customers’ needs, confidence in future viability, a very high level of knowledge about corporate goals, and lots of freedom for employees to make decisions concerning their own work. The optimization of decision-making processes and the ability to adapt 66 Employees • Management approach 94 percent of the workforce is located in Europe. Employee structure (as percentage of the total workforce) GRI G4-10, LA13 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Core workforce 86.7 85.8 86.3 86.4 87.2 White-collar worker 43.8 Blue-collar worker 43.3 Employees on temporary contracts 3.3 3.5 3.6 3.1 2.7 Apprentices 4.6 4.5 4.4 4.9 4.7 Students on work experience/holiday staff 2.1 2.5 2.2 2.1 2.6 Interns, degree candidates and doctoral candidates 2.9 3.4 3.2 3.1 2.8 Employees on parental leave 3.2 Employees returning from parental leave 2015 2.4 Employees returning from parental leave 2014 2.1 working in 2015 Marginal workers 0 0 0 0 0.1 Part-time workers 5.5 6.2 6.1 6.4 7.0 Attached staff acting under instruction 4.3 These figures reflect the position at year end and from 2013 include the site at Rzeszów (Poland). The total workforce does not include temporary agency workers, external employees or members of the German armed forces under cooperative model assignment. Temporary agency workers and personnel under the cooperative model are counted as attached staff acting under instruction. We have been using the sustainability database since 2015 to gather data on parental leave and attached staff acting under instruction. 67 Employees • Management approach Social and labor standards Once again, in 2015 there were no complaints MTU creates fair working conditions throughout under the General Act on Equal Treatment and the organization by laying down clear standards. no breaches of the Code of Conduct. There were Our Code of Conduct is binding throughout the also no cases of discrimination reported at our Group, and in it we have defined the following Polish subsidiary MTU Aero Engines Polska during benchmarks of our responsibility as employers: the reporting period. • Observance of human rights We are committed to respecting employees’ • Equal opportunities in the workplace rights and safeguarding their freedom of associ• No discrimination in industrial relations ation. When drafting employment contracts, we • Constructive cooperation with employees, observe statutory requirements as well as interemployee representatives and labor unions nal company agreements and notice periods as • Entitlement to equitable pay laid down by law. It is the responsibility of man• Protection of health and safety at work agers to ensure that company agreements are • Employee training and development properly observed on a day-to-day basis in their areas of responsibility. MTU’s business is influAbove all else, we believe that fair working conenced by long market and development cycles, ditions include the absolute rejection of forced and this is reflected in its employment structure. or child labor and the protection of human rights. We place our trust in long-term, secure employWe are a participant in the UN Global Compact, ment relationships. Almost 70 percent of the and we have committed ourselves to observe its core workforce in Germany has worked at MTU principles of respect for human rights and the for more than ten years, and the average period implementation of fair working conditions in acof employment is 19.2 years. The site in Poland cordance with the International Labor Organizaonly came into operation in 2009, and so the tion’s (ILO’s) core labor standards. average period of employment is correspondingly lower. More information • about human rights: Chapter 1.4 Human rights In dialog with our employees We respect the interests of our employees, and In Germany, the General Act on Equal Treatment we give them a voice. In accordance with the (Allgemeines Gleichbehandlungsgesetz) prohibits German Works Constitution Act (Betriebsverfasdiscrimination against employees. In line with the sungsgesetz), MTU’s sites in Germany have works provisions of this Act, every site has a designated councils that maintain regular, open and trustcontact person who is appropriately trained. For based dialogue with MTU’s management. In employees in Germany there are also internal Poland, elected employee representatives look guidelines on cooperative and fair conduct that after the interests of the workforce in dealings are designed to prevent bullying, sexual harasswith management. The German sites have a ment and discrimination. In these guidelines, Group Works Council as a co-determination body. MTU undertakes to punish violations with approIn addition, the interests of employees are reppriate measures. Defined processes have been resented on the supervisory board, where seats established to deal with reported breaches of are filled on the basis of parity. the Code of Conduct, the General Act on Equal Treatment, or internal guidelines. Employees who Furthermore, there are well-established forums suspect illegal activities can contact an ombudsfor promoting employee involvement—such as man confidentially. Managers, works councils, special information events for managers or emand contact people from the human resources ployees not covered by collective agreements. department can also be contacted when violaAn ideas management system takes up suggestions occur. We use internal communications to tions for improvement made by the workforce give information about reporting procedures. and coordinates the evaluation and implementaNew employees will be informed in writing at tion of these suggestions. the start of their employment about the regulations laid down in the Code of Conduct and in the General Act on Equal Treatment—and they will undertake to keep these standards. In addition, we provide regular training at all levels of the company on the Code of Conduct. 68 Employees • 5.1 Occupational health and safety 5.1 Occupational health and safety We have comprehensive measures in place to promote occupational safety and employee health, and as a result we help to maintain the long-term productivity of our employees in a time of demographic change. Worldwide, we place very great importance on Our occupational safety systems include advising the safety and health of our employees. Occupaand supporting managers and employees, safety tional safety and employee health are enshrined training, first aid training, workplace risk assessin our Code of Conduct, the MTU Principles, and ment, and the provision of safety equipment in our business processes. We have also made high the workplace. standards in occupational safety a corporate goal across the whole Group. Compliance with national We aim to permanently reduce the number of statutory regulations on occupational safety is a accidents and reach a level of prevention that mandatory minimum standard for all international seeks to eliminate any and all accidents (zeroMTU subsidiaries. Occupational safety officers accident vision). The accident rate per 1,000 emat management level are appointed for each of ployees was 4.7 across all our European sites—a the company’s European sites. Local specialist figure that takes into account 94 percent of all departments take action on occupational safety MTU employees. All accidents were recorded, issues at each site. Occupational safety systems evaluated and investigated. Our analysis did not are regularly reviewed and improved—and in part reveal any accident hotspots. In addition, there they are certified externally in accordance with is a system in place for recording near-misses. international standards such as OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series). More information • about certification: www.mtu.de MTU upholds high standards of occupational safety. Employee protection is Our occupational safety systems are regularly reviewed and fine-tuned. an integral part of working life. 69 Employees • 5.1 Occupational health and safety Occupational safety GRI G4-LA6 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Reportable workplace accidents Munich 14 14 11 22 21 Hannover 1 6 2 2 6 Berlin 6 4 0 2 4 Rzeszów --0 1 1 Fatal industrial accidents per site 0 0 0 0 0 Days lost as a result of reportable accident Munich 529 481 240 483 351 Hannover 16 286 32 35 166 Berlin 127 40 1 24 34 Rzeszów --0 21 22 Accident rate per 1,000 employees Munich 3 2.9 2.4 4.7 4.3 Hannover 0.6 3.3 1.1 1 3.8 Berlin 9.6 5.1 0 2.8 7.1 Rzeszów --0 2 1.8 Workplace accidents do not include any commuting accidents, accidents that entail more than three days lost (not counting the day of the accident) In addition, we are continually carrying out presurvey at the end of 2015 so that we could vention work. The local specialist departments understand the important factors relevant to the give information and run consciousness-raising current work situation of our employees. The campaigns on various aspects of occupational results enable us to produce an MTU-specific safety. Workability Index, which gives information about how well employees can handle their workload Prevention initiatives in the reporting period and to what extent a team’s working situation is • Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Day, conducive to health. The first index produced is Ludwigsfelde in the medium to good range. Alongside the • Case of the month, Munich Workability Index, we have also developed the “Health-Oriented Leadership” training program Health management to support managers. Effective employees are important for the productivity of a company. In addition, good health Special offers to prevent health problems and has a positive effect on motivation and creativity. various campaigns to promote healthy lifestyles An aging workforce such as we have at MTU also are already part of the company’s health manmakes it a matter of strategic importance for us agement program. One focus of these efforts is to promote health in the workplace. We operate healthy nutrition. a health management program across all of our locations, and we aim to create uniform standards—by means of a cross-learning network, for instance. In 2015 we developed company control metrics to maintain effectiveness and employability. These early indicators are designed to help us develop health promotion projects and tools in good time. The indicators reflect job satisfaction, social relations and leadership, job demands, and also influence and development opportunities. We included these in the employee 70 Employees • 5.1 Occupational health and safety Health services cover occupational and emergency medicine as well as general preventive medicine. Counseling services offer employees support with workand performance-related issues as well as with questions concerning mental health. Among the additional benefits MTU offers are its own on-site health club at its headquarters in Munich and special deals with gyms at other locations, physiotherapy, tips on ergonomic sitting in the workplace, and departmentspecific Health Days—which were supplemented in 2015 by a day on resilience for improving personal stamina and managing stress. Each of our German locations has a team of occupational physicians, social counselors and other health practitioners, either in-house or external. In Germany there is a legal requirement for Workplace Reintegration Management (Betriebliches Eingliederungsmanagement, BEM), and we embrace this with the aim of continuously overcoming any disabilities employees might have and saving their jobs. At our Hannover location, we reached a supplementary agreement in 2015 At the headquarters in Munich, MTU runs a fitness studio with trainers that builds on our existing Group-wide works operated by an external service provider. agreement. This supplementary agreement lays down a new approach to BEM, giving primary responsibility for the reintegration process to an Health-related initiatives and training in the employee’s manager. Over the course of 2016 reporting period we’ll be gathering experience in a pilot project • Healthy back and wrist, Rzeszów at our Munich location, with the focus placed on • Flu vaccinations, all locations systemic ergonomics management. An independ• Back coaching, Hannover, Munich ent contractor that specializes in such projects • Vibration training, Munich will be providing individual support. • Extended risk assessment, Hannover, Munich • “Ergonomic Stress Analysis“ pilot project At the moment we are conducting pilot projects using the key indicator method, Hannover in the Munich production shop to test the use • “Check in Card” for sustainable behavior that of new information technologies to support emwill promote health, Hannover ployees in the workplace. Health rate GRI G4-LA6 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 95.1 % 94.7 % 95.6 % 95.0 % 94.5 % We consider our work health management program to be successful if we are able to keep our health rate constant despite an aging workforce. 71 Employees • 5.2 Attractiveness as an employer 5.2 Attractiveness as an employer As an attractive employer for both existing and potential employees, we safeguard MTU’s productivity and capacity for innovation. We have a variety of offers designed to help our employees achieve a healthy work-life balance, and we are responding to their changed expectations about having personal control over the way their work is structured. MTU has positioned itself as an attractive emCompensation and additional benefits ployer. Internal employee surveys and external The right to appropriate remuneration is one of rankings confirm that this is true. We see exterthe pillars of MTU’s social policy, as enshrined nal evaluations and comparisons with other emin the Code of Conduct. A standardized, transployers as important indicators. In comparative parent compensation structure ensures that emanalyses with other companies, MTU receives ployees receive competitive remuneration that consistently positive ratings. In the reporting reflects their performance. The remuneration of period, the company once again performed very pay-scale employees is based on collective barwell in the TOP Employer Germany and TOP Emgaining agreements. Compensation for senior ployer Poland evaluations. There was special managers is tied to the company’s long-term praise in the categories of talent strategy, career performance. There is a consistent methodology & succession planning, and compensation & for evaluating performance at all levels of the benefits. In Poland, MTU particularly won out in hierarchy. The performance criteria are based the areas of talent strategy, personnel planning, on company, center or department objectives and career & succession planning. Using the and measure how employees and managers conrankings, we are able to compare our human retribute to reaching these goals. All managers sources policies to the current needs of employundergo performance reviews based on achieveees, managers and new recruits—and readjust ment of their personal targets. what we offer, if required. MTU offers a broad spectrum of additional comIn the study of “Best Employers in 2015” conpensation components ranging from the company ducted by the German business magazine Focus pension scheme, accident insurance and profitand the careers website XING, MTU was ranked sharing through to family-related benefits and thirteenth in the industry with 7,014 out of a mobility offers. The company pension scheme possible 10,000 points (the best company earned covers all employees. The scope of the social 8,600 points). MTU employees of all ages and provisions results from MTU’s own range of emlevels of seniority were surveyed in the study. ployment benefits in addition to statutory obliWe also achieved a good result in the evaluation gations. For employees in Germany, this includes carried out by consulting firm Universum Comentitlement to parental leave in accordance with munications and the German business magazine legal requirements. In the fiscal year 2015, social Wirtschaftswoche—coming in at place 30, which contributions for the whole company amounted put us in the top third. to 104.8 million euros. We rated well, too, in the employer ranking proMTU enables its employees to participate in the duced by the trendence Institute in Berlin among company’s success through various profit-sharing engineering students nearing graduation in 2015. programs, which are available to the workforce as a whole and defined in special rules for each Certifications and rankings employment group. At our locations in Germany • TOP Employer Germany we offer an employee stock option program. In • TOP Employer Poland 2015, the take-up rate was 20.1 percent – and • trendence Graduate Barometer Engineering 8.9 million euros were invested. At our site in • Universum ranking Poland we offer a long-term bonus program to • Chief Learning Officer award all employees after one year of employment. The • Top Company on Kununu program lasts for a period of five years. 72 Employees • 5.2 Attractiveness as an employer MTU does well in ratings and evaluations of top employers. Using external rankings, we are able to compare our human resources policies to the current needs. Work-life balance working for selected job categories at the Munich MTU has a variety of offers designed to help its location. We took this step in order to lay an employees achieve a healthy work-life balance important foundation for greater autonomy and and is increasingly focused on responding to personal responsibility within MTU’s working their different life phases and particular needs. environment. A pilot project of the new model for These offers include: the creation of greater flexibility regarding when and where employees work is due to be con• Flexible working hours and flextime accounts cluded in 2016. After that, we shall use the ex• Part-time employment in over 50 models perience gained in order to extend the offers • Educational leave available. • Teleworking • Sabbaticals • Part-time work for older employees • Parental leave • Job sharing • Services that assist families (e.g. childcare, nursing services) • Mobile working We are continually expanding our offers so that we can create flexible working conditions. One example of this is the opportunity we offer employees to take educational leave. In addition, we concluded a works agreement in 2015 on mobile 73 Employees • 5.3 Employee development 5.3 Employee development Qualified and motivated employees are indispensable in our technically demanding engine business. That’s why we make it a priority to offer our employees a wide range of opportunities and avenues for personal development as well as giving them comprehensive support. This begins with the training of our own recruits. In 2015 we complied with our principle of corLeadership style is governed by the leadership porate social responsibility that we should train guidelines laid down in the MTU Competences, employees appropriately for the job they do. In which are derived from the MTU Principles. We the reporting period, MTU invested 2.8 million support managers through a variety of manageeuros in the training of employees at its European ment training programs and communication locations. The director of human resources is forums. We also make use of targeted measures responsible for the training and development of to reinforce a shared understanding of leaderemployees Group-wide, and the director reports ship and improve its effectiveness even further. straight to the CEO. Our corporate strategy is In 2015 we have held events to continue our based on having qualified and motivated employnew educational and cultural initiative, “MTU ees. That is why we promote high-quality training Business Challenge”. The objective is to establish and development opportunities throughout an a shared understanding of leadership in the conemployee’s whole career as part of a framework text of prevailing financial constraints and the of lifelong learning. demands of the capital market. More than 750 managers have already taken part. In 2016 we Our “campus” training scheme provides a solid will start the “MTU Business Challenge II Leaderframework for the provision of employee trainship” initiative, which will focus on the further ing and career programs. Employees can access development of a common understanding of the campus course schedule using the central leadership within MTU and on the quality of platform of the intranet. All MTU employees leadership at all locations worldwide. Business throughout Europe regularly receive an evaluaChallenge II Leadership is a training program tion of their performance. To this end, managefor all levels of management and is designed to ment is required to conduct an interview with promote the feedback and dialog culture as well every single employee once a year about their as to boost leadership effectiveness. training development. In 2015, we started a long-term development Leadership program for managers at our site in Poland. They Excellent leadership is an essential prerequisite have already undertaken two training courses as for working together with employees to successpart of the “MTU Management Growth” leaderfully overcome the challenges that face MTU. ship program. Employee qualification GRI G4-LA9 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Training days total 21,141 23,801 21,507 20,012 18,889 Training days per employee 3.0 3.4 2.7 2.5 2.3 Proportion of men on training schemes* 85 % Proportion of women on training schemes* 15 % Investment in training (EUR million) 3.9 4.2 3.3 2.4 2.8 Investment in training excluding travel costs; from 2013 including the Rzeszów site in Poland. MTU assumes the costs of continued training measure. The total number of training days is dropping because shorter, more focused event formats are increasing. * Employees who have taken part in training schemes (with multiple counting), data only for locations in Germany, compiled from 2015 using the sustainability database 74 Employees • 5.3 Employee development Lifelong learning is a principle we apply by providing our employees with high-quality opportunities for education and further development. Managers in Munich already have access to our Management training Leadership Guide via an internal knowledge data• Building on Talent base, and in 2016 we shall be introducing the • International Building on Talent Leadership Guide at our locations in Berlin and • International Leadership Program Hannover as well. • Business Challenge • Leadership Guide • MTU Management Growth 75 Employees • 5.3 Employee development Apprentices at MTU GRI G4-LA9 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 321 328 343 381 361 4.6 % 4.5 % 4.4 % 4.9 % 4.7 % Number of apprentices at year end / Percentage of total workforce Apprentice training nology, Natural sciences, and Technology—and We offer young people a solid grounding in eleven the Campus is designed as a research center for trades. In addition to giving them professional high school pupils. qualifications, their training teaches them about methodological, social and environmental issues In 2015 we also started to put together a proas well as MTU’s corporate values. It is training gram of beginners’ seminars aimed at preparing designed to help them learn to embrace and emrefugees to integrate into society. It is intended body the spirit of our corporate culture. Examthat these seminars will extend over a period of ples of such activities during the reporting period a few weeks. were the environmental and health days organized for apprentices. More information • on the integration of refugees: Chapter 6.1 For years, apprentices have always made up a Science and education as social engagement large percentage of MTU's workforce. In 2015 they accounted for approximately 4.7 percent of Talent management the total workforce in Europe. As of the end of MTU’s age structure reflects the demographic 2015, 361 apprentices were employed. All apchange in the overall population. In our German prentices who complete their training can still locations, the average age of employees was be sure that they will be offered a permanent 44.6 years in 2015—with almost 37 percent of contract with MTU. employees older than 50. Over the next decade we’ll need to be engaged in succession planning MTU is actively involved in numerous educationfor a large number of skilled workers and manal projects and initiatives aimed at appealing agers. For that reason, in 2015 we honed our early to potential recruits and introducing them process for identifying and developing potential to science and technology professions: high performers. With this talent management system we aim to heighten the visibility of high• Training Night potential candidates in MTU and take a more • “IdeenExpo” Science Exhibition in Hannover tailored approach towards promoting talented • Nature and Technology Days individuals. This process will be especially helpful • Long Night of Museums in ensuring succession planning for key positions • Teachers in Industry indispensable to our company’s success. We will • Work placements for high school students, start to implement the new system in 2016. discovery weeks • Patronage of selected schools In addition, the company has introduced various • Special events for future female talent initiatives designed to preserve valuable expert(Girls' Day, etc.) ise and empirical knowledge. These initiatives include: Our active cooperation with schools and universities acts as a means to promote the give and • a know-how buddy system take between business and education. For in• exchange of expertise with the aid of stance, MTU has been involved with the newly knowledge maps created MINT-Campus in Dachau since 2015. • part-time positions for older employees MINT stands for Mathematics, Information tech• wikis 76 Employees • 5.4 Diversity and equal opportunities 5.4 Diversity and equal opportunities At MTU, we incorporate all employees into the company’s working life on the basis of equality of opportunity. We also promote diversity in the workforce in order to maintain or develop our performance and capacity for innovation. MTU deploys and promotes all employees in acManagers play a key role in appreciating divercordance with their competences, abilities and sity and incorporating it into everyday workperformance. Everyone has the same opportuniing life at MTU. We encourage them to push ties irrespective of gender, age, ethnic origin, on with effective changes in their own areas religion, disability, or sexual orientation. To proof responsibility—and so to increase and mote further diversity in the workforce, MTU make the most of diversity. In the reporting places the greatest emphasis on employees of period, we have given managers in Rzeszów different generations, genders, cultures and counspecial training in generation diversity for the tries all working side by side, including employees first time to benefit from diverse teams. We with disabilities. Diversity enhances our capacity will continue these workshops in 2016. for innovation and contributes to our competitiveness. Against the backdrop of demographic change, individual employability becomes an important MTU’s Code of Conduct explicitly commits the issue for us. This includes the integration of emcompany to equality of opportunity and equal ployees with disabilities. In 2015, disabled emtreatment for employees. The promotion of diverployees made up on average 4.6 % of the worksity is a major component of our corporate culforce at MTU’s German locations. In Rzeszów, ture and enshrined in our MTU Principles. Moreinclusivity is a major objective for MTU even withover, promoting the diversity and international out statutory requirements. nature of our workforce is one of our corporate goals for the fiscal year 2016. Our commitments • Charter of Diversity • UN Global Compact • Munich Memorandum for Women in Management Age groups (in %) GRI G4-LA12 < 30 years 30-50 years > 50 years 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 31.2 % 13.6 % 32.6 % 13.8 % 31.5 % 12.7 % 31.5 % 12.7 % 34.2 % 12.5 % 55.2 % 53.6 % 55.7 % 55.7 % 54.0 % measured as a proportion of the core workforce, including the site in Rzeszów (Poland) from 2013 77 Employees • 5.4 Diversity and equal opportunities Cultural diversity For MTU, internationality is not only an expresMTU Studien-Stiftungstage sion of diversity: it is typical for the engine busifür MINT-Studentinnen ness, which is strongly characterized by transna05. – 07. Oktober 2016 tional cooperation. We are working to intensify internationalization through various measures such as the “International Leadership Program” and the “International Building on Talent” initiative. We promote cultural diversity through the recruitment of local personnel at our different locations. From the beginning, the vast majority of employees at our site in Rzeszów (Poland) have come from the surrounding area. Andere träumen davon. Du kannst es haben: Eine Förderung durch die MTU Studien-Stiftung! Bereits seit vielen Jahren fördert die MTU Studien-Stiftung Stiftung anschließen. Das Spektrum der Förderung reicht talentierte Studentinnen aus den Bereichen Luftund dabei von persönlicher Beratung bis zur Unterstützung We also offer intercultural training and, as a comRaumfahrttechnik, Maschinenbau, Wirtschaftsingenieurwesen, Elektrotechnik, Informatik und Mathematik. Die Studentinnen verbindet dabei einiges: Alle bringen herbei Praktika. Wenn Sie sich bereits mitten im Studium befinden, bepany that operates worldwide, we encourage ausragende fachliche Leistungen mit, sind aufgeschlossen für Neues und haben den Anspruch, Dinge zu bewegen. Die MTU Studien-Stiftung lädt wieder zu ihren Stiftungswerben Sie sich online bis zum 25. Juli 2016 mit Ihrem Lebenslauf, Zeugnissen und einem Motivationsschreiben, in dem Sie uns überzeugen, warum wir Sie zu den MTU Studien-Stiftungstagen einladen sollten! employees to spend time working abroad during tagen nach München ein – diesmal zum Trainings-Workshop „Selbstmarketing und Bewerbung“. Mit professioneller Unterstützung lernen Sie die wichtigWir freuen uns auf erlebnisreiche Tage mit Ihnen! their training. Apprentices and students on worksten Techniken für ein zielgerichtetes und überzeugendes Auftreten auf dem Arbeitsmarkt und erhalten Tipps für die Entwicklung Ihres persönlichen Karrierewegs. Nach study programs have the opportunity to take part drei intensiven Tagen sind Sie Expertin für Ihr persönliches Marketing. Dazu gibt es Spaß und nette Leute zum Austauschen und MTU Studien-Stiftung Dachauer Str. 665 80995 München weitere Infos und Bewerbung: in international exchange programs either within Networken. Nach den Stiftungstagen kann sich bei beiderseitigem www.mtu-studien-stiftung.org Interesse eine weitere Förderung durch die MTU StudienMTU or with our customers and partners. Gender diversity Equality of opportunity for men and women is something we consider to be self-evident. Remuof management positions, 9.1 percent of our neration levels and promotion prospects are managers in Europe were female at the end of determined solely by qualifications and the job 2015 – which also represents a positive develto be performed, irrespective of an employee’s opment compared against previous years. gender. This is subject to regular monitoring. MTU has committed itself to significantly inThe principal focus of our measures and our creasing the proportion of female employees, employer branding is on securing more female including at management level, so as to make talent for the company and offering female embetter use of talent and innovation potential in ployees better support throughout their career the face of demographic change. The proportion journeys through mentoring programs and career of women employed in the total European workadvice. Our talent management system also force has already recorded its first rise: at the focuses on women in management. We have end of 2015 it stood at 14.4 percent. In terms introduced two additional measures: an internal Nationalities (in %) GRI G4-LA12 Total workforce Managers 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 6.0 % 6.0 % 5.4 % 5.1 % 5.0 % 5.0 % 4.7 % 4.8 % 4.2 % 3.7 % Proportion of foreign employees at the European locations, including the site in Rzeszów (Poland) from 2013. 78 Employees • 5.4 Diversity and equal opportunities mentoring program, and a workshop that looks at unconscious patterns of thought and behavior in selection and recruitment processes. Our programs and initiatives • Munich Memorandum for Women in Management • Cross-Mentoring Munich (a program organized by the city of Munich) • Internal mentoring program • Talent Management • The MTU “Studienstiftung” foundation for female students in scientific and technical fields • Girls’ Day • Research Camp for Girls • Engineers in High Heels • The Lower Saxony Technical Internship (“Niedersachsen Technikum”) Thanks to our constantly developing range of offers designed to help employees achieve a healthy work-life balance, we are promoting integration of the sexes. More information • about talent management: Chapter 5.3 Employee development • about healthy work-life balance: Chapter 5.2 MTU plans to significantly increase the proportion of female employees, which was in Attractiveness as an employer Europe was 14.4 percent at the end of 2015. Proportion of women (in %) GRI G4-10, LA12 Total workforce Managers 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 13.1 % 13.7 % 13.9 % 14.2 % 14.4 % 8.0 % 8.0 % 8.1 % 9.2 % 9.1 % All figures as at year end, including the site in Rzeszów (Poland) from 2013. 79 6 Society We accept responsibility for the common good and strive to contribute sustainable added value to society. Our commitment to society focuses on research, education and training activities; after all, as a driver of aviation technology, we rely on new generations of well-trained employees and an innovation-friendly business environment. We provide practical experience. Students can complete their bachelor, master and diploma theses or dissertations at MTU or work at the company as interns or working students. As a technology company, we rely on well trained new recruits. 80 Social commitment is an integral part of the ing a new value chain and jobs. Our main activiMTU Principles. We contribute to social develties benefiting society come under the following opment as a major employer and personnel headings: trainer in the region. Offering a wide variety of • Corporate citizenship jobs and apprenticeships in an attractive high• Donations/Sponsorship tech environment, we prioritize long-term employment relationships. In addition to educating Of the two, corporate citizenship is the more and further training our employees, we invest in important category, both for us and for our the further development of our plants. In 2015, stakeholders. MTU understands corporate citifor example, we commissioned a new logistics zenship as its social responsibility for the envicenter in Munich. Furthermore, our strong innoronment the company operates in, with a focus vation capabilities create added value for the on education, science and research. In the area wider economy and society outside MTU. To give of donations/sponsorship, we support local an example from the reporting period: MTU sucand regional projects near our sites in the role cessfully worked with suppliers from Germany of patron, sponsor and networker. to get the new material titanium aluminide ready for industrial mass production—ultimately creat81 Society • 6.1 Corporate citizenship 6.1 Corporate citizenship As a research-intensive company, our corporate citizenship is focused on science and engineering activities. We seek exchange and collaboration with science and research, and are in dialog with young people and new talent. Education is very important both for a society’s Integration of refugees prosperity and its ability to meet the challenges We want to help with the integration of refugees of the future. We are committed to providing and have drawn up initial approaches during the open access to training opportunities, which we reporting period. Since mid-2016, we have been believe should first and foremost provide our offering professional training to young people own young employees with a solid grounding in from the greater Munich area in the form of a their chosen profession. In 2015, there were preparatory beginner’s seminar in the training 361 young people enrolled in a training course workshop. In the project, teenage refugees who at MTU’s European sites. We provide training as possess a good level of previous education and needed and invest in a holistic education that are likely to stay in the country are prepared for includes the acquisition of professional qualifian apprenticeship. In addition, we release MTU cations as well as methodological and social trainees from work so that they can participate skills guided by MTU’s corporate culture. We in regular leisure activities with refugees. involve our trainees in all aspects of company and working life, including health, environmental protection, social values and our no blame culture, and we organize events such as special action days. In addition, MTU participates in numerous education projects and initiatives for children and young people, thereby promoting an understanding of technology and sustainability in society at large. More information • about our education initiatives: Chapter 5.3 Employee development We offer young people training in eleven career disciplines. 82 Society • 6.1 Corporate citizenship Cooperation with universities and centers of competence Centers of competence Cooperation with universities RWTH Aachen Compressor & Manufacturing BAM Berlin DLR Berlin Uni & LZ Hannover TU Berlin Turbine & Maintenance TU Braunschweig Repair and Overhaul BTU Cottbus TU Darmstadt DLR Cologne TU Dresden Propulsion Systems Uni Erlangen FHG Fürth TU Munich Uni Göttingen Structural Design Uni Hannover Uni Heidelberg UniBW Munich FZ Jülich Military Propulsion Systems KIT Karlsruhe Uni Kassel University of Stuttgart DLR Stuttgart Turbine Testing & MPA Stuttgart Thermodynamics Research collaborations national and international university groups an Collaborating with universities and research insight into the work at an industrial company. institutes is a mainstay of our research and develStudents can write their bachelor, master or opment work and a clear area of priority if we Diplom theses or dissertations at MTU or work are to fulfill our obligations to society. We create in the company as interns or work students. At strategic alliances with research partners to the end of 2015, there were 418 students workfoster the links between universities and industry ing in various capacities in the company. and to safeguard MTU’s capacity for innovation. MTU runs six competence centers across GerEvery year, the company confers the Wolfgang many, each with its own research focus, in uniHeilmann Award, its own science award for outversities across Germany, and in 2005 the comstanding achievements by emerging academic pany and various partners founded Bauhaus Lufttalent in the field of aircraft engines. In addition, fahrt e.V., a think tank for integrated and interwe are an industrial sponsor of the prestigious disciplinary research into the future of air travel. Media Prize for Aerospace Journalism, which is awarded annually to non-specialist journalists for With a company-affiliated foundation, we supoutstanding articles on aerospace trends and port talented young women studying scientific topics. and technical disciplines. In addition to financial grants, the MTU “Studien-Stiftung” foundation offers personal advice and supervision to prepare students for getting started on their careers. MTU research specialists give regular presentations and guest lectures at universities, and at Cottbus we take care of a significant portion of lectures for the engine technology course. At the University of Stuttgart, MTU has endowed a chair for aircraft engine structural mechanics, which was successfully filled in 2015. We give 83 Society • 6.2 Donations/Sponsorship 6.2 Donations/Sponsorship We promote social activities in the places where we operate and support social institutions near our sites. MTU supports various social institutions, generExamples of our social commitment in 2015 ally charity organizations with a social focus. We provide help by donating funds or goods. A deci• Funding of the parent-run daycare initiative sive factor in choosing the recipients is a local/ TurBienchen e.V., Munich regional connection or thematic relevance to the • Sponsorship of childcare during school company. Specific projects have priority over genvacations eral institutional funding. After careful research, • External rescue operations carried out by selection and implementation are carried out MTU’s on-site fire brigade and company independently by the respective organizations. doctor, Munich Internal guidelines govern the making of dona• Support for Wings of Help, a project tions and undertaking of sponsorship, with a emergency aid for refugees centrally controlled approval and authorization • Support for Langenhagener Symphoniker, process ensuring that these rules are observed. Hannover • Support for Children’s Day, Rzeszów In 2015, we supported around 70 projects and • Support for charity run, Berlin institutions with cash or in-kind donations. In addition, MTU supplies pro bono judges for labor We encourage the voluntary social commitment and social courts, for example, or auditors for of our employees, such as participation in charity chambers of industry and commerce. runs. We facilitate volunteering missions for the German Federal Agency for Technical Relief, for example, through paid leave. Donations and Sponsorship in 2015 Community 60.6 % Research/Training 27.3 % Technology/Environment 7.6 % Arts and Culture 4.5 % 84 85 Goals and goal attainment for 2015 (based on reporting period) Strategy/economy Goal Status/Deadline Comments Stakeholder dialog Set up direct e-mail contact for enquiries Ongoing on sustainability Conduct stakeholder survey on sustainOngoing We regularly adapt the stakeholder ability performance and sustainability survey to include the results of communication on MTU’s website the materiality analysis. Comply with CR reporting as set out Achieved by GRI-G4 Prepare non-financial reporting in Starting 2016 Requirement for non-financial accordance with new EU regulations reporting begins with the financial year 2017 Intensify dialog with employees about 2016/2017 Information events for HR and sustainability purchasing department employees; Sustainability Action Day at Munich location Participate in an investor conference with 2016 a focus on sustainability Participate in a climate protection Till 2017 Communication and documentaagreement among Munich businesses tion about involvement of participating large corporations over the course of the project Compliance Carry out regular compliance audits to Ongoing ensure business processes comply with laws and guidelines Hold employee training courses Ongoing Throughout the reporting year, we have carried out corresponding training at our German and North American locations and subsidiaries. Sustainability Conduct materiality analysis to determine Yearly management most important sustainability topics Launch CR training for employees 2016 Get listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Not achieved We currently do not have all of the Index relevant data required on record to be included in the index; we will participate again in 2016 Achieve representation in external sustainOngoing ability ratings Expand to include further sites outside of 2016 Preparation beginning in Q4 2016 Europe Supplier management Carry out annual survey of all suppliers Ongoing regarding compliance with Dodd-Frank Act Require new suppliers to commit to the Ongoing Code of Conduct More strongly weight consideration of 2017 environmental aspects for supplier approval 86 Product responsibility Goal Status/Deadline Comments Climate strategy Reduce CO2 emissions by 15 % through Achieved First A320neo with geared first geared turbofan generation turbofan delivered to Lufthansa (relative to the engine from year 2000) beginning of 2016 Reduce CO2 emissions by 20 % through 2025 second geared turbofan generation (relative to the engine from year 2000) Reduce CO2 emissions by 30 % through 2035 third geared turbofan generation (relative to the engine from year 2000) Aircraft noise Reduce noise emissions by 20 dB (cumuAchieved First A320neo with geared lative, relative to the ICAO’s chapter 4 turbo fan delivered to Lufthansa noise level) through first geared turbofan generation Reduce noise emissions by 11 dB (per 2035 In accordance with the European aircraft movement, corresponds to -55 %, Strategic Research and Innovation relative to the year 2000) Agenda (SRIA) Reduce noise emissions by 15 dB (per 2050 In accordance with the European aircraft movement, corresponds to -65 %, Strategic Research and Innovation relative to the year 2000) Agenda (SRIA) Alternative fuels Support the introduction of sustainable Ongoing fuels with MTU engine expertise via participation in research projects, studies and practical tests Product quality and safety Successfully complete monitoring and Ongoing recertification audits for quality management systems 87 Environmental protection Goal Status/Deadline Comments Reduced consumption of ➔ Reduce CO2 emissions by 25 % at Munich Ongoing Compared to 1990 emission energy and resources plant as part of Clean Air Industrial Site levels ➔ Participate in a climate protection Ongoing Reduction of at least 40,000 agreement among Munich businesses metric tons in CO2 emissions at large companies in Munich by the end of 2017 ➔ Promote sustainable mobility Ongoing As of 2015, all internal mail at Munich headquarters is now transported by e-Golfs; concept for promoting e-mobility among employees in the pipeline in Hannover ➔ Reduce resource consumption and CO2 Ongoing emissions from business trips through increased use of modern communication technologies such as video and phone conferencing Energy conservation ➔ Reduce the energy needed to run Ongoing measures buildings ➔ Upgrade to LED lighting Ongoing ➔ Switch off machines and systems during Ongoing longer stoppages ➔ Improve efficiency in compressed air Ongoing generation ➔ Use groundwater for cooling Ongoing ➔ Carry out employee training courses on Ongoing sustainable resource consumption and the company’s environmental activities Material efficiency ➔ Introduce sustainable manufacturing Ongoing Range of parts is continuously concepts: Apply new laser-based additive being expanded. manufacturing techniques to make massproduced components directly from a powder bed using CAD data. ➔ Materials development: Improve materials Ongoing New material titanium aluminide with respect to temperature resistance and used in A320neo geared turbofan weight, leading to less fuel consumption and pollutant emissions. Material consumption ➔ Implement EU’s REACh regulation 2017 We are on target with our proposed schedule. Environmental ➔ Earn certifications to ISO 14001 and Ongoing The Hannover and Berlin sites are certifications achieve EMAS validation certified to ISO 14001; the Munich and Hannover sites have EMAS validation. ➔ Expand EMAS validation to all German sites 2016 Berlin plans to achieve EMAS validation for the first time in 2016. ➔ Issue annual environmental statements Ongoing for the biggest locations, Munich and Hannover, documenting observance of EMAS requirements in accordance with Regulation (EC) No. 1221/2009 of the European Parliament. 88 Employees Goal Status/Deadline Comments Occupational safety Limit reportable workplace accidents to a Not achieved Actual figure 2015: 34 reportable maximum of 19 within the MTU Group workplace accidents; goal not attained due to an unfortunate trend of accidents at the Munich location. Expand extended risk assessment to all Partially Goal has been attained for German locations achieved Hannover and Munich sites. Berlin site has launched a pilot project, expansion is planned for Q4 2016. Conduct occupational safety campaign Ongoing with focus topics Run monitoring and recertification audits Yearly in accordance with OHSAS 18001 in the MTU Group for locations that are already certified Occupational health Introduce systematic ergonomics 2016 Pilot project has been completed. management Will begin at Munich site in July 2016. In Hannover, a comprehensive analysis of workshop ergonomics is underway using a key indicator method. By the end of 2016, all significant irregularities will be resolved. Pilot project is planned for Q4 2016 at Berlin site. Promote a healthy diet Ongoing Develop performance indicators for better Achieved First MTU Workability Index and targeted measures to maintain health and High Performance Index (HiPO) improve performance for all employees have been derived from the employee survey in Germany. Expand employee survey to include mental Achieved Employee survey took place at health topics the end of 2015 at all German sites. Further develop occupational reintegration 2017 Pilot project launched in management (BEM) at German sites Hannover in 2016 with managers systematically involved in the process. An internal MTU integration committee including managers has been set up. In-house medical service hours have been expanded for workplace inspections, health consultations and networking with external health professionals. Attractiveness as an Strengthen international focus of employer Ongoing employer branding Further develop offers to improve work-life Ongoing balance Achieve ranking as Top Employer Germany Yearly and Poland Serve initiatives for company-sponsored Ongoing Munich, Hannover childcare during summer vacation 89 Employees Goal Status/Deadline Comments Attractiveness as an ➔ Provide external advice and placement Ongoing Offers are regularly reviewed and employer services for family-related matters further developed. ➔ Develop new offers for employee mobility Ongoing 2015: transit tickets for employees in Munich ➔ Successfully complete mobile working End of 2016 Project launched in Munich in pilot project 2015. Continuation/expansion is currently under discussion. Diversity ➔ Increase the percentage of female employOngoing ees and women in management positions ➔ Participate in initiatives designed to Ongoing promote young female talent, such as Girls’ Day or Research Camp for Girls Education and training ➔ Offer new qualification possibilities for Partially achieved Expansion of international joint promoting greater internationalization projects through the International Leadership Program (ILP), which took place in 2015. ➔ Continue with the qualification and 2016 Start of MTU Business Challenge II cultural initiative Business Challenge Leadership ➔ Introduce talent management program 2016 Revision of the follow-up process for positions critical to success in 2015 ➔ Long-term employee development Ongoing Introduction of Leadership program (MTU Management Growth) and project for individual career plan at MTU Aero Engines Polska (both in 2015) Employer/employee ➔ Employee survey at company locations in Achieved Employee survey 2015 successfuldialog Germany, with further developments ly carried out, evaluation and start based on the insights gained from the last of measures to take place in 2016. survey ➔ Company suggestion system for putting Ongoing employees’ ideas for improvement into practice ➔ MTU award to honor outstanding employee 2017 Every two years performance 90 Society Goal Status/Deadline Comments Integration of refugees Prepare introductory workshop on vocaStarting 2016 At Munich headquarters tional training in the training workshop Corporate volunteering Support employee volunteer work Ongoing Setting up Social Day for managers 2017 Social engagement in the local community is in planning at Munich headquarters. Investing in future Sponsor the further education of young Till 2018 MTU has closed three sponsorship workforce scientists after they complete a university contracts at the University of degree Stuttgart and at the German Aerospace Center Establish a chair in structural mechanics Ongoing Appointment successfully filled in in aircraft engines at the University of 2015, chair vacancy was filled in Stuttgart 2016. Support the MTU foundation for female Ongoing students in science and technology courses Award the annual Wolfgang Heilmann Yearly Prize for young scientists Sponsoring science Sponsor the Deutscher Journalistenpreis Yearly journalism für Luftund Raumfahrt (German aerospace journalism award) 91 GRI-Index – General Standard Disclosures Strategy and Analysis GRIUNGC-Principle Reference/Comments Indicator G4-1 Statement from the Board of Management Foreword by the Chief Executive Office p. 5 Organisationsprofil GRIUNGC-Principle Reference/Comments Indicator G4-3 Name of the organization Company profile p. 8-9 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services Company profile p. 8-9 G4-5 Organization’s headquarters Company profile p. 8-9 G4-6 Countries where the organization operates Annual Report 2015 p. 69 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Company profile p. 8-9 Annual Report 2015 p. 28 G4-8 Markets served Annual Report 2015 p. 154 G4-9 Scale of organization Company profile p. 8-9 G4-10 6 Total workforce Chapter 5 Employees p. 67 Information concerning the percentage of female employees categorized by type of employment and contract is regarded as confidential. G4-11 3 Percentage of total employees covered by In Germany, works agreements negotiated collective bargaining agreements with employee representatives supplement the statutory foundations in defining working condition. These collective agreements apply to all employee groups with the exception of senior management, who have their own representative body. In 2015, 98.3 % of employees in Germany were covered by collective agreement. In Poland, elected employee representatives look after the interests of the workforce in dealings with management G4-12 Description of supply chain Chapter 2 Economics/2.3 Supply chain p. 32-33 G4-13 Significant changes regarding size, None structure, ownership G4-14 Precautionary approach Chapter 2 Economics/2.3 Supply chain p. 34-35 Chapter 3 Product responsibility p. 48-49 Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 52-55 Chapter 5 Employees/5.1 Occupational p. 69-71 health and safety Annual Report 2015/Risk and opportunity p. 121-133 report G4-15 External charters, principles, or other Chapter 1 Strategy/1.5 Stakeholder dialog p. 23 initiatives Chapter 2 Economics/2.2 Compliance p. 31 Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 55 Chapter 5 Employees/5.4 Diversity & p. 77 equal opportunity Chapter 6 Society/6.2 Donating/Sponsorp. 84 ship G4-16 Memberships Chapter 1 Strategy/1.5 Stakeholder-dialog p. 23 92 Material Aspects and Boundaries GRIUNGC-Principle Reference/Comments Indicator G4-17 Basis of consolidation About this report/Scope of validity p. 6-7 G4-18 Process for defining report content Chapter 1 Strategy/1.1 Sustainability strategy, Materiality analysis p. 12-13 G4-19 Material aspects identified Chapter 1 Strategy/1.1 Sustainability p. 12-13 strategy, Materiality analysis G4-20 Material aspects within the organization Chapter 1 Strategy/1.1 Sustainability p. 13 strategy, Materiality matrix (excluding Responsible sourcing for supply chain) G4-21 Material aspects outside the organization Chapter 1 Strategy/1.5 Stakeholder dialog p. 21 (see issues of external stakeholder groups) G4-22 Re-statements of information About this report p. 6-7 G4-23 Changes from previous reports About this report p. 6-7 Stakeholder Engagement GRIUNGC-Principle Reference/Comments Indicator G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged Chapter 1 Strategy/1.5 Stakeholder dialog p. 21 G4-25 Basis for selection of stakeholders Chapter 1 Strategy/1.5 Stakeholder dialog p. 20 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Chapter 1 Strategy/1.5 Stakeholder dialog p. 20 G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through Chapter 1 Strategy/1.5 Stakeholder dialog p. 20-21 stakeholder engagement Reporting Profile GRIUNGC-Principle Reference/Comments Indicator G4-28 Reporting period About this report p. 6-7 G4-29 Date of previous report About this report p. 6-7 G4-30 Reporting cycle About this report p. 6-7 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the About this report p. 6-7 report G4-32 GRI Content Index and chosen option About this report p. 6-7 G4-33 External assurance About this report p. 6-7 Governance GRIUNGC-Principle Reference/Comments Indicator G4-34 Governance structure Annual Report 2015/The Executive Board p. 24-25 The Supervisory Board p. 64-65 Ethics und Integrity GRIUNGC-Principle Reference/Comments Indicator G4-56 10 Values, principles, codes of conduct Chapter 1 Strategy/1.3 Ethics and Integrity p. 16-17 93 GRI-Index – Specific Standard Disclosures Economic Performance GRIUNGC-Principle Reference/Comments Indicator Economic Performance Chapter 2 Economics p. 24-28 Management approach G4-EC1 Economic value generated Chapter 2 Economics/2.1 Sustainable p. 27-28 added value Indicator is not reported by market or region. G4-EC2 7 Financial implications of climate change Chapter 1 Strategy/1.1 Sustainability p. 14 strategy, Sustainability risks Procurement Practices Chapter 2 Economics/2.3 Supply chain p. 32-35 Management approach G4-EC9 Proportion on spending on local suppliers Chapter 2 Economics/2.3 Supply chain p. 33 Environment GRIUNGC-Principle Reference/Comments Indicator Materials Management approach Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 53 4.4 Material efficiency p. 62-63 G4-EN1 7, 8 Materials used by weight or volume Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 62 4.4 Material efficiency Energy Management approach Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 53 4.1 Energy management p. 56-57 G4-EN3 7, 8 Energy consumption within the organization Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 56-57 4.1 Energy management G4-EN6 8, 9 Reduction of energy consumption Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 56-57 4.1 Energy management G4-EN7 8, 9 Reductions in energy requirements of Chapter Product responsibility p. 39-40 products and services 3.2 Fuel efficiency Water Management approach Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 53 4.3 Water usage p. 60-61 G4-EN8 7, 8 Total water withdrawl by source Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 60 4.3 Water usage G4-EN9 8 Water sources affected Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 61 4.3 Water usage Emissions Management approach Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 53 4.2 Emissions p. 58-59 G4-EN15 7, 8 Direct greenhouse gas emissions Scope 1 Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 58 4.2 Emissions G4-EN16 7, 8 Direct greenhouse gas emissions Scope 2 Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 58 4.2 Emissions G4-EN 19 8, 9 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 58-59 4.2 Emissions G4-EN21 7, 8 Significant air emissions Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 59 4.2 Emissions Effluents and waste Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 53 Management approach 4.4 Material efficiency p. 62-63 G4-EN22 8 Total water discharge by quality and Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 60 destination 4.3 Water usage G4-EN23 8 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 63 method 4.4 Material efficiency G4-EN24 8 Significant spills No incidents of environmental pollution in 2015 Products and services Chapter 3 Product responsibility p. 36-37 Management approach G4-EN27 7-9 Extent of impact mitigation of environmenChapter 3 Product responsibility p. 41-47 tal impact of product and services 3.3 Climate strategy, 3.4 Aircraft noise Compliance Management approach Chapter 2 Economics/2.2 Compliance p. 29-31 G4-EN29 8 Monetary value or non-monetary sanctions Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 55 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport Management approach Chapter 2 Economics/2.3 Supply chain p. 34 Chapter 4 Environmental protection/ p. 58-59 4.2 Emissions 94 Environment GRIUNGC-Principle Reference/Comments Indicator G4-EN30 Environmental impacts of transporting Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 58-59 products and other goods and materials 4.2 Emissions No incidents of environmental pollution in 2015 Overall Management approach Chapter 4 Environmental protection S. 52-55 G4-EN31 7-9 Total environmental protection Chapter 4 Environmental protection S. 54 expenditures and investments Supplier environmental assessment Chapter 2 Economics/2.3 Supply chain S. 34-35 Management approach G4-EN33 8 Negative environmental impact in the Chapter 2 Economics/2.3 Supply chain S. 34-35 supply chain Environmental grievance mechanism Chapter 4 Environmental protection S. 55 Management approach G4-EN34 8 Number of grievances about environNone mental impacts Labor practices and decent work GRIUNGC-Principle Reference/Comments Indicator Employments Management approach Chapter 5 Employees p. 64-68 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Chapter 5 Employees p. 69-71 5.1 Occupational health and safety 5.2 Attractiveness as an employer p. 72-73 Our benefits apply to all employees. There is no distinction made between full-time and part-time employees. For part-time employees, the principle of proportionate remuneration is applied. G4-LA3 6 Return to work after parental leave Chapter 5 Employees p. 67 In Germany, the right to parental leave applies to the entire workforce and is regulated by federal law. The law ensures that all persons who are gainfully employed in Germany are entitled to take time off work for this reason. Labor/Management relations Chapter 5 Employees p. 64-68 Management approach G4-LA4 3 Minimum notice periods regarding Chapter 5/Social and labor standards p. 68 operational changes Agreements made between the employer and the works council that are governed by collective agreements can be terminated with three months’ notice under Section 77 of the German Works Council Constitution Act (Betriebsverfassungsgesetz, BetrVG). This is generally also the case for the collective agreements. In cases in which the arbitration body’s decision overrules an agreement between the works council and employer, the regulations regarding notice remain valid until replaced with others. Notice periods for the assertion of claims by employees or the employer are also firmly laid down in collective agreements. In accordance with Polish law, in Poland this period is two weeks for temporary contracts and one to three months for permanent work contracts, dependent on the length of the term of employment. 95 GRI-Index – Specific Standard Disclosures Labor practices and decent work GRIUNGC-Principle Reference/Comments Indicator Occupational health and safety Chapter 5 Employees p. 69-71 Management approach 5.1 Occupational health and safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented The entire workforce of our sites in Europe in formal joint management-worker health is fully represented at the locally organized and safety committee occupational safety committees, the composition of which reflects the legal requirements in the respective countries. G4-LA6 Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days Chapter 5 Employees p. 70, 71 and work-related fatalities 5.1 Occupational health and safety In order to protect personal data, no further statistical analysis is carried out concerning accidents and days lost. Further distinctions based on such factors as gender is therefore neither possible nor intended. MTU is not aware of how many applications have been made and accepted that classify an illness as being of occupational origin. Basis of accident statistics is Book VII of the German Social Insurance. Accidents involving temporary workers in 2015: 9 Training and education Chapter 5 Employees p. 74-76 Management approach 5.3 Employee development G4-LA9 6 Average hours of training per employee Chapter 5 Employees p. 74 5.3 Employee development G4-LA10 Programs for lifelong learning Chapter 5 Employees p. 74-76 5.3 Employee development G4-LA11 6 Percentage of employees receiving regular Chapter 5 Employees p. 74 performance and career development revies 5.3 Employee development Diversity and equal opportunity Chapter 5 Employees p. 77-79 Management approach 5.4 Diversity & Equal opportunity G4-LA12 6 Composition of governance bodies and Chapter 5 Employees p. 77-79 employees 5.4 Diversity & Equal opportunity Equal remuneration for women and Chapter 5 Employees p. 72 men Management approach 5.2 Attractiveness as an employer 5.4 Diversity & Equal opportunity p. 78-79 G4-LA13 6 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Chapter 5 Employees p. 72 women to men 5.2 Attractiveness as an employer 5.4 Diversity & Equal opportunity p. 78 Supplier assement for labor practices Chapter 2 Economics p. 34-35 Management approach 2.3 Supply chain G4-LA15 Negative impacts for labor practices in the Chapter 2 Economics p. 34-35 supply chain 2.3 Supply chain Labor practices grievance mechanism Chapter 1 Strategy p. 16 Management approach 1.3 Ethics und Integrity 1.4 Human rights p. 18 Chapter 5 Employees p. 68 Social and labor standards G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor Chapter 1 Strategy/ p. 16 practices 1. 3 Ethics und Integrity 1.4 Human rights p. 18 Chapter 5 Employees p. 68 Social and labor standards 96 Human Rights GRIUNGC-Principle Reference/Comments Indicator Investment Chapter 2 Economics/2.3 Supply chain p. 34-35 G4-HR1 2 Significant investment agreements and Chapter 2 Economics/2.3 Supply chain p. 34-35 contracts including human right clauses Non-discrimination Chapter 1 Strategy p. 18 Management approach 1.4 Human rights Chapter 5 Employees p. 77-79 5.4 Diversity & Equal opportunity G4-HR3 6 Total number of incidents of discrimination Chapter 1 Strategy p. 18 1.4 Human rights Chapter 5 Employees p. 68 Social and labor standards Freedom of association and collective Chapter 1 Strategy/1.4 Human rights p. 18 bargaining Management approach Chapter 5 Employees p. 68 Social and labor standards G4-HR4 3 Operations and suppliers identified in Chapter 1 Strategy/1.4 Human rights p. 18 which the right to exercise freedom of Chapter 5 Employees p. 68 association and collective bargaining is Social and labor standards violated Chapter 2 Economics/2.3 Supply chain p. 34-35 Child labor Management approach Chapter 1 Strategy/1.4 Human rights p. 18 G4-HR5 5 Operations and suppliers with significant Chapter 1 Strategy/1.4 Human rights p. 18 risk for incidents of child labor Chapter 2 Economics/2.3 Supply chain p. 35 Forced and compulsory labor Chapter 1 Strategy/1.4 Human rights p. 18 Management approach G4-HR6 4 Operations and suppliers with significant Chapter 1 Strategy/1.4 Human rights p. 18 risk for incidents of forced and compulsory Chapter 2 Economics/2.3 Supply chain p. 35 labor Assessment Management approach Chapter 1 Strategy/1.4 Human rights p. 18 G4-HR9 1 Operations that have been subject to Chapter 1 Strategy/1.4 Human rights p. 18 human rights reviews Supplier human rights assessment Chapter 2 Economics/2.3 Supply chain p. 34-35 Management approach G4-HR10 2 Percentage of new suppliers that were Chapter 1 Strategy/1.4 Human rights p. 18 screened using human rights criteria Chapter 2 Economics/2.3 Supply chain p. 34-35 All new suppliers are contractually obligated to uphold MTU’s Code of Conduct, which makes protection of human rights compulsory. Human rights grievance mechanisms Chapter 1 Strategy/1. 3 Ethics and p. 16 Management approach Integrity 1.4 Human rights p. 18 Chapter 5 Employees p. 68 Social and labor standards G4-HR12 1 Number of grievance about human rights Chapter 1 Strategy/1. 3 Ethics and p. 16 Integrity 1.4 Human rights p. 18 Chapter 5 Employees p. 68 Social and labor standards 97 GRI-Index – Specific Standard Disclosures Society GRIUNGC-Principle Reference/Comments Indicator Anti-corruption Management approach Chapter 2 Economics/2.2 Compliance p. 29-31 G4-SO3 10 Operations assessed for risks related to Chapter 2 Economics/2.2 Compliance p. 30 corruption G4-SO4 10 Information and training on anti-corruption Chapter 2 Economics/2.2 Compliance p. 30 G4-SO5 10 Confirmed incidents of corruption and Chapter 2 Economics/2.2 Compliance p. 30 corrective actions taken Public policy Management approach Chapter 1 Strategy/1.5 Stakeholder dialog p. 23 G4-SO6 10 Total value of political contribution Chapter 1 Strategy/1.5 Stakeholder dialog p. 23 Anti-competitive behavior Chapter 2 Economics/2.2 Compliance p. 29 Management approach G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior In 2015, MTU and its subsidiaries were not and anti-trust and monopoly practices involved in any judicial processes related to anti-competitive behavior, antitrust practices, or forming of monopolies. Compliance Management approach Chapter 2 Economics/2.2 Compliance p. 29-31 G4-SO8 Monetary values of significant fines and Chapter 2 Economics/2.2 Compliance p. 30 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws Supplier assessment for impacts on Chapter 2 Economics/2.3 Supply chain p. 34-35 society Management approach G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were Chapter 2 Economics/2.3 Supply chain p. 34-35 screened using criteria for impacts on All new suppliers are contractually bound society to comply with MTU’s Code of Conduct, which is informed by the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. G4-SO10 Negative impacts on society in the supply Chapter 2 Economics/2.3 Supply chain p. 34-35 chain Grievance mechanisms for impacts on Chapter 1 Strategy/1.3 Ethics and Integrity p. 16 society Management approach 1.4 Human rights p. 18 Chapter 2 Economics/2.2 Compliance p. 29-30 Chapter 5 Employees p. 68 G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on Chapter 2 Economics/2.2 Compliance p. 30 society 2.3 Supply chain p. 34 Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 55 None 98 99 Product Responsibility GRIUNGC-Principle Reference/Comments Indicator Customer health and safety Chapter 3 Product responsibility p. 48-50 Management approach 3.5 Product quality and safety G4-PR1 Products and services for which health Chapter 3 Product responsibility p. 48-50 and safety impacts are assessed 3.5 Product quality and safety Chapter 4 Environmental protection p. 62 4.4 Material efficiency, REACh regulation G4-PR2 Number of incidents of non-compliance Chapter 3 Product responsibility/ p. 49 with regulations concerning health and 3.5 Product quality and safety safety impacts Products and service labeling Chapter 3 Product responsibility p. 48-50 Management approach 3.5 Product quality and safety G4-PR3 Product and service information required Chapter 3 Product responsibility p. 48-50 by procedures 3.5 Product quality and safety G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer Chapter 3 Product responsibility p. 51 satisfaction 3.5 Product quality and safety, Customer satisfaction Compliance Management approach Chapter 2 Economics/2.2 Compliance p. 29-31 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonChapter 3 Product responsibility p. 49 compliance with laws concerning the use 3.5 Product quality and safety of products and services 99 GER 07/16/MUC/00000/DE/EB/D MTU Aero Engines AG Dachauer Straße 665 80995 Munich • Germany Tel. +49 89 1489-0 Fax +49 89 1489-5500 corporateresponsibilty@mtu.de www.mtu.de
