COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS COSMO REPORT 201 6 Introduction Message from the President and CEO Toward a Vertically Integrated Global Energy Company The Cosmo Energy Group is operating across the spectrum of the energy industry; from oil Exploration & Production in the Middle East to oil refining in Japan, and petroleum product sales in Japan and overseas. The Group has engages in energy business which is indispensable to society including petrochemicals and wind power generation businesses. Our mission is to contribute to the society thorough safe and stable supply of energy. This includes geographic diversification of energy sourcing and prompt 01 restitution of an energy supply system in a time of disaster. COSMO REPORT 2016 Recognizing the limited nature of traditional energy resources, we are steadfast in respect for the environment and society while working to realize sustainable growth. Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors INDEX 01 Introduction 02 01 Toward a Vertically Integrated Global Energy Company COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS 03 Cosmo Energy Group’s Businesses 05 Long-term performance 07 Conversion to a holding company structure 09 Message from the President and CEO 15 Medium-term Management Plan 17 Features on Business Strategies 17 Path to Creating Corporate Value 19 Growth Strategy for Creating Corporate Value 21 Review of Operations 21 Business Overview 23 Oil Exploration and Production Business 25 Petroleum Business 27 Petrochemical Business 28 Other Businesses (Renewable Energy) 29 Corporate Governance 33 Recommendation from Independent Outside Directors 35 CSR Activities 35 CSR Initiatives of the Cosmo Energy Group 37 Strict Safety Management ~Fulfilling its Mission of Safe Supply~ 39 Customers ~Toward fulfilling motoring lifestyle solutions~ 41 Human Resources ~Source of Value Creation~ 43 Environment ~Aiming to Realize “Living with Our Planet”~ 45 Society ~Aiming to be the Preferred Energy Company~ 47 Financial Section 55 Outline 55 Share Information 56 Corporate Data Introduction Message from the President and CEO Cosmo Energy Group’s Businesses Business Flow and Activities Oil Exploration and Production Business Besides purchasing crude oil from producing Oil exploration and Marine transportation countries, the Cosmo Energy Group is engaged in production, procurement Transportation by tankers of oil exploration and production in cooperation with Procuring crude oil through purchased or independently producing countries, and transports procured developed crude oil and independent development and crude oil to refineries in Japan. petroleum products based on from oil producing countries. supply and demand. Petroleum Business Storage (Refining and Sales) Stockpile of petroleum for 70 days or more in case of The group is engaged in oil refining and sales of a emergency wide range of petroleum products from gasoline Oil refining and production 03 to heavy oil and is also expanding car leasing Production of gasoline, gas oil, business for individual customers. heating oil, and feedstock for COSMO REPORT 2016 petrochemicals, in accordance with market needs Research & development Petrochemical Advanced research on manufacturing technologies Business The group manufactures petrochemical products Manufacturing of and sell the products in Japan and overseas. petrochemical products Manufacturing of raw materials for plastics, textiles, and other products, in accordance with market needs Renewable Energy Business The Group has been expanding wind power generation business to diversify energy Renewable energy supply sources. Nationwide operation of wind power and solar power generation facilities, and distribution of electricity Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors Related pages Oil Exploration and Production Business Medium-Term Management Plan P.15-16 Growth Drivers (Oil exploration & production) P.20 Review of Operations P.23-24 (Oil Exploration and Production Business) Environment P.44 (Overseas environmental measures and environmental preservation) Export of petroleum products Export of petroleum products, in accordance with overseas demand Petroleum Business (Refining and Sales) Domestic sales Medium-Term Management Plan P.15-16 (service stations and Growth Drivers (Retail) service station operators) P.20 Sales of gasoline, gas oil, and Review of Operations P.25-26 (Petroleum Business) other products, and general Domestic transportation support of customers’ car-life Strict Safety Management P.37-38 04 (Fulfilling its Mission of Safe Supply) Use of appropriate COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS Customers Customers P.39-40 transportation methods in (Toward fulfilling motoring lifestyle solutions) consideration of costs and regional characteristics. Supply of petroleum products to customers of various industries and service station operators, in Domestic sales accordance with their needs (industrial use) Petrochemical Business Medium-Term Management Plan P.15-16 Review of Operations P.27 (Petrochemical Business) Renewable Energy Business Medium-Term Management Plan P.15-16 Growth Drivers (Wind power generation) P.20 Review of Operations (Renewable Energy) P.28 Environment (Renewable energy initiatives) P.44 Introduction Message from the President and CEO Long-term performance Aiming for sustainable growth and harmony with our planet and society We have always been engaged in the energy business. We will not fear change and take up challenges so that we can continue to contribute to the development of society through the energy field 2,000 05 1,000 COSMO REPORT 2016 Bars on the right graph indicate sales after Cosmo Oil was established. 0 Fiscal year 1933 1939 1952 1968 1970 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 United Petroleum Development was established Cosmo Oil Abu Dhabi Oil was was the surviving established. company through tripartite merger of Launched IPP (Independent Asian Oil was established. Power Producer) operations. Daikyo Oil, Maruzen Oil, Daikyo Oil was established. and the former Cosmo Asian Oil was merged Qatar Petroleum Development Maruzen Oil was established. Oil (Cosmo Refining) into Cosmo Oil. was established. What have not changed What have changed Stable supply of energy Business portfolio Expansion of the oil exploration & production business A “Customer First” mindset Enhancement of the petrochemical business Energy-related business domains Entry into the wind power generation business Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors (Billion yen) 4,000 3,000 06 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Abu Dhabi Oil renewed Transformated to a International concessions and was granted a holding company Petroleum Investment new concession area. structure. Company(IPIC) Abu Dhabi Oil Commencement became our largest Entered the car leasing business Began strategic comprehensive implements the Zero of Commercial shareholder for individuals. cooperation with CEPSA. Flare Project at its oil Operation of production facility for Cosmo Oil Agreed to the United Hyundai Cosmo Petrochemical(HCP) was established, the first time in the Sakata Wind Nations Global Compact. and entered paraxylene business. Middle East region Power Plant CM Aromatics was established. Aquired Eco Power shares. Charge in profit composition (ordinary income excluding inventory valuation by business segment) Other (wind power generation) Oil E&P Petroleum and other Petrochemical Oil E&P FY2017 The first half Final year of the Fifth Consolidated Mediumof the 2000’s Term Management Plan Petroleum * Petroleum includes petrochemical Introduction Message from the President and CEO Conversion to a holding company structure COSMO Cosmo Energy Group Toransformation to a Holding Company Structure ENERGY In October 2015, we converted to a holding company structure comprised of a pure holding company “Cosmo Energy Holdings Co., Ltd.” and three core operating companies for oil exploration & production, oil refining and petrochemicals, and oil product sales. GROUP Under its Fifth Consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan, the Cosmo Energy Group has been striving for thorough rationalization and increase in efficiency particularly in the oil refining business. The Group has also been transforming its business portfolio by shifting management resources to the oil exploration & production, retail (car leasing for individuals), 07 and wind power generation businesses, which are positioned as drivers of future growth. At the same time, the Group has adopted a holding company structure in order to strengthen the competitiveness of individual businesses and to COSMO REPORT 2016 continue to achieve sustainable growth. Having the three core business companies in oil exploration & production, oil refining and petrochemicals, and oil product sales, the Group aims to enhance competitiveness of each business and thereby enhance corporate value. Stable dividend Swift decisionpayment making Conversion to a holding company structure Distribution of profits to shareholders is More authority and responsibility will be a priority issue for us. By converting delegated to the operating companies, so to a holding company structure, that they can expeditiously execute each we aim to raise profitability of its business to facilitate swift responses to Objectives business companies and further ensure stable dividend payment, while giving due consideration to changes in the management environment. Their speedier decision-making is expected to lead to the enhancement investment in growth businesses and of business competitiveness and stable improvement in financial position. profits of the holding company. Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors The holding company structure Comprised of a pure holding company and three core operating companies in oil exploration & prodution, oil refining and petrochemicals, and oil product sales Group of affiliated company Oil exploration and production Oil refining, petrochemicals Oil product sales, Retail, etc. Crude production Major crude oil importing countries Domestic sales share*2 Wind power generation capacity (three operating companies)*1 United Arab Emirates Approx. 12% 184,000kW Approx. 40,000 barrels/day (Abu Dhabi) (Gasoline, gas oil, kerosene, A fuel oil) Domestic market share: Comparison with refining Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Approx. 6% capacity: Approx. 9% Number of service stations in Japan*2 State of Qatar Ethylene production capacity Oil exploration & production areas Oil refining capacity*2 Number of Cosmo 1,293,000 tons/year brand stations Domestic market share: START United Arab Emirates 452,000 barrels/day 3,054 (Abu Dhabi) Approx. 18% Domestic market share: State of Qatar Approx. 11.5% Car leasing business for individuals*2 Major affiliated companies Cumulative total Eco Power Major affiliated companies Paraxylene production capacity*2 27,401 cars Maruzen Petrochemical Abu Dhabi Oil 1,180,000 tons/year Cosmo Engineering Qatar Petroleum Development Major affiliated companies Cosmo Trade and Service United Petroleum Development Major affiliated companies Cosmo Oil Sales Cosmo ALA 08 Gyxis Cosmo Oil Lubricants Sogo Energy COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS Cosmo Matsuyama Oil CM Aromatics Hyundai Cosmo Petrochemical Keiyo Seisei JV *1 Results for January – December 2015 *2 As of March 31, 2016 Aggressive governance Promoting strategic Number of Directors alliances The new corporate structure, 8 2 6 4 comprised by businesses segment, allows swifter decision-making Directors Outside Directors Directors Outside Directors and more flexibility in responding to drastically changing business Before conversion to the holding company structure After conversion environments. We continue aggressively (up to September 30, 2015) (from October 1, 2015) to promote strategic business alliances and joint ventures with other companies Cosmo Energy Holdings is a company with an audit and supervisory by each business and each region, to committee, of which outside directors account for a majonity of members. create more value. Views from outside directors are being used to help create corporate value. Introduction Message from the President and CEO Message from the President and CEO Aiming to be a Vertically Integrated Global Energy Company President and CEO Keizo Morikawa Management Vision FY2015 Results and 09 FY2016 Forecasts COSMO REPORT 2016 The Cosmo Energy Group’s management vision is “In In our FY 2015, ended March 31, 2016, we recorded striving for harmony and symbiosis between our planet, ordinary loss of ¥36.1 billion and net loss attributable to mankind and society, we aim for sustainable growth owners of parent of ¥50.2 billion, mainly due to inventory towards a future of limitless possibilities.” valuation loss of ¥68.7 billion, caused by lower crude oil The Cosmo Energy Group is engaged in the petroleum prices. Ordinary income excluding inventory valuation is product business. Although our products are taken for ¥32.6 billion. Under such management environment, we granted as essential products in our daily life, we are have promoted to establish more alliances to enhance reminded of their precious value in the case of disasters. At competitiveness of our refineries. We began to construct the time of the Kobe, Tohoku and Kumamoto earthquakes, pipelines between our Chiba Refinery and the Chiba Plant which occurred in 1995, 2011 and 2016 respectively, of Tonen General Sekiyu K.K. and agreed on a business gasoline and gas oil, which are essential to transport alliance between our Yokkaichi Refinery and Showa required materials and people, contributed to people’s Yokkaichi Sekiyu Co. Ltd. In the petrochemical business, survival, as did heating oil and liquid petroleum gas used we consolidated Maruzen Petrochemical Co., Ltd. into a for cooking and lighting. Clothing, PET bottles and tires are subsidiary company in order to create synergies with our also made from naphtha, which is another type of petroleum petroleum business. product. The Cosmo Energy Group is thus dealing with For FY2016, ending March 31 2017, we are forecasting daily necessities, which support everyone’s daily lives. At ordinary profit of ¥67.5 billion and net profit attributable to the same time, as the Cosmo Energy Group is a corporate owners of parent of ¥47.5 billion, assuming a gradual rise in entity that has various types of stakeholders, we have crude oil prices. Excluding the inventory valuation, ordinary to pursue an appropriate level of profits and reward our income is expected to be ¥54.5 billion. In the Oil Exploration customers, shareholders, employees, business partners, & Production business, the Hail oil field development, which local residents and the administration. By consistently will be cost competitive by utilizing the existing facilities for supplying essential energy for everyone’s daily lives, we production and shipment, will be in the final stage to start aspire to keep contributing to society, as stated in the production in the first half of FY2017. In the petroleum Cosmo Energy Group’s management vision. business, Chiba Refinery, which has acquired the factory See page 22 for details on inventory evaluation. Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors certification, will achieve a two-year long-running operation, improve operating rate, and optimize its maintenance cost. Fifth Consolidated Medium10 This is expected to improve profit of the petroleum business Term Management Plan COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS by approximately ¥7.0 billion. Concerning the petrochemical business, we have begun studies on a reciprocal arrangement of raw materials and fuels between our Chiba With the long-term aim of becoming a Vertically Integrated Refinery and Maruzen Petrochemical’s Chiba Plant, and Global Energy Company, the Cosmo Energy Group’s fifth manufacturing and sales of value-added products through consolidated medium-term management plan (FY2013 alliance with other companies. to FY2017) advocates a five-year period for solidifying the base for growth and building a strong management foundation. In the petroleum refinery and petrochemical businesses, in addition to promoting rationalization and FY2015 Results and FY2016 Forecasts efficiencies through alliances, we have identified the three (Billion yen) businesses of Oil Exploration & Production, retail (car FY2015 Results FY2016 Forecasts leasing for individuals) and wind power generation Ordinary income 36.1 67.5 as growth areas, and are actively expanding those Impact of inventory valuation 68.7 13.0 businesses. Through such endeavors, we will strive Ordinary income excluding 32.6 54.5 to establish a business portfolio which can withstand inventory valuation fluctuation in crude oil prices and other changes in the Each Segment Oil exploration and environment and is expected to generate stable profits. 18.6 7.5 production business Specifically, in the petroleum refinery business, we have Petroleum business 5.8 35.0 established a joint business with the Tonen General Sekiyu Petrochemical business 4.2 7.0 at the Chiba Refinery, and have started to construct Other* 4.0 5.0 pipelines between the two refineries. In addition, we have Profit attributable to owners of parent 50.2 47.5 also agreed on a business tie-up contract with Showa Dividend per share ¥ 40 ¥ 50 (plan) Shell Sekiyu K.K. at the Yokkaichi Refinery. Through such * Including consolidated adjustment activities, we aim to enhance our refinery competitiveness. Reference When the Chiba pipelines are completed, we expect to Dubai crude oil price (US$ /barrel) 45.7 40.0 generate synergies of ¥10 billion annually at both companies Foreign exchange rate (¥/US$) 120.1 110.0 stemming from the optimization of facilities based on Introduction Message from the President and CEO Message from the President and CEO integrated production plans and enhanced added value Arab Emirates, we are participating in interests in the of products. In the petrochemical business, we will strive Middle East as an operator that takes initiatives in the to enhance the profitability of the paraxylene business of development process. Among our three major operating Hyundai Cosmo Petrochemical (HCP), which has been companies, a project with Abu Dhabi Oil Co., Ltd. has jointly established with Hyundai Oilbank (HDO). Furthermore, been engaged in stable production for nearly 50 years. in March 2016, we consolidated Maruzen Petrochemical Our group’s oil E&P business has competitiveness Co., Ltd. into a subsidiary company and will pursue the with low risk as we focus on discovered and yet to be generation of synergies through integrated management developed oil fields. The Hail oil field, which is under with the petroleum refinery business. development, is also a highly competitive project, as Regarding profitability, we have set an ordinary income in the case of our other oilfields that are currently in target of ¥110 billion for FY2017 based on the steady operation. The start of production at the Hail oil field in implementation of the initiatives of the medium-term the first half of FY2017 is projected to almost double management plan, assuming a crude oil price (Dubai) of the production volume of Abu Dhabi Oil. In addition, we US$70 per barrel and an exchange rate of ¥120 per dollar. have entered into a strategic comprehensive cooperative relationship with Compañía Española de Petróleos, S.A.U. (CEPSA)*1, which is fully owned by our largest shareholder International Petroleum Investment Company The Cosmo Energy Group’s Group(IPIC)*2. Having a workshop with Abu Dhabi Strengths and Growth Strategy National Oil Company and CEPSA on a regular basis, we are aiming to jointly acquire new interests. The second growth area is the retail business. We have identified the businesses of Oil Exploration & While domestic service stations are still facing harsh Production, retail (car leasing for individuals) and wind competition and the number of service stations will 11 power generation as the three growth areas. continue to decrease for the time being, we have COSMO REPORT 2016 The first is the oil E&P business. Our best strength also been engaged in . However, – the car life-related is that, based on our strong relationship of trust with business such as vehicle sales and leasing, vehicle the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, a member of the United inspections, maintenance, and car insurance, in addition Impact of Production by the Hail Oil Field The Hail oil km 75 Cosmo Energy Group’s Oil Production Volume field starts production POINT 3 Use of the existing shipment 60,000 (barrel/day) base and production greatly reduces the amount of 50,000 km investment. 50 40,000 30,000 Umm Al-Anbar Mubarraz field 20,000 kmfield 25 10,000 m 1 0k 0 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Neewat AlMubarraz (plan) (plan) Ghalan field Island POINT 1 Hail’s peak production volume is projected to be equivalent to that of Abu Dhabi Oil Company’s existing three oil fields. Hail field POINT 2 The Hail oil field and the existing three oil fields enhance cost competitiveness, as production volume increases. United Arab Emirates (Abu Dhabi) Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors to our main business of sales of gasoline and gas oil. The size of this car-life-related market is estimated to be Accelerating Management approximately ¥27 trillion. Efficiency by Establishing a Compared to competitors in other industries, we Holding Company System receive an overwhelmingly high number of customers, as approximately half a million vehicles visit our service stations per day. We plan to make the most of such In October 2015, we incorporated a holding company contacts with customers and develop our car-life-related structure comprised of a holding company and three business, with its core being car leasing for individuals. core operating companies in the areas of oil exploration In our car leasing services for individuals, we adopt & production, oil refining and petrochemicals, and oil a monthly fixed rate payment system including car product sales. Our objectives in establishing the new inspections and insurance, etc. We have also acquired system are threefold: (1) to distribute stable dividends; a business model patent for combining fuel oil discounts (2) to ensure prompt decision-making by transferring as a package. Our service has been particularly well responsibility and authority to business companies; received by women and seniors who wish to easily use and (3) to promote alliances in each business segment. a car in the suburbs. In fact, the number of contracts Contributions and dividends from each business exceeded 27,000 at the end of FY2015. company will enable our group to provide stable The third growth area is wind power generation, which dividends even when we incur inventory valuation losses is anticipated to grow due to environmental measures caused by a drop in crude oil prices. I am expecting over the long term. Supported by FIT (Feed-in Tariff), that partial optimization will lead to total optimization. which was implemented in FY2012, the business has Furthermore, I have been encouraged by an increase in become a stable source of revenue. Our group company constructive suggestions from each business company Eco Power Co., Ltd. holds the third largest share of the at the time of making important decisions concerning 12 domestic market in terms of generation capacity. It is investments and alliances and their swifter execution of COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS currently developing a new wind power generation facility business measures. and plans to commence its operation at Watarai Cho in Mie Prefecture, Japan in the second half of FY2016. Power generating capacity is expected to expand from 184,000 kW at the end of FY2015 to around 230,000 kW by the end of FY2017, the final year of the current Medium-Term Management Plan. It has been claimed that the number of domestic oil wholesale companies will be consolidated into major three companies. Amid an ever-changing management environment, our group, the third largest, needs to conduct expeditious management. While our competitors are expanding their business scale, we will explore the most effective way to ensure sustained growth by utilizing our holding company system as well as our strengths and advantages, rationalizing our operations more rapidly than our competitors, and developing business with mobility and flexibility. *1 A major Spanish petroleum company *2 An investment company in the energy and related sectors that is fully owned by the Abu Dhabi government Introduction Message from the President and CEO Message from the President and CEO Enhancing Corporate Capital Policy Focused on the Governance Future As we incorporate a holding company system, we We have been executing numerous large-scale upfront are working on the enhancement of our corporate investments mainly in the period of our current midgovernance system with the aim of increasing our longterm management plan, such as the Delayed Coker Unit term corporate value. Complying with the Japanese (heavy oil thermal cracking unit) at the Sakai Refinery, the corporate governance code, we have added two development of the Hail oil field, a paraxylene production independent outside directors so that we can incorporate facility at Hyundai Cosmo Petrochemical (HCP), and a wind multidirectional perspectives from outside our group power generation business. In addition, we recorded an and industries other than the oil industry. In accordance inventory valuation loss of approximately ¥170 billion over with the transition to a company with a supervisory three years from FY2013 due to a sharp decline in crude committee, four of our ten directors are outside oil prices, and suffered from an increase in cost and an directors, including two supervisory committee members. opportunity loss, which were caused by the impact of the Moreover, by forming a nomination and remuneration March 2011 earthquake at Chiba Refinery, our main refinery. advisory committee and by introducing an executive As a result, our equity capital was significantly impaired. remuneration system linked to business performance, However, we are expecting a significant drop in the amount we have ensured business transparency and have of investment in and after FY2017 as an investment in the strengthened our accountability. Hail oil field will peak in FY2016, and many of our large investments are entering a stage where we collect a large 13 Cash Flow Improves as the Amount of Investment Peaks Out COSMO REPORT 2016 (Billion yen) (Times) 200 EBITDA excluding inventory valuation (LH) Investments (LH) Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio (based on the credit rating) (RH) 6 160 Inventory evaluation loss Peak investment caused by lower oil prices for the Hail oil field development in FY2013-2015 4 120 ¥168.7billion 80 Investment to peak out 2 40 0 0 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 (plan) FY2017 (plan) Dividend per share ¥20 ¥0 ¥40 ¥50 (plan) Capital expenditures Large-scale will decrease in the investment Hail oil field development, new wind farms, etc. next medium-term for growth management plan Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors investment return. Despite expecting a decrease in domestic expatriate employees, fostering human resources capable of sales volume of oil products, we believe that the profitability global operations, and promoting the participation of women. of our petroleum business will stabilize as demand and We will remedy long working hours and focus on “working supply in the domestic market are becoming more balanced style reform”, so as to raise productivity and enhance following the enactment of the Act on Sophisticated corporate value. Methods of Energy Supply Structures. Moreover, we intend to expand profit by realizing alliances among refineries and in our three growth areas, and as we will streamline our balance sheet by adopting measures such as business Message to Shareholders divestments and asset sales, we will significantly improve our cash flow and financial position. We regard our dividend policy as the highest priority issue in our capital strategy, and we are committed The environment surrounding Japan’s oil industry is severe to stable dividend payments. In FY2015, we recorded and rapidly evolving. We are now entering a stage where a consolidated ordinary loss due to an inventory we collect a return from our recent investments. I would valuation loss stemming from lower oil prices, but we like you to know that we will adhere to our stable dividend paid a dividend of ¥40 per share for the year, as we payments, despite recording losses on an accounting basis, are expecting that the implementation of the above as we are fully confident of our future profit potential and the measures will enable us to realize a profit turnaround recovery of our cash flow. By allocating our financial sources going forward. For FY2016, we are planning to increase to growth areas in which we can leverage our strengths, the the dividend per share to ¥50 and improve our financial Cosmo Energy Group will expand its corporate value while structure at the same time. serving society as a public institution. We sincerely hope our shareholders understand our management vision and will 14 continue to extend their support for many years to come. COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS Promoting CSR Management 2016.6 Although our group provides stable energy that is essential President and CEO to everyone’s daily lives, we are also aware that we inevitably Keizo Morikawa place some degree of burden on the global environment, as we mainly handle fossil fuels. Based on our full awareness and consideration of this fact, our group is promoting CSR management that combines the management plan and our CSR initiatives. We believe that profit generation and CSR activities should go hand in hand and that we must achieve both to expand corporate value. Among our CSR activities, it is most important for our group to implement safety control measures completely and successfully. Our refineries, in addition to their conventional measures, will implement a new operating management system to realize safe operation and stable supply at a higher level than the world standard. Furthermore, we have been a member of the “Global Compact” since 2006 and have been promoting CSR management by respecting basic principles on human rights, labor, the environment, and the prevention of corruption. We will also raise productivity by positively promoting diversity and making decisions by incorporating various ideas and opinions of employees with diverse backgrounds. Other important initiatives include increasing the number of Introduction Message from the President and CEO Medium-Term Management Plan Fifth Consolidated Medium4 Basic Policies Term Management Plan Enhance profitability in the refining and marketing sector Secure stable income from We started the fifth medium-term management plan (FY2013 2017), with the aim investments made during the previous of improving its financial position, resuming dividend payments at early date, and medium-term management plan become a vertically integrated global energy company over the long term, while Further strengthen alliances with implementing four basic policies. In FY2015, we resumed paying dividends. Going IPIC and Hyundai Oilbank forward, we will continue to strive to achieve our long-term vision and continually Further enhance CSR management expand corporate value. Significant changes in management Ordinary Income (excluding the Impact of Inventory Valuation) environment have led us to revise the Fifth (Billion yen) Medium-Term Management Plan Petroleum Business 110.0 112.0 The current medium-term management plan was revised in Petrochemical Business Oil E&P Business 18.0 November 2015, in order to reflect additional initiatives and Other 37.0 10.0 other measures, in addition to significant fluctuations of crude oil prices and foreign exchange rates from 2013 when the 5.0 plan was initially announced. A decline in projected profit of the Oil E&P Business, due to lower sales prices caused by 32.6 61.0 77.5 5.8 a significant drop in crude oil prices, is expected to be offset 4.2 by an increase in projected profit of the Petroleum Business, 18.6 4.0 7.0 6.5 which is likely to be contributed by lower self-consumed fuel FY2015 FY2017 FY2017 (Revised) (Initial) costs at refineries. As a result, consolidated ordinary income in Assumption FY2017, the final year of the current plan, is projected at ¥110 Dubai crude oil $45.7/BBL $70/BBL $100/BBL billion, which is at the similar level to that of the initial plan. Exchange rate ¥120.1/$ ¥120/$ ¥90/$ 15 COSMO REPORT 2016 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Large-Scale Investments Aiming for Growth Hail oil field development, new wind farms, etc. Hail oil field Acquisition of mining areas Under development Oil E&P Alliance with CEPSA Strategic comprehensive alliance Growth Businesses Retail Cumulative total: 20,000 vehicles Private car leasing (car leasing) Renewable Feed-in tariff scheme Start of operation at Hirogawa and Wind power generation (20 years; cumulative power generation capacity of approx. 150,000 kW) Aizu (approx. 180,000 kW) Energy Chiba Alliance with Tonen General Sekiyu Establishment of Keiyo Seisei (JV); Joint venture Refinery Acquisition of factory certification Sakai Refinery Operation of a new coker plant Petroleum Yokkaichi Refinery Core Businesses Sakaide Refinery Closure Transformation to an oil terminal IPP (Independent Power Producer) Power selling capacity; 200,000 kW Energy-saving investment HCP (Aroma business) Start of the new PX production plant and rationalization Petrochemical Maruzen Petrochemical (Olefine business) Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors Ongoing Investments for Achieving Growth Cash Balance in FY2013-2017 The amount of ¥187 billion, which accounts for over 50% of We are expecting Cash-In of ¥400 billion for FY2013-2017, the ¥360 billion capital investment total for FY2013-2017, is which includes, in addition to business profit, proceeds from allocated to the oil exploration & production business, one of business divestment and asset sales as a part of streamlining our growth drivers. The Hail oil field of Abu Dhabi Oil, where the balance sheet. Cash-Out for the same period is estimated we are making the highest investment amount, is projected to be ¥360 billion. These will result in ¥40 billion in free cash to start production in the first half of 2017. Our five-year plan flow. While a decline in crude oil prices and the negative for the oil refining and marketing business is to invest ¥140 impact from foreign exchange have led us to project less free billion, which includes additional investments for growth cash flow than initially expected, we are confident that stable and safety measures, such as the Chiba Refinery pipeline dividend payments can be internally funded. construction and the construction to enhance resilience of refineries concerning natural disasters. (Billion yen) (Billion yen) Cash Balance in FY2013-2017 Oil E&P 187 Hail oil field development 187 Depreciation Petroleum* 2 140 and amortization Refinery equipment upgrades 70 Investments* 180 Cash-Out Chiba Refinery renewal plan 20 Cash-In 360 Sales and administration divisions 50 400 Profit* 360 Renewable energy, overseas, etc. 33 120 Investment in new wind farms, etc. 33 Inventory Compression, etc. FY2013-2015 total investments*1 360 100 *1 Excluding subsidies Free Cash Flow 40 *2 Major additional investments: Chiba Refinery pipeline construction; construction to enhance resilience of refineries * Excluding subsidies 16 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 and after Road Map toward Achieving Long-Term Visions Investment to decline During the current medium-term management Production to start Abu Dhabi Oil’s production to double on peak plan, large-scale investments, such as the Hail oil field development and new wind farms CEPSA’s capital participation in Abu Dhabi Oil New interests to acquire development for the wind power generation business, coincided. Moving ahead into the next Target cumulative total: 60,000 vehicles Further business expansion management plan, those projects will enter the stage of returning profits and at the same time Start of operation at Watari Start of operation at Sakata Port and Further business expansion (approx. 210,000 kW) Ishikari Bay Port (approx. 230,000 kW) the overall investment amount is expected to decline significantly. As the Hail oil field pipeline under construction Pipeline construction to complete Expect ¥10 billion synergy per year project utilizes existing facilities for production 2-year long-running operation Refining cost down 4-year long-running operation and shipment, it should be cost competitive and (approx. ¥7 billion) Further refining cost down generate good profit even at the current level of oil prices. Moreover, the petroleum business Benefit in case of a drop in oil prices will begin to see synergies from the joint venture Business alliance with arrangement of the Chiba Refinery. Further, we Showa Shell Sekiyu Group Equipment optimization look for stable profit growth by coverting to “car life value proposition” by expanding mainly the car leasing business for individual and by making Upgrade work Competitive electric power supply continual progress in developing new wind farms Diversification of feedstock in the wind power generation business. As most Establishment of profit base resistant to market fluctuations major investments will be completed and cash flow will improve significantly by profit growth from Making into a subsidiary Establishing a petrochemical supply chain those investments, we will approach becoming “Vertically Integrated Global Energy Company”. Introduction Message from the President and CEO Features on Business Strategies Path to Creating Corporate Value The Cosmo Energy Group believes that our most important social role and mission is the “stable supply of energy”. By efficiently utilizing all of our assets and strength, including the Group network, know-how, technology, DNA, brand power, and relationships with clients, all of which have been accumulated in its history and by fulfilling our social mission, we firmly believe that our Group’s corporate value will continue to be enhanced. Assets and Strengths The Cosmo Energy Group’s organization, human resources, customers, and brand are not visible in the financial statements. Yet, they have invisible value and are factors that set us apart other companies. One strength of the Group, which is critically important for us to become a vertically integrated global energy company, is our long-term solid relationship of trust with oil producing countries. Safe and stable supply Customers Supply of oil products Brand 17 70 years Corporate brand awareness Over 99.5% COSMO REPORT 2016 The original company, Maruzen Oil, was established in 1933. The succeeding company, Daikyo Oil, Survey of 1,236 customers (men and women, 18-64 years old) who used a was established in 1939. service station in the past one month (as of November 2, 2015) Customers Partners Number of the “Cosmo Number of Smart Vehicles* the Card” Holders under contract Solid relationship of trust with oil producing countries Approx. Cumulative for nearly 50 years 4,390,000 27,401 cars (As of March 31, 2016) (As of March 31, 2016) * Car lease for individuals Crude reserves estimate (proved and probable) Total number of service station 161.4 million barrels operators and Cosmo brand stations Number of operators Number of Cosmo brand stations Equivalent to supply of approx. 24 years (As of December 31, 2015) 226 3,054 Human Resources (As of March 31, 2016) (As of March 31, 2016) Management structure Transparent Environment management Renewable energy CO2 reduction (Outside directors are 40% of Environmental-brand survey (wind power generation) (Oil development business) the board members) Zero-Flare Operation Human resources No. 3 Details on P44 No. 1 Strong dedication in Japan’s First attempt in the Middle East. By in the industry introducing a system to compress and to ensuring stable generation capacity seal flare gas (a by-product of crude oil production and shipment) underground (in an oil reservoir), instead of conventional burning, supply of oil (As of March 31, 2016) Nikkei BP Eco-Brand Survey 2016 CO2 emission has been reduced and the crude oil recovery rate has been improved. products Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors Business Domains Aiming to become “A Vertically Integrated Global Energy Company”, the Cosmo Energy Group is engaged in oil development, refining, petrochemical, oil sales, and retail (car leasing) businesses and is operating across the spectrum of the energy industry. At the same time, the Group is strengthening the wind power generation business as a part of its renewal energy business. ValueInvested Business Domains Creating Oil exploration & production 18 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS Spiral Renewable energy (wind power generation) Oil refining Petrochemical Retail (Oil product sales, car leasing, etc.) Value Creation The Cosmo Energy Group strives to create social value through its stable supply of energy and environmentally-friendly operations. Although a decline in oil prices during the year under review has deteriorated its financial condition, the Group seeks to improve its ROE and enhance its economic value. Economic Value Social Values Stable supply of energy Target ROE of Helping people to benefit from use of their 22% automobiles Symbiosis with the environment via the renewable energy business and in fiscal 2017 other activities Introduction Message from the President and CEO Features on Business Strategies Growth Strategy for Creating Corporate Value Growth Drivers Oil exploration & production and renewable energy and retail business are identified as our growth drivers. By shifting management resources from the mainstay businesses while they undergo rationalization and efficiency enhancement improvements to the growth areas, we aim to enhance long-term corporate value. Shift in Business Portfolio for Sustainable Growth and Enharcament of Corporate Value High 19 COSMO REPORT 2016 Shift management resources (personnel and capital) to accelerate growth Investment efficiency Retail Oil exploration & production Wind power generation Oil refining and petrochemicals Raise profitability by the enhancement of efficiency and competence, by means such as alliances with other companies Low Mainstay Businesses Growth Businesses * Image drawing for the Mediumand long-term creation of corporate value * Circle size represents a hypothetical scale of business assets. Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors 3Growth Drivers 1 Oil E & P Business Global oil demand is expected to grow steadly corresponding to an increase in population World Oil Demand Operation in the relatively competitive areas of the Middle East, (Million barrels/day) such as Abu Dhabi and Qatar, compared to other regions 100 80 Strong relationship of trust with oil producing countries on the back of nearly 50 years of safe operation, personnel exchange, 60 and other factors 40 20 Low-risk low-cost development, mainly of discovered and undeveloped* oil fields 0 1990 2013 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 * Undeveloped oil fields are those that have confirmed oil reserves, based on the feasibility Source: IEA “World Energy Outlook 2014” study, but have not been developed 2 Retail Business Car-related Market of Approx. ¥27 trillion Vehicle sales; Mandatory car inspection and maintenance; car insurance, etc. Car-related Market Size in Japan 20 Car lease business for individuals, utilizing the potential of Sales of gasoline, customer visits to service stations (approx. 500,000 cars/day) COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS gas oil Vehicle sales and brand recognition ¥9 trillion ¥13 trillion Enter lease market for individuals where other lease Approx. companies couldn't Car ¥36 Agency arrangement with a lease company means not to have inventory and therefore low risk insurance trillion ¥5 trillion Mandatory car Acquired a patent for a business model to make a bundled business with a discount on the fuel oil price to vehicle contractors* inspection and maintenance Cosmo’s target ¥9 trillion Source: Seibi Kohosya Company * Including lease and purchase by cash or loan A long-term growth potential due to an increase in environmental measures etc 3 Wind Power Generation Business Expecting a 20-year stable profit based on the feed-in tariff (FIT) scheme Wind Power Generation Volume in japan The wind power generation business requires high-level expertise 600 (100 million kWh) 3,000 in location selection, environment assessment, etc. Its pioneer Eco Power joined the Cosmo Energy Group in 2010. Renewable energy (RH) Wind power generation (LH) 400 2,000 By being engaged in development, construction, operation, and maintenance within the group, a high-level availability rate (90% or more) is achieved. 200 1,000 Aim at long-term business expansion by participating in offshore projects*, in addition to onshore projects. 0 0 2013 2014 2030 Source: Prepared by the Company based on METI’s Long-term Energy Supply and Demand Outlook * The Akita offshore wind farm project is a large-scale one led by the private sector. Introduction Message from the President and CEO Review of Operations Business Overview Oil Exploration and Petroleum Business Petrochemical Business Production Business (Refining and Sales) Business of exploration and Business to refine imported crude oil Business to manufacture raw materials Business production of crude oil in Abu Dhabi and sell the products to nationwide of polyester fiber, pet bottles, plastics, summary in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) service stations, factories, and other synthetic rubber, etc. and in State of Qatar places including overseas Net sales *1 55.8 billion yen 2,220.7 billion yen 48.1 billion yen Ordinary income *1 18.6 billion yen 62.8 billion yen 4.1 billion yen Ordinary income *1 18.6 billion yen 5.8 billion yen 4.2 billion yen (excl. inventory valuation) 21 COSMO REPORT 2016 Number of 306 4,744 1,071 employees *2 *1 FY2015 results (April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016) *2 As of March 31, 2016 *3 Including consolidated adjustment *4 Wind power generation business (Eco Power): 85 Net Sales by Segment (Billions of yen) 4,000 Oil Exploration and Production Business Petroleum Business Petrochemical Business Other 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 (plan) Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors What does the impact of inventory valuation indicate? The “impact of inventory valuation” indicates the impact on the cost of sales in the financial statements, according to the inventory valuation method, when there is a change in the price of crude oil. Inventory valuation impact based on the periodic average method This indicates the impact in terms of income based on the “periodic average method,” which is an inventory valuation method. In a phase when crude oil prices rise, the cost of sales is pushed down (cost decrease = inventory valuation gain) because the unit prices of purchased inventory that have risen during the term are averaged with the lower inventory unit prices at the start of the term. Conversely, in a phase when crude oil prices fall, the cost of sales is pushed up (cost increase = inventory valuation loss) because the unit prices of purchased inventory that have fallen during the term are averaged with the higher inventory unit prices at the start of the term. Other Businesses Total Phase when crude oil prices rise (Renewable Energy) Average of the unit prices of purchased Cost of sales is pushed down inventory during the term with the “lower” (inventory valuation gain) inventory unit prices at the start of the term. Businesses that are not related to Impact of oil or petroleum. Mainly engaged in inventory wind power generation as $70 for renewable energy. $40 for 365 days 65$ 70 days Inventory at the Purchase during Cost of sales 71.4 billion yen 2,244.3 billion yen*3 start of the term Periodic the term average Phase when crude oil prices fall Average of the unit prices of purchased Cost of sales is pushed up 3.5 billion yen 36.1 billion yen*3 inventory during the term with the “higher” (inventory valuation loss) inventory unit prices at the start of the term. Impact of inventory $70 for 70 days 45$ 3.5 billion yen 32.6 billion yen*3 $40 for 365 days Inventory at the Purchase during Cost of sales 22 start of the term the term Periodic COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS average 995*4 7,116 Inventory valuation impact based on reduction in book value If the market value of inventory at the end of the term falls below the book value, it is necessary to reduce the book value to the market value, and this indicates that a resulting loss is incurred (cost increase = inventory valuation loss). Ordinary Income by Segment (excl. Inventory Valuation) (Billions of yen) 100 Oil Exploration and Production Business Petroleum Business Petrochemical Business 75 Other 50 25 0 -25 -50 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 (plan) Introduction Message from the President and CEO Review of Operations Oil Exploration and Production Business Summary The Cosmo Energy Group is participating in interests in the is promoting the development of the Hail Oil Field, which is Middle East region as an operator that is in control of the projected to generate production volume equivalent to that of development process, based on strong relationships of trust the three oil fields already engaged in production. Moreover, with Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), where it has in 2014, Cosmo Energy Group signed a memorandum of established partnerships of trust over many years, and State of understanding regarding the establishment of a strategic Qatar. The Group is engaged in oil exploration and production comprehensive alliance with International Petroleum Investment mainly through three companies—Abu Dhabi Oil Co., Ltd. Company’s (IPIC’s*) wholly-owned subsidiary Compañía (ADOC), Qatar Petroleum Development Co., Ltd. (QPD), Española de Petróleos, S.A.U. (CEPSA), a major Spain-based and United Petroleum Development Co., Ltd. (UPD). Among oil company, and in November of the same year,this alliance these, the ADOC project, in particular, has been continuing to was strengthened further by accepting a 20% investment by produce oil steadily for nearly 50 years, and now the Group CEPSA in Cosmo Abu Dhabi Energy Exploration & Production. * An investment company in the energy and related sectors that is fully owned by the Abu Dhabi government Operating Performance Ordinary income In FY2015, total oil production by the three companies (Billions of yen) (USD/BBL) led by Cosmo Energy Exploration & Production—ADOC, 80 120 QPD, and UPD—amounted to 39,201 barrels/day, up Ordinary income (Left axis) 23 Dubai crude oil price (Right axis) 3.1% compared with the previous fiscal year. However, 60 90 owing to the strong impact of a decline in crude oil prices, COSMO REPORT 2016 ordinary income in the Oil Exploration and Production Business segment was ¥18.6 billion, a ¥28.9 billion year40 60 on-year decrease. In FY2016, as we assume an average crude oil price of US$40/barrel (versus an actual $50.9/ 20 30 barrel in January-December 2015) and an exchange rate of ¥110 per U.S. dollar (versus an actual ¥121.1 per U.S. 0 0 dollar in January-December 2015), we project segment FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 ordinary income of ¥7.5 billion, down ¥11.1 billion. (plan) Cosmo Energy Group’s Oil Fields Cosmo Energy Group’s Crude Oil Production Volume Commence Qatar Petroleum Arabian production State of Qatar r Peninsula Development’s de oil fields bor 60,000 (Barrels/day) in Hail oil field United Petroleum 50,000 Development’s oil field 40,000 Abu Dhabi Oil’s oil fields 30,000 20,000 Hail oil field 10,000 0 United Arab Emirates and Abu Dhabi FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 (Plan) (plan) Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors Business Strengths Equity IPIC investment Strategic Alliance with CEPSA, our largest shareholder 100.0% comprehensive alliance 20.7% IPIC’s wholly owned company CEPSA COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS Track record of stable off-shore oil fields 100.0% development in the Middle East extending for approximately 50 years 20.0% COSMO ENERGY EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION 80.0% Extension of interests in three existing oil fields of ADOC for 30 years and acquisition of Cosmo Abu Dhabi Energy Exploration & Production 75.0% Hail oil field Qatar Petroleum Development 64.1% Evaluation of Crude Oil Reserves (The Company’s interests)*1 45.0% United Petroleum Abu Dhabi Oil Development Proved reserves* 2 80.2 million BBL *1 The assessment of ADOC reserves which deemed to have significant impact on Cosmo’s future profitability was Probable reserves* 3 81.2 million BBL carried out in an independent assessment by Gaffney, Cline & Associate (hereinafter, “GCA”), a leading global independent reserve auditor. The assessment of QPD and UPD reserves were carried out in these companies respectively. These assessments of the reserves do not guarantee the reserves and production from them. Total of proved and probable reserves 161.4 million BBL *2 Proved Reserves are those quantities of petroleum, which by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be commercially recoverable, from a given date forward, from known reservoirs Proved and probable reserves/ Approx. 24 years and under defined economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations. When probabilistic production ratio methods are used, there should be at least a 90% probability that the actual quantities recovered will equal or exceed the 1P estimate. (Definition of SPE PRMS 2007 March) As of December 31, 2015 *3 Probable Reserves are those additional Reserves which analysis of geoscience and engineering data indicate are The reserves include those of a new concession area, Hail Oil Field. less likely to be recovered than Proved Reserves but more certain to be recovered than Possible Reserves. When The average crude oil production based on working interest reached probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 50% probability that the actual quantities recovered will 24 19,000 barrels/day in FY2015 (Jan-Dec). equal or exceed the 2P estimate. (Definition of SPE PRMS 2007 March) COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS Initiatives to create long-term corporate value ADOC at the same as extending interests for 30 years from 2012, based on its strong relationship of trust with oil producing countries, acquired new concession area, the Hail Expansion of production volume oil field which is expected to generate production volume on Hail Oil Field’s start of production + Acquisition of par with that of the three existing oil fields (Mubarraz Oil Field, new oil fields Umm Al-Anbar Oil Field, and Neewat Al-Ghalan Oil Field), and is promoting development aimed at the start of production in Synergies with IPIC, CEPSA the first half of 2017. The Hail Oil Field is a highly competitive, large-scale project that can share facilities such as for shipment with the nearby existing oil fields, and is expected to contribute Strong relationship of trust with oil producing countries at an early stage to the Cosmo Energy Group's Oil Exploration and Production business. In addition, workshop meetings involving Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC), CEPSA, Nearly 50 years of stable oil production and Cosmo Energy Group are held periodically in a combined (operator) effort to acquire new concession areas and seek possibilities for further business expansion. Hail Oil Field’s Progress and Development Schedule 2014 2015 2016 2017 Start of production in the First Half of 2017 (Excavation started in FY2016) Exploration 3D Data (3D seismic seismic analysis prospecting) survey Production volume is projected to be Dredging of waterway, equivalent to that of the three Base plan construction of an artificial Construction of aboveground facilities existing oil fields of ADOC island Development Expect a decline in operational cost Preparation for Excavation Start of production excavation per unit, due to use of existing facilities Introduction Message from the President and CEO Review of Operations Petroleum Business Business Summary The Petroleum Business comprises the oil refining Showa Shell Seikyu Group with respect to the Yokkaichi business operated by Cosmo Oil, and the petroleum Refinery. As regards the petroleum product sales and product sales business and the retail business retail businesses, amid the downturn in petroleum operated mainly by Cosmo Oil Marketing. In the oil product demand in Japan, we bolstered initiatives refining business, the Company is strengthening related to the consumer car leasing business in a bid its competitiveness through alliances such as the to transition from a conventional business model that establishment of a joint venture called Keiyo Seisei JV revolves solely around fuel oil margins as a primary G.K. with TonenGeneral Sekiyu K.K. for the respective source of earnings to a business model focused on refineries in Chiba and the business alliance with the providing a full array of car services. Operating Performance Owing to the impact of inventory valuation losses caused by the fall in crude oil prices, the Petroleum Business Ordinary income posted an ordinary loss of ¥62.8 billion, up ¥30.7 billion (Billions of yen) Ordinary income 60 Ordinary income excluding the impact of inventory valuation year on year. Ordinary income excluding the impact 40 of inventory valuation (-¥68.6 billion) was ¥5.8 billion, 20 0 a year-on-year decline of ¥16.2 billion. In FY2016, -20 the Company expects ordinary income excluding the -40 -60 impact of inventory valuation to increase by ¥29.2 billion 25 -80 year on year to ¥35.0 billion, as operational benefits -100 and the effect of profit improvement stemming from COSMO REPORT 2016 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 (plan) the optimization of maintenance costs resulting from the two-year long running at the Chiba Refinery are Oil Refining Business estimated about ¥7.0 billion. Cosmo Oil has three refineries across Japan—in Chiba, Yokkaichi and Sakai—and aims to strengthen the competitiveness of each refinery mainly by promoting Chiba Refinery (No.1 CDU, No.2 CDU) alliances with other companies. As the Chiba Refinery 220,000 BD will commence two-year long run operation in FY2016, A joint venture company established with TonenGeneral's Chiba refinery (formerly of KPI) we project an income improvement of about ¥7.0 billion. (152,000BD) in January 2015 Moreover, the competitiveness at Sakai Refinery has Enhance competitiveness by a JV Joint venture started by the established JV been enhanced by installation of the Delayed Coker Unit Construction of a pipeline started Refinery equipment to be integrated with JV (Heavy oil thermal cracking unit). In regard to Japan’s Act after the pipelines are constructed One CDU will be disposed of through JV (plan) on Sophisticated Methods of Energy Supply Structures, Synergy from both companies: (deadline of the end of March 2017), we intend to ¥10 billion/year implement a response through our alliances with the Showa Higher value-added products, streamlined equipment Shell Sekiyu Group for the Yokkaichi Refinery. Sakai Refinery Yokkaichi Refinery (No.5 CDU, No.6 CDU) 100,000 BD The Company’s Crude Oil Processing Capacity 132,000 BD Business alliance with Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu (255,000 BD) Greater competitiveness by investing in secondary processing 452,000 BD Enhance competitiveness through equipment business alliance. Domestic Share One CDU will cease its operation (plan), Coker unit began operation in 2010 streamline equipment. Higher value-added products 11.8% As of May 31, 2016 Consignment of crude oil refining Former Sakaide Refinery (Closed in July 2013) Synergy from both companies CDU operating ratio 140,000 BD Higher value-added products, Converted into an oil terminal. 83.2% streamlined equipment Streamlining effects: About 10 billion (National average 82.8%) FY2015 Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors Oil Marketing Business Strengths The Cosmo Energy Group has an approximately 11.4%* share Enhancement of higher value-added of domestic sales of four fuel oil products (gasoline, diesel fuel, products through promotion of kerosene, and heavy fuel oil A). By making use of a nationwide alliances network of 3,054* service stations (SS), the Group is strengthening Entry into ¥27 trillion car life-related efforts to capture the gasoline, diesel fuel, and car-related markets. market, with car leasing business for The cumulative total number of contracts for “Cosmo Smart Vehicle”, individuals at the core the core car leasing business for individuals, increased by 8,361 from the previous year to 27,401*. *All figures are as of March 31, 2016. Key Data Crude Oil Import Share by Country (FY2015) Capacity Utilization Rate (calendar-day basis) Other 11.6% Saudi Arabia Other 12.1% United Arab 100.0 (%) Industry average COSMO 33.8% Emirates 40.2% Iran 5.0% Mexico 5.5% 80.0 Kuwait 7.8% Total industry COSMO Kuwait 8.6% 194,302 22,241 60.0 Russia 8.1% thousand KL Qatar 11.0% thousand KL United Arab Saudi Arabia Qatar 8.4% Emirates 40.0 22.7% 25.3% FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 *Other includes countries where percentage of imports is less than 5%. *Source for National Data: Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry 26 *Source for National Data: Petroleum Association of Japan, “Crude Oil Import by Countries” COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS Domestic Sales Volume of Petroleum Products Number of Service Stations and Self Service Stations (thousand KL) Market Share Self-service FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Station Ratio Gasoline FY2015 6,249 5,999 6,053 5,722 5,673 10.7% Cosmo Kerosene 2,416 2,246 2,261 1,941 1,823 11.4% SS 3,498 3,325 3,228 3,133 3,054 Diesel fuel 4,615 4,414 4,399 4,150 4,133 12.3% Cosmo self SS 1,007 999 1,011 1,031 1,036 33.9% Heavy fuel 2,196 1,963 1,847 1,555 1,420 12.0% oil A SS in Japan 37,743 36,349 34,706 33,510 32,333 Sub-total 15,476 14,622 14,560 13,368 13,049 11.4% Self SS Naphtha 6,224 5,916 6,556 6,240 6,204 13.4% in Japan 8,596 8,862 9,275 9,530 9,728 30.0% Jet fuel 477 476 486 468 519 9.5% *The number of SS includes the number of self SS. Heavy fuel 2,555 2,993 2,038 1,663 1,578 11.1% *Source: Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry for the number of SS in Japan; oil C The Oil Information Center for the number of self SS in Japan Total 24,732 24,007 23,640 21,739 21,350 11.8% Initiatives to create long-term corporate value In the car leasing business for individuals that we have developed as Cosmo Smart Vehicle (car leasing for individuals) “Cosmo Smart Vehicle,” advantages such as expenses to be paid Cumulative Number of Contracts including maintenance costs and tax based on a monthly flat rate, and discounts on fuel oil have been supported by senior people and 60,000 (Units) women. Therefore we have substantially increased the number of contracted vehicles. The domestic gasoline and diesel fuel market 40,000 is worth around ¥9 trillion yen, but the size of the entire car-liferelated market including vehicle sales and vehicle safety inspections is estimated to be roughly ¥36 trillion. The number of customers that 20,000 visit Cosmo Oil SSs per day is at around 500,000, and by leveraging the fact that customer service frequency is overwhelmingly higher 0 than at existing leasing companies, we aim to capture this market March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, by linking the car leasing business with existing infrastructure such 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2018 (plan) as “Cosmo the Card,” which has around 4.4 million members, and strengthen the earning power of SSs as a result. Introduction Message from the President and CEO Review of Operations Petrochemical Business Business Summary COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS Equity investment 100% 48.0%* 10.0% The Cosmo Energy Group is promoting the integrated operation Cosmo Oil Maruzen Petrochemical Group of the petrochemical business and the oil refining business, Yokkaichi Refinery Ethylene 1,290,000 tonnes/year and in March 2016, it made Maruzen Petrochemical Co., Ltd. Mixed xylene 300,000 tonnes/year Benzene 600,000 tonnes/year 35.0% a consolidated subsidiary to increase the competitiveness of 65.0% CM Aromatics petrochemical complexes in general. Moreover, the Group Mixed xylene 270,000 tonnes/year MOU concerning the is steadily supplying mixed xylene (MX) to Hyundai Cosmo Strategic Cooperation 100.0% of Oil Business Cosmo Matsuyama Oil Petrochemical Co., Ltd. (HCP), a joint venture between South Benzene 90,000 tonnes/year Korea's Hyundai Oilbank Co., Ltd. and Cosmo Oil. HCP is Mixed xylene 30,000 tonnes/year 50.0% striving to reduce costs through measures such as energyHyundai Cosmo Petrochemical saving modification work on para-xylene (PX) production Hyundai Oilbank 50.0% Para-xylene 1,180,000 tonnes/year facilities and attempting to bolster its competitiveness. Benzene 250,000 tonnes/year * Based on voting rights: 52.7% Operating Performance Ordinary income Owing to factors such as the fall in crude oil prices, net sales in the (Billions of yen) Petrochemical Business Segment were ¥48.1 billion, down ¥7.0 billion 8 Ordinary income year on year. However, the segment posted ordinary income excluding 6 Ordinary income excluding the impact of 4 inventory valuation inventory valuation of ¥4.2 billion, marking an improvement of ¥11.2 billion from 27 2 a loss of ¥7.0 billion in the previous fiscal year, due to favorable ethylene 0 market conditions and a decrease in costs at HCP. In FY2016, the Group COSMO REPORT 2016 -2 projects net sales of ¥417.0 billion, up ¥368.9 billion year on year, in the -4 Petrochemical Business. Owing to a projected recovery in market conditions -6 and cost reductions, as well as the effect of making Maruzen Petrochemical a -8 consolidated subsidiary, we estimate that ordinary income excluding the impact FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 (plan) of inventory valuation will increase by ¥2.8 billion year on year to ¥7.0 billion. Strengths Integrated operation of oil refining business and petrochemical business (establishment of Maruzen Petrochemical as a consolidated subsidiary) Cost competitiveness at para-xylene production facilities that are the largest in Asia (Hyundai Cosmo Petrochemical) Initiatives to create long-term corporate value In March 2016, the Company acquired shares of Maruzen Petrochemical, an equityJapan’s Ethylene Production Capacity (k ton/year) method affiliated company, and turned it into a consolidated subsidiary. Maruzen 768 Share in Japan 18% Petrochemical possesses ethylene production capacity that boasts a leading scale even 525 in Japan, is continuing to supply high-quality products, and has a solid financial structure. Going forward, the Group will promote the integrated operation of the oil refining business and the petrochemical business together with Maruzen Petrochemical, with the aim of strengthening the competitiveness of each business. Furthermore, Keiyo Ethylene (Chiba) Showa Denko (Oita) Idemitsu Kosan (Tokuyama) Mitsui Chemical (Ichihara) Tonen Chemical (Kawasaki) Mitsubishi Chemical (Kashima) Tosoh (Yokkaichi) Maruzen Petrochemical (Chiba) Asahi Kasei Chemicals (Mizushima) Mitsui Chemicals (Osaka) Mitsubishi Chemical (Mizushima) JX Nippon Oil & Energy (Kawasaki) Idemitsu Kosan (Chiba) we believe that this policy will lead to the reinforcement of the competitiveness of petrochemical complexes in general (Cosmo Oil, Maruzen Petrochemical, and derivative producers), centered on Maruzen Petrochemical. As the first stage in the reinforcement of competitiveness, we have begun to consider joint commercialization with Arakawa Chemical Industries of hydrogenated polymer resins (sanitary materials for paper diapers and other products), for which worldwide demand growth is projected. * Source: Japan Petrochemical Industry 2016 (Year to skip scheduled maintenance) * Keiyo Ethylene is a 55%-owned consolidated subsidiary of Maruzen Petrochemical. Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors Other Businesses (Renewable Energy) Business Summary EcoPower’s Outline Capital The Cosmo Energy Group is focusing on renewable energy Ishikari Bay New Port, Hokkaido to diversify the energy supply. In the wind power generation ¥7.1 billion Plan to start operation (second half of fiscal 2017) Total power generation capacity business, in particular, EcoPower Co., Ltd. has power Sakata Port, Yamagata Pref. generation capacity of 184,000 kW at its 22 areas, as of March 184,100kW Plan to start operation (second half of fiscal 2017) Number of power generators 31, 2016, and ranks third in the industry based on generation Watarai Project, Mie Pref. capacity. In solar power generation, as well, CSD Solar, which 145 (22 areas) Plan to start operation (second half of fiscal 2016) was established jointly with another company, is steadily Industry share supplying power at eight locations nationwide, as of July 2016. Approx. 6% (third ranked) As of March 2016 Operating Performance Ordinary income Other Businesses including the renewable energy business (Billions of yen) posted ordinary income of ¥3.5 billion in FY2015. In FY2016, 6 we forecast ordinary income of ¥3.0 billion in this segment. 4 As EcoPower a Group company that is engaged in the wind power generation business, continued to operate its 2 power generation facilities steadily, it achieved higher profit 0 than in the previous fiscal year. In the Watarai project in Mie 28 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Prefecture, construction is steadily progressing with the aim COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS (plan) of starting operations in the second half of FY2016. Strengths Group incorporation in 2010 of EcoPower a pioneer in the wind power generation business (established in 1997) Realization of a high level of availability (at least 90%), as development, construction, operation and maintenance are carried out within the Group We aim to expand business over the long term by expanding land-based sites as well as participating in offshore site projects* * The Akita offshore wind farm project is a large-scale one led by the private sector. Initiatives to create long-term corporate value EcoPower plans to start operating the Watarai Wind Farm (Mie Prefecture) in the second half of FY2016, Wind Power Production Capacity (Fifth Medium-Term Management Plan) and is projecting a resulting increase of about 15% in 5 (Billions of yen) (kW) 250,000 generation capacity. In regard to Sakata Port (Yamagata Ordinary income (Left axis) Prefecture), EcoPower has started construction of a 4 Power production capacity (Right axis) 200,000 site that is slated to start operations in the second half of FY2017, and in the case of Ishikari Bay New Port, as 3 150,000 well, it started construction in June 2016, with the aim of starting operations at the same time as Sakata Port. 2 100,000 We expect the overall Group's wind power generation 1 50,000 capacity to reach about 230,000 kW in FY2017. In addition to steadily implementing these construction 0 0 projects, we will also deliberate the construction of new FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 wind power generation facilities. (plan) (plan) Introduction Message from the President and CEO Corporate Governance Corporate Basic Governance Structure and Business Execution System Governance The Cosmo Energy Group transitioned to a holding company structure Basic Policy in October 2015 and became a company with a supervisory committee structure in order to increase the ratio of outside directors and strengthen the audit and supervisory functions of the Board of Directors. Moreover, Reflecting our corporate mission with the aim of clearly separating management oversight and business and our responsibility to society execution, the Company has adopted an executive officer system. As a at large, we have established the result, some authority has been transferred to executive officers in order “Cosmo Energy Group Management to enable the Company to respond promptly to changes in the business environment and carry out swift decision-making. Vision” and the “Cosmo Energy Group Code of Conduct”, which serves as a specific set of Board of Directors guidelines to fulfill this vision. On The Board of Directors is composed of ten members in total, and this basis, we aim to satisfy the comprises 6 internal directors (1 of whom is a member of the Supervisory requirements of all stakeholders Committee) and 4 outside directors (2 of whom are members of the Supervisory Committee). It decides important matters such as the basic including shareholders to the utmost management policy and also supervises the execution of business duties. by seeking to achieve “sustainable To reinforce the supervisory function of the Board of Directors and realize growth and mediumto longfair and highly transparent management, the Company increased the term growth in corporate value,” number of outside directors by 2 members (2 of the 4 outside directors are “improvement in transparency independent outside directors) in tandem with the transition to a holding and efficiency of corporate company structure. Outside directors have immediate access to necessary 29 information via the Corporate Planning Department. management,” “swift operational COSMO REPORT 2016 executions,” and “thorough risk Supervisory Committee management and compliance.” The Supervisory Committee, which is composed of 3 Supervisory Furthermore, the Company has Committee members that include 2 independent outside directors, uses implemented all of the principles the internal control system to audit and supervise the business execution of related to Japan's Corporate directors as well as the state of execution of other business duties in general Governance Code. that are related to the management of the Group. The Chairperson is an independent outside director. Executive Officers' Committee The Company has adopted the Executive Officers' System to clarify the roles and responsibilities of “Directors” in charge of decision-making and management oversight, and “Executive Officers” in charge of business execution. The Executive Officers' Committee comprises major executive officers, including the Chief Executive Officer, and directors that are members of the Supervisory Committee, and functions as an advisory body to the President. The committee makes decisions concerning the execution of business in accordance with management policies determined by the Board of Directors. Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee The Company has established the Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee, which is an advisory body to the Board of Directors, to ensure transparency and objectivity in the selection of director candidates and the compensation determination process. This committee is composed of three members in total, namely, one internal director and two independent outside directors, and deliberates on the nomination and remuneration of executive officers. The Chairperson is an internal director. Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors Corporate Governance Structure Directors Independent outside directors Outside directors General Meeting of Shareholders Election, Dismissal Right to state opinions Election, Election, on nominations and Dismissal Dismissal remuneration Board of Directors Supervisory Committee Accounting Audit and supervise business execution of directors Auditor Decide proposals to elect or dismiss the Accounting Auditor Audit and Audit of Supervision accounts Cooperation Directors in charge of business execution Internal Auditing Reporting Election, Dismissal and Supervision Representative Office Director and Audit President Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee Executive Officers' Audit Committee Nominate candidates for director, deliberate and Divisions, affiliates report on their remuneration Executives' Remuneration Plan The Company has introduced a remuneration plan linked remuneration) linked to the level of achievement of targets in 30 to business performance with the purpose of enhancing the consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan. A ratio of COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS medium-term business performance, increasing corporate 5:3:2 has been established for basic remuneration, annual value, and sharing profits with shareholders. It applies to incentive remuneration, and long-term incentive remuneration. directors (excluding outside directors and directors who The stock remuneration plan is an incentive plan that uses a are Supervisory Committee members) and executive trust system, and is a mechanism that creates management officers. This plan consists of annual incentive remuneration motivation based on awareness of increasing corporate value (bonuses) linked to consolidated performance indices for in the long term, as director and executive officers share each fiscal year and long-term incentive remuneration (stock changes in shareholder value with shareholders. Executives' Remuneration Plan Details of Executives' Remuneration Plan Remuneration linked to business performance (performance-linked coefficient: 0-200%) 20% Mechanism Shares, which a trust company acquires using the money contributed by the holding company, are granted in accordance with the degree of achievement of target performance indices Long-term incentive remuneration (stock remuneration)*1,2 for the 5th Consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan (ROE, consolidated ordinary income, and net D/E ratio). Directors (excluding Outside Directors, and Directors who are Recipients Fixed remuneration members of the Supervisory Committee) and Executive Officers Basic remuneration Evaluation Fiscal year ending March 31, 2016 through fiscal year ending 50% period March 31, 2018 Remuneration linked to business performance Trust term November 6, 2015 to August 31, 2018 (performance-linked coefficient: 0-150%) 30% Timing of share July immediately after the end of the final year of the Annual incentive remuneration (bonuses)*1,3 grants Consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan (fiscal 2017) *1 Remuneration linked to business performance is not applicable to directors who are outside directors or Supervisory Committee members. *2 Linked to the level of achievement of the Fifth Consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan, which ends on March 31, 2018 *3 Linked to consolidated performance indices for each fiscal year Upper Limit of Remuneration for Executives Cash remuneration (basic remuneration + bonuses) Stock remuneration Directors 500 million yen or less(total amount per year; no more than 12, the number of Trust money contributed 687 million yen (who are not members of the Supervisory Committee) such Directors prescribed in the Articles of Incorporation of the holding company) during the trust term Directors 90 million yen or less (total amount per year: no more than 5, the number of such Maximum number of 380,000 shares (who are members of the Supervisory Committee) Directors prescribed in the Articles of Incorporation of the holding company) shares granted Introduction Message from the President and CEO Corporate Governance Directors and Executive Officers (As of June 21, 2016) President, Representative Director, Chairman, Director Chief Executive Officer Yaichi Kimura Keizo Morikawa April 1963 Joined Daikyo Oil Co., Ltd. April 1971 Joined Daikyo Oil Co., Ltd. June 1993 Director of COSMO OIL CO., LTD. June 2000 Director of COSMO OIL CO., LTD. June 1996 Managing Director June 2002 Managing Director June 1998 Representative Senior Managing Director June 2004 Senior Managing Director June 2001 Executive Vice President, Representative Director June 2006 Representative Senior Managing Director June 2004 President, Representative Director June 2008 Executive Vice President, Representative Director June 2010 President, Representative Director, and Chief Executive Officer June 2010 Representative Director, Executive Vice President June 2012 Chairman, Representative Director June 2012 President, Representative Director, Chief Executive Officer October 2015 Chairman, Director of the Company (current position) October 2015 President, Representative Director, Chief Executive Officer of the Company (current position) Representative Director, Director, Senior Managing 31 Executive Vice President Executive Officer Hiroshi Kiriyama Yasushi Ohe COSMO REPORT 2016 April 1979 Joined Daikyo Oil Co., Ltd. April 1979 Joined Daikyo Oil Co., Ltd. June 2010 Executive Officer, General Manager, Corporate Planning Dept. June 2009 Executive Officer, General Manager, Supply & Demand and Change Promotion Dept. COSMO OIL CO., LTD. Coordination Dept., COSMO OIL CO., LTD. June 2011 Senior Executive Officer, General Manager, Corporate Planning June 2012 Senior Executive Officer, General Manager, Crude Oil & Tanker Dept. Dept. and Change Promotion Dept. June 2013 Senior Executive Officer June 2012 Senior Executive Officer June 2014 Director, Senior Executive Officer June 2013 Director, Senior Executive Officer October 2015 Director, Senior Executive Officer of the Company October 2015 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer of the Company June 2016 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer (current position) June 2016 Representative Director, Executive Vice President (current position) Director, Senior Executive Officer Outside Director Kenichi Taki Mohamed Al Hamli April 1975 Joined Daikyo Oil Co., Ltd. August 1980 Joined Abu Dhabi Marine Operating Company June 2008 General Manager, Internal Auditing Office, COSMO OIL CO., LTD. November 2004 Minister of Energy, the United Arab Emirates June 2012 Executive Officer, General Manager, Accounting Dept. February 2005 Deputy Chairman, International Petroleum Investment Company (current position) June 2014 Senior Executive Officer, General Manager, Accounting & Finance Dept. June 2010 Director, COSMO OIL CO., LTD. June 2015 Senior Executive Officer, General Manager, Accounting Dept. October 2015 Director of the Company (current position) October 2015 Senior Executive Officer, General Manager, Accounting Dept. of the Company February 2016 Deputy Chairman, Union National Bank PJSC (current position) April 2016 Senior Executive Officer June 2016 Director, Senior Executive Officer (current position) Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors Independent Outside Director, Outside Director Supervisory Committee Member Khalifa Al Romaithi Sakae Kanno June 2003 Joined International Petroleum Investment Company April 1971 Joined The Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc. December 2007 Director, COSMO OIL CO., LTD. June 2001 Executive Officer, Office of Affiliates Management and Business Development, The Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc. June 2009 Assistant to the Investment Director, Investment Division, International Petroleum Investment Company June 2003 Managing Director, The Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc. June 2011 General Manager, Portfolio Management & Investment Division June 2007 Executive Vice President and Director, The Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc. January 2015 Investment Director, Downstream & Diversified Investment Division (current position) June 2011 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, The Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc. (current position) April 2015 Director, Arabtec Holding PJSC (current position) June 2013 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, COSMO OIL CO., LTD. June 2016 Director of the Company (current position) October 2015 Director of the Company (Supervisory Committee Member) (current position) Independent Outside Director, Director, Supervisory Committee Supervisory Committee Member Member 32 Teruo Miyamoto Katsuhisa Ohtaki COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS April 1969 Joined Tokyo Electric Co., Ltd. (Curesently Toshiba Tec Corporation) April 1978 Joined Daikyo Oil Co., Ltd. February 1997 Acting General Manager on Corporate Planning of General Affairs June 2005 General Manager, Sendai Branch Office COSMO OIL CO., LTD. Group and Acting General Manager on International Affairs of June 2007 Executive Officer, General Manager, Industrial Fuel Marketing Dept. General Affairs Group, Toshiba Tec Corporation June 2009 Executive Officer, General Manager of Yokkaichi Refinery June 1999 Deputy General Manager of General Affairs Department and Acting General Manager on Legal Affairs of General Affairs June 2011 Senior Executive Officer, General Manager, Yokkaichi Refinery Group, Toshiba Tec Corporation March 2012 Senior Executive Officer, General Manager, Chiba Refinery June 2002 Full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Tosh iba Tec Corpo rat ion June 2014 Director, Senior Executive Officer October 2009 Managing Director & Assistant Secretary General, Japan Audit & Supervisory Board Members Association October 2015 Director, Supervisory Committee Member of the Company (current position) October 2010 Executive Managing Director & Secretary General, Japan Audit & Supervisory Board Members Association October 2011 Representative Executive Managing Director & Secretary General, Japan Audit & Supervisory Board Members Association November 2014 Advisor, Japan Audit & Supervisory Board Members Association (current position) October 2015 Director of the Company (Supervisory Committee Member) (current position) Reasons for Selection of Outside Directors Teruo Miyamoto has intricate knowledge of corporate accounting and corporate governance as well as abundant knowledge in legal affairs, gained through such Mohamed Al Hamli served as Minister of Energy of the United Arab Emirates and experience as serving in important positions in the International Division and Legal is appropriately supervising management as an Outside Director from an international Affairs Division of Toshiba Tec Corporation, and later as Executive Managing viewpoint with respect to the petroleum industry. He is also contributing to improving the Director and Head of Secretariat of the Japan Audit & Supervisory Board Members effectiveness of the Board of Directors by actively communicating in Board of Directors Association.Therefore the Company judges him capable of properly executing duties Meetings from his previously mentioned viewpoint. Based on this, the Company proposes as Outside Director who is a member of the Supervisory Committee from his wideMohamed Al Hamli maintain his position as Outside Director. ranging viewpoint, which extends beyond the industry to which the Cosmo Energy Holdings belongs. Khalifa Al Romaithi was a Director of COSMO OIL CO., LTD. from 2007 to 2010 and appropriately supervised the management of COSMO OIL CO., LTD. Furthermore, he has Engagement with Shareholders and Investors experience serving as an officer at various corporations overseas, primarily in the energy industry. Therefore, the Company judges him capable of properly executing duties as IR activities are conducted mainly by the IR Office, which was established within the Outside Director and proposes his election. Corporate Communication Department, and it actively visits institutional investors in Japan and overseas. Besides individual meetings, the IR Office is increasing Sakae Kanno has experience as a Director and Audit & Supervisory Board opportunities for dialogue with shareholders and investors, including business results Member of The Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc., Therefore the Company judges him briefings for investors that are held each quarter and oil refinery tours that are regularly capable of properly executing duties as Outside Director who is a member of the conducted. Moreover, the Company is striving to enhance tools for constructive Supervisory Committee from his wide-ranging viewpoint, which extends beyond the dialogue. This includes expanding investor information on the Company website as well industry to which the Cosmo Energy Holdings Company belongs. as issuing shareholder communications and integrated versions of “Cosmo Reports” Introduction Message from the President and CEO Recommendation from Independent Outside Directors Working for the transformation into a vertically-integrated global energy company Make indicators more visible in order to enable appropriate objective evaluation Independent Outside Director, Supervisory Committee Member Sakae Kanno Sakae Kanno has experience as a Director and Audit & Supervisory Board Member of The Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc. after serving in positions such as Executive Officer of the Office of Affiliates Management and Business Development, and Executive Vice President and Director (see details of his biography on page 32). Since the transformation to a holding company in October management put together a new medium-term management 2015, the Company has more clearly separated the plan and made arrangements so that the company’s 33 supervisory function from operational execution and intended and desired future direction would be visible. In COSMO REPORT 2016 its Board of Directors is managing with a focus on the fact, according to the management plan, the petroleum supervisory function. From an outside director’s viewpoint, refining division was restructured, the company was I find that the Group’s orientation and issues have become converted to a holding company structure, and its alliances clearer. The Board meetings provide a valuable place for were strengthened, thereby displaying a roadmap to evolve active discussions, as the Chairman helps create a good its business portfolio. And now, we have begun to see the open atmosphere that encourages participants to speak out. outcome. I am greatly impressed with this entire process. I believe that important roles of Cosmo Energy Holdings are Looking at the market in Japan, the demand/supply to establish the Group’s basic policies and to make objective outlook is uncertain due to progress in energy performance evaluation so as to fulfill its supervisory conservation and other factors. However, the Group is function. The management is undertaking an initiative to currently taking initiatives to expand oil exploration and adopt various data benchmarks so that functions and production arrangements, promote rationalization and conditions become easier to observe and monitor. I think efficiency in the refining division, and enhance alliances. this will have tremendous impact on sharing of the issues By realizing these objectives, I am expecting that the and targets. Company will continue to grow. Back in March 2011, the Great East Japan Earthquake The Cosmo Energy Group is transforming itself toward presented a big challenge to the Cosmo Energy Group, achieving its medium-term management plan. From an as Chiba Refinery was damaged by fire and the operating outside position I hope to give an advice to help them performance fell to an all-time low level. However, the realize the plan. Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors Cosmo Energy Holdings has adopted the governance model of a company, which provides for an audit and supervisory committee to enhance managerial and supervisory functions and improve transparency and efficiency in management. The Supervisory Committee comprises three members including two independent outside directors. These members utilize the internal control system, and they audit and supervise overall execution of tasks concerning group management, including directors’ execution of duties. Independent outside directors provide various opinions and suggestions from a wide-ranging viewpoint, which extends beyond the industry to which the Cosmo Energy Group belongs. More information disclosure to stakeholders for improving corporate value Independent Outside Director, Supervisory Committee Member Teruo Miyamoto Teruo Miyamoto served important positions in the International Division and Legal Affairs Division of Toshiba Tec Corporation, and later as Executive Managing Director and Head of Secretariat of the Japan Audit & Supervisory Board Members Association. He has deep knowledge of corporate accounting and corporate governance as well as abundant knowledge in legal affairs, gained through such experience (see details of his biography on page 32). The Board of Directors meetings intrinsically have energy company. In addition, the newly-established important agenda items, including the update of the holding company has adopted the governance model 34 management plan (including plans of core business including an audit and supervisory committee, from COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS companies) for the current fiscal year, the plan for the viewpoint of enhancing governance. With the the next year, and matters related to the mediumnew structure, the Group, centered on the holding term management plan. At that time, we also discuss, company, is aggressively developing business for example, whether the data presented accurately activities and aiming to fulfill its unifying mission reflect the industry’s situation, market trend, or the of safe and reliable energy supply, and contribute company’s condition. I find such decision-making to society. I am determined to play my role, as an process is highly transparent. outside director, to achieve this aim. At the same The Company is also proactively coping with the time, I would like to help develop a corporate culture Corporate Governance Code. In particular, I think in which all employees, young and old, share the the top management is highly committed to raise Group’s future vision and each one can dynamically corporate value by enhancing corporate governance. play a role in achieving it. The Company has established the Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee, in which two outside directors from the Supervisory Committee are members and have a chance to state opinions and discuss personnel affairs (nomination and remuneration) of directors. I believe this is a commendable point concerning the Company’s corporate governance. On the other hand, I am aware that more can be done in complying with accountability requirements by information disclosure to shareholders and other stakeholders, as such disclosure will lead to raising corporate value. The Cosmo Energy Group made a resolution, at the General Meeting of Shareholders held in June Cosmo Energy Holding’s President Morikawa regularly meets with the two independent outside directors and exchanges opinions on achieving the Medium2015, to transform into a vertically-integrated global Term Management Plan and realizing corporate value creation. Introduction Message from the President and CEO CSR Activities CSR Initiatives of the Cosmo Energy Group In striving for harmony and symbiosis among our planet, humankind, and society, we aim for sustainable growth towards a future of limitless possibilities. Harmony and Symbiosis Creating Future Value Harmony and Symbiosis with the Global Environment Creating the Value of “Customer First” Harmony and Symbiosis between Energy and Society Creating Value from the Diverse Ideas of the Individual Harmony and Symbiosis between Companies and Society Creating Value by Expressing Collective Wisdom Cosmo Energy Group Management Vision Chapter 1 We are determined to be a safe, accident-free corporate group Chapter 2 We live up to customer expectations concerning reliability and satisfaction Cosmo Energy Group Chapter 3 We value people Code of Conduct Chapter 4 We take care of the global environment Chapter 5 We value communications with society Chapter 6 We strive to maintain our position as an honest corporate group CSR Initiative Policy (Fiscal2013-2017) 35 “Filling Up Your Hearts” and Safety Initiative Themes Based on the five priority issues of the CSR Initiative COSMO REPORT 2016 Safety and Integrity (Restore social trust) Policy, each committee has decided its initiative themes for promoting CSR management. Sharing and Self-driven (Share across the organization until established as routine) 1 Strict safety management 2 Working with integrity 3 Enhancing human rights and personnel policies Goal for Fiscal 2017 4 Promoting environmental initiatives Cosmo Energy Group—Earning social trust and 5 Implementing better internal and external always making a positive contribution to society communications Internal Control System In order to implement its Management Vision and Code of Cosmo Energy Holdings Committee Structure Conduct while ensuring that operations are carried out in an appropriate and efficient manner, the Cosmo Energy Group Board of Directors has established and maintained systems for carrying out director and employee duties of the Company and its Group Executive Officers’ Committee companies, risk management and internal audit systems, and audit performed by the Supervisory Committee. Corporate Ethics The Cosmo Energy Group also has an organization for and Human Rights internal control by establishing four committees, chaired Committee by each director in charge. These committees evaluate Safety and Risk Management Committee Cosmo Energy Group the performance of CSR activities, bring important matters CSR Promotion Liaison to the Executive Officers’ Committee for discussion, and Environmental and Social Meeting forward them to the Board of Directors. Such matters are Initiatives Committee also brought to the Cosmo Energy Group CSR Promotion Information Disclosure Liaison Meeting to be shared by Group companies for the Committee control of the entire Group companies. Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors In order to realize the Management Vision of the Cosmo Energy Group, all employees are conscientiously engaged in CSR activities. CSR management is being undertaken under the Consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan and the CSR Initiative Policy, based on the Cosmo Energy Group Code of Conduct. CSR Initiative Policy Items Initiative Themes Pages ●Structures of Committees of Cosmo Energy Holdings and Three Core Companies Strict Safety Management ●Safety and Risk Management Committee: Objectives, activities, P.37-P.38 and performance evaluation ~Fulfilling its Mission of Safe Supply~ ●Address risks of the entire group ●Safety Initiatives ●Developing new customers Customers ●Extreme motoring lifestyle product P.39-P.40 ●Strengthen Relations with Customers ~Toward fulfilling motoring lifestyle solutions~ ●“Filling Up Your Hearts, Too” Declaration ●Personnel System and Assessment System ●Human Resources Development and Global Human Resources Human Resources ●Respecting diversity P.41-P.42 ~Source of Value Creation~ ●Facilitating Work-Life Balance ●Reducing Long Working Hours ●Reporting of activities and performance evaluation by Environment and Social Initiative Committee Environment ●Energy Conservation in Refineries P.43-P.44 ~Aiming to Realize “Living with Our Planet”~ ●Renewable energy initiatives 36 ●Overseas environmental measures and environmental preservation COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS ●Revision of Earthquake BCP (business continuity plan) ●Head office's BCP response facilities ●Implementation of provisional crisis response training in Society Kansai region ~Aiming to be the Preferred Energy Company~ ●United Nations Global Compact ●Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund P.45-P.46 ●“Cosmo Earth Conscious Act” Cleanup Campaign ●Main Social Initiative Corporate Ethics Promotion Framework The Cosmo Energy Group (CEG) has established the Corporate Ethics Promotion Framework Structure Corporate Ethics and Human Rights Committee to Corporate Ethics and Human Rights Committee promote and implement the CEG's Code of Conduct, and check its status. The Committee's operation is supported by the CEG Corporate Ethics Office. The Cosmo Energy Group Corporate Cosmo Energy Holdings Ethics Office Diversity Promotion Office CEG Corporate Ethics Consultation Helpline, by which compliance issues or ethical issues can be reported or Cosmo Energy Group Corporate Harassment and Human Rights consulted anonymously, has also been established within Ethics Consultation Helpline Consultation Helpline the Corporate Ethics Office and at an outside law firm. Moreover, the Harassment and Human Rights Consultation Number of Helpline Inquiries Helpline is set up within the Diversity Promotion Office. 12 11 Details of the reported and consulted issues and the 9 9 8 7 response by the respective office are forwarded to the 4 Supervisory Committee and are reflected in future activities. 2 0 There were zero incidents involving serious compliance FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 violations* in fiscal 2015. * Includes serious legal or regulatory violations relating to the use or supply of products or services, and serious violations relating to environmental laws or regulations. Introduction Message from the President and CEO CSR Activities Strict Safety Management ~Fulfilling its Mission of Safe Safety Management Systems of the Cosmo Energy Group The Cosmo Energy Group prioritizes strict safety management as part of the CSR Initiative Policy. Under the Consolidated Medium-Term Safety Plan (fiscal 2013–2017), the Safety and Risk Management Committee is promoting safety management at the group-wide level. The Committees strive to eliminate work-related accidents and incidents in each office and each division and to secure safe operations and stable supply. Structures of Committees of Cosmo Board of Directors Affiliated Companies under Energy Holdings and Three Core Submission of matters, Reporting Approval, Supervision Cosmo Energy Holdings Cosmo Engineering Companies Cosmo Trade & Service Cosmo Business Associates Executive Officers' Committee Cosmo ALA The Group convenes a Safety and Risk Management Cosmo Computer Center Submission of EcoPower Instruction Committee meeting twice a year to discuss the group-wide matters, Reporting safety policy and to verify progress in safety initiatives for Safety and Risk Management Committees the enhancement of safety management. Sharing Each of the three core companies has a committee COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS Instruction Cosmo Energy Group CSR that matches its business and functions: the Safety Core Three Promotion Liaison Meeting Companies Environmental Committee in Cosmo Oil; the Safety Reporting Committee in Cosmo Oil Marketing; and the Environmental Cosmo Energy Environmental Safety and Health Committee/Risk Exploration & Management Committee Safety and Health Committee in Cosmo Energy Exploration Production Safety Environmental Committee/Risk & Production. These committees make planning for safety Cosmo Oil Management Committee 37 initiatives and conduct inspections to verify and supervise Cosmo Oil Safety Committee/Risk Management Committee Marketing initiatives for safety management. COSMO REPORT 2016 Safety and Risk Management Committee: Objectives, activities, and performance evaluation With the aim of the Cosmo Energy Group to be trusted and relied upon by society, the Safety and Risk Management Committees has been promoting initiatives for safety and risk management to ensure safety of business activities of the entire group and reduce future risks. Major Initiatives Priorities Themes Fiscal 2015 Results Evaluation* Fiscal 2016 Plans and Targets Reduce the  Zero large-scale accidents at refineries Follow the Safety Policy “Establish a culture of Promote safety number of  Accidents requiring time off from work safety for compliance in good faith” management work-related (4 accidents vs. target for 3) C Target of less than 4 accidents requiring time initiatives accidents and  Unplanned suspension of operations rate off from work and 0.8% or less unplanned incidents (0.9% vs. target at 0.8%) suspension of operations rate Joint BCP drills were conducted in Tokyo Strict safety Improve the  Recognize the issues and verified the direction by Cosmo Energy Holdings, Cosmo Oil, management major  Change transfer of authority under the BCP in case of a A and Cosmo Oil Marketing, Drills were also Enhance earthquake major earthquake enhanced, including the drill at the Crisis group-wide risk BCP Response Headquarters in the Kansai region. management Cope with  Established insurance standards and started to Establish a policy for addressing key corporate corporate-wide apply them A risks, and work to reduce the risks risks  Signed an assistant service contract for expat employees * A: Fully achieved; B: Partially achieved; C: Not achieved Address risks of the entire group Seven Issues The Cosmo Energy Group is taking initiatives to ascertain 1 Risk management policy 2 Risk evaluation method risks that may affect our corporate management and to Classification based on a risk matrix, the control functions of the secretariat, identification of priority risks, operation of PDCA cycles minimize potential losses by such losses. 3 Establishing Crisis Management Regulations and In fiscal 2014, we reviewed the risk evaluation scheme associated rules 4 Risk management education and training sessions and suggested seven issues. In fiscal 2015, we 5 Establishing a system to cope with crisis in Japan and overseas completed the initial responses by considering and taking 6 Establishing a Business Continuity Plan (BCP) for potential necessary measures. We will continue to deal with the risks other than earthquakes 7 Adoption of risk management measures to group companies ongoing issues or others which require further responses. Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors Supply~ Safety Initiatives Based on the Group’s Safety Policy “Establish a culture Number of Work-Related Accidents in Fiscal 2015 of safety” for compliance in good faith,” safety initiatives Major Group companies Accidents requiring time off from work Accidents requiring time off from work Total have been implemented. COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS*1 0 2 2 In fiscal 2015, the number of work-related accidents was Cosmo Oil* 2 6 18 24 41 (15 accidents requiring time off from work and 26 Cosmo Oil Marketing*3 5 1 6 accidents not requiring time off), down significantly from Cosmo Energy Development*4 4 5 9 90 accidents (24 accidents requiring time off from work Total 15 26 41 and 66 accidents not requiring time off) in fiscal 2014. *1 Includes Cosmo Energy Holdings and 13 group companies *2 Includes Cosmo Oil and 11 companies under Cosmo Oil The Group will continue its strong efforts to reduce work*3 Includes Cosmo Oil Marketing and 11 companies under Cosmo Oil Marketing *4 Results for January-December 2015. Includes Cosmo Energy Development and 6 related accidents. other companies Cosmo Oil makes March 11 a “Safety Day” Cosmo Oil held a completion ceremony for constructing company held a ceremony in front of the monument on a safety monument in its Chiba Refinery on October March 11, 2016. Participants jointly read the pledge 2, 2015. This monument has been established to for safety and vowed to continue operating the Chiba commemorate the LPG fire explosion accident at the Refinery safely and with no accident. time of the Great East Japan Earthquake of March 2011, so it is not forgotten and to make each person at the 38 refinery more conscious of safety. The monument is a COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS combination of a panel that states the summary of the accident; shows damaged parts (pole and steel plate) of the spherical tank; and a safety tower of about 4 meters, on which is mounted a green cross, a symbol of safety, and a plaque with a pledge for safety. As Cosmo Oil made March 11 as “Safety Day,” the Monument construction completion ceremony Safety education training The entire group also finds it important not to forget the accidents and to develop a safety-first culture. A DVD for safety education was produced by putting together images and information about the fire and explosion accident and how it was dealt with. The training program is divided into three levels, depending on workplaces and on level of involvement of manufacturing scene. The DVD reminds viewers to think about lessons learned from the accident and safety of their own job. Viewing the DVD on LPG fire and explosion accident Foster a safety-first culture Objectives Make all employees imagine potential risks of their job and have safety-first mind-setting Cosmo Energy Holdings and three core companies Targets Group companies that have oil refining workplaces Contents Viewing of the DVD that features the Chiba Refinery fire and explosion accident, and how it was dealt with of training sessions Session to learn underlying causes of the accident and make attendees rethink their own job Level 1: DVD viewing (about 45 minutes), lecture, group discussion, and report writing 90 minutes in total Methods Level 2: DVD viewing (about 40 minutes), and filling out a questionnaire 50 minutes in total Level 3: DVD viewing (about 20 minutes) by e-learning and study 30 minutes in total Example of the text Introduction Message from the President and CEO CSR Activities Customers ~Toward fulfilling motoring lifestyle solutions~ Cosmo Vehicle Vision Cosmo Vehicle Vision Provider of value for customers’ motoring lifestyles In the midst of a decline in demand for fuel and oil Strengthen Aggressively for motor vehicles, we are focusing on transforming relationships Develop new make efforts for customers with customers vehicle sales ourselves from being an oil retailer to being a value provider for customers’ motoring lifestyles. Our Cosmo Vehicle Vision is to comprehensively capture “Filling Up Your Hearts, Too” Declaration demand from the entire ¥36 trillion vehicle-related Evaluation of Three Customer Center Securing compliance and environmental Promises fulfillment consideration market. We intend to thoroughly fulfill motoring Business continuity lifestyle solutions from customers’ viewpoints. CSR survey Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund planning Number of Cosmo the Card Holders Developing new customers 5 (million cardholders) Cosmo the Card 4.39 4.20 4.31 4.39 million cardholders 4 3.93 4.10 Cosmo the Card plays a critical role in building relations with 3 customers at service stations. The number of Cosmo the Card holders has been steadily increasing. 2 The Cosmo Energy Group and the major retailer, the AEON Group, have begun to mutually give customer referrals. In 1 July 2014, Cosmo the Card Opus cardholders began to 39 0 receive an additional benefit when shopping at AEON Group March March March March March COSMO REPORT 2016 31, 2012 31, 2013 31, 2014 31, 2015 31, 2016 stores, while we increased service stations which accept AEON’s electronic money WAON for payment. Extreme motoring lifestyle product Full-fledged Launch Plan in Fiscal 2016 Cosmo Smart Vehicles Vehicle one-stop service shop Motoring lifestyle consultants help support customers’ vehicle selection for free 27,000 vehicles under lease All vehicle types of all Japanese carmakers are handled. Cosmo Oil is aggressively promoting sales and Find most favorably priced vehicles from affiliated dealers across Japan expansion of “Cosmo Smart Vehicle”, a leasing program Thorough after-sale services of all vehicle types from all Japanese carmakers at favorable terms for consumers. This business model is patented and can be offered only by us, combined with a discount for fuel oil. In fiscal 2015, we launched Smart Vehicle Shops, which provide one-stop services ranging from vehicle sales to insurance, maintenance, and vehicle inspection to vehicle trade-ins. Shop exterior (image) Strengthen Relations with Customers Scheme Cosmo Vehicle Life Cosmo Vehicle Life Provide services members surpassed 0.6 million We offer lifestyle to customers Cosmo Vehicle Life, a Customers Cosmo Vehicle Life Cosmo Oil SS service to facilitate pleasant motoring. This is designed to (Vehicle Life members) (Dealers) strengthen relations with customers by issuing coupons for fuel, oil and car care products via Internet and smartphone Send information on motoring lifestyle applications and by offering loyalty points to be used for cash back. We have also introduced a function that enables customers to evaluate our services, named My Cosmo Project. Visit, purchase, The results are used to enhance our customer services. evaluate services Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors “Filling Up Your Hearts, Too” Declaration Regular Checking of Service Stations for Cosmo Brand Fulfillment of Three Promises True to the “Filling Up Your Hearts, Too,” Declaration, the Cosmo Corporate promise Deliver Match Fulfill Customers’ expectations Energy Group is working to fulfill the following three brand promises to customers at Cosmo Oil service stations. We are Cosmo Group Promises confident that keeping these promises at all service stations will Customers will be greeted with a welcome and a Comfort smile at clean Cosmo Oil service stations. result in favorable attitudes toward the Cosmo Brand and its being preferred by more customers. To check the status of our Peace of mind Cosmo Oil service stations will offer qualityassured products and services. initiatives and enhancing services, outside mystery examiners Trust Cosmo Oil service station staff will be responsible for their answers to customers’ queries investigate services at stations three times a year. Securing compliance and environmental CSR Initiatives at Service Stations consideration Target EM Survey 100 points Cosmo Oil’s service stations are promoting CSR activities such Meetings for CSR activities improvement 100 points PP Survey 100 points as thorough compliance and consideration of the environment, and believe appreciation of this will be good for the Cosmo Plan PP Distribution (%) EM Distribution (%) 100 100 Brand. As a CSR survey, the Cosmo Energy Group conducts 15 9 9 4 5 6 4 annual privacy policy (PP) surveys to check proper management 9 See of personal information and environmental management (EM) 76 87 86 92 surveys to check if environment/safety-related equipment and Do 40 CSR survey 0 0 facilities are properly managed at service stations. In fiscal 2015, COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS CSR 2014 2015 2014 2015 inspectors visited 1,190 service stations, and 1,584 service activities 100 points 95100 points stations conducted their own self-assessments. Less than 95 points Ensuring Customer Support Support Hotline Calls by Type The Cosmo Oil Customer Center operates a customer support Cards (member promotions, etc.) 5,000 49.3% hotline 24 hours a day. Service stations 2,622 25.8% In fiscal 2015 the support hotline received 10,146 calls, with cardFiscal Cosmo Smart Vehicle 884 8.7% 2015 related inquiries accounting for more than half, and customer feedback accounting for 595 calls, of which 558 calls concerned 10,146 Fuel oil or lubricant 178 1.8% Advertising or promotions 126 1.2% service stations. The support line also received 136 calls expressing Other (ALA, gratitude or praise, etc.) 741 7.3% gratitude or praise. We heed those voices of customers so that we Feedback 595 5.9% can better provide satisfying service station operation. Developing Personnel that Support Motoring Lifestyle Service station persons, who have direct contact with Education for personnel who can make Car Life Concierge customers, play a central role in realizing our visions. We held proposals on optimal motoring lifestyle to training course customers (Approval system) training courses to foster personnel who can look after our customers’ motoring lifestyle. In fiscal 2015, 4,000 employees Help raise Consumer Impressive and CIS/EIS training course Satisfaction (CIS) and Employee Impressive attended the training tailored to the Vehicle Vision initiatives. Satisfaction (EIS) to improve earnings Concerning courses for qualification acquisition, 39 employees 2nd Class Auto Mechanics Course for passed the 2nd Class Auto Mechanics Course for Gasoline Gasoline Vehicles Acquisition of Vehicles and 87 employees passed the 3rd Class Auto 3rd Class Auto Mechanics Course for nationally-accredited Gasoline Engines and Chassis qualifications Mechanics Course for Gasoline Engines or for Chassis with their Course for Hazardous Materials Engineer (Class B, Group 4) License respective passing rates at 98% and 100% respectively. These rates are extremely higher than the national average. These Technical training courses, courses for supporting skills and knowledge, and other courses are also available. mechanics support motoring lifestyle of our customers. Introduction Message from the President and CEO CSR Activities Human Resources ~Source of Value Creation~ Personnel System and Human Resources Development for Value Creation The Cosmo Energy Group believes that our human resources are the source of our value creation. We strive to develop people who proactively tackle issues of the changing business environment with a sense of speed. At the same time, we respect diversity and make efforts to make workplaces in which employees play an active role by making use of their diverse backgrounds. Number of Cosmo Oil Employees* (as of March 31, 2016) Men Women Total All employees’ average Union members 1,410 271 1,681 years of service 22.4 years Cosmo Oil (including Management position 639 8 647 those assigned to Senior employees 311 15 326 Female employees’ other companies) Subtotal 2,360 294 2,654 average years of service 19.2 years * Mainly Cosmo Energy Holdings, the three core companies, and employees who are assigned to other companies. * Both include senior employees. Personnel System and Assessment System Major Revisions Objective Specific measures Since April 2015, the personnel system has been substantially revised with the objective of enabling 1 Change of course-based personnel management system employees, regardless of their age, gender, and work type, To provide opportunities to 2 Introduce a system of pay scale determination for to make their maximum efforts with healthy willingness to all employees managers according to level of work responsibility. compete and high consciousness of profits, with the effect 3 Implement a promotion review process that eliminates seniority as a criterion. of invigorating individual employees and their organizational units, with the result that companies and their employees To encourage 1 Introduce a system that highly evaluates 41 grow together. The personnel assessment system for all employees to employees who take up the challenge of making changes, including reforms compete and employees is fair and transparent, while efforts are being COSMO REPORT 2016 enhance their 2 Implement personnel assessment that consciousness of incorporates each employee's achievement made for enhancing independence of employees’ mind-sets profitability 3 Introduce performance-linked bonuses and conducting assessment training for line managers. Human Resources Development and Number of Employees Stationed Outside Japan by Country Global Human Resources The new personnel system has identified a desired UK China employee as a professional with aspirations and willingness 2 3 USA to improve. We depart from conventional seniority-based Bahrain 3 South Korea personnel management in favor of aiming at selectively UAE 1 Singapore 5 90 9 developing personnel that match objectives. We have Qatar included knowledge and skills needed for business as 15 an item included in promotion reviews, as one means we encourage personal development. We have conducted training courses for managers to improve their fostering of Number of Employees Stationed Outside Japan: subordinates and have enhanced the training course for Fiscal 2011–2015 female employees to further encourage their development. 125 128 The Cosmo Energy Group has 128 employees stationed in 104 89 94 eight countries outside Japan. Aiming to become a vertically integrated global energy company, we urgently need to foster global personnel with diverse experience and skills. We also need to send younger and mid-career employees to work on projects outside Japan and send employees abroad for continuing education. We have sponsored select 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 employees study at overseas universities or international * The number of employees includes those dispatched from Cosmo Oil and full-time employees of Cosmo Engineering, Cosmo Trade & Service, and Cosmo Energy universities in Japan (six employees in the past five years.) Exploration & Production (as of March 31, 2016) Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors Respecting diversity Respecting diversity Under the continuing theme of promoting diversity and offering The Cosmo Energy Group is committed to achieve diversity in its fair employment opportunities, we are striving to increase our employment of persons with disabilities. In fiscal 2015, persons workplace. We aim to achieve high productivity and continue to with disabilities accounted for 2.06% of the workforce, slightly grow by having a workplace that allows motivated employees with exceeding the 2.0% rate mandated in Japan. We also strive for development of workplaces and promotion diverse backgrounds go about their work proactively. of employment for persons with disabilities. In fiscal 2015, we For that purpose, the Diversity Promotion Office was hosted internships for four students with disabilities as one measure to expand workplaces for such persons. established in June 2015 to promote development and use of diverse human resources and the human rights Respecting human rights We respect the human rights of each employee and endeavor measures. In particular, we are focusing on encouraging to make pleasant positive workplaces by preventing female employees’ work, by implementing an action plan harassment. We have established the Harassment and Human Rights Consultation Helpline, which is open to targeting the ratio of female managers at 5% of total by dispatched workers and part-timers in addition to full-time 2020 (compared to 1.2% at March 31, 2016.) employees, to improve our workplaces. Facilitating Work-Life Balance Number of Employees Taking Childcare Leave 2013 2014 2015 The Cosmo Energy Group has adopted various programs so Men 4 2 2 that our employees can work in good mental and physical Women 17 16 24 personal condition and balance their work with their life events. * If a person’s childcare leave extends across two fiscal years, that person is counted in the number for both fiscal years. Employees who are having babies and raising children can utilize childcare leave and also the arrangements for working reduced Employees Working Reduced Hours hours or the work-at-home program. Moreover, we encourage 2013 2014 2015 employees to take the special occasion paid holidays that we For childcare 17 21 22 42 provide for first wedding anniversaries and each child’s first birthday. For elderly care 0 1 1 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS We have also prepared some programs that allow employees with * If a person’s childcare leave extends across two fiscal years, that person is counted in the number for both fiscal years. a change in family circumstances to continue to work: namely, a program with limited workplace options due to childcare or elderly care; a re-employment program for employees who have forced to Cosmo Oil, to which about 2,700 employees out of group employees belong, has been certified for “Action Plans for leave a company due to needs related to childcare or elderly care; General Industrial Corporations (Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children)” and a work-leave program due to work re-assignment of a spouse. for five consecutive three-year terms since April 2005. Reducing Long Working Hours Valuing the health of employees and working to facilitate Total Annual Work Hours work-life balance, we aim to optimize working hours by 2,000 (Hours) improving productivity. Including an annual total working hour benchmark of 1,900 hours, 1,966 hours initiatives in fiscal 2015 include the encouragement of employees to 1,952 hours work mornings rather than nights (excluding shift workers), to take 1,950 1,950 hours a so-called “refresh day” (no-after-hours work day) to turn off the light in the workplace at 20pm (to discourage non-essential after0 hours work), and to factor in the actual number of hours worked by 2013 2014 2015 subordinates and its improvement into personnel assessment of managers. These efforts have resulted in just a slight decline in the Average Monthly Overtime Hours and Average Annual Paid number of hours worked compared to those of the previous year Holidays Taken but more employees have made plans to take their paid holidays. 2013 2014 2015 In fiscal 2016, we plan to newly identify these initiatives as a part Average monthly 23.2 hours 22.3 hours 22.5 hours overtime hours of a “reform in working patterns.” We are setting up a target in the number of hours worked for each department and implement Paid holidays taken 17.4 days 17.7 days 18.4 days various specific measures, such as to streamline operations and * Employees receive 15 days of paid holidays in their first year, then 17 days after one year of employment, 19 days after two consecutive years, and 21 days after three meetings, and a planned acquisition of paid holidays. consecutive years. Introduction Message from the President and CEO CSR Activities Environment ~Aiming to Realize “Living with Our Planet ~ Cosmo Energy Group's Environmental Management Systems The Group advocates “promoting environmental measures” as one of the priorities of its CSR Activity Policy. In the Consolidated Medium-Term Environmental Plan (FY2013-FY2017), the Group has three priorities: responding strategically to global warming while ensuring business continuity, reducing environmental impact, and promoting environmental contribution activities — and it is taking action to realize the corporate messages of “Living with Our Planet” addressed to society. Reporting of activities and performance evaluation by Environment and Social Initiative Committee The Group has acquired ISO 14001 certification for 8 Furthermore, in regard to resource saving, energy saving sites, including refineries, that have a large environmental and reductions in the quantity of water used and waste at impact. In addition to conducting internal audits, we all Group companies, the Environment and Social Initiative accept external inspections and confirm whether initiatives Committee conducts planning, reporting, and evaluation aimed not only at compliance with laws and regulations but of performance in the Consolidated Medium-Term also the reduction of environmental burdens on the air and Environmental Plan and also promotes action initiatives water have been carried out. that consider the environment. Major initiatives EvaluPriority item Theme Fiscal 2015 results Fiscal 2016 policies and targets ation* Reduced CO2 by 937 kt (vs. fiscal 2010) Reduction of CO2 (Breakdown) Address to global emissions by 853 Continue the initiatives so as to Efficient operation of the manufacturing division 813kt-CO2 A warming kt in fiscal 2017 achieve the target in fiscal 2017 again 43 (vs. fiscal 2010) Wind power generation 59kt-CO2 Bio gasoline 65kt-CO2 Promote Reduce Review of COSMO REPORT 2016 environmental Started to take the data on general waste and the amount of Deliver information for reduction in initiatives environmental collection of A water usage environmental impact within the Group impact environmental data Promote environmental and Promote Eco Card Continue the current measure as it Took a measure against a decline in cardholders B social contribution Fund initiatives yielded in retaining some cardholders. activities * A: Fully achieved; B: Partially achieved; C: Not achieved Energy Conservation in Refineries Approximately 70% of the Cosmo Energy Group’s CO 2 suspension of the Yokkaichi and Sakai Refineries for emissions are generated by refining. The Group is maintenance, unit energy consumption increased working to reduce this figure and conserve energy by but the aggregate amount of energy consumption and introducing high-efficiency equipment and improving that of CO 2 emissions decreased compared to the operational performance. In fiscal 2015, due to previous year. Energy Consumption and Unit Energy Consumption CO2 Emissions and CO2 Emissions per Unit of Crude Oil Equivalent Throughput Energy consumption (LH) Unit energy consumption* (RH) CO2 emissions (LH) CO2 emissions per unit of crude oil equivalent throughput (RH) 3,000 (Ml-crude oil) (kl-crude oil/Ml) 12 6,000 (kt-CO2) (kg-CO2/kl) 30 10.11 10.16 26.09 26.52 9.41 9.45 25.02 25.19 24.25 8.92 9.26 23.21 4,840 4,207 2,000 8 4,000 4,046 3,987 20 1,821 3,600 3,756 1,578 1,555 1,522 1,396 1,439 1,000 4 2,000 10 0 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 * Unit energy consumption indicates total energy consumption divided by the total crude oil equivalent * As the Sakaide Refinery was turned into a distribution terminal in fiscal 2014, the data has been throughput, taking into account the complexity of refining technology. The unit used is kiloliters of collected from three refineries since fiscal 2014, compared to from four refineries up to fiscal 2013. crude oil equivalent/megaliter (kl-crude oil/Ml). Total energy consumption is calculated by converting * In addition to the figures shown in the graph, N2O released from the catalyst regeneration heat, electricity, and other energy use into the megaliters of crude oil equivalent (Ml-crude oil). tower amounted to 17 kt of CO2 equivalent in fiscal 2015. Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors Renewable energy initiatives EcoPower’s Wind Power Plants The Group strives to supply clean energy by actively Reuke 2,960kW Wakkanai 2,300kW Rumoi 2,400kW undertaking wind power and solar power generation Nemura-Habomai Atsuta 900kW 750kW businesses. In FY2015, we started operations at the Aizu Oiwake-Souran 800kW Wakamatsu Wind Farm (16,000kW) and the Akitaaraya Wind Iwaya 800kW Matsumae 800kW Iwaya Wind Park 27,000kW Farm (1,990 kW). As a result, we have generated a total of Hebiura 400kW Mutsu Ogawara Wind Farm 343,143 MWh of electricity from 145 wind turbines (22 areas), 31,500kW Noheji 800kW and based on conversion to CO2, this has had the effect of a Akitaaraya 1,990kW Sodeyama Heights 198,680t-CO2* reduction in CO2 emissions. Akitaaraya Wind Farm 6,800kW 1,200kW In addition, CSD Solar G.K., which was established as a Sakata Port 1,500kW Aizu Wakamatsu Wind Farm 16,000kW joint venture with Showa Shell Sekiyu and the Development Tachikawa Wind Farm 3,200kW Hazaki 1,200kW Bank of Japan, started operations at the Omishima Solar Hazaki Wind Farm 15,000kW Power Plant in June 2016. As a result, we have completed Choshi Wind Farm 10,500kW the construction of all eight bases nationwide (solar Total power generation capacity Sodegaura 1,500kW generation capacity of 24,000kW) that we had planned from Iwata Wind Farm 15,000kW 184,100kW Hirogawa-Hidakagawa Wind Farm 20,000kW FY2014, and we are continuing to operate them steadily. Total number of wind turbines Ikata Wind Farm 18,000kW *Calculated using alternate value of 0.579 (t-CO2/MWh) in “FY2014 Actual Emission Coefficients and Adjusted Emission Coefficients for Each Power Company 145 GotoKishiku 800kW Overseas environmental measures and environmental preservation Based on a strong sense of mission regarding stable supply, the Cosmo Energy Group ensures proactive environmental 44 communication on a global scale by working earnestly on the environmental measures and preservation initiatives at oil drilling sites COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS as well, while making oil exploration and production the foundation of its business, with the aim of realizing a sustainable society. Zero flaring project The oil exploration and production business entails risks emissions. Currently, we have realized zero flaring at four that have an impact on the environment at each stage of bases in two countries, namely, Abu Dhabi in the UAE drilling, exploration and production. Therefore, we regard (Mubarraz Island, West Mubarraz AR Site Terminal, and environmental preservation activities as an important Central Facilities Platform (CFP)) and Qatar (CFP), and issue and are promoting initiatives to reduce the impact we are continuing with further endeavors. on the environment as far as possible. At oil fields operated by Abu Dhabi Oil Co., Ltd. (ADOC) Mubarraz Island flaring and Qatar Petroleum Development Co., Ltd. (QPD), which are Group companies in the Cosmo Energy Group, we have realized zero flaring by recovering associated gas generated in tandem with oil production and injecting it into underground oil reservoirs. This is contributing to the prevention of air pollution and a reduction in CO2 Before zero flaring operation After zero flaring operation Environmental protection activities in oil producing countries At Mubarraz Island, which is a site for oil production, we are undertaking a wide range of environmental protection activities such as greening, including the planting of mangroves, ocean reef farming , propagation of sea grass, and protection of the misago (osprey), a rare species. Mangroves that were planted Ocean reef farming Propagation of sea grass Misago (osprey) Introduction Message from the President and CEO CSR Activities Society ~Aiming to be the Preferred Energy Company~ A company that supports energy infrastructure Our mission and role as a company that supports energy infrastructure centered on oil is very large. We believe that our obligation is to establish a system to maintain the stable supply of energy and to continually and actively undertake initiatives and activities that take the environment into account, based on Symbiosis with the Global Environment, which is our part of our corporate vision. Revision of Earthquake BCP BCP organizational structure (business continuity plan) Formulation of companywide policy (coordination between core operating companies) Verification and management of basic resources (personnel, systems, and buildings) We have revised the Earthquake BCP Manual in tandem Control of external announcements with the transition to a holding company structure, Cosmo Energy Holdings established Crisis Response Headquarters respectively at Cosmo Energy Holdings, Cosmo Oil and Cosmo Oil Crisis Response Headquarters (Secretariat) Marketing, and changed the system to initiate the BCP. Moreover, in the event that we are unable to establish the Cooperation Crisis Response Headquarters at the head office of Cosmo Crisis Response Headquarters Crisis Response Headquarters Energy Holdings due to such factors as an earthquake (Secretariat) (Secretariat) directly under the Tokyo metropolitan area, we have prepared Cosmo Oil Cosmo Oil Marketing manuals for the Provisional Crisis Response Headquarters Formulation of supply policy Formulation of sales policy that will be established at the Cosmo Oil Sakai Refinery and Rapid recovery of refineries and oil storage depots Rapid resumption of service station operations Efficient management of supply and demand Securing and managing tanker trucks the Osaka Branch of Cosmo Oil Marketing. Cooperation with central government administration Cooperation with central government administration Summary of Earthquake BCP of Cosmo Energy Group 45 Key points Unifies disaster estimation in the BCP framework and the BCP manuals of each division Estimates damage at each company and each division based on disaster assumptions COSMO REPORT 2016 Clarifies business continuity objectives in terms of the Company, based on disaster assumptions and damage estimations Separates operational flow at each company and each division chronologically, clarifies operational details during this period, and strengthens inter-divisional cooperation Basic policy (1) Respect human life, prevent secondary disaster, secure stable supply (2) Rapid restoration of sequential supply chain BCP (encompassing the scope from refineries and oil depots to service stations) (3) Consistency with “Japan’s Petroleum Supply Plan for Disasters *” based on the Oil Stockpiling Act Scenarios Major earthquake in Tokyo and/or Nankai Trough great earthquake Business continuity objectives We will strive to continue oil refinery shipments to service station operations to prevent suspension of the stable supply of oil products or enable resumption in the shortest time possible. Advance response Regular implementation of earthquake BCP training (disaster prevention, disaster mitigation) Hardware countermeasures against earthquakes and tsunami (safe shutdown of equipment, lateral flow countermeasures, etc.) *Plans where oil refiners supply oil by cooperating in implementing joint operations, including the establishment of a joint operating system, joint use of facilities, and cooperation relating to transportation Head office's BCP response facilities The Group has installed satellite phones and MCA wireless at each business site, and has a system that enables communication to be conducted even in situations where fixed phones and mobile phones cannot be used. Furthermore, at the head office, emergency-use generators have been installed while, in the main conference room, which is to be used as the Crisis Response Headquarters, power switching boards for normal use and emergency use (BCP enabled boards) and electrical outlets that can be used when using emergency-use power sources (BCP enabled electrical outlets) have been installed. Implementation of provisional crisis response training in Kansai region Even if an earthquake occurs directly under the Tokyo metropolitan area and it becomes difficult to set up the Crisis Response Headquarters at the head office, the Company has put in place preparations, responses, and initiatives to set up a provisional crisis response headquarters in the Kansai region in order to continue business operations. We conducted training for this provisional crisis response headquarters on November 16, Provisional crisis response training 2015 at the Cosmo Oil Sakai Refinery and the Cosmo Oil Marketing Osaka Branch. After resolving issues extracted in this training, we have reflected improvement points in manuals, and as part of risk management, we will continue to conduct BCP training in an integrated way among the three companies in an endeavor to prevent secondary disasters and ensure the stable supply of oil products while placing the greatest priority on respect for human life at the time of a large-scale disaster. Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors United Nations Global Compact 10 Principles of the U.N. Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and The Cosmo Energy Group has pledged its commitment to respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and the United Nations Global Compact since 2006, supporting Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, n human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the the environment and anti-corruption. The Group’s embrace effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; of the Global Compact shows that it is committed to CSR Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and from an international perspective and that it is striving to Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. improve its initiatives for social responsibility. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally The Cosmo Energy Group has outlined “Harmony and friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Symbiosis with the Global Environment” as part of its including extortion and bribery. management philosophy and has been working to solve environmental problems since 2002. The Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund supports environmental initiatives implemented by NPOs, based on ¥500 donations collected from Eco Card Members each year and part of the sales of the Cosmo Energy Group. In addition, the Group conducts eco tours that enable Eco Card members to experience first-hand the Cosmo the Card Eco outcomes of donations, and implements other initiatives that Detailed Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund Activity Report 2016 enable environmental problems to be experienced. information http://ceh.cosmo-oil.co.jp/kankyo/eco/report.html 46 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS “Cosmo Earth Conscious Act” Cleanup Campaign Since 2001, the Cosmo Energy Group has been promoting Cosmo Earth Conscious Act initiatives for the preservation and conservation of the global environment. These efforts include cleanup campaigns, where participants enjoy nature while cleaning up mountains, rivers, and beaches Holding campaigns throughout Japan. At 606 locations over the past 15 years, these campaigns have involved 232,189 participants, who have collected a total of 6,498,417 liters of garbage. Each summer, a cleanup campaign is also held at Mt. Fuji. In Detailed “Cosmo Earth Conscious Act” FY2015, 160 participants cleaned up Mt. Fuji while enjoying information Initiatives Schedule and Report Digging up and collecting garbage that Official website http://www.tfm.co.jp/earth/ was unlawfully dumped eco trekking and collected a total of 8,415 liters of garbage. facebook http://www.facebook.com/earth.act and buried on Mt. Fuji Main Social Initiatives Based on “Harmony and Symbiosis Program Description Time to be held Results Launch between Companies and Society,” 23rd Cosmo Nature camp for elementary-school aged Participated by 36 children Waku Waku children who have lost their parent(s) in August 7-9 1993 Volunteered by 13 employees one of the principles of the Camp traffic accidents management philosophy, the Jazz Night at Charity concert to benefit the Family Gyoranji Temple House, a housing option for families of September 4 ¥192,000 was donated. 2007 Cosmo Energy Group is undertaking children in long-term hospital care various social contribution activities Christmas Card Project to send Christmas cards with November under the concepts of “To educate Project words of encouragement to children in -December 430 cards were sent from the Company 2003 long-term hospital care children who will be part of the Cosmo EkaHands-on craft workshop conducted by Participated by 13 children at an orphanage future society,” “To preserve the December 19 2004 Kids Group employees at an orphanage Volunteered by 5 employees global environment” and “To form a Happy Doll A project to make “happy dolls” with May October Held at 7 hospitals 2009 Project children in long-term hospital care cultural society.” Introduction Message from the President and CEO Financial Section 11-Year Selected Financial and Operating Data FY2005 FY2006 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 For The Year Net sales ¥2,670,628 ¥3,062,744 ¥3,523,087 ¥3,428,211 ¥2,612,141 Petroleum 2,617,446 2,984,516 3,442,186 3,352,916 2,565,153 Petrochemical — — — — — Oil exploration and production 50,476 78,132 84,069 89,054 59,553 Other 69,369 85,517 99,010 91,790 88,470 Elimination and corporate (66,663) (85,421) (102,178) (105,549) (101,035) Cost of sales 2,422,272 2,852,242 3,290,688 3,389,408 2,435,366 Selling, general and administrative expenses 137,108 140,859 148,602 145,809 142,568 Operating income (loss) 111,248 69,643 83,797 (107,006) 34,207 Inventory valuation gain (loss)* 2 45,400 2,800 45,000 (180,100) 52,600 Operating income (loss) excluding the 65,848 66,843 38,797 73,094 (18,393) impact of inventory valuation Ordinary income (loss) 119,557 74,789 94,330 (125,004) 36,411 Ordinary income (loss)excluding the 74,157 71,989 49,330 55,096 (16,189) impact of inventory valuation Profit (loss) before income taxes 120,393 71,243 95,561 (117,180) 35,527 Profit (loss) attributable to owners of 61,795 26,536 35,153 (92,430) (10,741) parent*3 Capital expenditures 31,762 36,127 48,958 67,025 87,677 R&D expenses 3,483 3,753 3,840 3,863 3,657 Depreciation and amortization*4 28,313 37,788 42,776 41,492 42,746 47 Cash flows from operating activities (20,685) 25,005 (4,215) 82,136 2,262 Cash flows from investing activities (1,348) (35,868) (32,806) (55,953) (93,306) COSMO REPORT 2016 Cash flows from financing activities 39,608 80,023 (5,229) 57,854 159,302 At Year-End Total assets ¥1,463,579 ¥1,579,156 ¥1,627,904 ¥1,440,396 ¥1,645,048 Non-controlling interests*5 20,803 21,912 26,815 19,016 15,833 Net assets excluding non-controlling interests 312,504 339,701 442,912 328,434 315,747 Total current assets 762,404 882,082 933,722 688,310 845,337 Total current liabilities 733,452 811,846 812,028 683,883 744,174 Interest-bearing debt 522,430 609,890 521,605 598,609 777,739 Number of outstanding shares as of the 671,705 671,705 847,705 847,705 847,705 period (thousands)*6 Per Share Data*7 Net income (loss) ¥ 94.54 ¥ 39.54 ¥ 46.72 ¥ (109.11) ¥ (12.68) Diluted net income 92.17 37.91 44.98 — — Net assets* 8 465.48 506.15 522.84 387.71 372.74 Cash dividends 10.00 8.00 8.00 8.00 8.00 Ratios Return on assets (ROA) (%) 4.4 1.7 2.2 (6.0) (0.7) Return on equity (ROE) (%)* 9 22.9 8.0 9.0 (24.0) (3.3) Equity ratio (%) 21.4 21.5 27.2 22.8 19.2 Debt-to-total capital ratio (%) 35.7 38.6 32.0 41.6 47.3 Debt-to-equity ratio (times)* 10, 11 1.7 1.8 1.2 1.8 2.5 *1.U.S. dollar amounts are translated from Japanese yen, for the convenience of readers only, at *4.Depreciation and amortization includes recovery of recoverable accounts under the rate of ¥112.68 to US$1.00, the approximate exchange rate prevailing on March 31, 2016. production sharing from FY2006 through FY2013. In FY2011 and FY2012, *2.“Inventory valuation gain (loss)” from FY2005 through FY2007 are based on the periodic depreciation and amortization includes recovery of recoverable accounts under average method of inventory valuation, whereas “Inventory valuation gain (loss)” from FY2009 production sharing as well as depreciation applicable to fixed assets idled as a result are based on the lower of cost or market method as dictated by ASBJ (Accounting Standards of the fire at the Chiba Refinery caused by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Board of Japan) Statement No.9, “Accounting Standard for Measurement of Inventories.” *5.Up to 2014, “Minority interests” is presented. *3.Up to FY2014, “Net income (loss)” is presented. *6.On October 1, 2015, Cosmo Energy Holdings Co., Ltd. was established as the whollyowing parent company of Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. through the share transfer. To one common share of the former Cosmo Oil, 0.1 common share of the holding company was allocated (for example 1,000 Cosmo Oil shares to 100 Cosmo Energy Holdings shares). Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars*1 ¥2,771,523 ¥3,109,746 ¥3,166,689 ¥3,537,782 ¥3,035,818 ¥2,244,306 $19,917,524 2,728,754 3,055,628 3,116,214 3,463,740 2,996,965 2,220,664 19,707,709 45,940 29,422 30,469 51,576 55,070 48,131 427,149 69,938 87,644 85,943 88,652 82,348 55,807 495,273 68,652 71,628 86,312 79,442 75,683 71,449 634,092 (141,762) (134,577) (152,250) (145,629) (174,249) (151,746) (1,346,699) 2,539,032 2,918,238 2,989,274 3,369,007 2,944,919 2,154,615 19,121,544 128,393 127,937 124,992 129,060 129,346 119,433 1,059,938 104,097 63,570 52,422 39,715 (38,447) (29,742) (263,958) 22,300 25,200 15,264 16,068 (116,177) (68,703) (609,727) 81,797 38,370 37,158 23,647 77,730 38,961 345,768 96,094 61,420 48,439 41,847 (49,640) (36,121) (320,563) 73,794 36,220 33,175 25,779 66,537 32,582 289,164 73,451 35,381 (2,536) 49,443 (44,599) (43,797) (388,693) 28,933 (9,084) (85,882) 4,348 (77,729) (50,230) (445,777) 64,369 27,933 83,429 41,243 70,396 82,775 734,603 3,834 3,791 3,765 3,271 3,077 3,104 27,548 51,068 50,601 44,953 35,330 32,399 30,713 272,573 26,297 43,616 (20,950) 35,837 163,384 18,427 163,537 48 (73,109) (25,805) (80,481) (61,007) (30,126) (32,839) (291,443) COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS (86,077) 11,606 104,695 12,555 (178,920) 32,499 288,426 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars*1 ¥1,579,424 ¥1,675,070 ¥1,743,492 ¥1,696,831 ¥1,428,628 ¥1,409,615 $12,509,903 17,508 20,506 26,475 29,214 40,326 94,665 840,128 332,730 316,931 230,456 231,927 167,194 108,046 958,881 793,363 920,412 967,148 921,790 621,578 516,254 4,581,596 622,173 744,275 816,611 799,199 603,860 555,519 4,930,063 700,131 721,203 842,889 863,679 692,871 757,151 6,719,482 847,705 847,705 847,705 847,705 847,705 84,770 — Yen U.S. dollars*1 ¥ 34.16 ¥ (10.72) ¥ (101.39) ¥ 5.13 ¥ (91.77) ¥ (594.85) $ (5.28) 33.58 — — — — — — 392.80 374.15 272.07 273.81 197.39 1,286.03 11.41 8.00 8.00 0.00 2.00 0.00 40.00 0.35 1.8 (0.6) (5.0) 0.3 (5.0) (3.5) — 8.9 (2.8) (31.4) 1.9 (39.0) (36.5) — 21.1 18.9 13.2 13.7 11.7 7.7 — 44.3 43.1 48.3 50.9 48.5 53.7 — 2.1 2.3 3.7 3.7 4.1 4.6 — *7.“Per share data” for FY2015 are data for one share of Cosmo Energy Holdings, *10.The debt-to-equity ratio for FY2005 the debt-to-equity ratio is calculated using “Net assets according to the allocation of 0.1 share of the holding company to 1 share of the excluding minority interests.” former Cosmo Oil. *11.The ratio in FY2015 is rating-based. *8.For FY2005, “Net assets excluding minority interests per share” is presented rather than *12.Up to FY2009, the figures are rounded up or down to the nearest million. From “Net assets per share.” FY2010 onward, the figures are rounded off to the nearest million. *9.ROE for FY2005 is calculated using “Net assets excluding minority interests.” *13.The Petrochemical Business, which had previously been included in the Petroleum Business segment, was separated into a different segment from FY2010. Introduction Message from the President and CEO Financial Section Consolidated Balance Sheets FY2014 (As of March 31, 2015) FY2015 (As of March 31, 2016) ASSETS Millions of yen Current assets Cash and deposits ¥ 95,171 ¥ 60,972 Notes and accounts receivable-trade 202,469 192,572 Securities — 30,000 Merchandise and finished goods 131,430 87,825 Work in process 273 391 Raw materials and supplies 125,086 94,211 Accounts receivable-other 36,073 28,709 Deferred tax assets 7,920 3,812 Other 23,265 17,954 Allowance for doubtful accounts (113) (195) Total current assets 621,578 516,254 Noncurrent assets Property, plant and equipment Buildings and structures, net 109,306 129,074 Oil storage depots, net 28,954 32,693 Machinery, equipment and vehicles, net 141,943 149,609 Land 310,040 320,971 Lease assets, net 506 761 49 Construction in progress 18,708 53,586 Other, net 5,973 6,571 COSMO REPORT 2016 Total property, plant and equipment 615,432 693,267 Intangible assets Software 2,692 3,158 Goodwill 2,183 1,452 Other 44,584 42,812 Total intangible assets 49,459 47,423 Investments and other assets Investment securities 118,788 112,040 Long-term loans receivable 1,359 2,048 Long-term prepaid expenses 2,716 7,986 Net defined benefit asset — 1,738 Cost recovery under production sharing — 16,917 Deferred tax assets 2,779 2,437 Other 16,592 9,330 Allowance for doubtful accounts (583) (481) Total investments and other assets 141,653 152,019 Total noncurrent assets ¥806,545 ¥892,710 Deferred assets Bond issuance cost 504 651 Total deferred assets 504 651 Total assets ¥1,428,628 ¥1,409,615 Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors FY2014 (As of March 31, 2015) FY2015 (As of March 31, 2016) LIABILITIES Millions of yen Current liabilities Notes and accounts payable-trade ¥ 182,417 ¥ 115,803 Short-term loans payable 179,512 200,619 Commercial paper — 12,000 Accounts payable-other 100,529 94,582 Accrued volatile oil and other petroleum taxes 97,786 93,788 Income taxes payable 11,234 8,094 Accrued expenses 8,828 3,716 Provision for bonuses — 4,962 Provision for directors’ bonuses — 293 Deferred tax liabilities 39 52 Provision for business structure improvement 2,705 4,534 Other 20,807 17,070 Total current liabilities 603,860 555,519 Noncurrent liabilities Bonds payable 37,700 46,700 Long-term loans payable 475,659 497,831 Deferred tax liabilities 25,517 31,202 Deferred tax liabilities for land revaluation 26,981 5,249 Provision for special repairs 10,090 15,078 50 Provision for business structure improvement 566 1,171 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS Provision for environmental measures 3,748 3,416 Net defined benefit liability 8,833 9,586 Provision for executive remuneration BIP trust — 41 Other 28,148 41,105 Total noncurrent liabilities 617,247 651,384 Total liabilities ¥1,221,107 ¥1,206,903 NET ASSETS Shareholders’ equity Capital stock ¥ 107,246 ¥ 40,000 Capital surplus 16,967 84,509 Retained earnings 7,942 259 Treasury shares (145) (1,223) Total shareholders’ equity 132,010 123,545 Accumulated other comprehensive income Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities 5,505 3,042 Deferred gains or losses on hedges 749 (1,601) Revaluation reserve for land 21,249 (20,660) Foreign currency translation adjustment 10,568 8,507 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (2,890) (4,786) Total accumulated other comprehensive income 35,183 (15,499) Non-controlling interests 40,326 94,665 Total net assets 207,520 202,712 Total liabilities and net assets ¥1,428,628 ¥1,409,615 Introduction Message from the President and CEO Financial Section Consolidated Statements of Income FY2014 FY2015 (From April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015) (From April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016) Millions of yen Net sales ¥3,035,818 ¥2,244,306 Cost of sale 2,944,919 2,154,615 Gross profit 90,899 89,691 Selling, general and administrative expenses 129,346 119,433 Operating income (loss) (38,447) (29,742) Non-operating income Interest income 234 167 Dividends income 649 1,322 Rent income on noncurrent assets 969 — Amortization of negative goodwill 1,127 — Equity in earnings of associates 29 3,012 Gain on sales of scraps 989 — Other 3,729 4,778 Total non-operating income 7,729 9,280 Non-operating expenses Interest expenses 12,778 12,758 Foreign exchange losses 801 — Other 5,343 2,899 Total non-operating expenses 18,922 15,658 Ordinary income (loss) (49,640) (36,121) 51 Extraordinary income COSMO REPORT 2016 Gain on sales of noncurrent assets 586 160 Gain on sales of investment securities 184 161 Gain on sales of shares of subsidiaries and associates 14,319 — Subsidy income 4,358 5,716 Gain on change in equity — 1,565 Gain on bargain purchase — 16,302 Other — 554 Total extraordinary income 19,449 24,460 Extraordinary loss Loss on sales of noncurrent assets 512 484 Loss on disposal of noncurrent assets 4,962 6,189 Impairment loss 2,843 6,241 Loss on valuation of investment securities 157 692 Business structure improvement expenses 4,901 6,923 Loss on litigation — 405 Loss on step acquisitions — 10,190 Land trust expenses — 1,010 Other 1,030 — Total extraordinary losses 14,407 32,137 Profit (loss) before income taxes (44,599) (43,797) Income taxes–current 34,474 13,293 Income taxes–deferred (4,655) (12,690) Total income taxes 29,818 602 Profit (loss) (74,417) (44,400) Profit (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 3,311 5,829 Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent ¥ (77,729) ¥ (50,230) Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows FY2014 FY2015 (From April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015) (From April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016) Millions of yen Cash flows from operating activities Profit (loss) before income taxes ¥(44,599) ¥(43,797) Depreciation 26,880 27,447 Amortization of negative goodwill (1,127) (16,302) Amortization of goodwill 730 730 Impairment loss 2,843 6,241 Loss (gain) on sales of non-current assets (73) 324 Business structure improvement expenses 4,901 6,923 Loss (gain) on disposal of non-current assets 4,962 6,189 Loss (gain) on sales of investment securities (184) (161) Loss (gain) on sales of shares of subsidiaries and associates (14,319) — Loss (gain) on valuation of investment securities 157 692 Subsidy income (4,358) (5,716) Interest and dividend income (884) (1,489) Interest expenses 12,778 12,758 Foreign exchange losses (gains) (2,201) 119 Share of (profit) loss loss of entities accounted for using equity method (29) (3,012) 52 Increase (decrease) in allowance for doubtful accounts 23 (59) COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS Increase (decrease) in provision for special repairs 462 234 Increase (decrease) in provision for environmental measures (109) (314) Increase (decrease) in net defined benefit liability 1,078 753 Decrease (increase) in notes and accounts receivable-trade 60,053 53,968 Recovery of recoverable accounts under production sharing 5,519 3,265 Decrease (increase) in inventories 188,845 79,904 Increase (decrease) in notes and accounts payable-trade (72,853) (96,090) Decrease (increase) in other current assets 3,425 24,245 Increase (decrease) in other current liabilities 23,679 (18,151) Decrease (increase) in investments and other assets 500 860 Increase (decrease) in other non-current liabilities 113 4,171 Loss (gain) on step acquisitions — 10,190 Other, net 2,188 (75) Subtotal 198,401 53,849 Interest and dividend income received 1,820 2,154 Interest expenses paid (12,830) (13,490) Payments for business structure improvement expense (4,886) (5,107) Proceeds from subsidy income 4,321 4,978 Payments for land trust expenses — (1,010) Income taxes paid (23,443) (22,945) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities ¥163,384 ¥ 18,427 Introduction Message from the President and CEO Financial Section Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows FY2014 FY2015 (From April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015) (From April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016) Millions of yen Cash flows from investing activities Proceeds from sales and redemption of securities ¥ 12 ¥ — Purchase of investment securities (2,202) (976) Proceeds from sales and redemption of investment securities 6,306 243 Purchase of shares of subsidiaries and associates (851) (8,401) Proceeds from sales and liquidation of shares of subsidiaries and 23,372 — affiliates Purchase of subsidiary stock associated with changing scope of — 35,502 consolidation Purchase of property, plant and equipment (48,430) (55,743) Payments for disposal of property, plant and equipment (3,998) (4,645) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 3,639 1,243 Payments for purchases of intangible assets and long-term prepaid (14,086) (16,126) expenses Decrease (increase) in short-term loans receivable (442) 2,713 Purchase of treasury shares of subsidiaries (1,080) — 53 Payments of long-term loans receivable (413) (1,840) COSMO REPORT 2016 Collection of long-term loans receivable 408 1,074 Proceeds from withdrawal of time deposits 65,365 14,193 Payments into time deposits (58,704) (100) Other, net 978 23 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (30,126) (32,839) Cash flows from financing activities Net increase (decrease) in short-term loans payable (99,005) (13,138) Net increase (decrease) in commercial paper — 12,000 Proceeds from long-term loans payable 67,490 73,692 Repayment of long-term loans payable (90,292) (45,165) Proceeds from issuance of bonds — 8,886 Redemption of bonds (55,150) — Cash dividends paid (1,694) — Cash dividends paid to non-controlling interests (68) (1,578) Other, net (197) (2,196) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (178,920) 32,499 Effect of exchange rate change on cash and cash equivalents 3,148 (189) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (42,514) 17,898 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 123,280 80,765 Decrease in cash and cash equivalents resulting from exclusion of — (9,245) subsidiaries from consolidation Cash and cash equivalents at end of period ¥ 80,765 ¥89,418 Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors Major Indicators EBITDA excluding the impact of inventory valuation EBITDA excluding the impact of inventory valuation 120,000 (Millions of yen) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 90,000 Millions of yen Operating income 60,000 excluding the impact ¥38,370 ¥37,158 ¥23,647 ¥ 77,730 ¥38,961 of inventory valuation Depreciation and 30,000 50,601 44,953 35,330 32,399 30,713 amortization EBITDA excluding 0 the impact of 88,971 82,111 58,977 110,129 69,674 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 inventory valuation ROA and ROE Return on assets (ROA) Return on equity (ROE) 10 (%) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Millions of yen 0 Profit (loss) attributable to ¥ (9,084) ¥ (85,882) ¥ 4,348 ¥ (77,729) ¥ (50,230) owners of parent -10 Net assets excluding non1,675,070 1,743,492 1,696,831 1,428,628 1,409,615 controlling interests -20 Total shareholders’ equity 316,931 230,456 231,927 167,194 108,046 -30 Return on assets (ROA) (%) (0.6) (5.0) 0.3 (5.0) (3.5) 54 -40 Return on equity (ROE) (%) (2.8) (31.4) 1.9 (39.0) (36.5) COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 *1. ROA = Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent/Average total assets at beginning and end of the fiscal year × 100 *2. ROE = Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent/Average shareholders’ equity at beginning and end of the fiscal year × 100 Cash Flows by Activity Cash flows from operating activities Cash flows from investing activities Cash flows from financing activities 200,000 (Millions of yen) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Millions of yen 100,000 Cash flows from ¥ 43,616 ¥ (20,950) ¥ 35,837 ¥ 163,384 ¥ 18,427 operating activities 0 Cash flows from (25,805) (80,481) (61,007) (30,126) (32,839) investing activities Cash flows from -100,000 11,606 104,695 12,555 (178,920) 32,499 financing activities Cash and cash -200,000 equivalents at the 122,431 129,699 123,280 80,765 89,418 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 end of year Total Assets, Equity Ratio, and Debt-to-Equity Ratio Debt-to-Equity Ratio (Left axis) Total assets (Right axis) 40 (%) (Millions of yen) 2,000,000 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Millions of yen 30 1,500,000 Total assets ¥1,675,070 ¥1,743,492 ¥1,696,831 ¥1,428,628 ¥1,409,615 Interest-bearing debt 721,203 842,889 863,679 692,871 757,151 20 1,000,000 Net assets excluding 316,931 230,456 231,927 167,194 108,046 non-controlling interests 10 500,000 Equity ratio (%) 18.9 13.2 13.7 11.7 7.7 0 0 Debt-to-equity ratio 2.3 3.7 3.7 4.1 4.6 (times) (rating-based) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Introduction Message from the President and CEO Outline Share Information (As of March 31, 2016) Ordinary general meeting of shareholders every June Date of right allotment for year-end dividend March 31 Sumitomo Mitsui Transfer agent for common stock Number of shares per trading unit 100 shares Trust Bank, Limited Number of common shares issued 84,770,508 shares Stock listing Tokyo Stok Exchange Number of Shares by Type of Shareholders and their Trend Japanese financial institutions and securities firms (including trust accounts) Japanese individuals Japanese financial Other Japanese companies and corporations (including treasury stock) and others institutions and Foreign investors Japanese individuals and others 15,768 securities firms thousand shares* (including trust accounts) 39.3 38.9 38.2 (18.6%) 30,736 36.3 thousand shares* 32.9 34.6 Number of common 32.1 (36.3%) 33.4 35.5 shares issued 32.4 84,770,508 shares 22.4 Other Japanese 18.6 18.4 19.7 18.6 companies and Foreign investors corporations 9.8 9.6 9.6 9.7 9.6 (including treasury stock) 30,098 thousand shares* 8,166 (35.5%) thousand shares* (9.6%) March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 * Thousands of shares, rounded down Number of Shareholders by Type and their Trend Japanese financial institutions and securities firms (including trust accounts) Japanese financial Other Japanese Other Japanese companies and corporations (including treasury stock) 55 institutions and companies and Foreign investors Japanese individuals and others securities firms corporations COSMO REPORT 2016 (including trust (including treasury 97.5 97.5 97.6 97.8 97.5 accounts) stock) 95 (0.3%) 442 (1.4%) Number of 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.4 Shareholders 1.2 Foreign investors 31,984 0.8 0.8 0.8 259 (0.8%) 0.7 Japanese 0.6 individuals and 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 others 31,188 (97.5%) March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Principal Shareholders (Top 10) Number of shares owned Percentage of total shares issued Shareholder (Thousands) (%) Infinity Alliance Limited 17,600 20.76 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account) 3,979 4.69 Mizuho Bank, Ltd. 3,153 3.71 The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. 1,975 2.32 The Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc. 1,860 2.19 Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. 1,767 2.08 Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. 1,580 1.86 Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Insurance Inc. 1,579 1.86 Cosmo Energy Holdings Client Stock Ownership 1,519 1.79 Goldman,Sachs&Co.Reg 1,456 1.71 * Three decimal places are rounded down. * In calculating the Percentage of total shares issued, total shares issued excludes treasury stock. Medium-term Features on Business Review of Operations Corporate Recommendation from CSR Activities Financial Section Outline Management Plan Strategies Governance Independent Outside Directors Corporate Data (As of March 31, 2016) Company Name Cosmo Energy Holdings Co., Ltd. Securities code 5021 1-1, Shibaura, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8302 Head Office Phone +81-3-3798-7545 Established October 1, 2015 Paid-in Capital ¥40 billion Type of Business Management of subsidiaries involved in oil ranging from upstream to downstream and others Cosmo Oil was established through tripartite merger of Daikyo Oil Co., Ltd., Maruzen April 1, 1986 Oil Co., Ltd., and former Cosmo Oil (Cosmo Refining) Corporate History October 1, 1989 Asian Oil Co., Ltd. was merged into Cosmo Oil. October 1, 2015 Cosmo Energy Holdings Co., Ltd. was established. Main banks Mizuho Bank, Ltd.; The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.; and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation Key Data of the Cosmo Energy Group Number of SS Operators 226 Branches Sapporo, Sendai, Tokyo, Kanto-Minami, Nagoya, Osaka, Hiroshima, Takamatsu, Fukuoka Refineries Chiba, Yokkaichi, Sakai 56 COSMO ENERGY HOLDINGS Editorial policy For a better understanding of the Cosmo Energy Group’s creation of values to all stakeholders, we have decided to integrate the Annual Report and the Corporate Report to issue the Cosmo Report from fiscal 2016. Period covered Mainly the fiscal year from April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016 (including some information for fiscal 2016) Report bourdary Cosmo Energy Holdings Co., Ltd. and major consolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies. * The section on CSR covers mainly Cosmo Energy Holdings and 48 Group companies, which share the “CSR Activity Policy” but includes data on employees of Cosmo Oil, data for three core companies, and data only for some other companies. The scope of coverage for these data is provided individually in appended notes. Month of issue August 2016 (next publication scheduled for August 2017: to be issued every year) Cosmo Report, IR website, Cosmo Report (booklet) is designed to be easily looked at, while further details are and CSR website available on our IR website and CSR website. CSR activity reporting is focused on priority issues while using GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4th edition and Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 Version) established by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan as reference. The links to Cosmo Energy Holdings’ official websites are as follows: IR website http://ceh.cosmo-oil.co.jp/eng/ir/ CSR website http://ceh.cosmo-oil.co.jp/eng/csr/ Cautionary notes on forward-looking This report contains forward-looking statements about the plans, strategies and statements performance of Cosmo Energy Group. These statements include assumptions and judgments that are based on information currently available to us. As such, the actual results may differ from those mentioned herein, due to various factors in the external environment. COSMO REPORT 2016 Corporate Communication Department/CSR Management Department 1-1, Shibaura 1-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8528, Japan Phone +81-3-3798-3180 Fax +81-3-3798-3841
