HAMON 2015 ANNUAL REPORT Integrated Solutions for a Clean Environment 3 — MESSAGE our group The Hamon Group is a global player in the field of engineering and contracting (engineering, construction and project management). Its activities include the design and manufacture of key components, the installation and maintenance of cooling systems, process heat exchangers, air pollution control systems, heat recovery systems (HRSG) and chimneys, intended for the power generation, oil and gas sectors as well as certain other heavy industries such as steel, glassmaking and chemicals. contents GENERAL PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP 2 — Key figures 4 — Meeting with Francis Lambilliotte 8 — Group profile 12 — Key events REVIEW PER BUSINESS UNIT 18 — Cooling Systems 24 — Process Heat Exchangers 30 — Air Quality Systems 36 — NAFTA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 42 — Corporate Social Responsibility CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 56 — Statement of Corporate Governance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 70 — Table of contents 72 — Consolidated financial data 77 — Notes to the consolidated financial statements 126 — Auditor’s report on the consolidated financial statements ANNEXES 130 — Parameters of the Corporate Social Responsibility report 1 — CONTENTS 135 — GRI and UN Global Compact ­correspondence grids 138 — Glossary 140 — General information key figures in EUR million 2015 2014 RATIOS EBITDA / revenue 3.6% 3.8% ROCE (1) 16.6% 22.4% Net financial debt / equity (2) 163% 95% Enterprise value / EBITDA (3) 6.4 5.7 DATA PER SHARE (IN EUR/SHARE) Group's share of net result (0.54) 0.11 +15% Net result from continued operations (0.54) 0.11 Equity (excluding non-controlling interests) 5.11 5.35 Gross dividend 0.00 0.00 P/E (share price as at 31.12) (4) – 88.9 INCREASE IN TURNOVER Average number of outstanding shares 9,363,916 7,597,958 Number of outstanding shares as at 31.12 10,540,797 8,998,386 Number of shares issued as at 31.12 10,556,905 9,009,654 Market capitalization as at 31.12 (EUR million) 84.2 91.9 Share closing price as at 31.12 7.98 10.20 Year average share closing price 9.25 13.34 NEW ORDER BOOKINGS 447.8 613.7 ORDER BOOK (AS AT 31 DECEMBER) 581.1 794.1 INCOME STATEMENT Revenue 698.6 606.4 EBITDA (5) 25.1 23.0 EBIT (result before interest and tax) 7.7 11.8 Result before tax (continued operations) (3.4) 1.0 Net result from continued operations (5.4) 0.9 Net result from discontinued operations (0.0) (0.0) Group's share of net result (5.0) 0.8 Cash flow (6) (45.0) (2.7) 2 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 in EUR million 2015 2014 BALANCE SHEET Non-current assets 155,5 150,3 Current financial assets available for sale 0,1 0,0 Cash and cash equivalents 109,3 139,0 Other current assets 302,9 259,8 Total assets 567,8 549,1 Equity (7) 52,0 43,4 of which non-controlling interests 4,2 2,7 Financial liabilities (current and non-current) 193,8 180,1 Non-current provisions 5,5 6,5 Other non-current liabilities 9,2 11,5 Current liabilities (excl. financial liabilities) 307,2 307,6 Total liabilities and equity 567,8 549,1 Net working Capital (8) (4,3) (47,8) Net financial debts (9) 84,5 41,1 Capital employed (10) 151,2 102,5 Average headcount (yearly) 1.777 1.695 (1) EBITDA / capital employed (2) Net financial debts / equity (including non-controlling interests) (3) Enterprise value = market capitalization as at 31.12 + non-controlling interests + net financial debts investments in associated companies (4) Share price as at 31.12 / net result from continued operations, per share (5) E  BITDA = operating profit before depreciation, amortization and non-recurring items (6) Cash flow = net cash from operations after restructuring (7) Equity including non-controlling interests (8) Current assets (excluding cash and cash equivalents) non-financial current liabilities (continued operations only) (9) Financial liabilities Cash and cash equivalents (10) Non-current assets + net working capital + current net financial assets available for sale +9% INCREASE IN EBITDA 3 — KEY FIGURES MEETING WITH Francis Lambilliotte “Our business units are responding to new environmental challenges affecting water and air.” DID THE COMPLEX INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC SO OVERALL, HAMON’S RESULTS ARE SATISFACTORY? CONTEXT IN 2015 IMPACT SIGNIFICANTLY ON HAMON’S F.L. : In operational terms, yes, but not the bottom line. PERFORMANCES? Our operating results are up (+ 9% EBITDA compared Francis Lambilliotte — The ups and downs of the with 2014), thanks in particular to the increase in international economic situation naturally impacted on the relative share of equipment maintenance and our backlog. The fall in the price of oil products, which upgrading. Gas-fired, nuclear and coal-fired power some of our customers export (causing a decline in their plants require regular maintenance to generate creditworthiness and investment expenditure) and the electricity under the best conditions and with optimal relative economic slowdown in the emerging countries or even improved output. So our Cooling Systems (particularly in China last August) affected our orders Business Unit saw a considerable increase in its booked in 2015: we noted a temporary fall in new turnover and its EBITDA rose by 30%. Dry cooling is orders to EUR 448 million. Fortunately, in most of these also profitable, with a sharp rise in EBITDA. cases, our customers and potential customers simply deferred their investment decisions until the first half of The erection of the cooling tower in Kozienice, Poland, 2016 (we recorded new orders amounting to over EUR was a great success — we built a concrete natural 100 million in January/February 2016). This was the draft tower there. Our NAFTA BU continues to do case, for instance, in our Air Quality Systems BU (AQS). well, recording good performances in particular with the implementation of our major ReACT™ project for Equipment requirements, particularly in power plants, the treatment of flue gases. Large-scale projects also are higher than ever. Demand remains strong in started up in America, the Middle East and Europe. We 4 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 the emerging countries and includes a significant are reaping the rewards of the diversification of our water and air protection component. Countries like sales to other industrial sectors (apart from electricity). Vietnam, Indonesia and Thailand are prepared to The AQS EBITDA also rose by 20%, with considerable invest massively in new clean power plants, which is a progress in Asia. recent development. We have also recorded some fine successes with our regular French, German, Polish and Although the Group’s EBITDA increased by 9% from English customers. one year to the next, including the negative operating results of EUR 10 million from the Process Heat Exchangers (PHE) BU, we have total extraordinary costs of EUR 7 million relating to restructuring costs and the impairment on a trade debt. 50% 50% OF OUR NEW ORDER BOOKINGS CONSISTS OF CONTRACTS INVOLVING TECHNOLOGIES AND ON MARKETS WHERE WE DID NOT OPERATE FIVE YEARS AGO. Francis Lambilliotte CEO Hamon Finally, I would like to stress that our contracts in WHAT CONCRETE MEASURES HAVE RESULTED FROM THE progress are being implemented well and we have a ‘STAR’ PROJECT LAUNCHED IN 2014 TO INCREASE THE healthy backlog to start 2016. GROUP’S PROFITABILITY? IS THE TURNAROUND OF THE PROCESS HEAT F.L. : The Group’s best practices, put in place in the EXCHANGERS BU BEARING FRUIT? second half of 2014, in particular as regards the F.L. : In 2015 we put in place a new management quote preparation procedure and order fulfilment, team: general manager, financial manager and sales in order to gauge the risks linked to these projects manager. They made an effective contribution to the have been applied by all the BUs. Moreover, this risk implementation of a new global strategy. The Group’s management is in line with the most recent version of standards are applied there as regards financial the ISO 9001/2015 standards. management; the Hamon best practices are also In addition, the internal audit function with an audit observed. The workforce has been reduced. The results plan covering several years was put in place through cowere, admittedly, still negative in 2015 further to the sourcing with an external consultant. Finally, we intend 5 — MEETING fulfilment of the old orders booked by the previous to be particularly vigilant regarding the level of our management team. general costs in 2016: we have decided to reduce them Orders booked in 2015 were at the same level as by 5%, resulting in the establishment of extraordinary those in 2014, but at higher prices with provisions. provisions for the Group in 2015. +15% INCREASE IN OUR TURNOVER IN 2015 TWO ELEMENTS ARE WORTH NOTING FOR 2015 AS REGARDS THE SOLVENCY AND DEVELOPMENT OF GROUP: A FURTHER CAPITAL INCREASE IN OCTOBER AND THE ACQUISITION OF THE 39% STAKE IN ESINDUS PREVIOUSLY HELD BY SOPAL, HAMON’S PARENT COMPANY. F.L. : The first of these transactions enabled us to will have to meet increasingly stringent standards. strengthen our equity and improve our ratios. The Environmental issues have no borders. The recurring second brought us numerous commercial and structural problems that Beijing experiences with air pollution, for synergies with Esindus. This Spanish company is instance, show that in the short term, existing power particular efficient in its own region and on the Latin plants and those to be commissioned shortly need to American markets where it holds an established have equipment to treat flue gases. Water has become strategic position. a major issue for industries as well. Our dry cooling systems, which use little water, are a great solution for It is worth noting that the increase in sales of EUR 92 regions where this is a scarce commodity. We offer the million recorded in 2015 led to a rise in our working ReACT™ system for the treatment of multi-pollutants, capital requirements. So to continue the Group’s based on the use of activated carbon with thermal development, the Board decided to strengthen regeneration, which involves minimal use of water. 6 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 our equity in 2016, given the positive trend in our Coal-, gasor biomass-fired power plants, incinerators: prospects for orders and sales. Hamon develops a number of pollution control systems which are all opportunities for the years to come. DO COP21 AND DEVELOPMENTS IN ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION FOR INDUSTRIAL COMPANIES OFFER NEW OPPORTUNITIES FOR HAMON IN ITS VARIOUS BUSINESS SO THE GROUP’S BUSINESS ACTIVITIES ARE EVOLVING ACTIVITIES? WITH ITS MARKETS FROM DAY TO DAY? F.L. : Yes. The Group is well positioned to meet the F.L. : That’s right. Our range of products and services in current environmental challenges of air and water 2016 is broader than it was five years ago. And 50% of protection. Commitments were made at COP21, our backlog consists of contracts involving technologies including by emerging countries, whose equipment and on markets where we did not operate five years “Coal-, gasor biomass-fired power plants, incinerators: Hamon develops a number of pollution +9% control systems which IMPROVEMENT IN THE CONSOLIDATED EBITDA are all opportunities for the years to come.” ago. Hamon reinvents itself every day. We have developed competitive engineering in countries where labour costs are low. Our geographic diversification, with a good balance between the American continent, Europe, the Middle East and Asia, enables us to amortize the markets fluctuations linked to the local economic situation but also offer our wide range of products to a broader market and group together orders from the same customer on several continents. Hamon increasingly offers its customers total, tailored solutions adapted to their needs, in terms of repairs and upgrading as well as the installation of new equipment. Hamon’s ‘package’ solutions, NEW ORDERS BOOKED our constant research and development efforts, our (EUR 448 MILLION) 230.3 price improvement policy and our range are the best COOLING SYSTEMS guarantees of the Group’s long-term future. 43.9 I’m pleased to be able to rely on the loyalty, motivation PROCESS HEAT EXCHANGERS and enthusiasm of all the staff in the Group. I would like to thank them sincerely. I would also like to thank 72.3 our commercial and financial partners who put their AIR QUALITY SYSTEMS trust in us. 101.3 NAFTA 7 — MEETING Group Profile Hamon ranks among the leaders in its niche markets related to energy and the MISSION • The Group develops new processes and designs, environment. installs and provides after-sales service for efficient installations for cooling systems, heat exchangers, air quality systems, heat recovery systems and chimneys. • Hamon undertakes to improve its customers’ performances in the energy, oil and gas sectors as well as other heavy industries, such as steel, glass and chemicals. • Hamon ensures that its projects are carried out on schedule and within budget, in accordance with the customer’s specifications. • Finally, the Group strives to provide a high-quality service in all its areas of activity, ensuring the satisfaction and development of its staff and POSITIONING protection of the environment, while offering its shareholders adequate profitability. Hamon, an international engineering, procurement and construction company (EPC) is one of the world’s VALUES leading players in the niche markets for which it 1. PROFESSIONALISM supplies equipment and the related after-sales services: Hamon attaches great importance to the rigour and • Cooling systems; efficiency of its services and the products its supplies • Air quality systems; to its customers. • Heat recovery systems (and steam generators); • Process heat exchangers; 2. RESPECT FOR THE INDIVIDUAL • Industrial chimneys. Hamon respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and aims to foster a positive relationship with The end customers are mainly: its teams. • Electric power plants; 3. RESPECT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT • Oil, gas and petrochemical industries; Hamon holds the protection of the environment at the • Other heavy industries, including steel, cement, glass heart of its operations and its business activities. and waste incineration. 8 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 4. RESPECT FOR CULTURAL DIVERSITY Hamon also sells its products and services to large Throughout the world, Hamon promotes cultural ‘lead contractor’ engineering firms. diversity in its working relations with its partners, its Hamon offers its customers innovative systems using teams and local communities. the best technology at competitive prices thanks to strict cost control. ACTIVITIES The Group’s main activities include sales, research VISION and development, design, the manufacture of key Hamon uses all its resources to provide its customers components, project management, procurement, with the most advanced technologies and equipment on-site installation (sometimes including civil works), to produce cleaner energy and maintain air quality. commissioning and after-sales service. OUR VALUES: PROFESSIONALISM RESPECT FOR THE INDIVIDUAL RESPECT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT RESPECT FOR CULTURAL DIVERSITY  amon focuses on high added-value activities, H sourcing approach, with internal teams of such as design, whether this is thermal design international buyers and a wide-ranging supplier (for cooling systems and heat exchangers), network, in order to meet our supply needs with ‘process’ design (in particular for chemical the best possible levels of quality, innovation, treatment systems for flue gas emissions) or productivity and reliability, while maintaining mechanical design for all our equipment. The optimal stock management. The STAR project, design levels differ depending on whether we are launched in 2014 and continuing today, aims in the preliminary phase, preparing the final quote among other things to improve the cost of or undertaking detailed engineering to fulfil orders. manufacturing our products by globalizing the various services. These measures are part Supply chain management is an integral part and parcel of the Hamon Group’s continuous of the Hamon business activities. It includes improvement philosophy. In 2015, purchases of assembly dates and site delivery schedules, materials and services amounted to a total of logistics aspects, constraints linked to production around EUR 519 million, or approximately 74% in the Group’s plants and purchasing from of the Group’s turnover. suppliers as well as quality control at every stage in the process. The Group also takes care of all R  esearch & Development activities, which the administrative processes: trade finance, are essential for the Group, enable Hamon to customs clearance, tax, purchase order followoffer its customers ever more efficient cuttingup, etc. The management of these different edge systems. For further details on our R&D, and often complex tasks is essential for the see the end of the Corporate Social Responsibility 9 — GROUP PROFILE success of our projects, particularly when, chapter, section 5.4. Innovation/R&D. as is usually the case, they involve several We are unable to give a detailed description here countries or emerging countries. The Hamon of all the Group’s other activities, but they are all supply chain comprises hundreds of suppliers, instrumental to our customers’ satisfaction and both local and global, from around the world. to the success of our projects and of the Group. The Group is continuing to develop a global HAMON IN THE WORLD In 2015, Hamon employed on average 1,777 people in 24 countries on all five continents. None of these countries appears on the list of risk countries identified by the World Bank. In addition, the Group employs several hundred subcontractors or people under fixed-term contracts for on-site installation. In 2015, the Group recorded a consolidated turnover of EUR 699 million. BREAKDOWN OF NEW ORDERS BOOKED PER REGION 2014 2015 10 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Asia Pacific USA + Canada Africa and the Middle East Europe Other Americas 24 COUNTRIES 34OFFICES 11 PLANTS 1RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT CENTRE 11 — GROUP PROFILE Office Plant R&D Centre Key events 2015 COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY EBITDA OF EUR 25.1 MILLION, UP 9% COMPARED • Promising developments in Latin America, especially WITH 2014 in Mexico. • Excellent performance of the Cooling Systems • Sustained activity in the Middle East. Business Unit for both dry and wet cooling. • NAFTA continues to obtain high booking levels • The efforts made by the Process Heat Exchangers thanks to the diversification of its products and its Business Unit are promising, even though commercial presence in the after-sales market. this business unit is suffering mainly from the • Less activity in Asia in 2015 owing to deferral to complications experienced in fulfilling old contracts. 2016, confirmed by contracts concluded in early • The Air Quality Systems Business Unit had a second 2016. positive year, with improved results compared with • New orders in January and February 2016 in excess the previous year, confirming its good commercial and of EUR 100 million. organizational strategy. • Negative net result of EUR 5.4 million due mainly THE BACKLOG REPRESENTS REVENUE FOR MORE to non-recurring restructuring costs, impairments THAN THREE QUARTERLY TERMS on non-trade receivables and the tax burden in the • The backlog is very diversified both geographically United States. and in terms of products. • The performance in the second half of the year was • The 2015 revenue was up 15% thanks to the clearly up on the first six months of 2015 (EBITDA of excellent fulfilment of the backlog at the end of 2014 EUR 15.5 million compared with EUR 9.6 million in and new orders booked in 2015. H1 2015). BALANCE SHEET • As announced upon publication of the results as at 30 June 2015, Sopal International increased the capital of Hamon et Cie in October 2015 by almost EUR 15 million. • The Hamon & Cie Board of Directors proposes to continue strengthening the Group’s equity in the short and long term in line with its needs. 12 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Inauguration of the shell of the natural draft tower at the Kozienice power plant in Poland. 1. COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES 2. CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT in EUR million 2015 2014 in EUR million 2015 2014 Orders booked 447.8 613.7 Revenue 698.6 606.4 Order book 581.1 794.1 Gross profit 90.2 90.5 EBITDA 25.1 23.0 EBITDA/Revenue +3.6% +3.8% Recurring EBIT 15.4 14.5 The backlog stood at EUR 581 million as at Non-recurring gains and losses -7.7 -2.7 31 December 2015, representing three quarterly terms Operating profit (EBIT) 7.6 11.8 of activities. Net finance costs -7.9 -7.3 The strategy adopted by the Group over the past few Share of profit (loss) -3.2 -3.5 years confirms the good geographic breakdown among of associates the traditional markets (Europe and NAFTA) with Result before tax -3.4 1.0 47% of new orders, while the Middle East/Africa and (continued operations) Asia-Pacific amounted to 18% and 14% respectively. Income tax expenses -2.0 -0.1 However, the biggest rise was recorded in Latin Net result from continued -5.4 0.9 America (21% compared with 11% in 2014). operations Net result from discontinued The figures below do not include activities between operations 0.0 0.0 BUs. Net result for the period -5.4 0.9 Group share of net result --5.0 0.8 Results in EUR per share BREAKDOWN OF NEW ORDER BOOKINGS Average number of outstanding BY SECTOR (2015) 9,363,916 7,597,958 shares EBITDA per share 2.68 3.03 Earning per share (EPS) -0.54 0.11 The growth in revenue (+15% compared with 2014) was achieved thanks to an excellent backlog at the start of the year, enabling the Group to increase its EBITDA in 2015 compared with 2014 despite performances that were less favourable than expected in the Process Heat Exchangers Business Unit (PHE), 11,6% Other which is still in a recovery phase. 0,3% Waste The non-recurring elements mainly comprise 6,8% Iron & steel 21,7% Oil & Gas restructuring costs and impairments on non-trade 59,6% Electricity receivables. The tax burden comes chiefly from positive results in 13 — KEY EVENTS the United States. 3. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET in EUR million 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 ASSETS Deferred tax assets 28.4 27.2 Other non-current assets 127.1 123.1 Stock and contracts in progress 116.6 103.5 (assets) Trade receivable 173.4 144.0 Cash and cash equivalents 109.3 139.0 Other current assets 13.0 12.4 Total assets 567.8 549.1 EQUITY 52.0 43.4 LIABILITIES Deferred tax liabilities 6.7 6.6 Non-current financial liabilities 2.3 96.4 Other non-current liabilities 8.0 11.4 Current financial liabilities 191.5 83.7 Contracts in progress (liabilities) 104.8 118.2 Trade payable 187.1 166.4 Other current liabilities 15.4 23.0 Total liabilities 515.8 505.7 Total liabilities and equity 567.8 549.1 Capital increases totalling EUR 15 million were booked credit providers include the possibility of remediation by in October 2015 by means of cash brought in on the strengthening the Group’s equity. one hand and the contribution of a stake held by Sopal The Hamon & Cie Board of Directors therefore International SA in the company Esindus on the other proposes to undertake a capital increase in the coming hand. weeks. Standing at EUR 52 million, equity was impacted by these capital increases, by the result for the year The Group is also examining longer-term solutions to and by translation adjustments resulting from the strengthen its equity. consolidation of subsidiaries in foreign currencies. 14 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Net debt was up compared with the previous year 4. POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS further to the increase in working capital requirements No post balance sheet events occurred. linked to the growth in the Group’s activity, late payments by some customers and progress with projects. 5. PROSPECTS Substantial measures were taken to reduce the debt In view of the general economic context, Hamon does during the second half of the year. However, the equity not release any guidance as to its future results. level remains slightly too low to achieve a ratio to be respected under the terms of our financing contracts However, the Group remains confident about the 2016 as at 31 December 2015. In these circumstances, the financial year, given the very good new order bookings contractual provisions binding the Group to its in January and February 2016. 1 ANNUAL STRATEGIC MEETING OF THE COOLING SYSTEMS BU attended by the General Managers of 2 companies operating in this field. PHE BU STRATEGIC SEMINAR organized by the new management team and attended by representatives of French, Korean, Saudi Arabian and American companies. 3 HAMON STAND AT THE POWERGEN EUROPE TRADE FAIR IN AMSTERDAM Hamon took part in various trade fairs: Power-Gen Russia, Europe, Asia, South Africa and Brazil as well as ICCI in Turkey and VGB 4 in Austria. At the Power-Gen Asia trade fair which was held in Bangkok, a staff member from Hamon Enviroserv gave a lecture on the developments and applications for major CFB (CDS) FGD desulfurization projects. SPEECH BY MS RODICA EXNER AT THE INAUGURATION OF THE SHELL OF THE NATURAL DRAFT TOWER AT THE KOZIENICE POWER PLANT IN POLAND 5 VISIT BY A DELEGATION FROM THE FRENCH SENATE TO THE HAMON D’HONDT PLANT IN FRESNES Mr Gérard Larcher, President of the Senate, Ms Valérie Létard, Senator and Chair of the Valenciennes Métropole conurbation committee, together with a delegation of senators were welcomed by 15 — KEY EVENTS Cédric Juliard, Chairman of the Business Unit, and Thierry Fontaine, Managing Director, who showed them the manufacturing process. BUSINESS UNITS The Hamon Group structures its activities in four business units: Cooling Systems, Process Heat Exchangers, Air Quality Systems and NAFTA, in 24 countries on all five continents. 16 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 COOLING PROCESS HEAT AIR QUALITY NAFTA SYSTEMS EXCHANGERS SYSTEMS 17 — BUSINESS UNITS 18 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 COOLING SYSTEMS The Cooling Systems Business Unit supplies electric power plants and industries, including the chemicals, petrochemicals, iron and steel, paper making and sugar refining industries, with equipment and related services designed to cool water or condense steam produced by their processes. 19 — COOLING SYSTEMS COOLING SYSTEMS For the same level of electricity generation, the consumption of primary energy (coal, gas, etc.) falls and less CO2 is released into the atmosphere. In the other industries, good cooling system management also enables substantial savings. The CUSTOMIZED TECHNICAL SOLUTIONS use of a closed circuit system (with cooling tower) also avoids the heating of sea or river water caused by Hamon offers two types of technical solutions adapted hot water discharged from the open circuit and thus to the needs of electricity producers, engineering prevents the destruction of their ecosystem. companies and industries: wet cooling towers and dry cooling systems. AN INTERNATIONAL CENTRE OF EXCELLENCE The wet cooling towers work by evaporating part of the The unit’s centre of excellence is located in MontStwater flow using different means of generating air flow Guibert (Belgium). The BU has a test and R&D centre (natural draft with a chimney or induced draft when in Drogenbos (Belgium) as well as in China and offices fans are used). They cool down all kinds of water (from in various countries: South Africa, Germany, England, fresh water to waste water and salt water) and even Saudi Arabia, Australia, Bahrain, Brazil, China, South acid solutions. They can also be equipped with a plume Korea, United Arab Emirates, United States, France, abating system. India, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico, Poland, Russia and Dry cooling systems (air-cooled condensers and indirect Thailand, as well as a network of agents. Critical systems) are used to condense and cool down steam components are designed by Hamon and manufactured without evaporation and without releasing a plume. by the Group’s plants in France, India, China and the They therefore offer a solution to cooling problems United States. in areas where water is scarce, such as in parts of continental China, South Africa or the Middle East. REDUCING PRIMARY ENERGY CONSUMPTION By ensuring that these cooling systems have just the right dimensions, more electricity can be generated for a given consumption of primary energy. Obtaining colder cooling water increases the output of a steam turbine. For each degree Celsius by which the temperature of the cold water is reduced, the electricity generated increases by approximately one per cent. KEY FIGURES 20 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 EUR million 2015 2014 Orders booked 230.3 331.0 Revenue 311.8 267.1 Backlog 31/12 313.8 384.0 EBITDA 11.0 8.4 EBITDA/ revenue 3.5% 3.1% Average workforce* 777 779 * Excluding installation on site. SUCCESS STORY THE SEP SABIC PROJECT “A fan-assisted natural draft cooling tower.” Rodica Exner, Chairman of the Cooling Systems BU HOW IS THE SEP SABIC PROJECT STARTED BY HAMON THERMAL IN 2012 PROGRESSING? Construction of the Hamon cooling tower was successfully completed at the end of 2015. This fan assisted natural draft cooling tower is part of the ‘KEMYA – Elastomer’ extension project started by SABIC in Jubail (Saudi Arabia) in 2012 and is scheduled to come into operation in 2016. WHAT ARE THE SPECIFIC FEATURES OF THIS PROJECT? The cooling tower has a flow rate of 25,200 m³/h. It stands 40 metres high, the diameter at the base measures 46 metres and it has 24 moto-fan units with an installed total mechanical capacity of almost 1500 kW. WHAT ADVANTAGES WAS HAMON ABLE TO PUT FORWARD TO BE AWARDED THE CONSTRUCTION OF THIS TOWER? Thanks to our operating references in fan-assisted natural draft cooling towers, including in Karlsruhe and Moorburg, the Korean EPC Daelim chose us for the turnkey construction of this tower on behalf of the Saudi company Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC)”. SABIC is a leading international player in the manufacture of basic and by-products for the petrochemicals industry. Hamon was selected for its skills and its experience in the design and construction of cooling towers. The project management, site management and excellent cooperation between the various entities in the Hamon Group before and after this contract was awarded were decisive in the success of this turnkey project. WHAT WERE THE MAIN CHALLENGES THAT HAMON FACED? The initial technical requirements were very demanding, in particular the corrosion aspects, given that sea water is used for cooling. In addition, the tower was to be built in a confined space, so an optimized design was essential, and the completion deadline was very tight. As well as the engineering and the thermal, hydraulic, electromechanical and other more usual equipment, Hamon’s mission also involved designing and producing civil engineering structures (shell, basin, pumping station), including the cathodic protection for concrete structures subject to sea 21 — COOLING SYSTEMS water corrosion. COOLING SYSTEMS PROSPECTS FOR 2016 • The backlog should enable a high level of activity in 2016 and a further improvement in the BU’s profitability. “Sales amounted to EUR 312 million, • A revival in activities can be seen on Hamon’s traditional markets such as Western Europe and up on 2014, thanks to a record high India. backlog at the start of 2015.” • The implementation of the STAR project is beginning to bear fruit thanks to the optimization of the supply and logistics systems. • The constant improvement and development of our products to ensure that they can meet or even anticipate the needs of our markets and our customers remain among our priorities. Despite a certain slowdown on the market in the • We are improving our service range by expanding Middle East and in China and the embargo in Russia, activities such as assembly, water treatment and new orders booked by the Cooling Systems Business turnkey systems. We aim to place our expertise Unit amounted to EUR 230 million in 2015. These at the disposal of our customers to simplify the orders kept the backlog at a level equal to one year’s integration of the cooling system into their process. activity. The BU has successfully penetrated new In this context, we are intensifying our capacity to countries such as Mexico and has signed a number intervene on site, particularly in the Middle East and of contracts relating to new units as well as for in Mexico. aftermarket service activities in Europe, North America and Asia. Revenue stood at EUR 312 million, up on 2014 (+ EUR 45 million), thanks to a record high backlog at the start of 2015. The EBITDA of EUR 11 million represents a 30% increase compared with 2014 (and is more than four times higher than in 2013). This good performance is due mainly to a higher revenue, excellent project implementation (in both dry cooling and wet cooling) and strict control of structural costs with maximum internal synergies within the BU. 22 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 EBITDA +30% 23 — COOLING SYSTEMS 24 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 PROCESS HEAT EXCHANGERS The Process Heat Exchangers Business Unit offers various systems intended to cool or heat, usually at high pressure, liquids or gas causing variable degrees of corrosion, produced mainly by the chemical and petrochemical industries. The business unit also operates on the energy production market and in services with high added value for its customers, on site and in its workshops. It operates either directly with its industrial customers or indirectly through internationally renowned 25 — PROCESS HEAT EXCHANGERS engineering firms. PROCESS HEAT EXCHANGERS REGULATING THERMAL EXCHANGES This unit designs, manufactures and provides assistance for the assembly of thermal equipment, mainly process air coolers, as well as FRP components (fibre-reinforced plastic) such as ducts for the evacuation of flue gases or corrosion-proof storage FOUR OPERATING CENTRES tanks. It also offers an integrated aftermarket service The Process Heat Exchangers Business Unit consists including maintenance, rehabilitation, technical support of one company established in France, one in Belgium and the sale of spare parts. In addition, the unit and a joint venture in Saudi Arabia as well as a division manufactures some components for other business belonging to our Hamon subsidiary in South Korea. units, such as tube bundles used for hybrid cooling systems. • Hamon D’Hondt, located near Valenciennes (France), accounts for most of the activities of this business OPTIMIZING GAS TRANSPORTATION unit. It takes care of the design, marketing and The heat exchangers designed by Hamon optimize promotion, manufacture and aftermarket service performance in the oil and gas industries by obtaining of air coolers and the manufacture of welded steel the right temperature for the fluids that they process. finned tubes. For example, in the natural gas compression streams • Hamon D’Hondt Middle East, a joint venture 40% used for liquefaction, the gas is heated during the owned by Hamon D’Hondt, is based in Jubail in Saudi adiabatic compression phase. The heat exchangers, Arabia. It specializes in the manufacturing of air located between the different compression stages, coolers and aftermarket service for the Persian Gulf facilitate the gradual extraction of the heat generated. market. This makes it possible to liquefy the gas and transport it by sea in this form. These exchangers are therefore • ACS Anti Corrosion Structure, a Hamon subsidiary an essential link in the gas liquefaction process and located in Seneffe (Belgium), produces components consequently the diversification of the energy supply. in FRP (fibre-reinforced plastic) such as ducts for the evacuation of flue gases from electric power plants AT THE HEART OF ELECTRICITY GENERATION or corrosion-proof storage tanks, both in its plant and on site. It also carries out certain activities as a subBacked up by its expertise in the energy sectors, contractor for Hamon D’Hondt, such as cutting steel Hamon designs and manufactures turnkey solutions sheets and assembling modules. intended for applications such as the cooling of turbines, engines, compressors and auxiliaries for • The Process Heat Exchangers division of the Hamon electric power plants or household waste incineration Korea subsidiary focuses on air coolers for South plants. Korean engineering firms active in South Korea and on the export market for the Group’s international The air coolers offered to our customers meet both API customers. This subsidiary is also active in Cooling and non-API standards, responding perfectly to the Systems and Air Quality Systems; it has a plant that reliability and performance needs required for electricity produces air coolers in Gunsan (South Korea). generation, whether from fossil fuels or renewables (solar power in particular). 26 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 SUCCESS STORY THE SAKHALIN 2 PROJECT “Operating in extreme conditions” Cédric Juliard, Chairman of the Process Heat Exchangers BU THE SAKHALIN 2 PROJECT IS A GOOD EXAMPLE OF INTRA-GROUP COOPERATION... ‘Sakhalin 2’ is a great technical achievement run jointly by the Hamon D’Hondt France and Hamon Korea teams who worked hard to put in place very advanced processes in response to particularly ambitious specifications. HAMON EXPERTISE WAS ESSENTIAL TO THE SUCCESS OF THIS PROJECT OF EVERY EXTREME… It involved manufacturing air coolers for the Exxon Neftegas site in the island of Sakhalin off Siberia. To cope with the rigours of the Russian winter, these devices are equipped with a recirculation system. In addition, they have to be able to withstand high pressure (320 bars) and are made of Duplex steel. These specificities forced us to adopt very particular welding techniques with long control times as they require radio control. WERE THE HAMON TEAMS INVOLVED AT EVERY STAGE OF THE DESIGN AND MANUFACTURING PROCESS? Hamon D’Hondt assisted the customer, Fluor U.S., including the integration of its piping. We worked in partnership so that our air coolers can be connected to their system as easily and quickly as possible. The collectors were designed and manufactured by us in France and the assembly took place in Korea. 27 — PROCESS HEAT EXCHANGERS PROCESS HEAT EXCHANGERS “The diversification embarked upon by the business unit in 2015 in both the energy sector and services with the expansion of our range, on sites and in workshops, is expected to contribute towards growth in activity in all the geographic areas where the BU is established.” Orders are divided among Europe, the Middle East, Asia and the United States. The loss recorded in 2015 is due mainly to the deterioration of contracts booked in 2012 and 2013, the recent finalization of which weighed on the overall profitability. PROSPECTS FOR 2016 The deployment of the new strategy for the business unit and the well-filled backlog combined with a sustained level of invitations to tender at the start of 2016 point to improved prospects for the years to come. The air coolers market is expected to remain active in 2016, despite the tension regarding the price of a barrel of oil. The diversification embarked upon in the business unit in 2015 in both the energy sector and in services, with RESULT 2015 the expansion of our range in particular (new product The business unit’s new order bookings stabilized and service ranges with higher added value), on sites compared with 2014 despite a complicated economic and in workshops is expected to contribute towards environment: the fall in the price of a barrel of oil below the growth of the activity in all the geographic areas USD 30, geopolitical tensions mainly in the Middle East where the BU is established (Europe, Middle East, and the Russian and Brazilian crises. Southeast Asia). 28 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 In this particular context, the strategy put in place A new strategy combined with an integrated and involves diversifying the activities both on the deferred matrix-based organization covers and supports all the cycle markets such as that of energy production operating processes in every subsidiary. and on markets with a high added value and a wide service range. Since the first signs of the success of this diversification emerged at the end of 2015, the management is confident about the positive impact that it will have in 2016. The industrial sites that make up the business unit have now been reorganized, structured and specialized around a skills centre that centralizes and deploys good practices, develops the future in R&D and designs the best solutions for our customers. The commercial organization by geographic area should enable us to offer our customers both cultural proximity and the capacity to provide assistance thanks to production available on three continents. The current prospects are therefore encouraging. KEY FIGURES 29 — PROCESS HEAT EXCHANGERS EUR million 2015 2014 Orders booked 43.9 44.4 Revenue 46.4 44.2 Backlog 31/12 50.8 49.6 EBITDA 10.4 -12.4 EBITDA/revenue 22.4% -28.1% Average workforce 214 230 30 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 AIR QUALITY SYSTEMS The business unit gives industries the means to limit the environmental impact of their processes. As well as providing an integrated service, the unit designs, manufactures and installs flue gas treatment systems for different kinds of pollutants, thereby ensuring strict compliance with the environmental protection regulations in force. 31 — AIR QUALITY SYSTEMS AIR QUALITY SYSTEMS A REPUTATION FOR EXCELLENCE REDUCING RELEASES INTO THE ATMOSPHERE The Air Quality Systems Business Unit offers its The air pollution control systems marketed by Hamon customers tailored environmental solutions on its make it possible to drastically reduce the quantities of own or in partnership. It meets the demands of three dust, acid gases and other pollutants released into the markets: thermal electric power plants, industry (iron atmosphere by heavy industries. and steel, cement, glassmaking and petrochemicals) and heat recovery from waste (household, industrial, THE DRIVING FORCE IN ASIA hospital, water purification sludge, biomass). The business unit is continuing to develop around two The BU’s products portfolio implements internationally main axes: Asia and Europe, in line with the evolution recognized technologies that can meet the specific of its markets and the shift in their centre of gravity needs of each market. This portfolio is divided into towards Asia. two groups based on their action: on the one hand, Hamon’s growing presence in Asia facilitates active de-dusting (physical action) and on the other, the participation in the various projects followed by neutralization of acids, desulfurization, denitrification ‘EPC’ engineering firms, mainly Japanese, Korean and and the elimination of heavy metals (physico-chemical Chinese, as well as direct access to users in the region. action). The Group can rely on a management and commercial The BU’s activity is divided into two parts: on the one development centre in Hong Kong, an operational hand, the design and installation of new equipment for production unit in Shanghai (China), an engineering new plants or to bring existing plants up to standard and service cluster in Chennai (India) and centres of and on the other, aftermarket services comprising in excellence in Europe (Belgium and Germany) in the field particular maintenance, consultancy and the supply of of electrostatic precipitators and desulfurization as spare parts. well as a regional centre in Korea. Flue gas purification is a complex business. Anticipating The other branches and subsidiaries focus more on the technological risks calls for know-how, great sales activities and project implementation (mainly experience and an in-depth knowledge of customers’ Brazil, France, Italy and South Africa). processes. The business unit, which operates under the commercial names Hamon Research-Cottrell or Hamon The development of the business unit in Asia has had a Enviroserv, enjoys an excellent reputation on its target major impact on our competitiveness in all regions. markets. KEY FIGURES 32 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 EUR million 2015 2014 Orders booked 72. 3 130.6 Revenue 130.7 124.5 Backlog 31/12 127.1 188.8 EBITDA 4.7 3.9 EBITDA/ revenue 3.6% 3.1% Average workforce 400 308 SUCCESS STORY BLUESORP TECHNOLOGY “A unique design based on the fluid dynamics simulation software.” Philippe Delvaux Chairman of the Air Quality Systems Business Unit AIR POLLUTION IS A RECURRENT PROBLEM IN ASIA. WHY ARE THE DEVELOPING COUNTRIES SO BADLY AFFECTED BY THIS PHENOMENON? Coal is still the main raw material used to generate electricity at an acceptable cost in Asia. The governments in China and India have put in place new regulations on gas emissions, which are stricter than those in Europe today. To meet these requirements, the technologies available have to be optimized. WHAT ARE HAMON’S STRENGTHS IN THIS FIELD? Our centres of excellence in Germany constantly improve Hamon’s technology. The Bluesorp technology perfectly illustrates how constant investment in the development of well-known processes leads to the creation of new products. The development of characteristics with a unique design based on the fluid dynamics simulation software has proved its worth in many installations. WHAT WAS THE KEY TO SUCCESS IN HAVING THESE HAMON TECHNOLOGIES ADOPTED? We aim to supply Hamon technology in partnership with strong local companies. Our passions are engineering and the supply of key elements that make it possible to meet the most stringent requirement in terms of emissions while the local partners provide elements that are not specific to Hamon. In countries that require maximum local participation, our model is particularly appreciated. Advanced technology combined with the intervention of local service providers enables value creation for our company. 33 — AIR QUALITY SYSTEMS AIR QUALITY SYSTEMS “2016 is expected to be another record year for order bookings, particularly during the first six months.” The increase in the workforce is due to the recruitment of workers on a temporary basis in order to fulfil contracts in Brazil. The number of staff employed on open-ended contracts remains stable. It is worth stressing that the more restrictive environmental standards recently implemented in some Asian countries in particular are expected to bring new and promising opportunities for the business unit, especially for fabric filters and gas treatment (desulfurization). PROSPECTS FOR 2016 Our penetration of the desulfurization market is RESULT 2015 intensifying in Asia in particular and 2016 is expected New orders (EUR 72 million) were temporarily poor to be another record year for orders booked, as a result of the persistent economic uncertainty particularly during the first half of the year. At the start combined with the crisis on the financial and currency of this year, we witnessed an increase in the pace of markets, which led to a number of major projects being decision making: major orders worth over EUR 50 delayed. However, the market was far more sustained million were booked in the first few months of 2016. in the second half of the year (EUR 47 million during Moreover, we are continuing with our investment the second six-month period compared with EUR plans in Southeast Asia and in India regarding the 25 million in the first half of the year), with several reinforcement of the local environmental standards contracts obtained in most of the regions where the referred to above. The continuation of the business BU operates. model put in place four years ago will result in the strengthening of our centres of excellence in Europe 2016 began extremely well for the BU, with new and increased resources in Asia in terms of sourcing contracts worth over EUR 55 million obtained in and engineering. January and February. In addition, numerous contracts in the energy sector are scheduled to be awarded over the next few months. For the AQS BU and in terms of orders, the first half of the year 2016 could be the best six months in its history. The backlog as at 31 December 2015 was equivalent to one year’s turnover and in 2016 the backlog returned to the level reached at the start of 2015 34 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 thanks to orders booked in January and February. EBITDA (EUR 5 million) continues to follow the positive trend recorded since the end of 2013 and clearly shows the success of the BU as regards the redefinition of its business model put in place before 2012 (centre of activity and engineering in Asia). EBITDA +20% 35 — AIR QUALITY SYSTEMS 36 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 NAFTA The Hamon Group offers its customers in North America a wide range of products. The systems designed by Hamon help power companies and heavy industries to control and limit their impact on the environment, in particular by means of air pollution control processes, heat recovery and chimneys. As well as supplying new equipment, Hamon offers its customers aftermarket services for existing installations, as well as maintenance and improvement services. 37 — NAFTA NAFTA REDUCING THE IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT CHIMNEYS : The BU is currently active, through the products it • Concrete industrial chimneys that can be up to offers, in three fields: 300 metres high; AIR POLLUTION CONTROL: • Steel stacks; • Elimination of flue gases using electrostatic • Concrete silos. precipitators and fabric filters; The North American entities also operate in cooling • Wet gas scrubbing, an Exxon-Mobil process used for systems (wet and dry). The figures relating to these the combined elimination of sulphur (deSOx), nitrogen activities are included in the results of the Cooling oxides (deNOx) and particles in chemicals and process Systems BU. plants; Moreover, the BU also provides aftermarket services • ReACT™ process used to capture SOx, NOx, particles, linked to the above product ranges. mercury and acid gases simultaneously with minimal use of water; PRESERVING AIR QUALITY • U2A: a process used to transform urea into ammonia The NAFTA BU makes its contribution to society in the (‘U2A’), a reagent used in the treatment by selective three fields in which it operates. catalytic reduction of NOx in flue gases. The Air Pollution Control systems offered by Hamon HEAT RECOVERY: help drastically reduce the amounts of dust, acid gases and other pollutants released into the atmosphere by • Heat recovery systems including recuperators, fossil fuel power plants and other heavy industries, economizers and gas-to-gas exchangers; which is highly beneficial for those living in the • Heat recovery steam generators (HRSG) that enable surrounding areas. combined cycle power plants to achieve very high The heat recovery systems offer industrial customers efficiency levels; the opportunity to limit their energy consumption • Other types of special boilers for specific industrial by recovering the heat carried by some fluids. Lower applications. amounts of fuel burnt means fewer greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere. Chimneys provide a better dispersion of flue gases released into the atmosphere by heavy industry, to avoid exposing local people to poor air quality when atmospheric conditions are unfavourable. Chimneys have become an integral part of air pollution control systems, particularly in desulfurization systems (FGD). KEY FIGURES 38 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 EUR million 2015 2014 Orders booked 101.3 107.7 Revenue 223.6 176.4 Backlog 31/12 85.8 171.4 EBITDA 16.0 21.0 EBITDA/ revenue 7.2% 11.9% Average workforce 331 327 SUCCESS STORY THE ReACT ™ PROCESS “Treating multi-pollutants regeneratively.” Bill Dillon Chairman of the NAFTA Business Unit HOW WOULD YOU DEFINE THE REACT™ PROCESS? ReACT ™ involves regenerative technology used for the treatment of multi-pollutants. It uses activated carbon as an adsorbent and produces industrial-quality sulphuric acid. The ReACT™ technology is marketed by HRCUS under licence from J-Power, a Japanese electric group. WHAT PROGRESS HAS BEEN MADE WITH THIS PROJECT LAUNCHED TWO YEARS AGO FOR THE WISCONSIN PUBLIC SERVICE? The ReACT™ project at the 368 MW power plant on the Weston 3 site which Hamon Research-Cottrell is carrying out for the Wisconsin Public Service (WPS) is approaching completion. HRCUS is in charge of designing and supplying the equipment and constructing the project. The start-up is expected in the second quarter of 2016; this will be the high point of one of the largest contracts ever undertaken by Hamon Research-Cottrell. WHAT CONTRIBUTION DOES THIS TECHNOLOGY MAKE TO PRESERVING THE ENVIRONMENT? This technology enables a reduction in SOx, NOx and Hg emissions. When WPS is operational, this will be the first ReACT™ system to come into service in the United States. Weston 3 will then rank among the cleanest public electric power plants in the country. 39 — NAFTA NAFTA “The NAFTA BU continues to record The backlog fell compared with the previous year owing to the forthcoming completion of the ReACT™ project. sound results despite the difficult However, it remains sound for 2016. coal market in North America.” The EBITDA fell but remains high (7.2 % of revenue). As regards both Deltak boilers and the ReACT™ process which does not use water, the prospects are good for exports to regions such as Mexico, Asia, etc., where new standards are prompting our American subsidiaries to enter this market. A POWERFUL ANCHORAGE PROSPECTS FOR 2016 The North American entity comprises four main The backlog for the first quarter of 2016 is encouraging subsidiaries: but the economic outlook remains difficult. • Hamon Research-Cottrell, which specializes in the However, thanks to a broad mix of products adapted to design and installation of new air pollution control investments in coal-fired, natural gas and nuclear power units; plants, Hamon is well placed to offer its customers optimal solutions to meet their needs in terms of • Thermal Transfer Corporation (TTC), which energy that is clean, reliable and sufficient, using a safe manufactures adapted heat recovery systems and and socially responsible process. electrodes for electrostatic precipitators; • Hamon Deltak, which specializes in the design and manufacture of heat recovery steam generators and other industrial boilers; • Hamon Custodis, centre of excellence for chimneys; the company also operates through regional offices strategically located throughout the United States. SOUND RESULTS The NAFTA BU continues to record sound results despite the difficult coal market in North America. New order bookings remain in line with the level reached in 2014 and each market segment is booking new contracts across many product lines, such as convectors/recuperators, heat exchangers, boilers, after-sales service. 40 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 EBITDA 7,2% IN REVENUE 41 — NAFTA Corporate Social Responsibility Hamon, an industrial and engineering firm, has always sought to integrate The methodology takes account of several types of information: sustainable development • general information, such as: the strategy of the organization, its profile, the reporting scope, into its sectors of activity governance, etc.; • information specific to the company and the Hamon’s approach consists sustainable development issues of its areas of activity: the company explains its management of analyzing, measuring approach to this here and reports on key performance indicators. and taking its share of Readers will find the information they are seeking in the responsibility to society. correspondence grid, the standard table of contents of the GRI, given at the end of this report. The reporting method developed by the GRI covers three main information categories: • economic performance (detailed in other parts of this annual report); • environmental performance; • social performance: 1. INTRODUCTION employment and decent labour practices; The Group models its approach on the ISO 26000 human rights; international guidelines on corporate social society; responsibility adopted by around a hundred countries product liability (less relevant for Hamon as it does in 2010. The aim is to bring Hamon’s strategy and not sell consumer goods). business conduct into line with these principles and the This report is based on the latest version of the related fields of action. The main aspects covered are: guidelines, known as G4 (already adopted for the 2014 • organizational governance; annual report). The information available focuses mainly • human rights; on that deemed relevant by Hamon’s management • labour relations and working conditions; and its stakeholders as regards its day-to-day business • environmental protection; activities. • fair operating practices; According to the GRI G4 guidelines, there are two • consumer issues; possible reporting levels. Hamon has opted to report 42 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • community involvement and local development. ‘in accordance’ using the ‘core criteria’. Hamon has put in place a series of actions, measures Hamon has also signed the UN Global Compact and their effectiveness and reports on its performances. has been an associate participant since September The methodology developed by the Global Reporting 2013. As such, the Group ensures compliance with the Initiative (GRI) is the operational framework used ten principles of the Global Compact. for this reporting. Following the example of the IAS/ IFRS standards in the financial sector, the GRI, an This undertaking requires the issuing of an annual international body based in the Netherlands, aims to report on the progress made on these ten principles provide all organizations, whatever their sector, size (COP Communication On Progress). There are or location, with a reliable, standardized and credible two levels of reporting. Hamon has opted for the framework for non-financial reporting. ‘GC Active’ level. Francis Lambilliotte with the Group’s longest-serving staff member: Mr Michaël Jannone, who has worked at Hamon Research-Cottrell US for 60 years. This chapter constitutes our communication on progress with regard to these ten principles. It is also WE SUPPORT THE GLOBAL COMPACT available on the Global Compact and GRI websites. The correspondence grid attached to this report sets out the elements relating to each of these principles. The GRI and the Global Compact, as well as the ISO 26000 (Corporate Social Responsibility), ISO 9001 (Quality), ISO 14001 (Environment) and OHSAS 18001 2. STATEMENT OF HAMON’S CONTINUED (Health & Safety) standards are the key charters, SUPPORT FOR THE GLOBAL COMPACT principles, standards and other initiatives to which the Group adheres. “I am pleased to confirm that However, not all the Group’s subsidiaries are ISO 9001 Hamon has supported the ten & 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified. principles of the United Nations Hamon does not serve on any governance body, Global Compact in the field of participate in projects or committees or provide any human rights, working conditions, major financing beyond simple contributions to national the environment and the fight or international lobbying associations or organizations, against corruption since September with the exception of the following two subsidiaries: 2013. Our Communication On • Hamon Thermal Europe (France), one of the active Progress contains details of the members of the Bureau National des Plastiques 43 — CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY et de la Plasturgie (BNPP Plastics and plasturgy concrete measures taken by standardization bureau), which contributed the Group to further align our towards the drafting of the French standards on strategy, our culture and our dayplastic products; it is also an active and influential to-day operations with these ten member (for instance as regards certain projects principles. We are also committed or committees) of the organizations Eurovent, to sharing this information with Plastalliance and SYRTA (Syndicat du Retrait et du our stakeholders and to promoting Traitement de l’Amiante); the Global Compact and its ten • Moreover, Hamon Thermal Europe (Belgium) is an active and influential member of the CTI (Cooling principles. “ Tower Institute). FRANCIS LAMBILLIOTTE, Hamon Group CEO It is not Hamon’s policy to have its non-financial report verified by an independent external body. 3. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY More specifically, the strategy on the recruitment 3.1. WORKFORCE of new talent in the Group is in line with our ‘Think globally, act locally’ ethos. While our markets are Hamon pays particular attention to its staff in the growing on a global scale, our employees are open to broadest sense: employees, trainees, consultants, other cultures and show creativity to enable continuous temporary workers, etc. who work for the Group. improvement and promote change while respecting Hamon focuses on: local values and regulations. Hamon recruits highly • the recruitment of highly motivated staff with qualified men and women with leadership skills and a technical and interpersonal skills; sense of responsibility and offers them the opportunity • the training, career prospects and development of the to develop in their career within the Group. Hamon potential of these staff members; seeks to recruit local talent who are experts in their • remuneration; respective fields with strong problem-solving skills and • performance reviews based on specific and a focus on customers and business. measurable objectives; • health and safety in the workplace; • the elimination of all discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. TOTAL WORKFORCE BY TYPE OF CONTRACT As at 31 December, the total workforce (in the broadest sense) by type of contract was as follows: Situation as at 31 December 31/12/14 31/12/15 Number % total Number % total 44 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 of people of people Employment contract (or similar) 1,734 87.9% 1,737 94.4% Consultants, temporary staff or trainees 238 12.1% 103 5.6% Total 1,972 100.0% 1,840 100.0% Note: workforce figures calculated on the basis of the number of people, not in terms of full-time equivalents. In addition to the above, Hamon also employs several DEVELOPMENT OF THE AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES hundred local temporary workers, mainly on its building PER REGION sites, whose number are constantly changing. They 2,000 are scattered among our areas of operation around 1,800 98 46 the world and usually work on these projects for a few 1,600 26 28 months. 1,400 626 648 In the graphs below, only those with an employment 1,200 contract or similar (1,737 people at the end of 2015) 1,000 are taken into account. The number of consultants, 800 345 353 Latin America temporary workers or trainees has fallen sharply in one Africa & Middle East 600 year (-57%). This illustrates the Group’s wish to reduce Asia-Pacific 400 its overheads, as recommended by the STAR project in 652 650 US + Canada 200 Europe mid-2014. 0 DEVELOPMENT OF THE AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2014 2015 PER BUSINESS UNIT The workforce per region changed little in 2015, with 2,000 the exception of Latin America, where the number 1,800 55 51 of staff members more than doubled. This variation 1,600 327 331 is due to the fact that the workforce at the Brazilian 1,400 subsidiary doubled in 2015. 1,200 308 400 1,000 DEVELOPMENT OF THE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES PER 230 214 Corporate & other GENDER AS AT 31 DECEMBER 800 NAFTA 100% 600 Air Quality Systems 294 274 Process Heat 90% 400 779 777 Exchangers 80% 200 Cooling Systems 70% 0 2014 2015 60% Notes : The graph above indicates the average over the 12 months of the year, 50% as does the graph below. 1440 1463 The figures include only companies consolidated by global integration. 40% Th  e 2015 scope was identical to that of 2014. 30% Women Men 20% Globally, the Group’s average workforce increased 10% slightly from 1,695 people in 2014 to 1,777 people in 0% 2015 (+82 people, up 5%). 2014 2015 The figures per BU remained fairly comparable to those The number of female employees was slightly down of 2014, with the exception of the Air Quality System as at 31 December 2015. Our female colleagues now BU, where the average workforce increased by 30%. account for just 15.8% of the total staff. This rise (+92 people) may be attributed mainly to the 45 — CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY strong growth recorded in our Brazilian subsidiary, As regards the social dialogue and worker where the workforce more than doubled, and to the representation, as at 31 December 2015, 30% of the growth in India (+23%). staff were covered by a collective agreement. The increase in these countries is due a high volume of 3.2. CULTIVATING TALENT activity. The ongoing qualification and training of our staff are essential elements for the development of Hamon. The challenges linked to Hamon’s business activities and changes in the social context (the realities of our customers’ business environment, technological performance and environmental protection, competition in our markets, etc.) require us to consolidate and strengthen our expertise. Hamon staff are pivotal to our success. It is important that we constantly increase by means of an annual questionnaire that every entity their level of versatility and competence in each employing at least 15 people has to fill in (see list of business unit. subsidiaries in the Parameters section of the report). Hamon also recommends that its main subsidiaries In addition to formal training, our employees receive obtain OHSAH 18001 certification. At the end of 2015, daily ‘on-the-job’ coaching. In the Hamon ‘multifours subsidiaries held this certification and four were department’ culture of work and project management, SCC certified** (SHE Contractor Checklist) or equivalent. employees use their own specific skills and knowledge. They also learn from other team members. During The following graphs indicate the accident frequency the annual performance appraisals, employees are and severity rates, along with the rate of occupational encouraged to define their own training needs so diseases and the level of absenteeism. that we can offer each individual a specific training It should be noted that there may be differences programme and help everyone to develop within the between the measurement methods and criteria used Group. by the different countries and subsidiaries (as each HOURS OF TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE PER YEAR country has its own social regulations). 15.0 These figures only concern staff recorded as people employed by the Group in 2015 (that is excluding 14.0 consultants and temporary workers). The scope in 2015 was the same as that in 2013 and 13.0 in 2014. 14,6 12.0 Of the 26 subsidiaries included in this analysis, two are 13,3 not fully consolidated (Hamon Shriram Cottrell in India and Hamon D’Hondt Middle East in Saudi Arabia which, 11.0 2014 together, employed 198 people in 2015). They are, 2015 however, included in the analysis. The remaining 24 10.0 subsidiaries employed 1,716 people (average staff numbers in 2015), or 97% of the Group’s workforce. In 2015, Hamon staff members were able to follow See the Parameters section of the report for more approximately 28,000 hours of training, which details on this subject. represents an average of approximately 14.6 hours per year, per person (against 13.3 hours in 2014). Hamon does not have this information for contractors This figure stood at 11.1 hours/year for female staff working on construction sites. and 15.2 hours/year for male staff in 2015. The training courses covered subjects such as IT, English, Hamon has not implemented a global action plan at accounting, health & safety, etc. Group level for health and safety; however, many entities have a local action plan. 3.3. HEALTH AND SAFETY FREQUENCY RATE OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS PER Hamon works in an industrial environment and REGION (NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS / MILLION WORKING operates eleven plants or workshops. The risks inherent HOURS) in our activities, although well known, are many. It is 30 essential that this matter receives constant attention. 2013 46 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The health and safety of our employees in their 25 2014 workplaces remains a priority, whether in plants, on 2015 building sites or in our offices. The constructions sites 20 present specific risks for the workers operating there, linked to a changing environment. 15 Hamon constantly strives to improve its performance. 10 Even though ‘zero risk’ is impossible, every incident or accident is one too many as it impacts on the physical 5 and emotional well-being of our workers. That is why particular attention has been paid to this issue at 0 Europe Americas Asia Africa & Group Group level for a number of years, among other things Pacific Middle East average In total, there were 43 occupational accidents in Altogether, 385 working days were lost due to 2015, compared with 41 in 2014, an increase of 5%. occupational accidents in 2015, compared with 1,339 The number of occupational accidents rose slightly in 2014. The number of days lost, both in Europe and in in Europe (28 compared with 27), and increased the United States, fell sharply for 2015. So there were from 0 to 2 in Africa & Middle East. Most of these more accidents in 2015, but they were less severe. accidents occurred in our plant in northern France. The degree of severity therefore fell from 0.35 in 2014 The number of working hours fell by 6%, from to 0.11 in 2015 (down 69%). 3,785 million hours in 2014 to 3,549 million in 2015. OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES RATE PER REGION (NUMBER OF This explains why the accident frequency rate rose DAYS LOST / THOUSANDS OF HOURS WORK) slightly from 10.8 accidents / million hours in 2014 to 0.7 12.1 accidents / million hours in 2015. 0.6 There were no deaths due to occupational accidents 2013 in 2015. 0.5 2014 2015 DEGREE OF SEVERITY OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS PER 0.4 REGION (NUMBER OF DAYS LOST/THOUSANDS OF WORKING HOURS) 0.3 47 — CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 0.8 0.2 0.7 0.1 2013 0.6 2014 0.0 2015 Europe Americas Asia Africa & Group 0.5 Pacific Middle East average 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.0 Europe Americas Asia Africa & Group Pacific Middle East average Having fallen sharply in 2013-2014, the rate of The total number of days lost through absenteeism occupational diseases rose in 2015 (0.20 days per fell from 10,810 in 2014 to 9,690 in 2015, down 10%. thousand hours in 2015, compared with 0.08 in 2014). Over 3,700 days were due to 18 staff members on long-term sick leave, primarily in Belgium, France and In total, 698 working days were lost owing to Brazil. occupational diseases in 2015, compared with 319 in 2014. All these days lost concern our plant in northern Per region, the rate is down in Europe and in the France. Americas. At Group level, it amounted to 2.15% in 2015, compared with 2.32% in 2014. PROPORTION OF WORKING DAYS LOST DUE TO OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS AND DISEASES PER REGION Excluding the number of days lost due to occupational accidents and diseases, the number of days lost fell 0.8% from 9,152 in 2014 to 8,607 in 2015, down 6%. This 0.7% may partly be attributed to a decline in the number 2013 of working days (450,766 in 2015 compared with 0.6% 2014 465,471 in 2014). 2015 0.5% 3.4. HUMAN RIGHTS 0.4% As a signatory to the United Nations Global Pact, 0.3% Hamon is committed to respecting and ensuring that 0.2% all its employees and partners respect human rights in their business relationships. This commitment reflects 0.1% the values that the Group strives to convey on a daily 0.0% basis. Europe Americas Asia Africa & Group Pacific Middle East average Hamon put in place an official code of conduct (Group policy) on human rights at the end of 2014; this In total, 1,083 days were lost owing to occupational document has been integrated into its Code of Ethics. accidents and diseases in 2015, compared with 1,658 in 2014. The increase in the number of working days In 2015, Hamon continued to promote ethics and lost owing to occupational diseases was more than respect for human rights, which lie at the heart of its offset by the sharp fall in the number of working days business relationships, specifically: lost due to accidents. • through its participation in the United Nations Global Compared with the number of working days (450,766 Compact; in 2015 compared with 465,471 in 2014), this • through its commitment to observe the Universal represents a ratio of 0.24%, as against 0.36% in 2014. Declaration of Human Rights; RATE OF ABSENTEEISM PER REGION • through its commitment not to employ children; 7% • through its commitment not to use compulsory or 6% forced labour; greater attention has been focused on this point since 2014. 5% 2013 Hamon upholds a number of other human rights issues, 2014 4% 2015 such as the fight against discrimination in employment and occupation. 48 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 3% Through a questionnaire sent to the Group’s main 2% subsidiaries at the end of every financial year, Hamon seeks to raise awareness of respect for human rights 1% and ensure that each one fully upholds the points 0% included in the Universal Declaration. In 2015, the 26 Europe Americas Asia Africa & Group Pacific Middle East average subsidiaries included in the reporting scope outlined Notes : in the Parameters section of the report observed this Includes days lost due to occupational accidents and diseases. In the U.S. subsidiaries, days of absenteeism are not counted as staff Declaration (to the extent permitted by the legislation in members have a holiday quota which includes days absent. the respective countries). PROHIBITING CHILD LABOUR regulations in force and in particular the ban on This issue is especially relevant, as regards our business employing children. They were also adapted at the end activities and as a signatory to the United Nations of 2014 to further stress the need for our suppliers to Global Compact, both: pass on these concerns throughout their supply chain. • internally: for our subsidiaries located in emerging New suppliers or recurring suppliers of a significant size countries, particularly those with plants in India or are assessed by means of a qualifying questionnaire China; and are regularly audited. • externally: as regards our suppliers located in PREVENTING ALL FORCED LABOUR emerging countries (and in particular plants that As with child labour, Hamon prohibits any form of manufacture components). forced or compulsory labour and remains vigilant in this matter in all the regions where the Group operates and The Group policy on respect for human rights, added in particular in the plants in emerging countries (India to our Code of Ethics at the end of 2014, specifically and China). states that Hamon rules out all forms of child labour. Similarly, outside its direct scope of operation, as This point is also included in the annual questionnaire far as possible Hamon remains vigilant with regard sent to the main subsidiaries. In 2015, two of the to its suppliers located in emerging countries and 26 subsidiaries consulted employed people under 18 particularly those with plants that manufacture certain years of age: these are our two plants in France, which components for the Group. employed four trainees aged 16 or 17. The Group’s human rights policy, disseminated via As regards our suppliers, our general terms and our Code of Ethics as reviewed at the end of 2014, conditions of purchase, which are being applied increasingly systematically by the Group’s subsidiaries, contain a number of clauses on respect for the social 49 — CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY specifically prohibits forced or compulsory labour. 3.5. FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION The annual questionnaire sent to the Group’s main The Hamon Group manages its affairs transparently subsidiaries asks them to be vigilant in their field of and ethically. It adopts a zero tolerance policy towards operation. corruption. In 2015, no incidents of this nature were reported by This is clearly stated in the Code of Ethics, drafted Hamon’s subsidiaries. in 2009 and reviewed at the end of 2014. A specific chapter is dedicated to this issue. Hamon has also ensured that this requirement is included in its general terms and conditions of This Code has gradually been shared with all the purchase. Group’s subsidiaries, which circulate it among all their employees. At the end of 2015, all the employees of The Group’s new suppliers or recurring suppliers of the 26 subsidiaries included in the reporting scope a significant size are assessed and audited in this had received or had access to this Code of Ethics. respect. The entire Hamon & Cie Board of Directors as well as Hamon seeks to raise awareness of the issues of both the members of the Executive Committee have also child labour and compulsory labour, not only among received it. In many of the subsidiaries, newly recruited its own suppliers but also among all parties involved employees receive it along with a copy of the internal further up its supply chain. working regulations. GRIEVANCES CONCERNING HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS No cases of corruption were noted in the Group in In the event of any dispute concerning human rights 2015. violations involving the Group’s activities and its 3.6. MANAGING PERFORMANCE relations with other companies (for example in our supply chain: customers or suppliers), staff members or In 2015, the Group’s Human Resources department other individuals, an alarm is sounded. developed a new skills assessment tool to enable our managers to identify executives with great potential. For Hamon, this is a key performance indicator. This department has also developed a succession This issue is included in the questionnaire sent by the planning instrument for the main positions. Group’s Legal Department to all large subsidiaries in A new performance management system (‘Hamon order to check whether they have been involved in any Talent’) was devised in 2015. It is to be implemented dispute of this nature over the past financial year. as of 2016, firstly in Belgium and then, as for the other In 2015, no human rights grievances were filed, tools, its use will gradually be extended to the Group investigated or settled via official grievance settlement as a whole. mechanisms: 3.7. DONATIONS • no grievances filed; Through its various subsidiaries, Hamon strives • no grievances investigated; to support local communities. Hamon & Cie has • no grievances previously filed and settled in 2015. sponsored the Mont-St Guibert Volleyball Club for several years, along with the occasional equestrian event in Belgium. Since 2013, the Group has supported the United Nations Global Compact. Donations and the various sponsorships undertaken by the Group in 2015 50 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 amounted to a total of approximately EUR 26,000. 4. RESPECT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER SOURCE, IN GJ/YEAR Environmental protection lies at the heart of Hamon’s 140,000 business. Thanks to increasingly efficient heat 120,000 2013 2013 exchange and flue gas treatment systems, the Group 2014 2014 helps its customers to reduce the impact of their 100,000 2015 2015 activities on the environment. 80,000 In addition, Hamon seeks to limit the environmental impact of its plants and equipment at its customers 60,000 (energy consumption, noise, visual impact, etc.). 40,000 Hamon also raises awareness among its suppliers by 20,000 means of assessment questionnaires and audits, asking them to comply with the environmental regulations in 0 Electricity Natural gas Fuel Propane Total force. (GJ/year) (GJ/year) (GJ/year) (GJ/year) Hamon ensures that it applies the precautionary principle. The lack of precise information or uncertainty about the environmental impact of certain factors Total consumption increased slightly, from 107,001 (for example, the impact of greenhouses gases on GJ in 2014 to 116,142 GJ in 2015 (+8.5%). The the climate) must not be used as a pretext to ignore energy mix did not change a great deal. Electricity still or defer the implementation of concrete measures to accounts for approximately 62% of total consumption protect the environment. and natural gas for about one-third. Hamon promotes ISO 14001 certification among its Compared with the number of hours of work carried out subsidiaries. At the end of 2015, three of them (out in our eleven plants, the ratio rose significantly (from of the 26 in the reporting scope) had obtained this 60 MJ/h in 2014 to 71 MJ/h in 2015). This general certification. factor should be viewed with caution, however, as the hourly energy consumption of the plants differs widely 4.1. REDUCING ENERGY CONSUMPTION depending on their type of activity. The Group’s plants use large quantities of energy. High-consumption activities included the thermoforming We are unable to distinguish what proportion of of heat exchange surfaces (manufactured for the electrical energy is generated using renewable sources. cooling towers) and the heating of the furnaces (fixing The other sources of energy (natural gas, fuel, propane, fins on air-cooled condenser tubes). The measurement LPG) are not renewable. and analysis of our energy consumption is therefore In 2015 our plants did not buy any heat, steam or focused on our eleven plants. The use of energy cooling. Likewise, they did not sell any electricity, heat, (natural gas, electricity, fuel, etc.) has an impact on steam or cooling. the environment, for instance, by emitting greenhouse gases. We therefore strive to measure and minimize 4.2. MINIMIZING WATER CONSUMPTION our energy consumption per unit manufactured. The Hamon plants use a large quantity of water, for instance for sanitary facilities, to cool certain machines Hamon measures the energy consumption of its and for hydrostatic tests. Water consumption (and the 51 — CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY plants and conducts a survey by means of an annual wastewater generated) impacts on the environment. questionnaire. Actions to decrease consumption are We therefore strive to measure and minimize our water left to the initiative of the individual plants. consumption. As with energy consumption, Hamon measures the water consumption of its eleven plants by means of an annual questionnaire. Each plant puts in place measures on a case-by-case basis to reduce this consumption or its impact. TOTAL MAINS WATER CONSUMPTION (M³/YEAR) • noise emissions (falling water in the cooling towers, 40,000 motor noise, etc.); • visual impact (structures that are sometimes fairly 35,000 high, impacting on the landscape); 30,000 • water consumption and/or release of a steam plume 25,000 (such as evaporative cooling systems or wet flue gas treatment systems); 20,000 • impact of end-of-life waste when dismantling the 15,000 system or replacing certain components (for instance, electrostatic precipitator collecting plates). 10,000 The Hamon Group takes steps to improve the 0 2013 2014 2015 performance and reduce the environmental impact of its systems, often right from the design stage. These All the water used was city water. Having risen sharply measures increasingly cover the entire life cycle of our in 2014, water consumption fell slightly in 2015, from products. 36,728 m³ in 2014 to 34,939 m³ in 2015, down 5%. In 2015, several action plans were implemented. This can be attributed mainly to the drop in production These included: in our plants, as the number of hours worked decreased by 8%. • the installation of acoustic hoods to attenuate the 52 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 noise made by fabric filter cleaning systems; 4.3. LIMITING THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF PRODUCTS • the reduction in the electricity consumption of some When used by our customers, Hamon products have an of our installations (electrostatic precipitators, fabric impact on the environment: filters) thanks to more efficient control systems; • energy consumption (for example, the motors • the systematic installation of oil collection trays powering the fans to circulate the cooling air); under transformers (electrostatic precipitators). Hamon strives to limit the environmental impact of its Our customers usually take care of displaying safety plants. In addition to aspects relating to energy and pictograms and preparing safety manuals. water consumption (covered in the previous points), Hamon’s installations have fairly long life cycles (often certain other measures were taken: 20 to 30 years or even longer). They are usually fitted • thermal insulation of storage facilities in one of our in plants or power plants that have even longer life French plants; cycles and in which some installations or components • full recycling of the waste from filters cut in our fabric (including ours) sometimes have to be replaced or filter manufacturing workshop in China; renovated after a couple of decades. • implementation of a manganese pollution prevention As we have provided thousands of systems around the plan in one of our plants in the United States; world in the past few decades, we are unable to gather • establishment of a plan to install a ventilation and and compile information on the reliability and safety of air filtration system in the grinding workshop for FRP our equipment. Apart from the problem of identifying components at our plant in India. the right person to contact at the customer’s and making an accurate and comparable analysis regardless 5. SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY of the type of equipment, this sort of information also 5.1. RELIABILITY AND SAFETY OF OUR EQUIPMENT presents confidentiality issues. This is why we do not Our equipment is used by our customers in complex provide any performance indicators for this aspect. industrial processes: electric power plants, refineries, 5.2. HIGH-PERFORMANCE PRODUCTS steelworks, cement works, etc. They account for only The performance of our equipment is very important a small percentage of the total investment made to our customers. It may concern, for example, the to build these plants. Nevertheless, should one of temperature of the water leaving our cooling systems, our installations break down, this could result in the or the level of pollutants at the outlet of our air shutdown of the plant and significant loss of earnings. pollution control systems. In certain extreme cases (such as the cooling towers In some cases, such as cooling towers, more efficient for nuclear power plants), the consequences could be installations would offer our customer a direct far more harmful (even though, in this specific case, a economic benefit. For instance, colder cooling water number of other back-up cooling systems are in place). helps electricians improve the thermodynamic efficiency In the oil and gas sector, a leak in one of our heat of their steam turbines and therefore generate more exchangers could cause an explosion or a fire with electricity using the same amount of primary energy. serious consequences. Our end-user customers not only take into account For this reason, the reliability and safety of our the investment costs of purchasing our systems, equipment is vital for our customers and for the longbut also the operating costs throughout their life term future of our business activities. cycle. Increased efficiency therefore improves our Hamon continuously seeks to improve its equipment competitiveness with our customers and ensures the thanks to: long-term future of our business. • ever more accurate design and the use of increasingly powerful tools and software; 53 — CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • stringent quality control during the design phase, when purchasing components from suppliers, assembly at the site, manufacturing in the plant and during commissioning and acceptance tests. This also involves ISO 9001 certification for many subsidiaries. For instance, at the end of 2015, 20 of the 26 subsidiaries included in the reporting scope were ISO 9001 certified; • staff training and, in many cases, end-user training. Hamon also seeks to provide customers with accurate, detailed user and maintenance manuals. Hamon continuously seeks to improve the performance In the supplier Hamon – customer supply chain, of its products. This is achieved, in particular, through: problems may sometimes arise, or claims may even be • our Research & Development activities; made: • our design methods and tools, helping to further • between the customer and Hamon: for instance, if optimize our equipments; Hamon fails to meet certain customer requirements; • stringent quality control (see previous point); • between Hamon and the customer: for instance, if the customer changes the specifications during the • licensing or partnership agreements concluded, project; enabling us to market cutting-edge technologies (for example the ReACT™ technology – see Review • between Hamon and its suppliers. by Business Unit, NAFTA). The scale of these claims can vary greatly. Some are As with the analysis of the reliability and safety of our settled very quickly, while others can lead to legal equipment, we are unable to gather, compile or disclose proceedings. Hamon takes every possible measure to this kind of data. manage this type of complaint quickly. However, two of our subsidiaries, one in Belgium and Bearing in mind that hundreds of projects are managed one in France, have introduced a means by which worldwide every year and given the diversity of customers can assess our systems (satisfaction this kind of action, Hamon is unable to measure its survey). performance in this area. 5.3. COMPLIANCE WITH SPECIFICATIONS 5.4. INNOVATION Compliance with the specifications received from our Innovation and research & development are vital for customers during the tendering process is an important the long-term future of our activities: factor in customer satisfaction as well as for our • to constantly improve our existing products and financial performance in each project. This may concern: services; • technical specifications (temperatures, pollutant • to develop new products. levels, pressure loss, etc.); This enables us to maintain our technological leadership • delivery schedules and lead times; and meet our customers’ requirements to an ever • various constraints or requirements stipulated by greater extent. our customers (concerning the origin of certain components, logistics considerations, etc.); In practical terms, R&D is managed by each business unit within the Group. • the price. The Cooling Systems BU has an R&D centre attached If necessary, corrective measures are taken, for to the Electrabel power plant in Drogenbos (Belgium). instance when preliminary or final acceptance This centre carries out many developments and tests, tests show that our systems do not fully meet the for instance on new types of exchange surface. customer’s specifications, to avoid any warranty claims. Developments for dry cooling systems are also made in Hamon complies strictly with its customers’ our Chinese plant. specifications. This requires perfect cooperation and As regards the other BUs, developments are mainly flawless work by the many parties involved in the carried out locally in the various subsidiaries. This implementation of the project, both internally and with includes the development of new software to enable the customer and our suppliers. One person plays a more precise design. 54 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 key role here: the project manager. Hamon ensures that projects are allocated to project managers based on Certain technological licensing agreements are also their skills and the degree of complexity involved in the concluded, such as that signed for the ReACT™ project. technology a few years ago. In our view, the most relevant performance indicator is the ratio between our R&D investments and our consolidated revenue. The table below shows the trend in this ratio: En millier EUR 2014 2015 Capitalized 1,030 720 R&D expenditure R&D expenses 1,875 2,830 in the profit and loss account Total R&D expenditure 2,905 3,550 Revenue 606,381 698,627 R&D expenditure as % of revenue 0.5% 0.5% Having fallen slightly in 2014, our R&D expenditure rose by 22% in 2015. 55 — CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Statement of Corporate Governance I. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The non-executive directors discuss the strategy and 1. GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS key policies put forward by the executive management in an analytical and constructive manner and contribute 1.1 REFERENCE CODE towards their development. They carry out a thorough Hamon has adopted the 2009 Belgian Code evaluation of the performance of the executive of Corporate Governance as its reference, in management in attaining agreed objectives. accordance with the provisions of the act of 6 April 2010, intended to reinforce corporate governance In June 2005, the Board of Directors set up specialized in listed companies and the Royal Decree of 6 June committees to help it in a number of specific areas: 2010 on the designation of the corporate governance Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees. code to be followed by listed companies. This The Board of Directors has entrusted the day-to-day code is available for consultation on the website management of the company to the Managing Director, of the Corporate Governance Commission, www. who is assisted in his task by the members of the corporategovernancecommittee.be. Executive Committee. The company has not set up a The Hamon Corporate Governance Charter sets out Management Committee within the meaning of Article in detail the governance structure of our company as 524 bis of the Company Code. well as the related policies and procedures. This Charter Hamon is divided into operational business units. is published on our website, www.hamon.com, and can also be consulted simply upon request at the head The general shareholders’ meeting exercises the office of the company. powers assigned to it by law and by the articles of association. This Statement of Corporate Governance provides information about corporate governance events that The working methods of the various bodies referred occurred in 2015. to above are laid down in the Corporate Governance Charter, which is available on the Hamon website. 1.2 EXEMPTIONS FROM THE BELGIAN CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The structure of the company’s shareholding body is Hamon meets all the provisions of the Code apart from presented in the section entitled ‘Relations with our the fact that the Audit Committee does not necessarily shareholders and other stakeholders’, below. meet four times a year, as recommended by the Code. 3. BOARD OF DIRECTORS In fact, Hamon only publishes financial information 3.1 APPOINTMENT twice a year, so the number of Audit Committee Article 14 of the articles of association stipulates meetings is adapted accordingly. The Committee meets that the Board of Directors must comprise at least to examine the annual and half-year accounts of the five directors, at least half of whom must be nonGroup. The Audit Committee also meets on other executive and at least two independent. The Corporate occasions if this is deemed advisable. Governance Charter goes further and stipulates that at 2. GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE least three directors must be independent. Hamon is governed by a Board of Directors which, The members of the Board of Directors are appointed 56 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 in accordance with Articles 14 ff. of the articles of by the general shareholders’ meeting. If it becomes association, has extensive powers. necessary to replace one of the directors, the new The Board of Directors is a collegial body whose actions director will be chosen from among the candidates must be presented in an annual report to the general presented by the shareholder having proposed the meeting. outgoing director. The Managing Director provides all the information Directors whose term of office expires remain in relating to the business and finances of the company position until such time as the general meeting has required to ensure the smooth running of the Board of approved a replacement. The general meeting has the Directors. power to dismiss a director at any time. MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Francis Lambilliotte CEO, Managing Director, Philippe Delvaux Chairman of the Chairman of the William Dillon Executive Committee Air Quality Systems Chairman of the Business Unit NAFTA Business Unit Rodica Exner Chairman of the Cooling Systems Business Unit, ViceChairman of the Executive Committee Christian Leclercq Gerda Clocheret Michèle Vrebos Financial Director Human Resources Secretary General of the Group Director of the Group and Legal Director of the Group 57 — STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Moreover, outgoing directors are eligible for re-election replacing the agreement of June 2005 as amended subject to the application of Article 526 ter of the on 28 August 2007 and 22 July 2013. This new Company Code which stipulates that independent agreement stipulates that the Board of Directors of directors may not be appointed for more than three Hamon & Cie (International) will henceforth be made consecutive terms and that the total duration of their up of ten directors, five of whom will be presented appointment may not exceed twelve years. No age by Sopal International and two by Sogepa; Ms Aline limit is set on the mandate of directors. Lambilliotte was presented by Sopal International SA and Mr Gutt by the Walloon Region; the latter is 3.2 COMPOSITION now represented by Ms Valérie Potier. Moreover, The composition of the Board of Directors was further to the resignation of Mr Jean Hamon on modified by the general meeting on 28 April 2015; this 3 September 2015, the extraordinary general meeting modification comes further to the new shareholders’ held on 7 October last appointed Mr Alexandre agreement signed on 8 October 2014 between Grosjean as an independent director. Sopal International SA and the Walloon Region, The Hamon Board of Directors therefore consists In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the of four independent directors, within the meaning terms of the directors appointed and/or renewed by a of Article 526 ter referred to above: Baron Philippe future general meeting will last a maximum four years Bodson and Baron Philippe Vlerick, Mr Martin Gonzalez unless a substantiated exception is made. del Valle and Mr Alexandre Grosjean. All the directors Sogepa SA represents the interests of the Walloon are non-executive, with the exception of the Managing Region on the Board of Directors. Director, Mr Francis Lambilliotte. COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015: Name Position Start/Renewal End of mandate of mandate Baron Philippe Bodson * Chairman, independent director 28.04.2015 28.04.2020 Mr Jacques Lambilliotte * Honorary Chairmen, director 22.04.2014 26.04.2016 Mr Francis Lambilliotte Managing Director 28.04.2015 28.04.2020 Ms Aline Lambilliotte* Director 28.04.2015 23.04.2019 Mr Bernard Lambilliotte * Director 22.04.2014 24.04.2018 Mr Olivier Gutt* Director 28.04.2015 23.04.2019 Sogepa SA Director 22.04.2014 26.04.2016 represented by Ms Valérie Potier* Mr Martin Gonzalez del Valle * Independent director 22.04.2014 25.04.2017 Baron Philippe Vlerick * Independent director 28.04.2015 23.04.2019 Mr Alexandre Grosjean* Independent director 07.10.2015 26.04.2016 * Non-executive directors. Baron Philippe Bodson, Chairman of the Hamon Bernard Lambilliotte, Director, is a commercial Board of Directors and independent director since engineer (Solvay Business School) and holds an MBA May 2008, is a civil engineer (ULg) and holds an (INSEAD-Fontainebleau-France). He is currently Chief MBA (INSEAD Fontainebleau France). After having Investment Officer at Ecofin, an investment fund (based held executive positions in a number of companies in London), which he founded. He is also a director (Glaverbel, Tractebel and others) and served as of Kapitol S.A. He previously held various financial chairman of the FEB, Baron Bodson is currently positions at Pictet & Cie, Swiss Bank Corporation and chairman of the Board of Directors of Exmar and Drexel Burnham Lambert. Floridienne and the investment firm Be Capital. He also Martin Gonzalez del Valle, independent Director sits on the board of Cobepa. since June 2005. He is co-founder and partner of Jacques Lambilliotte, Director and Honorary Realza Capital, one of the largest private equity firms Chairman of the Board, was general manager, chairman in Spain. Prior to that, for twelve years he worked of the board of directors and managing director of in the private equity sector as a partner and CFO of Laminoirs de Longtain from 1953 to 1983. He trained Investindustrial in Plain and as Senior Director and 58 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 as a civil engineer. member of the Executive Committee of Mercapital. He was previously general manager of Crédit Agricole Francis Lambilliotte, Managing Director since 1987, Indosuez in Madrid and held various positions in capital joined the company after having worked at Cobepa goods and sanitary goods companies. for several years. He is a commercial engineer (Solvay Business School). He is chairman of the board of directors of Esindus (non-executive mandate) and director of the listed Jean Hamon, Director, was the representative with Spanish company Iberpapel SA. He has a law degree the finance department of Hamon Paris from 1965 to from the University of Madrid and holds an MBA 2000. He trained as a civil engineer and has a degree in (Insead-Fontainebleau-France). mathematics. Mr Jean Hamon submitted his resignation to the Board on 3 September 2015. Olivier Gutt, representing Sogepa, has been a Director (Solvay Business School). He has worked in the banking since September 2011. He was appointed a director in sector since the start of his career, with various a personal capacity at the general meeting of 28 April institutions: Kredietbank, Crédit Lyonnais, Duménil2015, presented by Sogepa. Lebblé, Caisse Privée Banque where he was a member Mr Gutt is a lawyer who graduated from the ULB. of the Management Committee and a director and He then studied further at the Solvay Business finally ING where he was a Consultant, Private and School (taking a post graduate degree in business Corporate banking (family business). He is currently management), before returning to the bar and Senior Adviser in the Intuitae Group. He is also practising as a lawyer for six years. In 1980, he turned chairman and managing director of the Galeries Royales to banking, joining the Crédit à l’Industrie (SNCI), where SaintHubert, director and member of the Audit he remained for twelve years including a stint in an Committee of N.V SCR-Sibelco and a director of various office of the Walloon Department of the Economy. In companies, including Immoklaar, Floriges and others. 1992, he returned to the bar with the firm Lallemand 3.3 ACTIVITIES before becoming a magistrate at the Commercial Court The Board of Directors met seven times in 2015. of Namur and Chairman of the Competition Council. Mr Gutt is Vice-President of Sogepa which he joined in The main subjects discussed were: 2002. (i) the approval of the results of the Group, forecast Baron Philippe Vlerick, independent Director since results, annual budgets and the strategic plan; 6 December 2011, holds a Bachelor’s degree in (ii) monitoring of business and the financial situation of Philosophy, a law degree and a Master’s degree from the Group and some of its subsidiaries; the Vlerick School of Management as well as an MBA (iii) the review of the investment projects in the context (Indiana University, Bloomington-USA). Baron Vlerick, of the Group’s development strategy; who heads the Vlerick Group (Uco, B.I.C. Carpets, (iv) monitoring of the financial situation of Hamon Vlerick Vastgoed, etc.) is the chairman of Pentahold, D’Hondt; vice-chairman of the boards of directors of KBC Groep, (v) the capital increases at Hamon & Cie (International); Spector Photo Group and Corelio and a director (vi) the appointment of two new directors. of several companies, including Besix Group, Etex All the directors attended the five Board meetings, with and Exmar. the exception of: Aline Lambilliotte was appointed as a director at the • Jean Hamon, unable to attend on 26 February, general meeting of 28 April 2015. She has a degree in 28 April and 2 July 2015; Economic Sciences from the ULB as well as a Master • Jacques Lambilliotte, unable to attend on of Arts in Corporate Communication from the City 3 September and 5 October 2015; University of New York. Her professional experience lies mainly in project • Bernard Lambilliotte, unable to attend on management and editorial work. She is a director of Air 5 October 2015; Industrie Thermique and Esindus. • Philippe Vlerick, unable to attend on 28 April 2015. 59 — STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Valérie Potier was appointed as Sogepa 4. COMMITTEES representative by the general meeting of 28 April In June 2005, the Board of Directors set up, 2015. She therefore represents the interests of the under its own responsibility, an Audit Committee, Walloon Region on the Board. She has a degree in a Remuneration Committee and a Nomination Commercial Sciences from HEC Liège (General and Committee. The composition of these Committees was International Management with financial options) and revised on 27 May 2008 when the new Chairman of has worked as a financial analyst at SWIFT and then the Board of Directors was appointed. as a manager at Ernst & Young, company auditors. She joined Sogepa in 2011 as a consultant. She is currently Consultant and Head of Finance, Budget and Accounting. Alexandre Grosjean was appointed by the extraordinary general meeting of 7 October 2015 further to the resignation of Mr Jean Hamon as an independent director. He is a commercial engineer 4.1 AUDIT COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee met once in 2015; all the 4.1.1 Composition members attended this meeting. Since 28 April 2015, the composition of this committee The main subjects discussed were: has been as follows: (i) the remuneration package for the members of the Members of the Audit Committee Position Executive Committee and senior management; (ii) the establishment of variable remuneration Baron Philippe Vlerick (*) Chairman packages for senior management; M. Martin Gonzalez del Valle (*) Member (iii) the contents of the remuneration report. Sogepa représentée par Member Madame Valérie Potier (**) 4.3 THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE (*) independent directors (**) replaced Mr Bernard Lambilliotte further to a Board decision of Since 1 January 2011, the Nomination Committee has 28 April 2015. been made up mainly of independent directors within the meaning of Article 526 ter of the Company Code 4.1.2 Activities and one non-executive director: The Audit Committee met three times during the 2015 financial year, together with the auditor. Members of the Nomination Committee Position Baron Philippe Bodson (*) Chairman The main subjects discussed in the Audit Committee Mr Jacques Lambilliotte Member were: Mr Martin Gonzalez del Valle (*) Member (i) the closing of the accounts as at 31 December (*) independent directors. 2014; (ii) the closing of the accounts as at 30 June 2015; The Nomination Committee met once in 2015 further (iii) the analysis of the impairment tests on the book to the resignation of Jean Hamon on value of some assets; 3 September 2015, to appoint Alexandre Grosjean as (iv) the implementation of the internal audit. an independent director. All the members attended the Audit Committee 5. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE meetings with the exception of Bernard Lambilliotte The Board of Directors set up an Executive Committee, who was unable to attend the meetings in January and mainly to assist the Managing Director. This committee February 2015. is not a Management Committee within the meaning of 4.2 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Article 524 bis of the Company Code. Since 1 January 2011, the Remuneration Committee As at 31 December 2015, the members of this has been made up mainly of independent directors Committee were as follows: within the meaning of Article 526 ter of the Company Members of the Code and one non-executive director: Executive Committee Position Managing Director, Chairman of the Members of the Remuneration Committee Position Francis Lambilliotte Executive Committee Baron Philippe Bodson (*) Chairman Chairman of the Cooling Systems Rodica Exner Business Unit, Vice-Chairman of the Mr Jacques Lambilliotte Member Executive Committee Baron Philippe Vlerick (*) Member William Dillon Chairman of the NAFTA Business Unit (*) independent directors. Chairman of the Air Quality Systems Philippe Delvaux Business Unit 60 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The members of the Remuneration Committee have the Christian Leclercq Financial Director of the Group necessary expertise with regard to remuneration policy, Secretary General and Legal Director Michèle Vrebos as can be seen from their professional careers, detailed of the Group above. Gerda Clocheret Human Resources Director of the Group The Managing Director attends the Remuneration Committee meetings at which the remuneration of The day-to-day management of the company is in the members of the Executive Committee and senior hands of Mr Francis Lambilliotte in his capacity as management is discussed. Managing Director of the company. 6. REMUNERATION REPORT In 2015, the remuneration of these mandates In accordance with Article 526 quater of the Company amounted to EUR 271,600 within the limits of the Code, the Remuneration Committee prepared a above sum of EUR 240,000, indexed. remuneration report in compliance with Article 96 of The non-executive directors do not benefit from share the Company Code. options or bonuses linked to the company’s results. PROCEDURE GROSS REMUNERATIONS AND OTHER BENEFITS GRANTED The Remuneration Committee, in consultation with TO THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS the managing director, called upon the services of an in EUR As a As a Total external Human Resources consultant specializing member of member of the Board of specialized in this field so as to (i) draw up a policy on the Directors committees remuneration of the directors and members of Baron Philippe Bodson 52,600 7,000 59,600 the Executive Committee and (ii) set the individual Jacques Lambilliotte 10,000 10,000 remuneration of the above persons. This consultant Bernard Lambilliotte 26, 000 26,000 reported to the Remuneration Committee on market Martin Gonzalez del practices in the Group’s sectors of activity for 27,000 8,000 35,000 Valle companies of comparable size, both in Belgium and Sogepa 27,000 5,000 32,000 abroad, bearing in mind in particular the international Baron Philippe Vlerick 26,000 9,000 35,000 composition of the Group’s Executive Committee. Olivier Gutt 25,000 25,000 Market practices are reviewed annually and discussed Alexandre Grosjean 24,000 24,000 each time in the committee which may decide to revise Aline Lambilliotte 25,000 25,000 certain elements. There was no significant change in the remuneration REMUNERATION OF THE CEO compared with the previous year. The remuneration The remuneration of Mr Francis Lambilliotte, CEO, was policy for the next two years should not differ made up as follows in 2015 (figures in EUR): significantly from the current policy. Gross basic remuneration 957,000 REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS FOR THE Variable remuneration 741,000 ADMINISTRATIVE AND MANAGEMENT BODIES Pension (defined contribution) 180,800 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION Other remuneration components (benefits in All the directorships are remunerated with the kind/health insurance/death benefit, disability 155,173 allowance/guaranteed income/company car) exception of that of Managing Director Francis Lambilliotte, in accordance with the decision of the These figures represent the full company costs for the CEO (including social security charges, etc.) general meeting. The managing director receives remuneration in his capacity as CEO (see below). The The Hamon & Cie articles of association state that remuneration of the non-executive directors consists company managers may be granted a variable of both a fixed amount and an attendance fee per remuneration without applying the constraints laid meeting at which they are present. The Chairman down in Article 520 ter, al 2 of the Company Code. 61 — STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE receives a higher annual fixed amount in consideration Furthermore, no agreement has been entered into or of his advice and experience. extended with the CEO since 3 May 2010 providing for The fees paid to non-executive directors are subject any severance payment. No agreement will therefore to a proposal made by the Board of Directors to the be submitted for approval at the next general meeting. general shareholders’ meeting. These fees were last revised at the general meeting of 27 April 2010, which decided to allocate, effective as of 1 January 2009, a remuneration (fixed sum and attendance fees) to the directors for the performance of their duties of a maximum overall amount of EUR 240,000 per year (to be indexed annually on the basis of the consumer prices index of the month of January each year compared with its level in January 2008). The Board of Directors is responsible for determining the distribution of this overall amount among its members every year. REMUNERATION OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBERS Details of the 22,550 options to be exercised The remuneration of Executive Committee members granted to them in 2008 are given in Part 3, Financial consists of a fixed sum and a variable amount. Statements, Note 31, of this annual report. This option plan was submitted for the approval of the general The fixed sum is in line with international market meeting of 27 May 2008. The duration of this option practices for the various functions involved. plan was set at seven years and it consequently The purpose of the variable remuneration is to assure terminated in May 2015. None of the options was Executive Committee members that they are paid exercised. based on the performance of the Group on the one TOTAL REMUNERATION OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT hand and their personal performance on the other. In 2015, the total amount of remunerations and The variable remuneration is therefore related to the benefits in kind allocated to the Managing Director results of the business units and the Group and to the and members of the Executive Committee of the achievement of personal goals; the percentage of the company further to their positions in the company, its variable amount compared to the fixed remuneration subsidiaries and its associated companies amounted to depends on the importance of the function in terms of EUR 5,892,122. For more details, see note 43 of the its contribution to the results of the business units and consolidated financial statements. the Group. This percentage may be up to 200% of the fixed remuneration for certain positions and in certain 7. AUDITOR countries. The company accounts and consolidated accounts of Individual performances are subject to an annual the financial year ended on 31 December 2015 were assessment by the Managing Director, who takes into audited by Deloitte, Reviseurs d’Entreprises, SC s.f.d. account how far the mutually agreed objectives, set SCRL, Berkenlaan 8B, 1831 Diegem, represented by Mr the previous year, have been met. This analysis of the Pierre-Hugues Bonnefoy. performance of Executive Committee members and The auditor’s mandate was renewed by the general senior management is discussed by the Managing meeting of 22 April 2014 for three years, until the next Director in the Remuneration Committee. general meeting of 25 April 2017. The remuneration and other benefits granted to 8. APPROPRIATION OF THE PROFIT Executive Committee members (apart from Francis The company did not pay a dividend for the 2014 Lambilliotte) in 2015 were as follows (figures in EUR): financial year and will not pay a dividend for the 2015 Basic remuneration 2,086,285 financial year. Variable remuneration 1,230,408 9. CODE OF CONDUCT Pension (defined contribution ) 318,232 The Group had drawn up a Code of Ethics for all Other remuneration components its employees covering various aspects including (i) (benefits in kind/health insurance/death 223,224 compliance with the legal provisions on insider trading, benefit/disability allowance/guaranteed income/company car) (ii) prevention of conflicts of interest with the Group, Note : These figures represent the total company costs (including social (iii) observance of confidentiality in the exercising security charges). of their functions, (iv) correct and proper conduct in The Hamon & Cie articles of association state that the management of business, (v) the fight against company managers may be granted a variable corruption, (vi) respect for human rights. remuneration without applying the constraints laid This Code aims to increase awareness among 62 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 down in Article 520 ter, al 2 of the Company Code. employees regarding the need to respect a code of conduct when exercising their professional duties and Furthermore, no agreement providing for severance ensure that all staff members carry out their activities payment has to be submitted for the approval of the ethically and in compliance with the regulations in general meeting of 26 April 2016. force. The Code reflects the Group’s determination to STOCKS OPTIONS maintain a relationship of trust and professionalism Among the long-term incentives, the Executive with all its stakeholders. Committee members, the Managing Director and other Belgian and foreign executives in the Group received stock options granted during the 2008 financial year. This Code of Ethics was updated on 1 December 2014 the company, to increase the capital by contributions and is available on the company website, http://www. in kind or in cash, limiting or cancelling, if need be, the hamon.com/en/corporate/about-us/ corporate-socialpreferential rights of shareholders, including those in responsibility/ favour of one or more specific individuals. The Corporate Governance Charter published on the The extraordinary general meeting of 22 April 2014 Hamon website includes a section specifically on insider renewed this authorization for a three-year period until trading. the general meeting of 25 April 2017. 10. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Hamon & Cie articles of association also stipulate The procedure laid down in Article 523 of the Company that the company is authorized to buy its own shares Code on conflicts of interest was not implemented in on the stock market without necessarily making the course of 2015. an offer of acquisition to shareholders. The Board of Directors is authorized to dispose of company 11. COMPLIANCE WITH THE RULES ON MARKET ABUSE shares through the stock market or in any other way The Board of Directors has drawn up a set of rules in the cases provided for by law without the prior governing transactions and the public disclosure authorization of the general meeting. The Board is of transactions involving shares in the company, also authorized by the extraordinary general meeting derivatives or other financial instruments linked to to acquire or dispose of company shares to avoid them. The transaction regulations specify which any serious or imminent damage to the company, in information concerning these transactions must be accordance with the law. The extraordinary general disclosed to the market. The transaction regulations are meeting of 22 April 2014 renewed this authorization laid down in the Corporate Governance Charter. for a three-year period until the general meeting of 25 April 2017. 12. ELEMENTS LIKELY TO IMPACT ON ANY PUBLIC TAKEOVER BID Furthermore, the shareholders’ agreement signed Article 5 bis of the Hamon & Cie articles of association in June 2005 between Sopal International and states that the Board of Directors is authorized to the Walloon Region represented by Sogepa, as increase the company capital once or on several amended on 28 August 2007 and 22 July 2013, was occasions up to the sum of EUR 2,157,441.60. This replaced by a new shareholders’ agreement dated authorization is limited to five years; it can be renewed 8 October 2014. This agreement states that the once or on several occasions for a maximum period of Board of Directors of Hamon & Cie (International) five years each time, by the general meeting. Capital will henceforth consist of ten directors, five of whom increases decided upon further to this authorization will be presented by Sopal SA and two by Sogepa. may be effected in cash or in kind, or by the The independent directors are appointed upon incorporation of available or unavailable reserves or presentation by Sopal, after approval by Sogepa. share premiums, with or without the creation of new The agreement further states, as in the past, (i) that shares, whether preferential or not, with or without the parties will inform one another of their intention voting rights and with or without subscription rights. to reduce or increase their respective holdings in This authorization was renewed by the ordinary general Hamon & Cie, (ii) that a pre-emptive right exists in 63 — STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE meeting of 22 April 2014 for a period of five years, i.e. favour of the two parties and a right to buy in favour until the general meeting of 23 April 2019. of Sogepa should Sopal wish to sell its securities, and (iii) that a put option exists for Sogepa and a call option In the context of the authorization granted to it by for Sopal International. This is the framework in which the articles of association, the Board may decide to the appointment of two new directors was proposed issue bonds, subscription rights or option rights, just to the general meeting of 28 April 2015. as it may also cancel or limit the preferential rights of existing shareholders in the interests of the company and in accordance with the legal conditions, including in favour of one or more specific individuals or members of staff of the company or related companies. The extraordinary general meeting of Hamon & Cie also expressly authorized the Board of Directors, in the event of a public takeover bid for the shares of II. INTERNAL AUDITING AND RISK MANAGEMENT bodies, their working method and their composition. SYSTEMS IN THE COMPANY It should be remembered that Hamon has a Board 1. INTRODUCTION of Directors and specialized committees: an audit committee, a remuneration committee and an The law of 6 April 2010 on strengthening corporate appointment committee, while the day-to-day governance stipulates, in the context of the management is undertaken by the CEO, assisted by implementation of a European directive, that the an executive committee. declaration on corporate governance must contain a iii. A Code of Ethics, drawn up for the attention of description of the main characteristics of the internal all employees, as described in Section 9. Code of auditing and risk management systems of the Conduct on page 32. company as part of the process of preparing financial iv. An internal audit charter was also drawn up at the information. start of 2016. In compliance with the provisions of the Code, the 2. RISK CULTURE elements relating to risks other than those associated with the process of drawing up financial statements are Hamon adopts a cautious approach. The company also described. manages large-scale projects in various fields of activity, integrating innovative systems that boast At the proposal of the Audit Committee, the Hamon cutting-edge technology and effectively meet its Board of Directors approved the use as an initial customers’ needs, while applying stringent cost control. reference of the proposal drafted by the working group The projects undergo an in-depth risk analysis right set up by the Corporate Governance Commission of the from the quote preparation phase to ensure that they Federation of Belgian Businesses, the FEB, made up will continue to create value in the long term. of representatives of listed companies, the Institut des Réviseurs d’Entreprises, and the Institute of Internal 3. CLEAR MISSIONS Auditors Belgium (IIANel). i. The Hamon structure is based on its business units Moreover, the Board of Directors requested the (BUs), which fulfil a very clear role both in terms of Audit Committee to report to it every six months on product portfolio and as regards organization and the implementation of this reference framework and results. improvements to be made to it. ii. The internal organization is set out in charts and each employee has a description of his or her role Hamon has organized its internal auditing and risk and of the procedures for delegating authority. management by defining the audit environment iii. The Group also provides support functions for (general framework), identifying and classifying the the BUs through the IT, Legal, Corporate Finance, main risks to which it is exposed, analyzing its level Treasury and Human Resources departments of the of control of these risks and organizing an ‘audit parent company. of the audit’. The company also focuses particular iv. Control functions: attention on the reliability of the reporting and financial · Compliance is undertaken by the General Secretary. communication process. · The CFO is responsible for organizing risk 2. THE AUDIT ENVIRONMENT management and directly supervises the Controlling 1. ROLES AND VALUES OF THE COMPANY Team, in charge of the Group management control. · The BU managers are responsible for monitoring i. A Sustainable Development Charter – included in the industrial risks. our 2009 annual report – sets out the basis on which Hamon intends to develop its business, with 4. COMPETENT TEAMS 64 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 respect for the environment, human rights, the local i. DIRECTORS: communities among which it operates and its staff. The directors are selected for their experience and have It fosters values such as professionalism, corporate the necessary skills and qualifications to fulfil their culture, cultural diversity, team spirit and a ‘do it right responsibilities, in particular with regard to technology, the first time’ approach. See also the Vision, Mission finance, accounting, investment and remuneration and Values sections in the Group Profile part of this policy. report. ii. MANAGEMENT AND STAFF: ii. A Corporate Governance Charter – available for consultation on the website – was drawn up and Hamon staff undergo recruitment processes in line validated by the Board of Directors. This charter with the profiles sought and benefit from appropriate clearly defines the role of the various management training, in accordance with the job descriptions. 3. RISK ANALYSIS vi. Industrial risks (accidents), human risks or those The Group faces a series of risks associated with its linked to occupational diseases. activities and the extent and types of markets on which vii. Risks related to raw material prices. it operates. Hamon regularly performs an audit to 3 FINANCIAL RISKS identify and evaluate its risks. The Executive Committee meets with the Managing Director to assess any i. Interest rate risks. special business risks. The risks that the company has ii. Exchange risks. to deal with are mapped out. A formal action plan is drawn up for risks for which the control level is deemed iii. Liquidity risks. to be inadequate. The implementation of this action 4 SUPPORT RISKS plan is monitored by the Audit Committee. i. Human resources risks, that is the company’s The main risks are as follows: capacity to provide the skills and resources necessary for the fulfilment of its contracts. 1. STRATEGIC RISKS i. Risks linked to the economic and market ii. IT risks linked to the availability and safeguarding of environment. IT facilities and data required to achieve the Group’s ii. Competitive risks. objectives. iii. Uncertainties related to new environmental iii. Risks relating to disputes in which the Group is regulations and the time of their entry into force involved, the liquidation of Hamon Research-Cottrell (impacts mainly on Air Pollution Control activities). Italia or guarantees given in the framework of asset 65 — STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE iv. Risks linked to acquisitions, partnerships and disposals. activities abroad. iv. Internal financial risks such as the possibilities of 2. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES using deferred tax losses, impairments (impairment i. Customer risks: dependency on certain customers test) to be recorded on the book value of certain and customer credit risks. assets, liquidity risks or credit risks. ii. Supplier risks: this may include unsatisfactory products which do not meet the specifications or delays in delivery. iii. Technical risks relating to the design or proper implementation of certain projects. iv. Risks linked to guarantees given on projects. v. Risks linked to the environment, for example on Hamon customers’ sites or in its plants. 4. CONTROL MEASURES PUT IN PLACE 5. FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION Hamon takes steps to keep control of these risks The process of gathering financial information is as well as possible by means of an adequate risk organized as follows: management policy based on it project activities: 1. A schedule is drawn up of the tasks that have to i. Implementation of an adequate internal control be carried out as part of the company’s monthly, framework at Group level. quarterly, half-year and annual closings and those of its subsidiaries, along with their deadlines. ii. Analysis of technical, financial and implementation The Group has a check list of actions to be followed risks based on a check list that is tailored to the by the financial department. In addition, each different business units; this analysis is undertaken subsidiary draws up its own check list to enable it to prior to submitting quotes to our customers and is meet its specific needs. based on a system of delegation of authority. 2. The local teams produce the accounting figures iii. Monthly follow-up through business meetings of the under the supervision of the financial managers at progress of various Group projects. the subsidiaries. The books are kept either by the iv. Monthly and quarterly reporting on management, Group ERP – JD Edwards or, depending on the rolldisputes and the cash position. out programme or the size of the subsidiary, using software programs purchased locally and backed up v. Robust management control system for the Group by appropriate support contracts, or for the smallest to supervise the progress of projects and activities entities, by external service providers. It should be within the Group and guard against or issue noted that Hamon has a ‘disaster recovery’ plan and warnings should a problem arise. a ‘business continuity’ plan, the steps of which are vi. Quarterly review by the Executive Committee of the validated by IT safety auditors. state of business, disputes and risks. 3. The Controlling team of the subsidiary checks the As regards covering monetary risks, Hamon has put validity of the figures and produces the reports. The in place a risk management policy for interest rates, figures are checked using the following procedures: exchange rates and counter party risks: i. consistency tests by means of comparisons with i. Interest rate risks: these are managed by using past or budget figures; interest rate swaps (IRS) when the long rates exceed ii. spot checks on transactions and depending on certain limits set by the Group. their materiality. ii. Exchange risks: the positions in foreign currencies 4. At central level, the consolidation is carried out resulting from the fulfilment of our construction using a software package SAFRAN in which contracts are covered by derivatives (forward the input is undertaken locally by the subsidiaries. exchange rate contracts, swaps, NDF) when they The consolidation and reporting team prepares exceed the limits set by the Group. the consolidated figures and uses spot checks iii. Counter party risks: cash deposits and investments and consistency tests to verify the basic financial must comply with certain safety and liquidity criteria information. This central Controlling team takes an and only then with return criteria. active part, at least twice a year, in the business reviews of each of the subsidiaries of the business The monetary risk management policy is set by the units for which it is responsible. financial management of the Group and reviewed on a 5. Communication with members of staff and various 66 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 regular basis. Hamon employees is adapted to the size of the company. It is based mainly on the different press releases and sending internal messages by e-mail, business meetings or verbal communication between management and staff. 6. To ensure rapid communication and the equal treatment of shareholders, Hamon publishes the agenda and the minutes of general meetings, halfyear and annual financial results, press releases, the articles of association, the Corporate Governance Charter and the annual report on its website. 6. PARTIES INVOLVED IN THE MONITORING AND The main data relating to Hamon shares are EVALUATION OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT summarized below: The quality of the internal audit is assessed during the in EUR/action 2014 2015 course of the financial year: Average closing price 13.34 9.25 1. by means of the Group management control, as Maximum closing price 16.84 11.38 part of its quarterly reviews of each business unit Minimum closing price 8.70 7.07 and regular audits carried out at the subsidiaries Closing price as at 31 December 10.20 7.98 during which all the activities and key internal checks Average daily trading volume relating to contracts are reviewed. (number share / day) 3,899 3,773 2. by the Audit Committee. During the financial year, Total number of shares issued 9,009,654 10,556,905 as at 31 December the Audit Committee undertook a review of the halfTotal number of outstanding shares year closures and specific accounting treatments. as at 31 December 8,998,386 10,540,797 It reviewed the disputes and put all the questions Average number of 7,597,958 9,363,916 it deemed relevant to the Auditor and the Group outstanding shares Controller or to the senior management in the Stock market capitalization 91.9 84.2 company. as at 31 December (EUR million) 3. by the Auditor as part of his review of the half-year The total number of shares issued as at 31 December and annual accounts. During the financial year, the 2015 and the average number of shares issued rose Auditor put forward recommendations concerning in 2015 further to the capital increases of 7 October the keeping of the financial statements. 2015 (see below). 4. o  ccasionally by the Financial Services & Market The own stock repurchase programme put in place as Authority. part of a liquidity contract in 2013 is still in force. Own 5. The Board of Directors oversees the fulfilment of the shares held are not taken into account in the number tasks of the Audit Committee, mainly by means of of outstanding shares. A total of 40,042 shares were the reports submitted to it by this Committee. purchased and 35,202 shares were sold in 2015, resulting in a net purchase of 4,840 shares. The management of the Group – with the consent of the Audit Committee – has decided to reintroduce a The Hamon share price fell by 21.8%, while the BEL20 specific internal auditing function reporting directly to rose by 12.6% in 2015. the Audit Committee. This role will involve carrying out Since 1 January 2008 and the abolition of bearer audits on the basis of a plan approved by the Audit securities effective as of the end of 2013, Hamon Committee and coordinating the required procedures shares have been represented either by nominative and internal audits at Group level. inscription in the company share register or by inscription in a dematerialized securities account with a financial institution. The 1,253 bearer securities whose III. RELATIONS WITH OUR SHAREHOLDERS AND holders did not come forward by 31 December 2014 OTHER STAKEHOLDERS were sold on Euronext Brussels before 30 November 67 — STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 1. RELATIONS WITH OUR SHAREHOLDERS 2015 in accordance with the applicable legal provisions HAMON SHARES and the sum was deposited with the Deposit and Consignment Office. Shareholders still in possession Hamon shares are listed on the regulated Euronext of securities are invited to reclaim the proceeds of the Brussels market, on the continuous market, in trading sale corresponding to the bearer shares that they own group C (ISIN code: BE 0003700144). from the Deposit and Consignment Office. Hamon confirms that it has correctly applied the law in carrying out the dematerialization process and that it has received confirmation of this from the Auditor. CAPITAL INCREASES capital excluding the preferential right in favour of Hamon carried out two capital increases on 7 October Sopal International SA, thus taking the latter’s holding 2015 amounting to a total of EUR 14,916,954 to 66.82%. with a view to increasing its equity, reducing its COMPOSITION OF THE HAMON & CIE SHAREHOLDING BODY debt and purchasing the 39% stake held by Sopal In conformity with article 9 of the statutes of Hamon International SA in Esindus. & Cie (International) as amended on 27 May 2008, The extraordinary general meeting of 7 October 2015 shareholders whose stake exceeds 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, therefore issued 991,695 new shares at a price of 7.5%, 10% and thereafter every multiple of 5% are EUR 10 per share to remunerate the contribution in required to inform the company and FSMA (Financial kind of the stake held by Sopal International SA in Services & Market Authority) of this in accordance with Esindus; the Sopal International SA holding in Hamon the legal provisions on this matter. & Cie therefore increased to 64.98%. In accordance with the terms of the Royal Decree Moreover, at its meeting of 7 October 2015, in of 14 February 2008 on the public disclosure of the context of the authorized capital, the Board of major shareholdings, Hamon & Cie has received Directors issued 555,556 new shares at a price of notifications of the following holdings, which indicate EUR 9 per share in the context of the authorized the composition of the shareholding body as at 31 December 2015: Shareholder 31/12/2014 31/12/2014 31/12/2015 31/12/2015 Shares in % Shares in % Sopal International SA (1) 5,507,246 61.13% 7,054,497 66.82% Walloon Region, represented by the Société Wallonne de 1,009,091 11.20% 1,009,091 9.56% Gestion et de Participation SA (Sogepa) Esindus SA 303,506 3.37% 303,506 2.87% Own shares held by the company 11,268 0.13% 16,108 0.15% Other public 2,178,543 24.17% 2,173,703 20.59% Total 9,009,654 100% 10,556,905 100% (1) Acting in concert with the Walloon Region. 68 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Hamon Enviroserv team taking part in the Businesses Race in Essen. FINANCIAL CALENDAR Our employees are at the core of our performance. The statutory date of the general meeting was They represent our most valuable resource. It is from changed by the extraordinary general meeting held on their commitment, their know-how, their experience, 27 May 2008; since then, it has taken place on the their professional and human values that Hamon fourth Tuesday in April. derives its added value. The ‘Corporate Social Responsibility’ part of this report gives details of our General shareholders’ meeting 2016 commitments in this area. 26.04.2016 Our suppliers enhance our added value chain. Over Publication of quarterly review Q1 2016 time, we are building preferential relations with some 26.04.2016 of these suppliers. We want to ensure global sourcing Publication of first half-yearly results 2016 for the Group. This strategy enables us to develop 7.09.2016 stable relationships with our suppliers around the world General shareholders’ meeting 2017 with a guarantee of quality at competitive prices. 25.04.2017 We audit several suppliers on an annual basis. In RELATIONS WITH INVESTORS AND FINANCIAL addition to an audit in the strict sense of the term, this COMMUNICATION also provides an opportunity to exchange points of Christian Leclercq, Group Financial Director view and to hold detailed and constructive talks with them. Telephone: +32 10 39.04.22 Fax: +32 10 39.04.16 Lastly, the financial community helps us to develop: E-mail: christian.leclercq@hamon.com • the banks for our financial needs (loans and All financial information, including annual reports and guarantees as well as other commercial banking press releases, is also available on our website: www. tools). hamon.com. • financial analysts who assess our performance. Several times a year, we organize analyst meetings 2. RELATIONS WITH OUR OTHER STAKEHOLDERS to present the Group’s development and enable them Our development depends on our customers. We do to interact with us directly. our utmost to ensure that they are fully satisfied, as • the financial markets. stated in our Corporate Governance Charter (see Vision, Mission and Values sections in the Group Profile part). Hamon is aware that the contribution of each stakeholder adds to its success and performance. We are always eager to listen to them, be it via our Establishing a permanent dialogue in order to improve sales staff, our project managers, those working on our understanding of their expectations is the first step site or on a day-to-day basis through our participation towards assuming our corporate social responsibility. in industry meetings, our website or other means of communication. We pay particular attention to For this reason, we welcome comments, wishes and their pre-selection criteria in order to meet their other contributions from all our stakeholders: requirements for preferred suppliers: criteria relating to • from our staff: via the personnel department, the 69 — STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE economic aspects, quality, certification, health, safety, works councils (for the larger subsidiaries), the line the environment and ethics. management or the Compliance Officer. We seek to listen to them so as to promote best • from our other stakeholders: via their contacts at practices across the entire value chain of our products Hamon, our website, www.hamon.com, or their and services and in particular by passing them on to contacts indicated in the General Information section our suppliers. at the end of this report. 70 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 72 1. CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 100 — 21. Property, plant & equipment 73 2. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF 101 — 22. Available-for-sales financial assets COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 101 — 23. Deferred taxes 74 3. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 102 — 24. Inventories 75 4. CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 102 — 25. Construction contracts 76 5. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF 102 — 26. Trade and other receivables CHANGES IN EQUITY 103 — 27. Cash and cash equivalents 77 6. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 103 — 28. Share capital FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 104 — 29. Provisions for other liabilities and charges 77 — 1. General information 105 — 30. Provisions for post-employment benefits 77 — 2. Declaration of compliance and responsability 109 — 31. Share-based compensation (stock options) 77 — 3. Principal accounting standards 109 — 32. Financial liabilities 85 — 4. Key assumptions and estimates 110 — 33. Trade and other payables 87 — 5. Consolidated entities 111 — 34. Derivative instruments 88 — 6. Exchange rates used by the group 112 — 35. Financial assets and liabilities 89 — 7. Information by segment 113 — 36. Risk management policies 92 — 8. Revenue 117 — 37. Guarantees on the group assets 92 — 9. Operating expenses 117 — 38. Finance and operating lease agreements 93 — 10. Other operating incomes and expenses 118 — 39. Commitments 93 — 11. Non-recurring income (expenses) 118 — 40. Contingent liabilities 94 — 12. Net finance costs 119 — 41. Related parties 95 — 13. Income tax 120 — 42. Minority shares and joint-ventures 95 — 14. Changes of scope 122 — 43. Management compensation 96 — 15. Earnings per share 123 — 44. Staff 96 — 16. Cash flow from operating activities 123 — 45. Events after the balance sheet date 96 — 17. Cash flow from investing activities 123 — 46. Auditors’s fees 96 — 18. Cash flow from financing activities 124 7. S  TATUTORY ACCOUNTS OF HAMON & CIE 71 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 97 — 19. Intangible assets (INTERNATIONAL) SA 98 — 20. Goodwill 126 8. STATUTORY AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT in EUR ‘000’ Note 2015 2014 Revenue 8 698,627 606,381 Cost of sales (608,419) (515,886) Gross profit 90,208 90,495 Sales & marketing costs 9 (18,725) (15,672) General & administrative costs 9 (57,626) (58,668) Research & development costs 9 (2,830) (1,875) Other operating income / (expenses) 10 4,341 228 Operating profit before non-recurring items (REBIT) 15,369 14,508 Restructuring costs 11 (2,234) (1,409) Other non-recurring items 11 (5,407) (1,266) Operating profit (EBIT) 7,728 11,833 Interest income 12 205 357 Interest charges 12 (8,138) (7,703) Share of the profit (loss) of associates & joint-ventures 5 (3,176) (3,473) Result before tax (3,382) 1,014 Income taxes 13 (2,031) (141) Net result from continued operations (5,413) 872 Net result of discontinued operations (9) (3) Net result (5,421) 870 Equity holders of the company (5,048) 831 Non controlling interests (374) 38 EARNINGS PER SHARE 15 Continued and discontinued operations Basic earnings per share (EUR) (0.54) 0.11 Diluted earnings per share (EUR) (0.54) 0.11 Continued operations Basic earnings per share (EUR) (0.54) 0.11 Diluted earnings per share (EUR) (0.54) 0.11 72 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 2. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME in EUR ‘000’ 2015 2014 Net result (5,421) 870 Other comprehensive income 0 0 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to result 0 0 Reclassification of previously recognized changes in fair value 0 0 of available-for-sale assets to net result Change in fair value of hedging instruments 306 (145) Changes in currency translation reserve (1,433) 3,033 Items that may not be reclassified subsequently to result 0 0 Actuarial gains/loss on defined benefit plan 731 (597) Taxes (226) Other comprehensive income, net of taxes (622) 2,291 Comprehensive income (6,043) 3,161 Equity holders of the company (7,572) 2,363 Non controlling interests 1,529 798 73 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET in EUR ‘000’ Note 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 19 24,401 23,897 Goodwill 20 48,449 48,997 Property, plant & equipment 21 36,759 41,080 Investment in associates & joint-ventures 5 12,484 3,755 Deferred tax assets 23 28,448 27,185 Available-for-sale financial assets 22 2,181 1,980 Trade and other receivables 26 2,794 2,963 Derivative financial assets 34 407 155,516 150,263 Current assets Inventories 24 9,959 13,765 Amount due from customers for contract work 25 106,599 89,728 Trade and other receivables 26 173,416 143,981 Derivative financial assets 34 5,203 5,953 Cash and cash equivalents 27 109,337 138,987 Current tax assets 7,704 6,414 Available-for-sale financial assets 22 55 412,272 398,828 Total assets 567,788 549,091 EQUITY Share capital 28 2,555 2,188 Reserves 45,722 33,823 Retained earnings (452) 4,668 Equity attributable to the equity holders of the company 47,825 40,680 Non controlling interests 4,168 2,672 Total equity 51,993 43,352 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities 32 2,297 96,438 Provisions for pensions 30 5,467 6,157 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 29 57 323 Deferred tax liabilities 23 6,726 6,579 Other non-current liabilities 2,486 4,958 17,032 114,456 Current liabilities Financial liabilities 32 191,535 83,685 Amount due to customers for contract work 25 104,768 118,249 74 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Trade and other payables 33 187,057 166,364 Current tax liabilities 675 1,291 Derivative financial liabilities 34 11,258 16,771 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 29 3,471 4,923 498,763 391,284 Total liabilities 515,795 505,739 Total equity and liabilities 567,788 549,091 4. CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT in EUR ‘000’ Note 2015 2014 Cash flows from operating activities 16 Cash received from customers 654,315 735,231 Cash paid to suppliers and employees (694,274) (731,062) Cash generated from operations before taxes (39,959) 4,169 Other financial expenses and income (paid)/received 672 84 Income taxes paid (3,663) (5,524) Other cash received / (paid) Net cash from operating activities (42,950) (1,271) Restructuring costs (2,072) (1,439) Net cash from operations after restructuring (45,022) (2,710) Cash flows from investing activities 17 Dividends received 228 221 Proceeds on disposal of subsidiaries (net of cash disposed) Proceeds on disposal of PP&E 6,654 146 Proceeds/(Purchase) of available for sale financial assets (249) Acquisition of Subsidiaries (net of cash acquired) (1,965) Acquisition of PP&E (4,727) (4,662) Increase/(decrease) of government grants Disposal/(purchase) of other intangible assets (2,477) (1,619) Capitalized development costs (720) (1,030) Net cash from investing activities (3,256) (6,944) Cash flows from financing activities 18 Dividends paid to shareholders (74) (1) Dividends paid to non controlling interests (26) Capital Increase 5,000 20,000 Proceeds from issuance of shares to non controlling interests 662 Interest received 183 353 Interest paid (7,010) (4,729) Proceeds from bond issue 55,000 Proceeds from new bank borrowings 13,095 19,474 Repayment of borrowings (72,155) Net cash from financing activities 11,194 18,578 Other cash flow mouvements Other variations from discontinued operations (3) Net cash on acquisition of subsidiaries Other net cash flows (3) Net variation of cash and cash equivalents (37,083) 8,922 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 138,987 120,133 Impact of translation differences 7,433 9,932 75 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 109,337 138,987 Net variation of cash and cash equivalents (37,083) 8,922 76 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 5. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY in EUR ‘000’ Share Legal Share Retained Own AFS ShareHedging Defined Currency Equity Non Total capital reserve premium earnings shares reserve based reserve benefit translation Attribuable controlling equity payments pension reserves to equity Interests plans holders of the parent Balance at 1 January 2014 1,892 671 14,550 3,837 (92) 4 153 (757) (350) (1,277) 18,631 4,475 23,106 Comprehensive income 831 (145) (597) 2,274 2,363 798 3,161 Capital increases 545 19,455 20,000 955 20,955 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Dividends paid to shareholders (26) (26) Scope exit (3,521) (3,521) Other movements (249) (65) (314) (9) (323) Balance at 31 December 2014 2,188 671 34,005 4,668 (157) 4 153 (902) (947) 997 40,680 2,672 43,352 Balance at 1 January 2015 2,188 671 34,005 4,668 (157) 4 153 (902) (947) 997 40,680 2,672 43,352 Comprehensive income (5,048) 306 505 (3,335) (7,572) 1,529 (6,043) Capital increases 367 14,453 14,820 14,820 Dividends paid to shareholders (72) (72) (72) Other movements (43) 12 (32) (32) (64) Balance at 31 December 2015 2,555 671 48,458 (452) (200) 4 153 (596) (443) (2,325) 47,825 4,168 51,993 6. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 3. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ­STATEMENTS 3.1. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 1. GENERAL INFORMATION These consolidated financial statements have been preHamon & Cie (International) sa (hereafter called ‘Hamon’ pared in accordance with the International Financial or ‘the Company’) is a limited liability company under Reporting Standards. Belgian law. Its registered office is Axisparc, rue Emile They have been prepared on basis of the historical cost Francqui 2, B-1435 Mont-St-Guibert, Belgium; telephone: convention except for some financial instruments meas32 10 39 04 00. ured at fair value in conformity with IAS 39. The financial The principal activities of Hamon and the various subsidstatements are presented in thousands of Euros, rounded iaries of the Group are described in the first part of this to the nearest thousand. annual report. Standards and Interpretations that became applicable The legislation governing the activities of Hamon & Cie in 2015 (International) is Belgian law or the law of the countries in The accounting policies used for the preparation of the conwhich its subsidiaries are established. The country of origin densed consolidated financial statements are consistant of the Company is Belgium. with those used in the 2014 consolidated financial stateThe Company’s financial year begins on the 1 January and ments with the exception of the following new standards closes on the 31 December of each year. which are both in effect from annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015: The Company was founded on 31 December 1927 for an unlimited period. • IFRIC 21 – Levies The Company registration number is 0402.960.467. Adoption of these new standards did not cause any material impact on the consolidated financial statements of the 2. DECLARATION OF COMPLIANCE AND RESPONSABILITY Group and did not require restatement of past consoliThe consolidated financial statements were approved by dated financial statements used for comparison purposes. the Board of Directors on 29 February 2016. The Group has decided not to anticipate the application of We declare that to our knowledge: revised or new standards and interpretations. The applica• Th  e consolidated financial statements have been pretion of these revised or new standards and interpretations pared according to the International Financial Reporting should have no significant impact on the consolidated Standards (IFRS) as approved by the European Union. financial statements. (IFRS 9 – Financial instruments – IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers and • Th  e financial statements are a fair view of the assets, IFRS 16 – Leases are currently under review) . the financial situation and results of the Group. 3.2. CONVERSION OF FOREIGN CURRENCIES OPERATIONS • Th  e Management report is a fair review of the ongoing Foreign currency transactions (i.e. in a currency other than business, the results and the situation of the Group and the functional currency of the entity) are recorded at the it includes a description of the principle risks and uncerspot exchange rate on the date of the transaction. At each tainties which the Group is facing. closing date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated 29 February 2016. in foreign currencies are translated using the closing rate. Gains and losses arising from the settlement of foreign Francis Lambilliotte Christian Leclercq currency monetary items or on their re-evaluation at the Managing Director CFO closing date are recognized in the Income statement in the “Other operating income / (expenses)”; and in finance costs for gains / losses related to the financial debt. The assets and liabilities of the Group activities whose working currency is not the Euro are converted into Euros at the financial year’s closing rate. Income and charges are converted at the average rate of the period except if 77 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the exchange rates have been subject to major fluctuations. Resulting exchange gains and losses are accounted for as a distinct component of the equity. At the time of the disposal of an activity whose working currency is not the Euro, the accumulated deferred exchange gains and losses recorded under the ‘Translation reserve’ heading are reversed in the income statement. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Goodwill and other adjustments of the fair value ­resulting All intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, from the acquisition of an activity whose working currency expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between is not the Euro are treated as assets and liabilities of members of the Group are eliminated in full on consoli­ the activity and posted in accordance with the preceding dation. ­paragraph. Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in existing 3.3. CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements incorporate the Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in subsidiaries financial statements of the Company and entities (includthat do not result in the Group losing control over the subing structured entities) controlled by the Company and its sidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions. subsidiaries. Control is achieved when the Company: The carrying amounts of the Group’s interests and the •h  as power over the investee; non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the • is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any involvement with the investee; and difference between the amount by which the non-con•h  as the ability to use its power to affect its returns. trolling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognized directly in The Company re-assesses whether or not it controls an equity and attributed to owners of the Company. investor if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or listed above. loss is recognized in profit or loss and is calculated as the difference between (i) the aggregate of the fair value When the Company has less than a majority of the votof the consideration received and the fair value of any ing rights of an investor, it has power over the investor retained interest and (ii) the previous carrying amount of when the voting rights are sufficient to give it the practithe assets (including goodwill), and liabilities of the subcal ability to direct the relevant activities of the investor sidiary and any non-controlling interests. All amounts unilaterally. The Company considers all relevant facts and previously recognized in other comprehensive income circumstances in assessing whether or not the Company’s in relation to that subsidiary are accounted for as if the voting rights to an investor’s is sufficient to give it power, Group had directly disposed of the related assets or lia­including: bilities of the subsidiary (i.e. reclassified to profit or loss • t he size of the Company’s holding of voting rights relaor transferred to another category of equity as specified / tive to the size and dispersion of holdings of the other permitted by applicable IFRS). The fair value of any investvote holders; ment retained in the former subsidiary at the date when •p  otential voting rights held by the Company, other vote control is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recholders or other parties; ognition for subsequent accounting under IAS 39, when • r ights arising from other contractual arrangements; and applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an investment •a  ny additional facts and circumstances that indicate that in an associate or a joint venture. the Company has, or does not have, the current ability Investments in associates and joint ventures to direct the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns at previous An associate is an entity over which the Group has signifshareholders’ meetings. icant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when Hamon obtains the investor but is not control or joint control over those control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Company policies. loses control of the subsidiary. Specifically, income and A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the year are included in the consolidated statement of the net assets of the joint arrangement. Joint control is the profit or loss and other comprehensive income from the contractually agreement sharing of control of an arrangedate the Company gains control until the date when the ment, which exists only when decisions about the relevant 78 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Company ceases to control the subsidiary. activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing Profit or loss and each component of other comprehencontrol. sive income are attributed to the owners of the Company The results and assets and liabilities of associates or joint and to the non-controlling interests. Total comprehensive ventures are incorporated in these consolidated financial income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the statements using the equity method of accounting, except Company and to the non-controlling interests even if this when the investment, or a portion thereof, is classified as results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balheld for sale, in which case it is accounted for in accordance. ance with IFRS 5. Under the equity method, an investment When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognized in statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting polithe consolidated statement of financial position at cost cies into line with the Group’s accounting policies. and adjusted thereafter to recognize the Group’s share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of When the Group reduces its ownership interest in an the associate or joint venture. When the Group’s share associate or a joint venture but the Group continues to of losses of an associate or a joint venture exceeds the use the equity method, the Group reclassifies to profit or Group’s interest in that associate or joint venture (which loss the proportion of the gain or loss that had previously includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form been recognized in other comprehensive income relating part of the Group’s net investment in the associate or joint to that reduction in ownership interest if that gain or loss venture), the Group discontinues recognizing its share of would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of further losses. Additional losses are recognized only to the the related assets or liabilities. extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive When a group entity transacts with an associate or a joint obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate venture of the Group, profits and losses resulting from the or joint venture. transactions with the associate or joint venture are recogAn investment in an associate or a joint venture is nized in the Group’s consolidated financial statements only accounted for using the equity method from the date on to the extent of interests in the associate or joint venture which the investor becomes an associate or a joint venthat are not related to the Group. ture. On acquisition of the investment in an associate or Put options on non-controlling interests a joint venture, any excess of the cost of the investment Other non-current liabilities include, amongst others, put over the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identifioptions granted by the Group to non-controlling interests. able assets and liabilities of the investor is recognized as As no specific guidance is provided by IFRS, the Group goodwill, which is included within the carrying amount of has adopted the following accounting treatment for these the investment. commitments: Any excess of the Group’s share of the net fair value of • payments of dividends to non-controlling interests result the identifiable assets and liabilities over the cost of the in a decrease of the other non-current liability; investment, after reassessment, is recognized immedi• in the consolidated income statement, controlling interately in profit or loss in the period in which the investment ests are allocated their share in income. In the consolis acquired. idated balance sheet, the share in income allocated to non-controlling interests increases the other non-current The Group discontinues the use of the equity method from liability. the date when the investment ceases to be an associate In the case of a fixed-price put, the liability corresponds to or a joint venture, or when the investment is classified as the present value of the strike price. held for sale. When the Group retains an interest in the former associate or joint venture and the retained interest In the case of a fair value or variable-price put, the liability is a financial asset, the Group measures the retained interis measured based on estimates of the fair value at the est at fair value at that date and the fair value is regarded consolidated balance sheet date or contractual conditions as its fair value on initial recognition in accordance with applicable to the exercise price based on the latest availaIAS 39. ble information. 3.4. INTANGIBLE ASSETS The difference between the carrying amount of the associate or joint venture at the date the equity method was disIntangible assets are recognized if it is probable that the continued, and the fair value of any retained interest and future economic benefits attributable to the assets will any proceeds from disposing of a part interest in the assoflow to the Group and if their costs can be measured reliciate or joint venture is included in the determination of the ably. After initial recognition, an intangible asset shall be gain or loss on disposal of the associate or joint venture. carried at its cost less any accumulated amortization and In addition, the Group accounts for all amounts previously impairments. recognized in other comprehensive income in relation to Patents, Trademarks and Similar Rights that associate or joint venture on the same basis as would Patents and trademarks with a finite life are initially measbe required if that associate or joint venture had directly ured at cost and are amortized on a straight-line basis over disposed of the related assets or liabilities. Therefore, if a the shorter of their useful lives or their contractual period. gain or loss previously recognized in other comprehensive income by that associate or joint venture would be reclasPatents and trademarks with an indefinite life are subject 79 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS sified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets to an annual impairment test. or liabilities, the Group reclassifies the gain or loss from Development Costs equity to profit or loss (as a reclassification adjustment) In-house development costs are capitalized as intangible when the equity method is discontinued. assets only if all following conditions are met: The Group continues to use the equity method when an • An identifiable asset has been created (such as software investment in an associate becomes an investment in a and new processes); joint venture or an investment in a joint venture becomes • It is probable that the asset will generate future ecoan investment in an associate. There is no re-measurement nomic benefits; to fair value upon such changes in ownership interests. • The asset’s development costs can be measured reliably. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The development phase starts when the new products, At the time of the sale of a subsidiary or a jointly conprocesses or software programs (‘Identifiable Asset’) are trolled entity, the relevant goodwill is included in the deterdefined. The objective consists of developing an Identimination of the result of the sale. Goodwill on associated fiable Asset, which fulfils the customers’ technical and companies is presented under ‘Investments In Associated qualitative requirements or enables the customers’ requireCompanies’. ments to be met at a lower cost for the Company. The 3.5. TANGIBLE ASSETS development activities are based on the results obtained An item of property, plant and equipment is recognized as from industrial research or from existing knowhow and a tangible asset if it is probable that the future economic are generating profit. This condition is reviewed each year benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group in order to determine the project’s profitability potential. and if their costs can be measured reliably. Development costs are amortized over a maximum period of 5 (five) years. When the above recognition criteria is not After the initial accounting, all tangible assets are stated met, the development expenditure is charged to expenses. at cost less the accumulated depreciation and impairment Other internally generated intangible assets losses. The cost includes all the costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necExcept for development costs meeting the above condiessary for it to be capable of operating in the intended tions, costs linked to any other internally generated intanmanner. gible element such as brands, customer lists, goodwill, research costs are charged to expenses and are not capRepair and maintenance costs and other subsequent italized. expenditure linked to an asset are charged as expenses in the income statement of the financial year during which Goodwill they are incurred. Recognition of goodwill Application of IFRS 3 revised as of 1 January 2010, leads The depreciable amount of an asset is allocated systemthe Group to separately identify business combinations atically over its useful life using the straight-line method. carried out before and after this date. The depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for use. The estimated useful lives of the most significant • Business combinations carried out prior to 1 Januelements of tangible assets are as follows: ary 2010 Goodwill recognized during a business combination is Description Useful Life accounted for as an asset, being the excess of the cost of a business combination over the Group’s interest in Land No depreciation the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabiliAdministrative buildings 33 years ties and contingent liabilities recognized. Industrial buildings 33 years Machines 10 years The initial accounting for business combinations is not EDP equipment 4 years restated. Other equipment 10 years  Any adjustments to the consideration transferred Leasehold Improvements 10 years in these business combinations changes their initial Tools 4 years accounting and leads to a matching adjustment to goodFurniture 10 years will. Vehicles 4 years • Business combinations carried out after Depreciation charges are posted to operating expenses by 1 January 2010 reference to the function of the underlying assets (cost of Goodwill is measured as the excess of the aggregate of: sales, selling & marketing expenses, general and administration costs, research and development costs). 1. the consideration transferred; 2. the amount of any non-controlling interests in the Gains or losses arising from the sale or disposal of tangible acquiree; and assets are determined as the difference between the sale 3. in a business combination achieved in stages, the proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are 80 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 acquisition-date fair value of the previously held charged to the income statement under ‘Other Operating equity interest in the acquiree over the net of the Income / (Expenses)’. acquisition-date fair values of the identifiable assets The Group has elected to use the cost model for the measacquired and the liabilities assumed. urement of property, plant and equipment. Therefore items Goodwill recognized on the acquisition date is not subof property plant and equipment may not be carried at a sequently adjusted. re-valued amount after their initial recognition. Measurement of goodwill Goodwill is not depreciated but it is tested for impairment at least once a year. Any impairment loss is charged to the income statement. An impairment loss accounted for on goodwill cannot be reversed at a later date. 3.6. IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS When a financial asset or financial liability is recognized iniExcept for intangible assets in progress that are tested tially, it is measured at its fair value plus (in case of finanfor impairment annually, tangible and intangible assets are cial asset) or minus (in case of financial liability) transaction subject to an impairment test only when there is an indicacosts except for financial assets at fair value through tion that their carrying amount exceeds their recoverable income statement. amount. Fair value is defined as the amount for which an asset If an asset does not generate cash flows independently of could be exchanged or a liability settled between knowlthose other assets, the Group makes an estimate of the edgeable willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. Fair recoverable value of the Cash Generating Unit to which value of a financial liability will be for instance, the cash the asset belongs. The recoverable value is the highest received from the lenders when the liability is issued. of either the fair value less costs to sell or the value in There are four categories of financial assets: use. If the recoverable value of an asset (cash generating • Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (desunit) is lower than its carrying amount, an impairment loss ignated by the entity or classified as held for trading); is immediately recognized as an expense in the income • Held-to-maturity investments; statement either in “Other Operating Expenses” or in • Loans and receivables; impairment loss on non-current assets. • Available-for-sale financial assets. When an impairment is reversed at a later date, the carryThere are two categories of financial liabilities: ing amount of the asset (cash generating unit) is increased • Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss; to the revised estimate of its recoverable value, without • Other financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. however being higher than the carrying amount which Subsequently, would have been determined if no impairment had been • the fair value changes in financial assets and liabilities at recognized for this asset (cash generating unit) during prefair value through profit or loss are recognized through vious periods. the income statement. 3.7. LEASE • the fair value changes in available for sale assets are Agreements Capital Leases recognized directly in the equity until the asset is sold or A lease is classified as a finance lease if it substantially is identified as impaired. Then the cumulative gain / loss transfers the entire risks and rewards incidental to ownerthat had been recognized in equity shall be removed and ship to the lessee. The other lease agreements are classirecognized in income statement. fied as operating leases. • investments in equity instruments that are not quoted in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably At the commencement of the lease term, the Group recogmeasured by an alternative pricing method are evaluated nizes finance leases as assets and liabilities in its balance at cost. sheet at amounts equal to the lower of fair value of the • loans and receivables, held-to-maturity Investments and leased property or the present value of the minimum lease other financial liabilities are measured at amortized cost payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. using the effective interest rate method, except for fixed The corresponding liability is posted in the obligations term/time deposits, which are valued at cost. under finance leases. The minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts of the outstanding liability. The finance charge is allocated estimated future net cash settlements or receipts through to each period during the lease term so as to obtain a conthe expected life of the financial asset or liability to its net stant periodic interest rate on the remaining balance of carrying amount. the liability. Leased assets are depreciated over their estiTrade and Other Receivables (Payables) mated useful life consistently with the method applicable Receivables and payables are recognized using the amorto similar depreciable assets owned by the Group. tized cost method i.e. the discounted value of the receivOperating Leases able. Based on a thorough and detailed review of the Lease agreements that do not substantially transfer the receivables and their specific risk of no –recoverability; entire risks and rewards incidental to ownership to the lesappropriate impairment losses are recognized in case of see are classified as operating leases. The lease payments expected default of payments. 81 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS are recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over Cash and Cash Equivalents the period of the rental agreement. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and 3.8. FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES demand deposits together with short-term, highly liquid Financial assets or liabilities are recognized on the balance investments, that are readily convertible into a known sheet at the date of the transaction, which corresponds to amount of cash, that have a maturity of three months or the date on which the entity contractually commits to buy less, and that are subject to an insignificant risk of change or sell an asset. in value. These elements are taken into the Balance Sheet at their nominal value. Bank overdrafts are included in the current financial liabilities. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equity Instruments b) Derivatives which do not qualify for hedging Any contract that exhibits a residual interest in the assets The changes of fair value of derivative financial instruof an entity after deducting all of its liabilities is an equity ments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are instrument. Equity instruments issued by the Company are immediately recognized in the income statement. measured at their fair value net of issuance costs. c) Derivatives qualifying for accounting treatment Loans & borrowings through the work in progress account (WIP) Loans and borrowings are initially recognized at fair value, If a derivative financial instrument hedges variations in plus or minus transaction costs. They are subsequently cash flow relating to a recognized liability, a firm commeasured at amortized cost using the effective interest mitment or an expected transaction in the frame of a method. Any subsequent change in value between the fair contract (mainly forward purchases of raw materials, or value and the settlement value (including the redemption foreign exchange purchases or sales), a documentation premium to be received or paid) is recognized in the income of the cash flow hedge relationship as described in secstatement over the period of the borrowing (effective intertion a) here above will not be prepared. Any gain or loss est rate method). The borrowing issuance costs related to resulting from the derivative financial instrument is recmixed facilities including debt and bank guarantee lines ognized in the income statement as a financial income agreement are prorated between the different lines and or expense. presented in deduction of the financial liabilities on the These instruments are however submitted to a test of balance sheet. Those costs are amortized on the duration efficiency based on the same methodology as utilized of the borrowing. Regularly the revolving facility is comfor hedge accounting. pletely utilized. Amounts borrowed as part of the “Credit The effective part of any gain or loss on the financial Revolving Facility” are accounted for under ‘Non-current instrument is recognized as a cost of the contract and is Financial Liabilities’ when the maturity of those borrowing deferred into a work in progress account (WIP). are above one year and the Group has the possibility to This element is however not considered for determining roll-over them at its discretion. the percentage of completion of the contract. Derivative Financial Instruments d) Derivatives qualifying for net investment hedge The Group enters into derivative financial instruments to  Derivatives financial instruments hedging net investmanage its exposure to interest rate risks arising from ments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly financing activities and foreign exchange rate risks arising to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the hedging from operational activities (cash flow hedges). The Group’s instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge policy is not to enter into speculative transactions nor issue is recognized in other comprehensive income and accuor hold financial instruments for negotiation purposes. mulated in the foreign currency translation reserve. The Derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recogtheir fair value and are subsequently revaluated to their nized immediately in profit or loss. Gain and loss on the fair value at each reporting date. hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge accumulated in the foreign currency translaa) D  erivatives qualifying for cash flow hedge tion reserve are reclassified to profit or loss in the same The effective portion of changes in the fair value of way as exchange differences relating to the foreign derivative financial instruments qualifying as cash flow operation. hedges are immediately deferred in equity. Gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognized Stock options in the income statement. Share options are measured at their fair value at the When the forecast transaction that is hedged results in date of grant. This fair value is assessed using the Black the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, then & Scholes option pricing model and is expensed on a the gains or losses previously deferred in the equity are straight-line basis over the vesting period of these rights, transferred from equity and included in the initial meastaking into account an estimate of the number of options urement of the cost of the asset or liability. that will eventually vest. 82 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 When the forecast transaction that is hedged results 3.9. INVENTORY in the recognition of a financial asset or liability, then the gains or losses previously deferred in the equity are Inventory is carried at the balance sheet at the lower of recycled in the income statement in the periods when cost and net realizable value. The cost of inventory includes the hedged item is recognized in the income statement. the cost of purchase of direct materials, the cost of conHowever if it is likely that part of or the whole cumuversion (including manufacturing costs) and other costs lative result posted in equity will not be offset in the incurred in bringing the inventory to their present location future period(s), the (portion of the) result unlikely to be and condition. The cost of interchangeable inventory items offset is recognized in the income statement. is determined using the weighted average cost method. The net realizable value is the estimated selling price less the estimated costs of completion and the estimated distribution, selling and marketing costs. 3.10. POST-EMPLOYMENT AND OTHER LONG TERM 3.11. PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Provisions are recognized if and only if the Group has a Post-employment benefits are classified in two categories: present obligation (legal or constructive) arising from defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans. a past event, which will probably result in an outgoing ­payment for which the amount can be reliably estimated. Defined Contribution Plans Contributions paid for defined contribution plans are recProvisions for guarantee are recognized upon delivery of ognized as expenses when employees have rendered the the product, on basis of the best estimate of the expendiservices giving rights to those contributions. ture necessary for the extinction of the Group’s obligation. Those provisions take into account the specific risks related The Group Hamon offers defined contribution pension to the contract, the market, the technical constrains and plans with a minimum return guaranteed to the Belgian results from an agreement between technical, business affiliates. Therefore those plans are defined benefit plans and financial managers. and have been reclassified as such in this annual report. Provisions for restructuring are recognized only after the For more details, please refer to note 30. Group has adopted a detailed formal plan that has been publicly announced to the parties involved before the closDefined Benefit Plans ing date. For defined benefit plans, the amount recognized in the Provisions are measured at their present value where the balance sheet as a net liability (asset) corresponds to the effect of the time value of money is material. difference between the present value of future obligations and the fair value of the plan assets. 3.12. INCOME Income is recognized when it is probable that the future If the calculation of the net obligation gives rise to a sureconomic benefits attributable to a transaction will flow plus for the Group, the asset recognized for this surplus is to the Group and if its amount can be measured reliably. limited to the present value of any future plan refunds or any reduction in future contributions to the plan. Revenues are measured at the fair value of the counterpart received or to be received and represent amounts to Cost of defined benefits include cost of services and net be received following the supply of goods or the rendering interest on the net liability (asset) recognized in net results of services in the course of the ordinary activities of the (respectively in cost of goods sold distribution and marGroup. keting expenses, general and administration expenses and R&D expenses for the cost of services, and as financial • Sales revenues are recognized once the delivery has expenses (income) for the net interests), as well as the been made and when the transfer of the risks and benerevaluations of the net liability (asset) recognized in other fits has been completed. comprehensive income. • Construction contracts revenues are recognized in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies relating The present value of the obligation and the costs of serto construction contracts (see below). vices are determined by using the “projected unit credit • Interest revenue are computed based on the time method” and actuarial valuations are performed at the end passed, the outstanding liability and the effective interof each reporting period. est rate, which is the rate that exactly discounts future The actuarial calculation method implies the use of actucash flows through the expected life of the financial arial assumptions by the Group, involving the discount asset to its net carrying amount. rate, evolution of wages, employee turnover and mor• Dividends are recognized when the shareholder’s right to tality tables. These actuarial assumptions correspond to receive the payment is established. the best estimations of the variables that will determine 3.13. CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS the final cost of post-employment benefits. The discount rate reflects the rate of return on high quality corporate When the outcome of a construction contract can be estibonds with a term equal to the estimated duration of the mated reliably, the contract’s revenues and costs are recpost-employment benefits obligations. ognized in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the closing date. The contract stage 83 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other long-term employee benefits of completion is determined by dividing the actual costs The accounting treatment of other long-term employee incurred at closing date by the total expected costs to benefits is similar to the accounting treatment for post-emcomplete the contract. ployment benefits, except for the fact that revaluations When the outcome of a construction contract cannot be of the net liability (asset) are accounted for in the income estimated reliably, the revenue is recognized only to the statement. extent that the contract costs incurred are expected to The actuarial calculations of post-employment obligations be recoverable. The costs of the contract are recognized and other long-term employee benefits are performed by in the income statement during the period in which they independent actuaries. are incurred. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An expected loss on a construction contract is immediately Current income taxes for current and prior periods are calrecognized as an expense as soon as such loss is probable. culated based on the tax rates that have been enacted by the balance sheet date as well as adjustments related to Contract revenues include the initial agreed amount of the previous periods. contract, the agreed change orders as well as forecasted incentive payments and forecasted claims only if it is probDeferred taxes originate from temporary differences i.e. able that the incentives / claims will be accepted and if differences between the carrying amounts of assets and their amounts can be measured reliably. liabilities in the balance sheet and their tax base. Deferred Contract costs include the direct costs attributable to the taxes are measured at the tax rates that are expected to contracts and the costs relating to the general contracting apply to the period when the asset is realized or the liabilactivity to the extent that they can reasonably be allocated ity is settled based on tax rates that have been enacted or to the contract. Tender costs are included in contract costs substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. only if they can be identified separately and measured reliDeferred tax liabilities related to financial assets in subsidably, and if it is probable that the contract will be obtained. iaries are not recognized, since the Group does not expect The amounts included under the ‘Amounts Due From that the timing difference will be reversed in the foreseeCustomers For Contract Work’ correspond to the costs able future. incurred plus the margin (less the losses) recognized on Deferred tax assets are recognized for the deductible temcontracts in excess of the advances billed to the customporary differences as well for the carry forward of unused ers for contracts for which this difference is positive. While tax losses and credits to the extent that it is probable the amounts included under the ‘Amounts Due To Customthat future taxable profits will be available against which ers For Contract Work’ correspond to the advances billed the deductible temporary differences and the unused tax to the customers in excess of the costs incurred plus the losses and credits could be utilized. margin (less the losses) recognized on contracts for other contracts. The carrying value of the deferred tax assets is reviewed 3.14. OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE NON-RECURRING ITEMS at each closing date. They are impaired when it becomes (REBIT) unlikely that the deferred tax assets will be utilized against The operating profit before non-recurring items is a manfuture taxable profits. agement result allowing a better understanding of the 3.17. DISCONTINUED BUSINESS recurring performance of the Group by excluding unusual or infrequent items. A discontinued operation is a portion of an entity that either is being or has been sold or disposed by the Group. For the Group, those items are: • r estructuring costs; This portion of entity represents a significant separate •n  et impairment losses on non-current assets; major line of business or geographical area of operations • c hanges in consolidation scope and; and can be distinguished on the operational field and for •o  ther non-recurring items such as gains / losses on the the communication of financial information. sale of available-for-sale financial assets. Besides general information detailing discontinued oper3.15. GOVERNMENT GRANTS ations, the financial statements disclose the amounts of Government grants related to staff costs are recognized assets and liabilities, the profit or loss and the tax charge as income over the periods necessary to match them with as well as the net cash flows are attributable to the operthe related costs which they are intended to compensate ating, investing, and financing activities of discontinued on a systematic basis. operations. Government grants related to tangible assets are preAssets classified in discontinued operations or held for sale sented in deduction of the property, plant and equipment’s are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and carrying amounts. These grants are recognized as income their fair value less costs to sell. They are not depreciated over the life of the depreciable assets. anymore but they are considered for impairment upon any 84 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 indication of a decrease of their net realizable value. Repayable government grant are transferred to financial liabilities. 3.18. BORROWING COSTS 3.16. INCOME TAXES Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, Income taxes include both current and deferred taxes. construction or production of qualifying assets, which are They are recognized in the income statement except if assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time they relate to elements recognized directly in equity, in to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to which case they are posted to equity. the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. The current tax is the amount of income tax payable / recoverable in respect of the taxable profit/loss for a All other borrowing costs are recognized in profit or loss in period. the period in which they are incurred. 4. KEY ASSUMPTIONS AND ESTIMATES • the risk of penalties charged by customer(s) in case of delay or lower than contractually guaranteed perforWithin the framework of preparation of its consolidated mance. financial statements, the Group must, on certain occasions, formulate assumptions and/or carry out estimates Direct costs are allocated to the contracts and indirect affecting the balance sheet and/or the income statement. costs are allocated based on timesheets. Management bases its estimates on its previous experiThe total expected costs of contracts can therefore vary, ence and formulates certain assumptions that seem reasometimes significantly, from one closing to another sonable taking into account the circumstances. However, depending on the stage of completion and complexity of despite the prudence with which these assumptions and the contracts estimates are determined, the general economic environment, unpredictable exogenous events or the execution DEFERRED TAX ASSETS of contracts may lead to significant differences between Deferred tax assets are recognized by the Group for estimates and actual results. deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses Accounting estimates and their key assumptions are reexonly if it is probable that sufficient future taxable profits amined regularly and the effects of their revisions are will be available to use them within a given time limit. reflected in the financial statements of the corresponding The value of those assets is regularly reviewed by the manperiod. agreement and requires the use of estimates, including Estimates are used in: future expected profit of the entities where such assets • t he assessment of impairment losses / write-offs on curare recognized. rent and non-current assets; More details can be found in note 23. • in the estimate of the result and percentage of completion of construction contracts in progress; • in the assessment of the residual lifetime of tangible and intangible fixed assets except for the goodwill; • in the provisions for pensions, restructuring and potential litigations; and • in the assessment of the recoverability of the deferred tax assets. Critical assumptions and accounting estimates which could cause a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and / or liabilities within the next financials period(s) are listed below. IMPAIRMENT TEST OF GOODWILL The Group performs an impairment test on goodwill of all its cash generating units at least once a year. This exercise requires the management to use assumptions, estimates and variation ranges (EBITDA multiples, levels of bookings, growth rate, …) coming from internal as well as external sources. Further details are provided in note 20. CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS – EXPECTED PROFIT AND PERCENTAGE OF COMPLETION ESTIMATE As explained in the accounting standards (see page 87), both the percentage of completion and the final expected profit (or loss) of construction contracts in progress at any given closing date depend on a reliable estimate of the 85 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS costs still to incur to finish those contracts. Estimates must therefore be made, at each closing date, for: • t he time to be spent by employees (and sometimes subcontractors) to finish the contracts; • Th  e cost of material, equipment and other; •m  iscellaneous expenses still to be ordered; •e  xchange rate to be used for purchase orders (from customers and / or suppliers) in foreign currencies; and 86 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5. CONSOLIDATED ENTITIES The following table mentions the list of subsidiaries owned by the Group as of 31 December 2015 and 2014. Subsidiary Country % Group interest 2015 2014 1. Subsidiaries consolidated by full integration method Hamon & Cie (International) SA Belgium Parent company Hamon & Cie (International) Finance SCS Belgium Wound up 100% Hamon Thermal Europe SA Belgium 100% 100% Hamon Research-Cottrell SA Belgium 100% 100% ACS Anti Corrosion Structure SA Belgium 100% 100% Compagnie Financière Hamon S.A. France 99.95% 99.1% Hamon Thermal Europe (France) S.A. France 99.95% 99.1% Hamon D'Hondt S.A. France 99.95% 99.1% Hamon Research-Cottrell S.A.R.L. France 99.95% 99.1% Hacom Energiesparsysteme GmbH Germany 100% 100% Hamon Thermal Germany GmbH Germany 100% 100% Hamon Research-Cottrell GmbH Germany 100% 100% Hamon Enviroserv GmbH Germany 100% 100% Hamon UK Ltd. Great Britain 100% 100% Hamon Dormant Co. Ltd Great Britain 100% 100% Hamon (Nederland) B.V. Netherlands 100% 100% Hamon Polska Sp. z.o.o. Poland 100% 100% Hamon Esindus Latinoamerica SL Spain 69.4% 50% Hamon Research-Cottrell do Brazil Brazil 100% 100% Hamon Do Brazil Ltda. Brazil 100% 100% Hamon Custodis Cottrell (Canada) Inc. Canada 100% 100% Hamon Esindus Latinoamerica Limitada Chile 69.4% 50% Hamon Esindus Latinoamerica SA de CV Mexico 69.4% 50% Hamon Corporation United States 100% 100% Hamon Custodis Inc. United States 100% 100% Hamon Deltak Inc. United States 100% 100% Hamon Research-Cottrell Inc. United States 100% 100% Thermal Transfer Corporation United States 100% 100% Research-Cottrell Cooling Inc. United States 100% 100% Hamon Holdings Corporation United States 100% 100% Hamon (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd. South Africa 74% 74% Hamon Australia (Pty) Ltd. Australia 100% 100% Hamon Thermal (Tianjin) Co., Ltd China 100% 100% Hamon Research-Cottrell (Shanghai) Co., Ltd China 60% 60% TS Filtration Environmental Protection Products (Shanghai) Co., Ltd China 60% 60% Hamon Thermal & Environmental Technology (Jiaxing) Co. Ltd China 69.8% 65.9% Hamon Trading (Jiaxing) Co.,Ltd. China 69.7% 62.8% Hamon Asia-Pacific Ltd China (Hong Kong) 100% 100% 87 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Hamon Research-Cottrell (HK) Ltd. China (Hong Kong) 60% 60% Hamon India PVT Ltd. India 100% 100% Hamon Research-Cottrell India PVT Ltd. India 100% 100% P.T. Hamon Indonesia Indonesia 99.6% 89.7% Hamon Korea Co Ltd. South Korea 99.6% 89.7% Hamon Korea Youngnam Ltd. South Korea 50.8% 45.8% Hamon Malaysia SDN. BHD. Malaysia 100% 100% Hamon B.Grimm Ltd. Thailand 49.2% 49.2% Hamon Termal ve Çevre Sistemleri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Turkey 99.6% 99.6% FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Subsidiary Country % Group interest 2015 2014 2. Subsidiaries consolidated by equity method Esindus SA Spain 38.89% 0% Hamon D’Hondt Middle East Company Ltd Saudi Arabia 39.6% 39,6% Hamon Shriram Cottrell PVT Ltd (1) India 50% 50% Hamon Cooling Towers Company FZCo United Arab Emirates 50% 50% 6. EXCHANGE RATES USED BY THE GROUP Exchange rates for 1 EUR Period-end rate Average rate 2015 2014 2015 2014 UAE Dirham AED 3.9988 4.4593 4.0759 4.8761 Australian Dollar AUD 1.4897 1.4829 1.4834 1.4748 Brazilian Real BRL 4.3117 3.2207 3.6971 3.1109 Canadian Dollar CAD 1.5116 1.4063 1.4207 1.4661 Chilean Peso (100) CLP 7.7315 7.3742 6.6419 6.9601 Chinese Yuan CNY 7.0608 7.5358 6.9669 8.1882 Pound Sterling GBP 0.7340 0.7789 0.7261 0.8054 Hong-Kong Dollar HKD 8.4376 9.4170 8.6030 10.2997 Indonesian Rupiah (100) IDR 150.3999 150.7610 148.9231 157.5192 Indian Rupee INR 72.0215 76.7190 71.2052 81.0613 South Korean Won (100) KRW 12.8078 13.2480 12.5608 13.9740 Mexican Peso MXN 18.9145 17.8679 17.6270 17.6539 Malaysian Ringgit MYR 4.6959 4.2473 4.3267 4.3454 Polish Zloty PLN 4.2639 4.2732 4.1845 4.1890 Saudi Riyal SAR 4.0841 4.5555 4.1628 4.9796 Thai Baht THB 39.2480 39.9100 38.0308 43.2073 Turkish Lira TRY 3.1765 2.8320 3.0254 2.8996 U.S. Dollar USD 1.0887 1.2141 1.1098 1.3071 South African Rand ZAR 16.9530 14.0353 14.1589 14.3627 88 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 7. INFORMATION BY SEGMENT and directors’ salaries, share of profits of associates and investment revenues, to the extent that they can be alloThe Group is organized in four Business Units: Cooling Syscated to a segment, but before finance costs. This is the tems, Process Heat Exchangers, Air Quality System and measure regularly presented to the chief operating deciNAFTA. Additional Business Unit information is presented sion maker for the purposes of resources allocation and in the first part of this annual report. assessment of segment performances. The results of a segment and its assets and liabilities The COMEX is the operational decision maker for all the include all the elements that are directly attributable to it Business Units. as well as the elements of the income, expenses, assets and liabilities that can reasonably be allocated to a segThe accounting policies of the reportable segments are ment. Segment profit represents the profit earned by each the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in segment after allocation of central administration costs note 3. in EUR ‘000’ Cooling Process Heat Air Quality NAFTA Non Elimination Total Systems Exchangers System allocated For the period ended 31 December 2014 Revenue third party 266,851 41,965 121,493 176,415 (343) 606,381 Inter-segment revenue 270 2,250 3,033 30 403 (5,986) Total revenue 267,121 44,215 124,526 176,445 60 (5,986) 606,381 Operating profit before non-recurring 14,508 4,667 (13,562) 3,199 19,280 924 items (REBIT) Non-recurring items (1,309) (239) (1,131) (19) 23 (2,675) Operating profit (EBIT) 3,358 (13,801) 2,068 19,261 947 11,833 EBiTDA 8,418 (12,371) 3,899 21,023 2,024 22,993 Interest income 357 357 Interest charges (7,703) (7,703) Share of the profit/(loss) of associates (3,473) (3,473) Result before tax 1,014 Income taxes (141) (141) Net result from continued operations 872 For the period ended 31 December 2015 Revenue third party 311,482 45,243 130,571 212,405 (1,074) 698,627 Inter-segment revenue 249 1,162 105 11,239 1,266 (14,021) Total revenue 311,731 46,405 130,676 223,644 192 (14,021) 698,627 Operating profit before non-recurring 15,369 7,255 (12,158) 3,819 13,971 2,483 items (REBIT) Non-recurring items (1,128) (5,465) (405) 36 (679) (7,641) Operating profit (EBIT) 6,127 (17,624) 3,415 14,007 1,804 7,728 EBiTDA 11,005 (10,405) 4,685 16,015 3,815 25,115 Interest income 205 205 Interest charges (8,138) (8,138) Share of the profit/(loss) of associates (3,176) (3,176) Result before tax (3,382) 89 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income taxes (2,031) (2,031) Net result from continued operations (5,413) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER ELEMENTS OF THE INCOME STATEMENT in EUR ‘000’ Cooling Process Heat Air Quality NAFTA Non Total Systems Exchangers System allocated For the periodr ended 31 December 2014 Depreciation and amortization (3,751) (1,191) (700) (1,743) (1,100) (8,485) Impairment of goodwill (Impairment) / reversal of impairment on inventory (27) 235 208 (Impairment) / reversal of impairment on trade (1,937) (975) (295) (261) (406) receivables (Increase) / decrease in provisions (323) (236) 60 66 (433) For the periodr ended 31 December 2015 Depreciation and amortization (3,750) (1,738) (866) (2,044) (1,332) (9,730) Impairment of goodwill (Impairment) / reversal of impairment on inventory (83) (83) (Impairment) / reversal of impairment on trade (708) (179) (470) (44) (14) receivables (Increase) / decrease in provisions (781) (202) 308 (194) (869) BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION in EUR ‘000’ Cooling Process Heat Air Quality NAFTA Non Total Systems Exchangers System allocated As of 31 December 2014 Total assets 139,499 56,647 94,865 63,244 194,836 549,091 Total liabilities 135,457 31,049 72,714 51,139 215,379 505,738 Capital expenditures 2,750 919 959 1,189 5,817 As of 31 December 2015 Total assets 181,878 49,693 86,010 74,667 175,540 567,788 Total liabilities 152,873 20,433 72,007 45,363 225,118 515,795 Capital expenditures 2,343 2,485 529 788 2,052 8,197 90 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 All assets and liabilities (except for cash and cash equivaThe split of revenue and non-current assets per régions or lent, financial debts and current/deferred tax assets and countries is as follows: liabilities) are allocated to reportable segments. The analysis of Group’s revenue per type of activity is indicated in note 8. Revenue in EUR ‘000’ 2015 2014 Belgium 6,634 8,032 France 47,713 42,339 Germany 34,976 32,757 Great Britain 15,594 23,580 Other Europe (incl. Russia) 38,248 67,674 Total Europe 143,525 174,383 Canada 5,372 5,927 USA 230,269 187,346 Total USA + Canada 235,641 193,273 Brazil 9,765 14,648 Mexico 23,392 3,108 Dominican Republic 18,816 13 Other Latin America 6,084 14,061 Total Latin America 58,057 31,829 Saudi Arabia 86,387 62,833 South Africa 4,009 4,611 Other Middle East & Africa 30,143 15,397 Total Middle East & Africa 120,540 82,841 China (incl. Hong Kong) 50,104 71,866 India 6,207 2,764 South Korea 33,354 17,424 Thailand 4,303 7,913 Other Asia-Pacific 46,895 24,087 Total Asia-Pacific 140,864 124,054 Total World 698,627 606,381 Non current assets*in EUR ‘000’ 2015 2014 Belgium 17,846 18,203 Brazil 7,069 9,512 China 18,080 17,777 South Korea 2,827 6,302 United States 40,319 37,727 France 15,775 16,437 India 396 379 Others 7,298 7,636 Total 109,609 113,973 (*) Excluding financial and deferred tax assets. 91 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8. REVENUE the NAFTA Business Unit increases accordingly but also thanks to the good execution of contracts. The Cooling Group’s revenue (excluding discontinued operations) Business Unit volume increases thanks to a high backlog. increased by 15%. The breakdown by type of activities is as follows: US dollar appreciation impacts the revenue by EUR 27 million or 4.4% of the consolidated turnover. The revenue of in EUR ‘000’ 2015 2014 Construction contracts & manufacturing 693,912 600,714 Spare parts & services 4,643 3,313 Royalties 72 2,354 Total 698,627 606,381 in EUR ‘000’ 2015 2014 Cooling Systems 311,797 267,121 Heat exchangers 46,405 44,216 Air Quality Systems 266,226 211,701 Energy recovery 67,026 59,794 Chimney 27,829 38,085 Elimination -20,655 -14,535 Total 698,627 606,381 9. OPERATING EXPENSES in EUR ‘000’ 2015 2014 Gross remuneration 96,217 86,805 Employer's contribution for social security 13,463 13,089 Other personnel costs 5,296 3,834 Charges/costs of the personnel 114,976 103,728 Depreciation & amortization 9,730 8,485 Other operating expenses 44,102 47,097 Total gross operating expenses 168,808 159,310 Costs allocation (1) (89,628) (83,095) Total net operating expenses 79,180 76,215 Sale & marketing costs 18,725 15,672 General & administrative costs 57,626 58,668 Research & development costs 2,830 1,875 Total net operating expenses 79,180 76,215 Average Headcount 1,777 1,695 (1) Costs of time spent by employees on development projects, proposals and customer contracts. Net operating costs are increasing by 4% in compariThat additional workforce as well as the employment of 92 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 son with 2014. This increase is mainly explained by the other temporary workers not taken into consideration exchange rate EUR / USD. in the global workforce explains the increase in payroll charges. Those charges are absorbed by the contracts, The increase in staff is due to employment of temporary which explain that the allocation increases by 7%. workers in Brazil in order to ensure the contracts execution. Employees under permanent contracts are stable and under control. 10. OTHER OPERATING INCOMES AND EXPENSES The operating income and expenses are broken down as follows: in EUR ‘000’ 2015 2014 Dividends and other financial income 228 221 Profit/(loss) on disposals of assets 995 120 Exchange differences, net 719 874 (Impairment)/reversal of impairment of current assets (1,122) (1,937) Other misc. operating income/(expenses) 3,522 951 Total 4,341 228 The increase is broken down as follow: •G  ain on disposal through the sale of a building and a land subventions in Korea; reinvoicing of some operating expenses to the sub• Increase of other incomes due to: sidiaries which are booked as project costs (therefore reimbursement of taxes included in the gross margin). 11. NON-RECURRING INCOME (EXPENSES) in EUR ‘000’ 2015 2014 Restructuring costs (2,234) (1,409) Impact of Changes in consolidation scope Impairment / reversal of impairment on non-current assets Gain/(loss) on disposal of AFS Other (5,407) (1,266) Other non-recurring items (5,407) (1,266) Total (7,641) (2,675) The cost of non-recurring items increased compared to pre“Other non-recurring items” are mainly impacted by writevious years. off of some non-operating receivables. Restructuring costs amounted to a total of EUR 2,234 thousand, are distributed among several entities of the Group and therefore do not represent a reorganization of a specific entity. 93 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12. NET FINANCE COSTS The detail of net finance costs is as follows: in EUR ‘000’ 2015 2014 Interest charges (6,656) (7,187) Amortized cost treatment (1,151) (1,428) Costs related to anticipated reimbursement Other borrowing costs (332) 912 Factoring costs (70) (346) Other finance costs (5,211) (4,275) Unrealised FX loss on LT loans (735) Unrealised FX gain on LT loans 5,684 5,533 Finance costs (8,138) (7,703) Interest income 205 357 Interest income 205 357 Total (7,934) (7,346) Interest charges on the debt of the Group have decreased pany loans denominated in foreign currencies; partially in 2015 compared to 2014, despite of the issuance of offset in “Other finance costs” by a negative fair value EUR 55,000 thousand senior bonds with a fix rate at of EUR 158 thousand on the far leg of an FX swap con5.50% which was weighting a full year, contrary to 2014. tracted at the end of the year (see note 35) to manage This is the combined result of the reimbursement of a the settlement of an FX forward transaction entered in credit line in Brazil bearing high interest rates, and historAugust 2014 for the purpose of hedging a part of those ical low interest rates in the Euro zone. This caption also long term intercompany loans; and by the settlement in includes the cost of carry coming from the setup of Inter2015 of the above mentioned FX forward transaction for est Rate Swaps and Cross Currency IRS (see note 35) and EUR 3,482 thousand. Also, under “Other finance costs” the pre-financing interests on without recourse factoring were reported the costs related to a refinancing program transactions. on federal debt taxes with the Brazilian Government (PAES) for EUR 248 thousand. The caption “Amortized cost treatment” includes the amortization of setup costs of the syndicated credit facilities The average cost of the debt is at 3.18% over 2015. With signed on 17 December 2009 and on 4 July 2011 and of an unchanged notional amounts for the Interest Rate the senior bonds with a fix rate at 5.50% due in 2020. Swaps (IRS) and Cross Currency IRS, and an average gross debt in 2015 similar to the one of 2015, the cost of carry Amongst other, the section “Other borrowing costs” had no impact on the average cost of the debt. On the includes commitment fees remunerating the unused part contrary, as borrowings in Brazil with high interest rates of syndicated credit; and utilization fees on the borrowwere reimbursed early 2015, the average cost of the debt ings contracted under the “revolver” credit line of the consequently decreased. If the amortized setup costs are last syndicated credit. This section also includes in 2015 included in the analysis, the effective interest rate is 3.68% unrealized foreign exchange losses reported by our Brain 2015. zilian companies on long term intercompany loans in Euro and US Dollar for EUR 735 thousand. It also includes Interest income in 2015 is lower due to the decrease in unrealized foreign exchange gains at the parent holding short term interest rates. The low return rates reflect the level of EUR 5,684 thousand (unrealized exchange gains prudent management followed by Hamon in its investof EUR 5,533 thousand in 2014) on long term intercomments in a low interest rate environment. 94 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 13. INCOME TAX in EUR ‘000’ 2015 2014 Components of tax (expense)/income (2,031) (141) Related to current year (6,627) (9,694) Related to past years 4,596 9,553 Current tax (3,623) (5,386) Related to current year (4,272) (6,152) Related to past years 649 766 Deferred tax 1,592 5,245 Related to current year (2,355) (3,542) Related to past years 3,947 8,787 Reconciliation of Group income tax charge Result before tax (3,382) 1,014 Share of the profit (loss) of a Joint Venture (3,176) (3,473) Result before tax and before share of the profit (loss) of Joint Ventures (206) 4,487 Domestic income tax rate 33.99% 33.99% Group theoretical income tax charge 70 -33.99% (1,525) -33.99% Utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised (72) -35.0% 422 -9.4% Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other juridictions 14 6.7% (1,972) 43.9% Withholding tax on intra group dividend distribuition 0.0% 0.0% Deferred tax assets not recognised (6,486) -3,153.8% (6,551) 146.0% Transactions exempt from taxes 0.0% 0.0% CVAE (1) (257) -125.0% (253) 5.6% R&D tax credits 104 50.6% 185 -4.1% Income tax expense related to current year (6,627) -3,222.5% (9,694) 216.0% (1) Contribution on the company added value. The non-recognition of differed tax assets for an amount of EUR 6,486 thousand combined with the average tax rate (close to 40%) in the US, where the Group realized most of its profits in 2015 & 2014, weighed heavily on the income tax expenses of the year. 14. CHANGES OF SCOPE The consolidation scope is comparable to the scope on • Hamon Esindus Latinoamerica SL Spain 31 December 2014. The main change is coming from the • Hamon Esindus Latinoamerica Limitada Chile acquisition of 38.9% of Esindus SA in October 2015 which • Hamon Esindus Latinoamerica SA de CV Mexico is consolidated through the equity method. Those changes of percentage of interest have no impact This acquisition has involved also the increase of the peron the Group result because those affiliates were fully concentage of interest of the Group in the following affiliates: solidated in 2014. 95 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15. EARNINGS PER SHARE CONTINUED AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS net result for the year attributable to the equity holders The basic earnings per share coming from the continued of the Company by the weighted average number of outand discontinued operations are calculated by dividing the standing shares during the fiscal year: in EUR ‘000’ 2015 2014 Net result (equity holders of the Company) -5,048 831 Weighted average number of outstanding shares during the year 9,363,916 7,597,958 Basic earnings per share (EUR/share) -0.54 0.11 The weighted average number of outstanding shares is cal17. CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES culated based on the numbers in note 28. Net cash flow from investing activities amounts to Taking into account the Hamon shares owned by EsinEUR -3.3 million in 2015, lower than the previous year dus SA, the average number of outstanding shares is (EUR -6.9 million). The investments of the year are mainly 9,060,410 and the basic earnings per share -0.56 EUR/ related to: share. • t he sale of a building in Korea; • t he capital increase of Hamon Shriram Cottrell PVT Ltd The basic earnings per share are identical to the diluted (joint-venture consolidated by the equity method); earnings per shares. Indeed, given their strike price, the • investments in Research and Development; stock options granted to Group employees have no diluting impact as of 31 December 2015 (see note 31). • investments in IT (network, management tools, softwares,…); CONTINUED OPERATIONS • investments for recurring replacements. The basic earnings per share coming from the continued 18. CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES operations is calculated by dividing the net result coming from the continued operations of the year attributable to The cash flow from financing activities amounts to the equity holders of the Company by the weighted averEUR 11,194 thousand in 2015, and is mainly the result age number of outstanding shares during the fiscal year. of the EUR 5,000 thousand capital increase paid in cash in Hamon & Cie (International) s.a. completed on 7 October DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 2015 (see note 28). The basic and diluted earnings per share for the discontinued operations amounted to +EUR -0,00 per share on ‘Proceeds from new bank borrowings’, at EUR 13,095 thou31 December 2015 (EUR + 0,00 on 31 December 2014), sand, were mainly the net result from reimbursements of calculated on the basis of the net result of the discontintreasury bills (EUR 16,468 thousand), a leasing in the US ued operations of EUR -9 thousand in 2015 (EUR +3 thouand bank borrowings in Korea (EUR 4,596 thousand); and sand in 2014) and of the denominators detailed above. drawdowns of loans in India (EUR 1,501 thousand) and under the syndicated credit facility dated 4th July 2011 16. CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES (EUR 32,658 thousand), see note 32. Despite the increase in revenue, the cash generated from The Group did not distribute any advance dividend for the operations, at EUR -40.0 million, decreased compared to year 2015 and didn’t pay any dividend for the 2014 period. 2014 (EUR +4.2 million). The year 2015 has been impacted by a higher working capital. We invite you to consult note 12 for the information on interests received and paid during the year 2015. Please note that the project execution cycles on the one hand and the typology of in-progress orders during a year on the other hand may have a significant impact on the cash flow. The change in “product mix” of Hamon to large 96 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 export business and/or including civil engineering and erection works also have a swelling effect on the working capital. Hamon has implemented a program to sell without recourse trade receivables for respectively EUR 60,000 thousand and EUR 57,281 thousand as of 31 December 2015 and 2014. The cash flow from operating activities mentioned here above takes those programs into account. 19. INTANGIBLE ASSETS in EUR ‘000’ Patents and Development Total trade marks costs As of 31 December 2013 Cost 24.026 21.001 45.027 Accumulated amortization and impairment (11.810) (10.590) (22.400) Net carrying amount 12.216 10.411 22.627 For the year ended 31 December 2014 Exchange difference 773 974 1.747 Additions 1.621 1.030 2.651 Disposals (2) (197) (199) Amortization charge for the year (1.509) (2.266) (3.775) Derecognized on disposal of a subsidiary Transferred from an account to another 737 109 846 Net carrying amount at closing date 13.836 10.061 23.897 As of 31 December 2014 Cost 27.155 22.917 50.072 Accumulated amortization and impairment (13.319) (12.856) (26.175) Net carrying amount 13.836 10.061 23.897 For the year ended 31 December 2015 Exchange difference 738 914 1.652 Additions 2.428 720 3.148 Disposals 0 (207) (207) Amortization charge for the year (1.636) (2.408) (4.044) Derecognized on disposal of a subsidiary Transferred from an account to another (2.221) 2.176 (45) Net carrying amount at closing date 13.145 11.256 24.401 As of 31 December 2015 Cost 28.100 26.520 54.620 Accumulated amortization and impairment (14.955) (15.264) (30.219) Net carrying amount 13.145 11.256 24.401 Except for trademarks acquired through the acquisition During 2015, Hamon Group focused on its stability, of Deltak in 2011, all intangible assets have a definitive improvement and security of its systems through the utility period on which the assets are amortized. externalization of its network infrastructure. Besides Hamon kept on deploying its ERP by enlarging the usDeltak trademarks (EUR 6,522 thousand as at 31 Deer’s perimeter to Asia and by implementing the ERP in cember 2015 against 5,847 thousand as at 31 DecemGermany and in the USA. Those costs are shown in the ber 2014 because of the foreign exchanges impact) have category “Patents and Trademarks”. an utility period that is not limited in time and the Group intends to keep them in use in the future. Impairment Development costs (mainly in Belgium and in the USA) tests on Deltak trademarks are performed together with are an integral part of the activity of some entities which impairment tests on goodwill (see note 20). allows Hamon to increase the value of the assets. Those costs are the outcome of the Group Research and DeIn 2015, amortizations were booked on development velopment program. costs that were incurred and which relate to a thermic 97 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS storage study applied to the extension of solar thermoHalf of the intangibles assets are held by the US entidynamic energy not used yet. ties and are therefore strongly impacted by the USD/ EUR exchange rate fluctuation. The amortization charge is under ‘General & Administration costs’. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20. GOODWILL in EUR ‘000’ As of 31 December 2013 Cost 50,504 Accumulated amortization and impairment (1,531) Net carrying amount 48,973 For the year ended 31 December 2014 Exchange difference 2,530 Entry / changes in consolidation scope (2,506) Net carrying amount at closing date 48,997 As of 31 December 2014 Cost 50,528 Accumulated amortization and impairment (1,531) Net carrying amount 48,997 For the year ended 31 December 2015 Exchange difference (548) Entry / changes in consolidation scope Net carrying amount at closing date 48,449 As of 31 December 2015 Cost 49,980 Accumulated amortization and impairment (1,531) Net carrying amount 48,449 The only variations in 2015 are due to foreign exchange legal entities being generally decided on the basis of operimpacts (US dollars and Brazilian Real mainly). ational optimization criteria’s. The Group annually performs an impairment test of goodThe recoverable value of cash generating units was deterwill in conformity with the accounting principles detailed mined, for CGU that include a significant goodwill compared under note 3. to generated EBITDA, on the basis of the value in use and for the others on the basis of their fair value decreased by The Hamon Group considers that the CGU correspond to the sale expenses related to those cash generating units. the segments described under note 7. Indeed, the segments constitute operational entities, integrated on a The following table includes on the one hand, the goodwill management, commercial, operational and technological and on the other hand, the method used in order to perlevel, the allocation of resources between business and form impairment tests: in EUR ‘000’ Goodwill at Value Fair value less Goodwill at 31/12/2015 in use costs to sell 31/12/2014 Cooling Systems 3,997 v 4,169 Process Heat Exchangers 1,743 v 1,743 Air quality systems 28,501 v 30,191 NAFTA 14,208 v 12,893 Total 48,449 48,997 98 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 In the absence of signed transactions or data coming from valuation of Hamon shares done in October 2015 for the an organized market, fair value less costs to sell is esticapital increase (valuation supported by an audit report). mated based on the best information available to reflect Those business plans are mainly based on the budget the amount that an entity could obtain from the sale of approved by the Board for the first year of the plan and for an asset from a transaction in the conditions of normal the following ones: competition. Hamon estimates those values based on • the expected new orders (price & margin), statistics of M&A transactions of comparable companies, • the P&L impact of the backlog and the future bookings, derived from multiples on EBITDA, multiples most gener• the overheads and the allocation of a part of them to ally used by investors or strategic acquirers. the projects, Taking into account size and liquidity criteria’s, Hamon has • the financial costs, retained for its activities a multiple of 7 (along with a sensi• the taxes. tivity test with 5 & 6) which is supported by an audit report issued in October 2014 within the capital increase operaAfter the projection period, Hamon uses a growth rate tions. For this audit report, a study has been done to comof 1%. The WACC retained is 9%, based on the analyst pare eight companies with the same profile than Hamon reports that follow Hamon (WACC before taxes: 10.3%). and to calculate the ratio Enterprise Value / EBITDA and a Sensitivity analysis are performed on booking levels median of 9 had been retained. This value had been con( -15%), growth rate (1%) and WACC (+ 1,5%). In every firmed in a new report (October 2015) concerning the valcase, the tests performed showed that impairment risks uation of Hamon. were unlikely. This multiple is applied to actual EBITDA’s as they are Assumptions 2015 2014 derived from management accounts of the Group, Multiple 7 5 reviewed by the Board of Directors. Those values are thereWACC 9.0% 10.5% after compared to CGU values in consolidation, eventually Growth rate 1.0% 1.5% corrected to take into account values of non-operational assets or liabilities that are not reflected in the EBIDA’s. The increase of the multiple is explained by a recent major The entire tests that are performed using this method transaction on a competitor in 2015. show an absence of impairment risk on the targeted CGU. A decrease of the multiple reduces the coverage but not The WACC takes into account a review of the risk-free rate below 120% for any concerned CGU. in 2015. The value in use has been obtained by applying the DCF The growth rate has been decreased due to the low inflamethod to the business plan prepared together with the tion rate and the economic environment. 99 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21. PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT in EUR ‘000’ Land Furniture Plant, Other Assets under Total and buildings and vehicles machinery tangible construction and equipment assets and advance payments As of 31 December 2013 Cost 28,758 5,534 42,502 1,419 4,939 83,151 Accumulated depreciation (9,945) (4,053) (24,922) (920) 2 (39,838) Net carrying amount 18,813 1,481 17,580 499 4,941 43,313 For the year ended 31 December 2014 Exchange difference 1,398 99 1,574 12 137 3,220 Additions 670 495 2,653 115 776 4,709 Disposals (28) 9 (1) (20) Depreciation charge for the year (1,038) (409) (3,184) (78) (4,709) Entry / changes in consolidation scope (1,126) (145) (3,047) (1,011) (5,329) Transferred from an account to another 271 (21) 2,084 (2,439) (105) Net carrying amount at closing date 18,988 1,472 17,669 547 2,404 41,080 As of 31 December 2014 Cost 29,971 5,934 45,775 1,545 2,402 85,627 Accumulated depreciation (10,983) (4,462) (28,106) (998) 2 (44,547) Net carrying amount 18,988 1,472 17,669 547 2,404 41,080 For the year ended 31 December 2015 Exchange difference 1,081 40 1,057 4 11 2,193 Additions 798 393 3,318 284 273 5,066 Disposals (5,197) (221) 0 (476) (5,894) Depreciation charge for the year (1,145) (415) (3,862) (264) (5,686) Entry / changes in consolidation scope Transferred from an account to another (1) 1 0 Net carrying amount at closing date 14,525 1,268 18,182 571 2,212 36,759 As of 31 December 2015 Cost 26,653 6,145 50,150 1,833 2,210 86,992 Accumulated depreciation (12,128) (4,877) (31,968) (1,262) 2 (50,233) Net carrying amount 14,525 1,268 18,182 571 2,212 36,759 Hamon rents plants, machinery and equipment based on During the year, Hamon proceeded to disposals which leasing contracts. The value of those assets is included in ­generated gains such as for example with the sale of an “lands and buildings” and amounts to EUR 2,058 thouoffice building in Korea. Hamon also sold a land in Belgium. sands at 31 December 2015 (EUR 4,092 thousands at Investments were made at different levels in order to 31 December 2014). The amount of “plants machinery and acquire new equipment (EUR 856 thousands) and machinequipment” includes EUR 114 thousands of assets under ery (EUR 1,943 thousand) including a workshop and the 100 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 lease contracts at 31 December 2015 (EUR 365 thourenovation of the roof of a factory in France but also the sands at 31 December 2014). acquisition of second hand “finning machines” in a Korean In 2015, Hamon acquired tangible assets for subsidiary for a total amount of about EUR 1,500 thouEUR 5,053 thousands. sands. 22. AVAILABLE-FOR-SALES FINANCIAL ASSETS in EUR ‘000’ Non-current Current For the year ended 31 December 2014 Balance at opening date 2,633 1 Additions Disposals (1) Transfer from one caption to another (737) Impairment charge Reversals of impairment charge Fair value adjustment Other variations 1 Exchange difference 83 Balance at closing date 1,980 For the year ended 31 December 2015 Balance at opening date 1,980 Additions 177 54 Disposals Transfer from one caption to another Other variations Exchange difference 25 1 Balance at closing date 2,181 55 Non-current available-for-sale financial assets are investOtherwise, Hamon also owns some available-for-sale ments in companies in which the Group holds no notable financial assets at their fair value. influence. 23. DEFERRED TAXES Deferred taxes by category Assets Liabilities in EUR ‘000’ 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 Temporary differences Intangible assets (3,576) (3,341) Property, plant & equipment 81 36 (1,154) (1,069) Construction contracts 1,351 761 (5,253) (4,876) Provisions 1,981 1,807 (409) (639) Finance lease contracts (400) (400) Others 1,979 922 (1,275) (864) Total temporary differences 5,392 3,526 (12,067) (11,189) Tax losses and other tax credits 28,397 28,269 Total deferred tax assets/liabilities 33,789 31,795 (12,067) (11,189) Compensation of assets and liabilities per tax entity (5,341) (4,610) 5,341 4,610 Total, net 28,448 27,185 (6,726) (6,579) Deferred tax assets are recognized only if their use is prob• the expected new orders (price & margin), 101 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS able that is to say if sufficient taxable benefit is expected • the P&L impact of the backlog and the future bookings, in the future years. For this review, the Group considers • the overheads and the allocation of a part of them to a maximum period of five years that takes into account the projects, expected future profits and income tax effects for the enti• the financial costs. ties reviewed. Almost all recognized deferred tax assets are not limited in time. Those business plans are mainly based on the budget approved by the Board for the first year of the plan and for the following ones: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24. INVENTORIES in EUR ‘000’ 31/12/15 31/12/14 Raw materials & consumables 7,115 8,470 Inventories and WIP not related to construction contracts 500 981 Finished goods 2,344 4,314 Total 9,959 13,765 As of 31 December 2015, write-offs accounted for on inventories amounted to EUR 749 thousand (EUR 659 thousand as at 31 December 2014). 25. CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS in EUR ‘000’ 31/12/15 31/12/14 Contract costs incurred and recognised profits (less recognised losses to date) 1,281,712 1,145,615 Progress billings (1,279,881) (1,174,136) Total 1,831 (28,521) Amount due from customers for contract work 106,599 89,728 Amount due to customers for contract work (104,768) (118,249) Total 1,831 (28,521) Contracts in progress, i.e. those for which the guarantee acceptance of orders by our customers rather than the period has not yet started, are maintained on the balgrowth of our activities. Invoicing that took place during ance sheet. The variation of both costs incurred and down the exercise was lower than the actual costs incurred on payments billed to customers are linked to the timing of those projects. 26. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES in EUR ‘000’ 31/12/15 31/12/14 Trade receivables 128,163 103,351 Impairment of doubtful receivables (2,467) (1,999) Trade receivables net 125,696 101,352 Retentions 238 (0) Prepayments 22,327 12,673 Cash deposits and guarantees paid 1,393 1,340 Receivables on related parties 1,436 3,807 Other receivables 25,121 27,773 Total 176,210 146,944 Non-current Trade and other receivables Receivables on related parties 369 369 Cash deposits and guarantees paid 1,222 1,224 Other non-current receivables 1,203 1,369 Less: non-current receivables (2,794) (2,963) 102 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Trade and other receivables current 173,416 143,981 As of 31 December 2015 amount of trade receivables for The amount of trade receivables increased by EUR 25 milEUR 60,000 thousand (EUR 57,281 thousand in 2014) lion of which EUR 16 million are explained by the activhave been assigned without recourse to financial organizaity development in Mexico that was almost nihil previous tions and are deducted from the section ‘Trade receivables’ year. Trade receivables also increased in our American subaccording to criteria included in IAS 39. sidiaries. For credit risk exposure, Hamon contracted credit insurOther receivables consist of VAT receivables and income ance. Local practice sometimes requires that customers taxes. retain a percentage on payments (called retention) until the final acceptance of the contract. This percentage is generally limited to 10%. 27. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS in EUR ‘000’ 31/12/15 31/12/14 Credit Institutions 104,887 135,541 Cash in hand 51 97 Fixed income securities Short term cash deposits 4,399 3,349 Cash and cash equivalents 109,337 138,987 On 31 December 2015, the amount of cash and cash equivalents that the Group cannot dispose of freely (restricted cash) stands at EUR 3,095 thousand (2014: EUR 2,622 thousand). 28. SHARE CAPITAL The share capital and number of shares stand as follows: Pair value per share 31/12/15 31/12/14 Number of issued shares as of closing date 10,556,905 9,009,654 Share capital (in EUR) 3,167,072 2,702,896 Par value (in EUR/share) 0.30 0.30 In accordance with the decision taken by its Board of DirecThe Hamon & Cie share capital increased by tors on 5 October 2015, Hamon & Cie completed a capital EUR 14,916,954 with the creation of 1,547,251 new increase amounting to EUR 5 million, in front of the notary shares, with the same rights and obligations as the existpublic on 7 October 2015, within the authorized capital ing shares, subscribed by Sopal International SA whose and at an issue price of EUR 9 per share. As a result, stake in the capital of Hamon & Cie now amounts to 555,556 new shares have been issued in favor of Sopal 66.82%. The costs of the capital increases have been International SA. deducted from the capital. Hamon & Cie completed also another capital increase in SHAREHOLDERSHIP kind amounting to EUR 9,916,950 according to the resoOn 31 December 2015, the share capital amounts to lution of the extraordinary General Assembly on 7 October EUR 3,167,072, made up of 10,556,905 shares with no 2015, at an issue price of EUR 10 per share. As a result, stated value. Further to the implementation of a liquidity 991,695 new shares were issued in favor of Sopal Intercontract in 2013, with the help of a financial institution, national SA as a remuneration of its shareholdings of the Group held a total of 16,108 shares of the company 38.89% in Esindus brought to Hamon. as of 31 December 2015. 103 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Shareholder Shares % Shares % 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 Sopal International S.A. 7,054,497 66,8% 5,507,246 61.1% Esindus S.A. 303,506 2,9% 303,506 3.4% Walloon Region, represented by the Société 1,009,091 9,6% 1,009,091 11.2% Wallonne de Gestion et de Participation S.A. Own shares held by the Company 16,108 0,2% 11,268 0.1% Other public 2,173,703 20,6% 2,178,543 24.2% Total 10,556,905 100,0% 9,009,654 100.0% DIVIDENDS The Group has not paid dividends since 2012. 29. PROVISIONS FOR OTHER LIABILITIES AND CHARGES in EUR ‘000’ Restructuring Warranty Tax Losses on Other Total litigation contracts provisions Balance as of 31 December 2013 142 2,769 1,171 1,588 5,670 Additions 225 390 250 331 83 1,279 Reversals (255) (351) (199) (42) (846) Use of provision (554) (554) Exchange difference 301 9 25 335 Entry / changes in consolidation scope (334) (56) (227) (617) Other movements 64 (16) (69) (21) Balance as of 31 December 2014 112 2,286 250 1,241 1,358 5,246 Additions 218 814 1 60 1,093 Reversals (56) (742) (250) (61) (854) (1,963) Use of provision (536) (149) (685) Exchange difference 222 (26) 196 Entry / changes in consolidation scope Other movements (51) (537) 229 (359) Au 31 décembre 2015 274 1,992 644 618 3,528 Of which non-current provisions 56 1 57 Of which current provisions 218 1,992 643 618 3,471 Provisions for restructuring, warranty, losses on contracts The decrease in provisions was mainly due to warranty and others are accounted for and estimated on the basis expiring on several large projects in the chimneys business. of the probability of future cash-out payments as well as Otherwise several provisions have been used in order to historical information based on facts and circumstances cover some costs and non-payment of some contracts. known at the closing date. The actual charge may differ The Board of Directors considers these amounts as the from the amounts accounted for. best current estimate and that the Group will not have to bear any additional charge. 104 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 30. PROVISIONS FOR POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS The net obligations for employee benefits amounted to ily made up of retirement benefit plans and obligations in EUR 5,467 thousand at the end of 2015. They are primarline with local practices. in EUR ‘000’ Provision Provision Other Total retirement jubilees long term benefits benefits Total obligations 6,786 76 64 6,926 Fair value of plan assets (1,722) (1,722) Net obligation as at 1 January 2014 5,064 76 64 5,204 of which defined benefit plan net obligation 5,064 76 5,140 Additions 629 17 29 675 Uses (-) (325) (7) (332) Currency translation differences 132 7 139 Acquisitions and changes in consolidation scope (222) (222) Actuarial remeasurement 906 906 Total obligations 7,906 86 100 8,092 Fair value of plan assets (1,935) (1,935) Net obligation as at 31 December 2014 5,971 86 100 6,157 of which defined benefit plan net obligation 5,971 86 6,057 Additions 853 10 14 877 Uses (-) (651) (13) (664) Currency translation differences 54 54 Acquisitions and changes in consolidation scope Reclassification Belgian contribution plans 10,167 10,167 Actuarial remeasurement (741) (741) Total obligations 17,588 83 114 17,785 Fair value of plan assets (2,151) (2,151) Reclassification Belgian contribution plans (10,167) (10,167) Total plan assets (12,318) (12,318) Net obligation as at 31 December 2015 5,270 83 114 5,467 of which defined benefit plan net obligation 5,270 83 5,353 The post-employment benefits are categorized as either The defined benefits are granted by some Belgian, German, defined benefit plans or defined contribution plans. French, Indian, Indonesian and Korean companies. French DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS entities account for more than half the total of such net obligations in the Group. Characteristics of defined benefit plans • “ Retirement benefit” plans, representing 98.4% of the The defined benefit plans require the recognition of the net net obligations for defined benefit plans, foresee the obligation of the Company towards its employees in its payment of a capital (or annuity) to the employees, at financial statements. The net obligation of those plans and the time of their retirement, which is equal to a given its variations are determined by an annual actuarial calculanumber of months of salary at that date. More than tion made according to the “Projected Unit Credit Method”. 75% of those net commitments are compulsory, due Defined benefit plans granted by the Group are either funded to domestic practices applicable in the countries where plans with third party insurance companies or unfunded those entities are operating, and are managed directly benefits granted directly by the Company in accordance 105 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS by the Hamon entities. The remaining ones are managed with local practices. During the year 2015, there has not by qualifying third party insurance companies. been any new plan or modification / liquidation of existing plan(s) within the Group. However the Belgian defined con• “ Incentive or profit sharing” plans, representing the remaining 1.6% net obligations for defined benefit plans, tribution pension plans for which the law guarantees a minprovide for the payment of seniority allowances to imum return have been reclassified in defined benefit plans employees in accordance with local practices. this year because of this guarantee. We invite you to refer to the following paragraph for more details. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Belgian pension plans subject to minimum guaranteed Their average maturity is 11.1 years as at 31 December rates of return 2015. The Group Hamon offers defined contribution pension In view of the minimum legal returns guaranteed, those plans funded through group insurances to the employees plans qualify as Defined Benefit plans. Indeed they induce of its Belgian affiliates with a minimum return guaranteed a financial risk for the Group during periods of declining by law. The contributions to these plans amount to minimarket interest rates when the returns guaranteed by the mum 8.5% of the salary, partly paid by the employer and insurance companies are lower than the minimum legal partly by the employee. returns, which is currently the case. As a consequence of the law of 18 December 2015, minimum returns guaranteed by the employers are as follows: Due to the recent publication of the law, the Group was not in a position to receive a complete actuarial computation •F  or the contributions paid as from 1 January 2016, a new under the Projected Unit Credit Method (PUC) for these variable return based on OLO rates comprised between plans. Nevertheless based on an analysis of the plans and 1.75% and 3.75%. The rate is currently set to 1.75%. the limited difference between the legally guaranteed mini•F  or the contributions paid until end December 2015, mum returns and the interest guaranteed by the insurance the previously applicable legal returns of 3.75% on company, the Group has concluded that the application of employee contributions and 3.25% on employer contrithe PUC method would have an immaterial impact. butions continue to apply until retirement date of the participants. Since the sum of positive differences per participant between the accumulated reserves (EUR 10,167 ­thousand) The insurance companies managing these plans for the and the minimum guaranteed reserves (EUR 9,590 thouGroup also guarantee a minimum return on the reserves sand) is immaterial (EUR 2 thousand) as of 31 Decemas well as on future contributions for some portions of the ber 2015, no additional provision has been recognized plans. They have evolved as follows: 4.75% until 1998; for those plans. Nevertheless we have recognized their 3.25% from 1999 till 2012 and between 0.50% and net liability at 0 composed of their obligation amounting 2.25% since 2013. They are currently set between 0.50% at EUR 10,167 thousand corresponding to the accumuand 1.50%. lated reserves and their plan assets for the same amount. The assets of these plans are entirely managed by external We have reclassified these gross amounts in the Defined insurance companies said “qualifying third party” which do Benefits as of 31 December 2015 as displayed in the not have any link with the Group. tables of this note. Funding of defined benefit plans The funding of defined benefit pension plans in the Group is as follows: in EUR ‘000’ 31/12/15 31/12/14 Funded plans PV of defined benefit obligations 3.110 2.958 Fair value of plan assets (2.151) (1.935) Deficit/(surplus) of funded plans 959 1.023 Unfunded plans PV of defined benefit obligations 4.394 5.034 Reclassification Belgian contribution plans (net liability) Net liability arising from DBO 5.353 6.057 The assets of the funded plans as well as of the Belgian insurance contracts”. They are held by companies which do plans are exclusively made up of “qualifying third party not have any link with the Group. They have evolved as follows for the past 2 years: in EUR ‘000’ 31/12/15 31/12/14 106 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of period 1.935 1.722 Interest income on plan assets 31 57 Return on plan assets exc. Interest income 58 26 Employer contributions 181 181 Employee contributions 27 28 Benefits paid (50) (46) Reclassification Belgian contribution plans 10.167 Others (31) (33) Fair value of plan assets at end of period 12.318 1.935 Net Defined Benefit Costs The amounts accounted in the Group income for these plans for 2015 and 2014 are as follows: in EUR ‘000’ 31/12/15 31/12/14 Service Cost Current Service Cost 709 571 Past service cost (185) Actuarial (gains)/losses on costs 8 Net interest expense 122 164 Administration costs exc. Mgt of plan assets 9 10 Defined benefit costs recognised in P&L 840 568 Return on plan assets exc. Interest income on plan assets (58) (26) Actuarial (gains)/losses on DBO arising from: changes in demographic assumptions 27 224 changes in financial assumptions (416) 884 experience adjustments (294) (176) Remeasurement of DB Cost recognized in OCI (741) 906 Total Defined Benefit Cost 99 1,474 The defined benefit costs are recorded under ‘Cost of This year, changes in financial assumptions result in an sales’, ‘General and Administration’ costs and ‘Financial actuarial gain of EUR 416 thousand because of the Expenses’ while the remeasurement of the benefits (actuincrease of the market interest rates while their reducarial gains and losses) are recognized in the Other Compretion had caused an actuarial loss of EUR 884 thousand in hensive Income. 2014. Consequently, the remeasurement of the Defined Benefit obligations release a EUR 741 thousand gain The defined benefit costs recognized in the Profit & Loss recognized in the Other Comprehensive Income in 2015 have increased, compared to 2014, mainly because of the against a EUR 906 thousand loss the year before. increase of the current service cost in the Korean entity in 2015 and because the group had a gain on past serThe expected contributions and benefit payments for vice cost of EUR 185 thousand related to the departure of 2016 amount to EUR 1,554 thousand including the Bel­several employees in 2014. gian plans. Change in obligations Change in Defined Benefit Obligations for the last two years were as follows: in EUR ‘000’ 31/12/15 31/12/14 Defined Benefit Obligation at beginning of period 7,992 6,862 Current Service Cost 709 571 Interest cost 154 221 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from: changes in demographic assumptions 27 226 changes in financial assumptions (418) 891 experience adjustments (293) (177) Past Service Cost (185) Employee Contributions 27 28 Benefits paid (726) (332) Reclassification Belgian contribution plans 10,167 Others (mainly change in consolidation scope) (22) (244) 107 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Currency translation difference 54 131 Defined Benefit Obligation at end of period 17,671 7,992 Gross obligations (exclusive of the reclassification of the The number of employees covered by the Defined Benefit Belgian plans) have decreased compared to last year plans in 2015 amounted to 758 (of which 108 are inacbecause of actuarial gains due to a higher discount rate tive) in comparison to 536 (of which 28 were inactive) in and because of the payment of higher benefits than previ2014 following the reclassification of the Belgian plans ous years especially by the Korean entity. (105 active and 81 inactive) and a slight increase of the headcount in France and India. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Actuarial assumptions Main actuarial assumptions used for the valuation of the obligations and their movements are within the ranges shown below. EURO zone 31/12/15 31/12/14 Discount rate 1.49-2.3% 1.49-2.0% Expected future salary increase rate 1.75-3% 1.75-3.00% Underlying Inflation rate 1.75-2.00% 1.75-2.00% Average assumed retirement age (years) 62-65 62-65 ASPAC zone 31/12/15 31/12/14 Discount rate 2.08-8.5% 3.03-8.50% Expected future salary increase rate 3.5-10% 6.75-8.50% Underlying Inflation rate 1% 1.50% Average assumed retirement age (years) 60-65 55-65 The interest rates used to discount the obligations have •G  overnment bond rates in India and Indonesia, because slightly increased in 2015 in the EURO zone following the the AA corporate bond market is not deep enough in evolution of the market rates. They are exclusively based those countries (respective rates of 7.76% and 8.5% for on AA corporate bonds. less than 6% of the total net group commitments). The Indian and Indonesian 2015 rates have remained close In the ASPAC zone, the discount rates are based on: to 2014 rates. •A  A corporate bond rates in Korea (2.08% against 3.03% Mortality tables used are standard tables generally in 2014) representing 17.6% of the total net group comaccepted in the countries where those benefits are offered. mitments where the lower rate is due to the evolution of the market rate and the decrease of the average remainThe average maturity of the main defined benefit plans is ing maturity of the obligation between 10 and 15 years. Sensitivity analysis Our sensitivity analysis on the Group post-employment liability shows that the actuarial assumptions taken have a direct effect on their valuation. in EUR ‘000’ Impact in % Discount Rate plus 0.5% (369) -4.9 % Discount Rate less 0.5% 397 5.3% Expected salary increase plus 0.5% 359 4.8% Expected salary increase less 0.5% (337) -4.5% exc. reclassified Belgian plans As displayed on the table above, a variation of +/0.5% On the other hand, the analyses carried out on the risk of the discount rate or of the salary increase rate has an induced by the minimum guaranteed return on the Belgian impact of less than 6% on the value of the gross liability plans reveal that the future financial risk due to the rate (exclusive of reclassified Belgian plans). gap on the contributions paid before 2016 would amount 108 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 to maximum EUR 293 thousand over a total 11 year period for the Group. DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS AND OTHER SIMILAR BENEFITS The retirement plans based on defined contributions tion beyond these contribution payments amounting to and similar benefits are plans for which the Group pays EUR 646 thousand in 2015. These plans and similar benedetermined contributions to a separate entity in accordfits are primarily offered by Belgian, British and South Afriance with the plan provisions. The Group has no obligacan companies within the Hamon Group. 31. SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION (STOCK OPTIONS) The Board of Directors, with the approval of the Extraoron the long-term development of the Group. The plan dinary General shareholders Meeting of 27 May 2008, lasted 7 years and ended in May 2015. No other plan took decided to grant a stock option plan to managers of the place since then. The details of these plans are as follows: Group (around 40 persons) with the goal of focusing them Plan Beneficiaries Grant date End Date Exercise Exercise Periods Outstanding Outstanding Price options at options at 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 Belgium From 2012 to 2015, from Esop 2008 (B+G) and Ger27/05/08 26/05/15 33.58 15 March till 31 May and from 0 17,050 many 15 September to 15 November In 2012 from 6 October to 15 November; from 2013 to Esop 2008 (F) France 6/10/08 26/05/15 29.71 2015 from 15 March to 31 May 0 5,500 and from 15 September to 15 November Total 22,500 Each option was a right to buy a Hamon share at the price and dates indicated. Stock Option Plan 2015 2014 Number Weighted Number Weighted of share average of share average options exercise price options exercise price Number of stock options as of 1st January 22,500 32.64 22,550 32.64 Stock options granted 0 0.00 0 0.00 Forfeitures of rights & options expired 0 0.00 0 0.00 Stock options exercised 0 0.00 0 0.00 Stock options expired -22,500 -32.64 0 0.00 Number of stock options as of 31 December 0 0.00 22,550 32.64 Stock options exercisable as of 31 December 0 0.00 0 0.00 32. FINANCIAL LIABILITIES in EUR ‘000’ 31/12/15 31/12/14 Bank borrowings 78,747 49,739 Bank overdrafts 4,507 289 Sub-total bank borrowings 83,254 50,028 Obligations under finance lease 2,621 3,296 Treasury notes 52,887 69,354 Other financial commitments 55,070 57,446 Sub-total other borrowings 110,578 130,096 Total 193,831 180,123 Of which: Current (due for settlement within the year) 191,535 83,685 Amount due for settlement in the 2nd year 467 39,761 Amount due for settlement in the 3rd year 602 359 109 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Amount due for settlement in the 4th year 160 136 Amount due for settlement in the 5th year and after 1,067 56,182 Sub-total non-current 2,297 96,438 Total 193,831 180,123 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in EUR ‘000’ 31/12/15 31/12/14 Of which: Borrowings due for settlement within the year in EUR 181,241 68,784 USD 7,654 5,154 Others 2,640 9,747 Non-current borrowings in EUR 2,068 96,438 USD 0 0 Others 229 0 193,831 180,123 As of 31 December 2015, the Group borrow• t he absence of major investment and divestment; ings (EUR 193,831 thousand) are mainly related to • t he disclosure of regular financial information; the ­syndicated credit facility with termination date •n  on-occurrence of ‘mac’ – material adverse changes or 4 July 2016 (EUR 75,058 thousand), the senior bonds elements with a significant negative influence; due in 2020 with a fix rate at 5.50% issued on 30 Janu• t he limitation of payment of dividends to 50% or 33% ary 2014 (EUR 55,000 thousand), and the treasury notes of the distributable profit depending upon the ratio Net (EUR 52,887 thousand). Debt / EBITDA. Although the senior bonds with a fixed rate at 5.50% are The syndicated credit facility requires the compliance with due in 2020, they have been reported as current financial the following ratios: Net Debt / EBITDA, EBITDA / Net liabilities because of the breach of a financial condition on Cash Interest Payable, Total Debt / Book Equity and limits the Net Debt to Book Equity ratio. The contract clauses the amount of capital expenditures. binding our Group foresee, in such a case, a possible The same ratio than for the senior bonds was not remedy via an increase of the Group equity. This will be respected. The foreseen remedy will also cure the breach achieved in the beginning of 2016 with a capital increase. and no default will be faced. There is thus no default as at 31 December 2015. The financing margins of the revolving credit line vary The syndicated credit facility still offers advantageous conbetween 1.1% and 2.5% depending on the Net Debt / ditions regarding its financing margins over euribor. The EBITDA ratio. revolving credit and bank guarantees lines have a maturity ending in 2016, with a single bullet repayment for the The Belgian treasury notes program signed on 30 August revolving credit part. The Group is working actively at the 2010 with two dealers remains a real success among refinancing of this syndicated credit facility with a target investors. The amount of treasury notes amounts to over the first half year 2016. EUR 52,887 thousand as of 31 December 2015. No securities have been granted to the bank syndicate. The average cost of the debt was 3.18% over 2015, or 3.68% if the amortized setup costs of the syndicated Otherwise, the syndicated facility agreement includes credit lines are included in the analysis. standard conditions and undertakings linked to: The debt of the Hamon Group, with the exception of the • t he absence of pledges (negative pledge) on assets to senior bonds issued on 30 January 2014, usually bears the profit of third parties by any guarantor subsidiary; floating interest rate references. 33. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES in EUR ‘000’ 31/12/15 31/12/14 110 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Trade payables 138,269 114,636 Amounts due to related parties 707 966 Other advances received 3,929 3,334 Social security and other payables 14,392 15,192 Other (non income) tax payable 10,496 15,303 Other current liabilities 14,118 8,926 Accruals and deferred income 5,145 8,008 Total 187,057 166,364 Companies of the Group receive on average between “Accruals and deferred income” include amongst other 30 to 60 days of credit from their suppliers. things the charge of the subordinated bond paid annually, licensing fees. Trade payable increased to EUR 187,057 thousand. This increase is mainly due to the Cooling Systems Business Unit and is explained by the increase of the activity in some subsidiaries. 34. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS Derivative financial instruments designated as “cash flow hedge”, Notional or Contractual Fair value “economic hedge” and “net investment hedge” amount in EUR ‘000’ 31/12/15 31/12/14 31/12/15 31/12/14 Economic hedges Forward currency contracts sales Assets 16,824 252 Liabilities 73,791 102,354 (3,224) (6,679) Forward currency contracts purchases Assets 18,598 3,700 584 41 Liabilities 1,043 (3) Cash flow hedges Interests rate swaps 31,424 31,424 (596) (902) Net investment hedges Forward currency contracts sales Assets Liabilities 18,607 (1,864) Cross currency swaps 11,424 11,424 (2,342) (942) Total fai values (5,328) (10,345) Fair values recognized: in the work in progress account (2,391) (6,638) in the reserves in Equity (2,937) (3,708) The part of profit or loss on the hedging instrument At the end of 2015, a forward currency contract of USD that qualifies as an effective cash flow hedge is booked 25,000 thousand qualifying as net investment hedge was directly in equity under the hedging reserves (i.e. for the not rolled-over. On 31 December, there is no more impact IRS). The part of profit or loss on hedging instrument that related to this instrument in the currency translation qualifies as an effective net investment hedge is booked reserves in Equity. directly in equity under the currency translation reserves. We remind that during the first half of 2012 the Hamon The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recogGroup concluded several hedging contracts with a maturity nized in the income statement. of 5 years, interest rate swaps (IRS) in Euro and Cross CurThe part of profit or loss on the hedging instrument that rency IRS (CCIRS) “fixed USD against floating EUR”. CCIRS qualifies as an effective economic hedge is booked in the “fixed USD against floating EUR” can be considered as synwork in progress account, for more details see “Principal thetic transactions composed of a IRS EUR paying on the accounting standards” under 3.8 at c) under “Derivative fixed leg and a “fixed to fixed” CCIRS – paying on the USD financial instruments”. The gain or loss relating to the inefleg and receiving on the EUR leg. All IRSS (including those fective portion is recognized in the income statement. considered as synthetic transactions) pay on the fixed legs a rate of 1.335% and receive the 3-month EURIBOR. They As of 31 December 2015, some forward currency conare considered as effective hedges against fluctuations in tracts (equivalent EUR 90,615 thousand selling and interest rates of existing bank debts. The “fixed to fixed” EUR 19,641 thousand buying) were qualifying as ‘ecoCCIRSS cover a portion of our net investment in the USA. 111 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS nomic hedge’ with fair values booked in the work in progress account. As of 31 December 2015, IRSs (including those considered as synthetic transactions) have an aggregate notional For the purpose of this note, the fair values posted as amount of EUR 31,424 thousand and CCIRSs have an financial assets on the balance sheet (Derivative financial aggregate notional amount of EUR 11,424 thousand, assets) were netted with the fair values posted as financial qualifying, respectively, as cash flow hedge and net investliabilities (Derivative financial liabilities) as it relates to interment hedge, and have fair values of EUR -596 thousand company transactions which set-off at Group level. and EUR -2,342 thousand respectively. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Derivative financial instruments designated as “held for trading” Notional or Contractual Fair value amount in EUR ‘000’ 31/12/15 31/12/14 31/12/15 31/12/14 Forward currency contracts sales Assets 3,228 3,130 34 1 Liabilities 42,189 51,150 (339) (354) Forward currency contracts purchases Assets 23,121 23,398 143 287 Liabilities 37,987 (566) Under “unrealized exchange gains” 177 289 Under “unrealized exchange losses” (904) (354) Fair values recongnized in the income statement (727) (65) Forward currency contracts are used to hedge the transactherefore not speculative by nature. Most of them are the tional risks on currencies and are accounted as if they were far legs of FX swaps transacted to manage intra-group held for trading. ­factoring transactions at the end of the year. However, such forward currency contracts are only used The fair values were directly recognized in the income to hedge existing transactions and commitments, and are statement in unrealized exchange gains or losses. 35. FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES in EUR ‘000’ 31/12/15 31/12/14 Book Fair Book Fair Hierarchy of value value value value fair values Financial Assets Cash and cash equivalents 109.337 109.337 138.988 138.988 Level 2 Available-for-sale financial assets 2.236 2.236 1.980 1.980 Level 3 Loans and receivables 165.308 165.308 127.556 127.556 Level 2 Derivative financial assets 5.203 5.203 6.360 6.360 Level 2 282.084 282.084 274.883 274.883 Financial Liabilities Borrowings at amortized cost 138.831 138.831 125.123 125.123 Level 2 Senior bonds 55.000 47.025 55.000 56.306 Level 1 Other payables 153.726 153.726 132.586 132.586 Level 2 Derivative financial liabilities 11.258 11.258 16.771 16.771 Level 2 358.815 350.840 329.480 330.786 112 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 In order to show the importance of data used for the valu36. RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES ations of fair values, the Group classifies these valuations MANAGEMENT OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK according to the following hierarchy: Operations and international transactions of the Group, •L  evel 1: fair value measurements are those derived from and in particular the construction contracts carried out in quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical various countries, create exposures to foreign exchange assets or liabilities; risks in the day-to-day management of its business. For•L  evel 2: fair value measurements are those derived from eign exchange risks can be defined as the risk of fluctuation inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 in fair values of future cash flows due to the fluctuations in that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly foreign currencies. The most significant foreign exchange (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); risks of the Group are related to transactions in US dollars. •L  evel 3: fair value measurements are those derived from CONVERSION IMPACTS FOR SUBSIDIARIES LOCATED OUTSIDE valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or OF THE EURO ZONE liability that are not based on observable market data Many entities are located outside the Euro zone. The (unobservable inputs). accounts of those entities are converted into Euro in Financial assets are mostly current. Their fair value thus order to be incorporated in the consolidated accounts of does not differ from their book value. Their book value the Group. The effects of the fluctuations in foreign curalready takes into account possible provisions when the rencies on the conversion of net assets of those entities collection seems compromised. are recognized in the consolidated equity of the Group. For the calculation of the exposure to foreign exchange risks, Available-for-sale financial assets are made of investments the assumption has been made that the investments in in various small companies not quoted on the stock market the operational entities located outside the Euro zone are and valued at their acquisition value. permanent and the reinvestment in these entities is conA part of the financial liabilities were evaluated at amortinuous. tized cost, which is net of transaction costs. Borrowings FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK ON FINANCIAL ASSETS AND principally include bank debt at the end of the year for which LIABILITIES the fair value is comparable to the value in the accounts. The Group uses different strategies to reduce its foreign The senior pari passu bonds at fix rate 5.50% are quoted exchange rate risk exposure, in particular: on Euronext Brussels under the ISIN BE0002210764 and symbol HAM20. There is thus a market fair value which dif•B  y trying to match its sale and purchases commitments fers from the book value. The mid-rate as of 31 December in the same currencies; 2015 is at 85.50 (bid at 83 and ask at 88) on the Thomson •B  y strictly limiting the invoicing in currencies different Reuters Eikon platform. “Other payables” are mainly trade from the functional currency of the entity; payables for which the fair value does not differ from the •B  y reporting the foreign exchange rate risk exposures book value due to its current nature. to the Corporate department, which after consolidation decides (if necessary) to hedge the consolidated expoDerivative financial assets and liabilities only include forsures with adequate financial instruments, in particular ward currency contracts, IRS and CCIRS. They are included forward currency contracts. in this note on the asset and liability sides for their fair value depending whether they are positive or negative. The following table presents for all the subsidiaries of the Group the consolidated financial assets and liabilities in currencies other than their functional currency as well as firm commitments in other currencies (contracts to be invoiced, signed orders) and finally, forward currency contracts that they have transacted to reduce their exposure to these currencies: in EUR ‘000‘ 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 USD GBP Other Total USD GBP Other Total currencies currencies 113 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS thereof financial assets 188,106 8,615 23,586 220,307 83,058 2,528 23,220 108,806 thereof financial liabilities (83,875) (448) (10,666) (94,989) (29,959) (348) (1,740) (32,047) Gross balance sheet exposure 104,231 8,167 12,920 125,318 53,099 2,180 21,480 76,759 Gross exposure from firm commitments 128,713 (27) 5,257 133,943 122,330 (75) (6,842) 115,413 Derivative financial instruments (70,376) 86 (1,090) (71,380) (119,298) (1,602) (5,237) (126,137) Net exposure 162,568 8,226 17,087 187,881 56,131 503 9,401 66,035 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As shown here above, the amount of net exposure to US the parent holding of the Group whose reference currency dollar in 2015 has increased compared to 2014 as (I) a sigis EUR. These intercompany loans are partially hedged nificant share of its opening backlog in USD was converted (USD 20,000 thousand are unhedged). The remaining net into trade receivables (financial assets) and (II) the related exposure to the USD comes from project awards at the purchases in USD were not yet finalized. These purchases end of the year which will be hedged early 2016. not yet finalized are not considered as firm commitments, The main part of the derivatives that hedges the foreign while the sales backlog is reported in the firm commitexchange rate on US dollar are FX forward contracts. ments. These purchases still to be finalized will of course An FX forward contract which was hedging the net investreduce the net exposure. ments in the US up to USD 25,000 thousand was not A part of the net exposure to the USD comes from interrolled-over, contributing to the increase of the net expocompany long term loans in USD booked as assets under sure (see note 34). Sensitivity to market rates 31/12/15 31/12/14 % variation EUR 10% 10% Impact on current year P&L 12,532 7,676 Impact on future cash flows 18,788 6,604 CCIRS impact on the Equity 1,253 Compared to its closing rate, an appreciation / depreciaMANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK tion of the Euro of 10% against all currencies used by the Interest rate risk comes from the exposure of the Group to Group would result in a positive / negative impact of EUR the fluctuations in interest rates and their possible impact 12,532 thousand on the income statement of the current on the financing costs. Most of the cost of the Group debt year and EUR 18,788 thousand on future financial flows is based on EURIBOR-3 months. It is the policy of the after hedging. This calculation obviously refers to balance Group to limit its exposure to the interest rates volatility sheet items only and shall be reviewed in light of the above by using financial instruments, which swap a variable interinformation on the purchases still to be finalized. est rate into a fixed rate, in particular interest rate Swaps Regarding the CCIRS qualifying as net investment hedges (IRS). for a part of our US net investments, an appreciation / During the first half of 2012, Hamon Group concluded sevdepreciation of the Euro of 10% against all currencies used eral hedging contracts with a maturity of 5 years, interest by the Group would also result in a positive / negative rate swaps (IRS) in Euro and Cross Currency IRS (CCIRS) impact of EUR 1,253 thousand on the equity. This impact “fixed USD against floating EUR” (see note 34). would be more than offset by a translation impact from Although the main part of the financing costs is based the total net investment in the US. on EURIBOR-3 months, the issuance of senior bonds at The impact of the EUR/USD exchange rate fluctuations on fixed rate 5.50% due 2020 has significantly changed the the 2015 results of the Group amounted to EUR 27 milfix / floating mix and helps mitigating the exposure to the lion on the revenue and to EUR 2,1 million on REBIT. volatility of short term interest rates. The following table shows the debts of the Group (excluding refinancing costs) with a fixed interest rate and those with a variable interest rate: Sensitivity to interest rate 31/12/15 31/12/14 in EUR ‘000‘ Average rate Principal Average rate Principal Fixed Rate 114 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financial liabilities 5.50% 55,000 5.51% 55,562 Variable Rate Financial liabilities 2.26% 138,831 2.44% 124,561 3.18% 193,831 3.24% 180,123 Calculation of the market interest rate sensitivity is based ence market interest rate (comparable with the variation of on a hypothetical variation of 10 basis points on the referthe EURIBOR3 month over the year 2015). Sensitivity to market rate 31/12/15 31/12/14 bp change 10 10 Impact on P&L 139 125 IRS hedging effect (31) (31) Net Profit or (loss) 108 94 In the event of an increase or decrease of the market interest rates by 10 basis points, the gross impact on income would be EUR 139 thousand. The impact on the IRSs would be booked in the cash flow reserves in equity. MANAGEMENT OF CREDIT RISK According to the financial risk profile of the customer, the Due to its construction activities, the Group is exposed to Group will decide whether or not to cover its credit risk. credit risks. However, credit risk is lesser than the one of Moreover, the Group takes particular measures for cusmore traditional constructions companies, as the credit tomers located in countries where the risk is significant. As rating of most of the Group customers is very high since credit risk solutions, the Group can, among others, request they are mainly large international Engineering, Procurethe payment prior to delivery, irrevocable and confirmed ment & Contracting (EPC) groups or energy producers. (by our banks) letters of credit as well as credit insurance policies covering the residual risks (political, embargo...) The customer risk occurs in the accounts when a non-payand the risks of unfair calls on the bank guarantees. ment by a customer happens, which could lead to a write-off of the underlying receivable. When a receivable The following table presents an analysis of the financial becomes doubtful, following suspension of payment or receivables of the Group. They include the trade receivables bankruptcy of a customer, the Group books a provision for and other receivables of the Group, with the exception of doubtful receivable. If, thereafter, the receivable becomes the non-financial receivables like tax assets. This explains uncollectible, a corresponding write-off is accounted for. the difference with the amount of EUR 173,416 thousand reported on the balance sheet in 2015 under “Trade and The Group does not have significant concentration of credit other receivables”. The amounts presented in the following risk since this risk is distributed over a large number of table are the gross values of the receivables before any customers and counterparts around the world. The most write-off for doubtful receivables. important customer is a Saudi Arabian customer which accounts for 7.5% of the total trade receivables. When finalizing important contracts, the finance department carries out a credit analysis of the customer based on credit reports obtained from external companies. in EUR ‘000’ Total Due over Due Due Current Not due 3 months 23 months 1-2 months As of 31 December 2015 165,308 29,370 298 18,994 54,716 61,929 As of 31 December 2014 127,556 20,553 4,725 4,466 26,733 71,079 Payment terms with our customers are usually between countries, and can also be used on a case by case basis 30 and 60 days. on some debtors from the OECD zone for contracts where Trade receivables with terms that have been renegotiated our contractual delivery obligations (in light of the selected are not significant. Incoterms) expose us to non-OECD risks. The Group has a credit-insurance policy which covers the Provisions for doubtful receivables have evolved as folmajor part of its receivables on debtors from non-OECD lows during the last two years: 115 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in EUR ‘000‘ 31/12/15 31/12/14 Balance at beginning of the year (2,934) (4,444) Amounts written off during the year (1,238) (2,139) Amounts recovered during the year 530 202 Other (forex, transfer...) 93 3,447 Balance at end of the year (3550) (2,934) Net impairment on receivable in P&L (708) (1,937) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT The Group liquidity risk is related to the capacity of the liabilities. The Group remained in a net debt position at the Group to respect its obligations with regard to its financial end of 2015. in EUR ‘000‘ 31/12/15 31/12/14 Cash and cash equivalents 109,337 138,988 Total liquidity 109,337 138,988 Short term financial debt & current portion of long term financial debt (191,306) (83,685) Long term financial debt (2,525) (96,438) Total financial debt (193,831) (180,123) Net liquidity (84,494) (41,135) The Group has a revolving credit line with its bank pool in note 32). The following tables present the contractual due order to address possible short term treasury needs (see dates of the consolidated liabilities of the Group: in EUR ‘000‘ Total Due before Due Due Due Due over 6 months 6 -12 months 1 2 years 2 5 years 5 years Treasury notes 52,887 52,887 Loans from Banks 83,254 83,026 228 Obligations under finance leases 2,621 197 197 397 920 910 Other financial liabilities 55,070 55,000 70 Trade and other Payables 153,726 153,291 223 212 Derivative financial liabilities 6,055 6,055 353,613 344,401 6,253 690 1,361 910 Although the senior bonds with a fixed rate at 5.50% are CAPITAL-LINKED RISK MANAGEMENT due in 2020 (EUR 55,000 thousand reported under “Other The Group manages its capital to ensure its operating interfinancial liabilities”), they have been reported as current est while optimizing the ratio debt / equity. The Group’s financial liabilities because of the breach of a financial conobjective is to have sufficient flexibility to fund operating ditions on the Net Debt to Book Equity ratio. The contract costs and capital requirements of an international diverclauses binding our Group foresee, in such a case, a possisified engineering group. The Group’s overall strategy ble remedy via an increase of the Group equity. This will be remains unchanged compared to 2014. achieved in the beginning of 2016 with a capital increase. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which There is thus no default as at 31 December 2015. includes the borrowings disclosed under note 32, cash The Group is working actively at the refinancing of the synand cash equivalents as well as equity which includes dicated credit facility with a target over the first half year share capital, reserves and retained earnings, disclosed in 2016 (see note 32). note 28. The amount of “Trade and other payables” reported at The Board of Directors regularly reviews the capital strucEUR 153,726 thousand is different than the one reported ture. As part of this review, Directors evaluate the cost of on the balance sheet (EUR 187,057 thousand) as non capital and risks associated with each class of capital in financial liabilities such as taxes or other salaries to be paid order to balance the structure. were excluded from the tables. 116 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 37. GUARANTEES ON THE GROUP ASSETS The following table shows the Group’s assets which have guarantees attached: in EUR ‘000‘ 31/12/15 31/12/14 Inventories Property, plant & equipment 4,523 Financial Assets 3,095 1,868 Total 3,095 6,391 The guaranteed financial assets are principally restricted released in 2015 following the sale of such assets and bank accounts located in Korea (life insurance plans), in reimbursement of the bank borrowing obtained to acquire France (collateral for factoring transactions) and the US them. (executive retirement plan SERP). As a reminder, the syndicated credit facility signed on Guaranteed properties in 2014 were a land and a plant 4 July 2011 is not associated with any guarantee granted in Korea. These securities granted to a bank have been to the members of the bank syndicate (see note 32). 38. FINANCE AND OPERATING LEASE AGREEMENTS FINANCE LEASE AGREEMENTS Less significant leases are in place for vehicles and office equipment. The main finance lease contracts are related to land and buildings in Belgium, France and North America. They are The commitments of the Group in terms of finance lease denominated in Euros and US dollars respectively. for the years to come can be summarized as follows: in EUR ‘000‘ Minimum Present value lease payments of minimum lease payments 31/12/15 31/12/14 31/12/15 31/12/14 Amounts due for finance leases within one year 445 1,082 394 1,020 in the second to fifth years inclusive 1,466 1,386 1,317 1,230 after more than 5 years 973 1,137 910 1,046 Sub-total 2,884 3,605 2,621 3,296 Less: future finance charges (264) (309) N/A N/A Present value of lease obligations 2,620 3,296 2,621 3,296 Less: Amounts due for settlement within one year (394) (1,020) Non-current finance leases debts 2,227 2,276 The average lease term for the obligations on finance lease OPERATING LEASE AGREEMENTS is 7.08 years. The average weighted interest rate is 9.17%. The commitments taken by the Group for operating leases The fair value of these finance leases is close to its nominal for future years are as follows: value. in EUR ‘000‘ 31/12/15 31/12/14 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognized as an expense 6.694 5.712 during the year Minimum lease payments due for operating leases within one year 6.289 5.135 in the second to fifth years inclusive 17.553 16.207 117 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS after more than five years 4.419 4.096 Total 28.261 25.438 Operating leases mostly relate to offices and to a lesser extent, vehicles, machines and office equipment. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39. COMMITMENTS As part of its business, the Group is often required to issue Some of these commitments require bank guarantees, guarantees in favor of customers for the reimbursement insurance bonds or documentary credits / SBLC import of advance payments, the correct execution of contracts issued on the Group credit lines: or obligations of technical guarantees. in EUR ‘000‘ 31/12/15 31/12/14 Documentary credit / SBLC import 7,261 15,848 Bank guarantees 232,692 210,532 Insurance bonds 31,595 58,536 Total 271,548 284,916 The volume of bank guarantees issued is closely linked to The Group continues to use Import SBLC (total of the Group activity. EUR 7,261 thousand at the end of 2015) in order to The line available for letters of credit and bank guarantees improve payment conditions with some of its suppliers. are located under the syndicated credit line and amounts The Group has also endorsed commitments relating to to EUR 302,500 thousand. Moreover, the Group also has companies sold in 2005 (FBM), bankrupt (HRCI) of associat its disposal a “U.S. bonding” line of USD 100,000 thouated companies (OHL and BFT) as follows: sand. in EUR ‘000‘ 31/12/15 31/12/14 Commitment of good project execution 182 182 Comfort letters to banks 1.286 Comfort letters to suppliers Bank guarantees 48 48 Total 229 1.515 The comfort letters given as securities for the obligations The commitments for which payment is probable are of HRCI were removed in 2015 as per prescription of the recorded as liabilities. rights to claim under them. 40. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES tions of Hamon in the USA. In the acquisition agreements No new significant litigation occurred in 2015. The only of 1998, the seller committed itself to compensate the outstanding litigations are as follows: Group for all damage sustained because of such proceedings. The costs of these proceedings are, through now, FBM HUDSON ITALIANA exclusively handled by the seller. Insofar as these proceedThe Italian company FBM Hudson Italiana Spa, sold by ings go back to a period prior to the acquisition of the US Hamon Group in December 2005 has initiated proceedings subsidiaries by the Group and taking into account the comagainst its former directors. FBM was dismissed and senpensation clause, Hamon’s management thinks that these tenced to pay legal expenses by the Court of Genoa. FBM do not present risks of significant liability for the Group. appealed on the part of the judgment ordering the payOTHER LITIGATIONS ment of damages and interests for reckless and vexatious procedure (EUR 100 thousand). The nature of the Group’s activities leads us to file / receive complaints about / from our suppliers and our customers. ASBESTOS The complaints are covered by specific provisions from The Group is involved in various proceedings for physical the moment that payouts are probable and where their 118 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 injuries related to asbestos. These relate to a period prior amount can be reliably estimated. The Group believes that to the acquisition of the assets of Research Cottrell, Inc. these complaints will not have a globally significant impact by the Group in 1998. Asbestos is not used in the operaon Hamon’s financial situation. 41. RELATED PARTIES The ultimate mother company of the Group is Sopal Interthe Company, have been eliminated from the consolidated national SA. See note 28 for detailed structure of the accounts and are not considered in this note. Details of the shareholders of the Group. The transactions between the transactions between the Company and the other related Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of parties are detailed below: Income statement as of Purchases Revenues 31/12/2015 in EUR ‘000‘ of of lease manageGoods Services Royalties Capital goods services of assets ment fees gains Controlling shareholder and other entities directly and indirectly 70 12 228 60 controlled by the controlling shareholder Other shareholders with 28 significant influence Associates 218 19 20 Other related parties Balance sheet as of Revenues 31/12/2015 in EUR ‘000‘ Non-current Current Non-current Current assets assets liabilities liabilities Controlling shareholder and other entities directly and indirectly 275 1.029 699 controlled by the controlling shareholder Other shareholders with signifi7 cant influence Associates 38 Other related parties 94 Income statement as of Purchases Revenues 31/12/2014 in EUR ‘000‘ of of lease manageGoods Services Royalties Capital goods services of assets ment fees gains Controlling shareholder and other entities directly and indirectly 148 30 196 controlled by the controlling shareholder Other shareholders with 11 10 6.488 73 significant influence Associates 61 13 Other related parties Balance sheet as of Revenues 31/12/2014 in EUR ‘000‘ Non-current Current Non-current Current assets assets liabilities liabilities Controlling shareholder and oth119 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS er entities directly and indirectly 275 823 699 controlled by the controlling shareholder Other shareholders with signifi2.564 266 cant influence Associates Other related parties 94 52 1 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In 2015 Esindus SA is not a related party anymore and this Edouard Lambilliotte, son of Francis Lambilliotte, is the change explains most of the variations. CFO of the Indian affiliate Hamon Shriram Cottrell. During the last three years, no write-off was accounted for Relations with related parties mostly include commercial on receivables with the related parties. The other entities relations (purchase / sale of goods and services, payment directly or indirectly controlled by the controlling shareof management fees to shareholders, office space rental). holder are the following companies: The Group has not issued any guarantee or off balance •G  efimco SA; sheet commitment to related parties other than com•C  ogim NV; mitments towards associates. The sales and purchase •P  romo Services (Belgium) SA; of goods with those related parties are made under the •C  ofragim; standard terms and conditions of the Group. •R  ivolim. 42. MINORITY SHARES AND JOINT-VENTURES •H  amon Shriram Cottrell PVT Ltd owned at 50% by the A/ Information about material joint-ventures Group in 2015 & 2014. At 31 December 2015 financial statements of Hamon •E  sindus SA acquired in 2015 and owned at 39%. include two material joint-ventures: Hereunder the IFRS financial statements of the joint-­ ventures: Hamon Shriram Cottrell PVT Ltd in EUR ‘000‘ 31/12/15 31/12/14 Non-current assets 5,830 5,229 Cash 105 157 Other current assets 24,035 22,731 Non-current liabilities Non-current debts 249 775 Current liabilities 14,261 14,013 Current debts 9,055 8,695 Equity 6,405 4,633 Revenue 10,837 14,027 Cost of sales -10,126 -15,510 Other costs -709 -2,470 Depreciation -724 -638 Financial costs -1,757 -1,560 Taxes Net Income -2,466 -6,152 Net assets 6,405 4,633 % of ownership 50% 50% Goodwill (incl. Currency impact) 2,029 1,906 Carrying amount of the Goup's interest 5,231 4,222 No dividend had been distributed in 2015. Indian market is still challenging but even if the management is confident with the strategy, the company took 120 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 measures to reduce the overheads and so to decrease the losses. Esindus SA in EUR ‘000‘ 31/12/15 Non-current assets 4,166 Cash 961 Other current assets 24,693 Non-current liabilities 336 Non-current debts 414 Current liabilities 10,908 Current debts 6,464 Equity 11,698 Revenue 29,288 Cost of sales -20,191 Other costs -9,057 Depreciation -237 Financial costs -458 Taxes 129 Net Income -526 Carrying amount of the Goup’s interest -132 Net assets 11,698 % of ownership 39% Goodwill (incl. Currency impact) 5,317 Carrying amount of the Goup's interest 9,866 No dividend had been distributed since the acquisition The purchase price allocation on assets & liabilities (fair value) will be booked in 2016. B / Information about non-material joint-ventures in EUR ‘000‘ 31/12/15 31/12/14 Net income of entreprises associates and joint-ventures not material -2,030 -343 Carrying amount of the Goup’s interest -2,620 -494 C/ Information about material subsidiaries with minority shares Some changes on the percentage of ownership had been Hamon Research Cottrell (HK) Ltd (owned at 60% in 2015 recorded in 2015 (see notes 6 & 14). & 2014). This company is part of Hamon Group from 2009 The financial statements of Hamon include at 31 Decemand its activities are engineering, design, procurement and ber 2015 a subsidiary with material minority shares – project management of AQS contracts for Asian market. 121 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Hamon Research-Cottrell (HK) Ltd in EUR ‘000‘ 31/12/15 31/12/14 Non-current assets 351 197 Current assets 6,646 6,160 Non-current liabilities 419 Current liabilities 4,994 3,175 Equity 2,003 2,763 Group share 1,202 1,658 Third party share 801 1,105 Revenue 6,620 11,779 Cost of sales -6,388 -7,133 Other costs -1,259 -2,167 Financial costs -68 -68 Net income -1,096 2,412 Group share -657 1,447 Third party share -438 965 Cash generated from operations -1,345 1,539 Cash from investment activities -3 -140 Cash from financing activities Others -18 -20 Net variation of cash -1,366 1,379 No dividend had been distributed in 2015 & 2014. Comprehensive income does not differ from net result. 43. MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION bers of the Executive Committee, who should be regarded The table below details the remuneration (cumulative and as the ‘key executives’ in the sense of the IAS 24 definiincluding charges) of the Managing Director and the memtion. in EUR ‘000‘ 31/12/15 31/12/14 Short term benefits 378 419 Fixed remuneration 3,043 3,219 Variable remuneration 1,971 2,654 Subtotal 5,393 6,292 Long term benefits 499 447 Total 5,892 6,739 The total of gross emoluments granted to the non-exThere was no profit sharing allocation and the Company ecutive directors during the year 2015 amounted to has not made any loans to the directors. The directors EUR 272 thousand (EUR 204 thousand last year). These have also not made any special or unusual transactions emoluments are subject to the approval of the Annual with the Company. General shareholders Meeting. 122 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 44. STAFF Charges and costs of the personnel are presented under note 9. The split of Group headcount by business segment is as follows: Average headcount by BU 2015 2014 Cooling Systems 777 779 Process Heat Exchangers 214 230 AQS 400 308 NAFTA 331 327 Corporate 55 51 Total 1.777 1.695 The increase of headcounts is due to the hiring of some temporary staffs in AQS to face with the execution of contracts in Brazil. 45. EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE No event after the balance sheet date to communicate. 46. AUDITORS’S FEES For the entire consolidated Group, the fees paid to the auditor and its network (Deloitte) for 2015 amounted to EUR 928 thousand and are broken down as follows: in EUR Year 2015 Year 2014 Fees linked to financial statements audit 860,730 684,476 Tax assistance missions 42,730 92,278 Other assistance 24,790 23,432 928,250 800,186 The increase is explained by the currency impact (invoices in local currency) and some changes in the audit scope. 123 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. STATUTORY ACCOUNTS OF HAMON & CIE These reports are available, on request, at the Company’s (INTERNATIONAL) SA address: The statutory accounts of the parent company, Hamon Rue Emile Francqui 2, & Cie (International) SA., are presented below in a sumB-1435 Mont-St-Guibert, marized form. The Management Report and statutory Belgium. accounts of Hamon & Cie (International) SA, as well as The Auditor has issued an unqualified opinion on the 2015 the Audit Report, will be filed at the National Bank of Belannual accounts of Hamon & Cie (International) SA. gium once approved by the Annual General shareholders Meeting of 26 April 2016, in accordance with Clauses 98, 100, 101 and 102 of the Companies Code published on 6 August 1999. 1. SUMMARIZED BALANCE SHEET AS OF 31 DECEMBER, AFTER APPROPRIATION in EUR ‘000‘ 31/12/15 31/12/14 Fixed assets 250,570 243,842 I. Formation expenses 2,371 3,474 II. Intangible assets 3,786 2,883 III. Tangible assets 632 764 IV. Financial assets 243,781 236,721 Current assets 135,797 77,934 V. Amounts receivable after one year 197 292 VI. Stock and contracts in progress 0 0 VII. Amounts receivable within one year 134,212 76,033 VIII. Short term deposits 200 156 IX. Cash at bank and in hands 884 756 X. Deferred charges and accrued income 304 697 Total assets 386,367 321,776 Equity 152,108 135,612 I. Capital 3,167 2,702 II. Share premium account 49,268 34,815 IV. Reserves 11,769 11,726 V. Profit carried forward 87,904 86,369 Provisions and deferred taxes 0 0 Amounts payable 234,259 186,164 VIII. Amounts payable after more than one year 0 89,000 IX. Amounts payable within one year 231,257 94,298 X. Accrued charges and deferred income 3,002 2,866 Total liabilities and equity 386,367 321,776 The variation on fixed assets is mainly due to the acquisiagreed to lend cash to the affiliates in order to sustain tion of 39% of Esindus SA in October 2015. The intangible their growth. assets include mainly the costs of development and impleEquity (EUR 152 million) includes two capital increases mentation of the ERP. (EUR10 million and EUR 5 million – October 2015). Amounts receivable after one year, amounts receivable Amounts payable increased to support the investments within one year and amounts payable within one year done by the affiliates of the Group. 124 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 depend on the treasury of the affiliates. Hamon & Cie 2. SUMMARIZED INCOME STATEMENT AS OF 31 DECEMBER in EUR ‘000‘ 31/12/15 31/12/14 I. Operating revenues 24,037 18,135 A. Turnover 18,003 17,919 D. Other operating revenues 6,034 216 II. Operating expenses (-) 16,340 12,807 A. Cost of materials 0 0 B. Services and other goods 9,176 5,752 C. Remuneration, social security and pension costs 4,601 4,506 D. Depreciation and amortization 2,480 2,505 F. Increase (decrease) in provisions for liabilities & charges 0 0 G. Other operating expenses 83 44 III. Operating income 7,697 5,328 IV. Financial income 36,060 19,222 V. Financial expenses (35,253) (15,685) VI. Net operating income before taxes 8,504 8,865 VII. Extraordinary income 0 0 VIII. Extraordinary expenses (6,922) (36,506) IX. Net income before taxes 1,582 (27,641) X. Income taxes (4) 0 XI. Net income 1,578 (27,641) The net operating income is high at EUR 8,504 thousand As in 2014, the foreign exchange impact is important due (EUR 8,865 in 2014) but the Company had to face with to the high volatility of the US Dollar (vs Euro). important write-offs on financial assets, mainly due to the Financial income & expenses are higher than 2014 because poor performance of the Brazilian affiliate (2014 impacted of the hedging strategy of the Group. Hamon & Cie buy also by a write-off on Hamon D’Hondt SA financial partichedging contracts on the market in the name of the affiliipation) ates. Hamon & Cie books contracts with two counterparts: Financial income include dividends paid by affiliates, interthe banks and the affiliates. ests on loan and a positive foreign exchange result. Extraordinary expenses include write-offs on the loans to Financial expenses include the negative foreign exchange the affiliates and on the financial assets if the market value result, the cost of the debt and the costs of guarantees. is lower than the book value. 125 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 126 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STATUTORY AUDITOR’S REPORT 127 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 128 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNEXES 129 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNEXES PARAMETERS OF THE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT For several years, our annual report has included a CorWe then identified our main stakeholders in these two porate Social Responsibility chapter, based on the Global countries. These were: Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. Since 2014, it has • s taff representatives and employees of our main French been based on the GRI ‘G4’ guidelines. and Belgian subsidiaries. This section explains the basis on which this chapter has • r egular customers of these French and Belgian subsidbeen drafted. iaries, both end users of our products and engineering RELEVANT ASPECTS IDENTIFIED AND STAKEHOLDER contractors. INVOLVEMENT • s uppliers of these subsidiaries. Here again, we selected This work was performed in late 2013 early 2014 (no large suppliers with whom we worked regularly. change compared with the previous financial year). The next step involved the validation by our stakeholders Hamon first identified an initial list of aspects which seemed of our materiality matrix chart, containing the relevant relevant to its business activities. These aspects covered aspects chosen and their scope. These discussions were environmental, economic and social fields. Their scope was held during two plenary meetings, one with all the staff also examined (within and/or outside the Group). representatives involved and the other with the suppliers. For the customers, discussions were held on a customWe then prioritized these aspects based on the principles er-by-customer basis (face-to-face or via telephone conferof relevance. This enabled us to establish a materiality ence). Each stakeholder brought up certain new topics or matrix chart of the various aspects, according to their concerns, but none of them were among the most relevant importance for Hamon and their importance for its main aspects, with the exception of the ‘human rights’ aspect stakeholders. for the staff representatives. Hamon decided to keep this The third stage involved selecting the stakeholders to aspect (on a general basis) in its report because it is also involve in the process. This was carried out specifically for one of the four major chapters that must be covered for the preparation of the 2014 annual report. As Hamon was the United Nations Global Compact’s Communication on present in 26 countries, we focused, for this first year, on Progress (COP). For the same reason, the fight against corthe two countries in which Hamon first started its busiruption also figures among the aspects included. ness: France and Belgium. It was not physically possible Lastly, the findings of this work were presented to the to involve all our stakeholders in all the countries in which Group’s Executive Committee in June 2014. Major deciwe were present. 130 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 sions had to be made as to whether or not to involve certain external stakeholders (customers) when reporting on certain aspects and topics that are very specific to our business. For reasons of practicality and confidentiality with regard to our competitors, it was decided not to involve our customers when transmitting information required to establish certain specific economic performance indicators. In order to apply the entire process rigorously and neutrally, Hamon was assisted by a consultant specialized in non-financial reporting. Below is the materiality matrix chart resulting from this work. 5,0 Health and Safety 4,5 Product’s performances Energy Respect of specs consumption 4,0 Product’s total cost of R&D efforts operation Training Reliability and safety of equipment Water Importance for stakeholders consumption 3,5 Environment impact of product in use Social Recycling Environmental dialogue impact of plants Local presence 3,0 Decline of big thermal power plants in EU 2,5 2,0 1,5 1,5 2 2,5 3 3,5 4 4,5 Importance for Hamon Comments: • x -axis = importance for Hamon; y-axis = importance for •r eliability and safety of our products (in operation at our stakeholders (staff representatives, customers and the customer) suppliers with a 40/40/20 weighting). •R &D investments (innovation) • Th  e size of the ‘dots’ is proportional to the degree of •e nvironmental impact of our products in use at the Hamon’s performance in this aspect. customer (for example, noise emissions, plume, energy • Th  e aspects selected as being the most relevant are consumption, etc.) deemed important by both our stakeholders and by •s taff training Hamon (in other words, those in the top right corner, •e nvironmental impact of our plants. separated by the two red lines). These are the following Hamon also decided to include in its report the two folpoints, which cover the economic aspects (blue), environlowing aspects, considered important and required by the mental aspects (green) and social aspects (pink): United Nations Global Compact: •h  ealth and safety (of our staff in their places of work) •p  erformance of our products/equipment (in operation •h  uman rights at the customer) • t he fight against corruption. •c  ompliance with the customer’s specifications (costs, deadlines, quality, etc.) 131 — ANNEXES ANNEXES REPORT PROFILE twelve months of the 2015 financial year. Two of these This annual report covers the 2015 fiscal year, that is the subsidiaries are not consolidated by global integration but period from 1 January to 31 December 2015. Many of the using the equity method. The other 24 of the 26 subsiditables provide the information for the previous fiscal year aries accounted for 97% of the Group average workforce for the purpose of comparison. in 2015. The previous report published was the 2014 annual report. For the section on Environmental Responsibility, we cover These reports are published annually. Hamon’s recent annual in particular the entities that have the highest impact, reports are available on our website: www.hamon.com. namely those that have a plant or a workshop, or a total of eleven plants and workshops. The scope of certain EnviIn case of comments or questions on this report, please ronmental aspects is therefore more limited. refer to the persons mentioned in the ‘General information’ section at the end of this report. For financial information, see the list of consolidated entiSCOPE ties in Note 5 of the financial section. For the section on Corporate Social Responsibility, the For more details, see the table below indicating the submajority of the key indicators cover the Group’s 26 main sidiaries taken over in 2013, 2014 and 2015 for the chapsubsidiaries (subsidiaries with an average workforce of ter on Corporate Social Responsibility (same scope for the at least 15 ­people in 2015), taken at 100% and over the three years). Country Type Social Environmental Subsidiaries included in the scope (CSR) report report Hamon & Cie (International) SA Belgium Offices x Hamon Thermal Europe SA Belgium Offices x Hamon Research-Cottrell SA Belgium Offices x ACS Anti Corrosion Structure SA Belgium Plant x x Plant + Hamon Thermal Europe (France) SA France x x offices Hamon D'Hondt SA France Plant x x Hamon Thermal Germany GmbH Germany Offices x Hamon Enviroserv GmbH Germany Offices x Hamon Research-Cottrell GmbH Germany Offices x Hamon UK Ltd UK Offices x Hamon do Brasil Ltda Brazil Offices x Hamon Corporation USA Offices x Hamon Custodis Inc. USA Offices x Hamon Deltak Inc. USA Plant x x Hamon Research-Cottrell Inc. USA Offices x Thermal Transfer Corporation USA Plant x x Hamon (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd South Africa Offices x Hamon D'Hondt Middle East Co. Ltd Saudi Arabia Plant x x Hamon Research-Cottrell (Shanghai) Co. Ltd China Offices x Hamon Thermal & Environmental Technology (Jiaxing) Co. Ltd China Plant x x Plant + Hamon Thermal (Tianjin) Co. Ltd. China x x offices 132 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 TS Filtration (Shanghai) Co. Ltd China Workshop x x Plant + Hamon Korea Co. Ltd. South Korea x x offices Hamon Research-Cottrell India Pvt Ltd India Offices x Plant + Hamon Shriram Cottrell PVT Ltd India x x offices P.T. Hamon Indonesia Indonesia Offices x x = included in the scope of analysis The following entities are consolidated in our financial The report also aims to present the information as clearly statements by global integration, but not included in the and transparently as possible. non-financial reporting scope, because they are not significant (sleeping entities, holding companies, entities with INFORMATION ON THE KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS very few if any staff). Some social indicators require detailed explanations. The references are those of the GRI – G4 (general standard Company Country disclosures and specific standard disclosures): TOTAL WORKFORCE BY REGION, BU AND GENDER Compagnie Financière Hamon S.A. France (GRI REF.: G4-10) Hamon Research-Cottrell S.A.R.L. France As noted in the Corporate Social Responsibility section, Hacom Energiesparsysteme GmbH Germany these figures are based on: Hamon Dormant Co. Ltd UK • t he workforce of companies consolidated by global inteHamon (Nederland) B.V. Netherlands gration; Hamon Polska Sp.Zo.O Poland • t he number of people (not full-time equivalents); this Hamon Esindus Latinoamerica SL Spain includes only staff on open-ended or long-term contracts. Hamon Research-Cottrell do Brazil Brazil Given our extensive activities on worksites, the number Hamon Custodis Cottrell (Canada) Inc. Canada of employees on short-term contracts constantly varies. Hamon Esindus Latinoamerica Limitada Chile In some cases, we use external temporary recruitment Hamon Esindus Latinoamerica SA de CV Mexico agencies; Research-Cottrell Cooling Inc. USA • t he average figures at the start and end of each quarter. Hamon Holdings Corporation USA RATE OF FREQUENCY OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS BY Hamon Australia (Pty) Ltd. Australia REGION (NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS / MILLION WORKING Hamon Trading (Jiaxing) Co.,Ltd. China HOURS) (GRI REF.: G4-LA6) Hamon Asia-Pacific Ltd China (Hong Kong) The rate of frequency is the ratio between: Hamon Research-Cottrell (HK) Ltd. China (Hong Kong) • t he number of occupational accidents (fatal and non-faHamon India PVT Ltd. India tal, including on the way to work); Hamon Korea Youngnam Ltd. South Korea • t he number of effective hours of work (in million). Hamon Malaysia SDN. BHD. Malaysia DEGREE OF SEVERITY OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS BY Hamon B.Grimm Ltd. Thailand REGION (NUMBER OF DAYS LOST / THOUSAND WORKING HOURS) (GRI REF.: G4-LA6) Hamon Termal ve Çevre Sistemleri Sanayi Turkey ve Ticaret A.Ş. The degree of severity is the ratio between: • t he number of working days lost because of an occupaCHANGES TO THE SCOPE OF THE REPORT tional accident; • t he number of effective hours of work (in thousands). The scope used in 2015 for this non-financial report is identical to the one used in 2014 (26 main Group companies The number of days lost are working days (not calendar – see table above). days). The starting point for the calculation is the day of the occupational accident or disease. SELECTION OF THE CONTENT OF THIS REPORT The content of this report is based on: RATE OF OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES BY REGION (NUMBER OF DAYS LOST / THOUSAND WORKING HOURS) • Th  e requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), (GRI REF.: G4-LA6)) G4 guidelines, reporting ‘In accordance’, using the ‘core criteria’. The rate is the ratio between: • Th  e United Nations Global Compact reporting guidelines, • t he number of working days lost due to occupational for the Communication On Progress (COP), level ‘GC diseases (depression, inhaling of toxic gases, etc.); active’. • t he number of effective hours of work (in thousands). •R elevance: information which is not relevant for our stakeholders or which does not have a significant impact on the Group is not included. • Th  e stakeholders to whom the report is addressed and their expectations, that is our customers, staff (current employees or applicants), suppliers, shareholders, banks, financial analysts. 133 — ANNEXES •F or financial information: legal requirements regarding financial information (IAS / IFRS standards), reviewed by our auditors. ANNEXES PROPORTION OF WORKING DAYS LOST BECAUSE OF b) Environmental indicators OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENT OR DISEASES BY REGION •E  nergy consumption within the organization (GRI ref.: (NUMBER OF DAYS LOST / NUMBER OF THEORETICAL WORKING DAYS) (GRI REF.: G4-LA6) G4-EN3). The following conversion factors are used: •C onversion of MWh into MJ: 1 kWh = 3.6 MJ The rate is the ratio between: •C onversion of Nm³ of gas into MJ: 1 Nm³ = 39.01 MJ • t he number of working days lost due to occupational •C onversion of litre of fuel into MJ: 1 l = 35.94 MJ accidents and diseases; •C onversion kg of propane and LPG into MJ: 1 kg = 50 MJ • t he number of theoretical working days, excluding statu•T  otal volume of water withdrawn, by source (GRI ref.: tory leave and holidays. G4-EN8). RATE OF ABSENTEEISM (GRI REF.: G4-LA6) •M  easures to reduce the environmental impact of prodThis rate is the ratio between: ucts and services (GRI ref.: G4-EN27). • t he number of working days lost due to occupational c) Other social indicators accidents, occupational diseases and other illnesses •A  verage number of hours of training per year (GRI ref.: (flu, etc.) or unexplained absences; maternity leave and G4-LA9). planned leave such as holiday and statutory leave are not included. For the U.S. subsidiaries (and certain Asian •H  uman rights – operations and suppliers identified as subsidiaries until 2014), the days of absenteeism are having a significant risk for accidents linked to child not recorded as they are included in an annual quota for labour and the measures taken (GRI ref.: G4-HR5). leave (and days’ absence owing to illness); •H  uman rights – operations and suppliers identified as • t he theoretical number of working days, excluding statuhaving a significant risk for accidents relating to forced tory leave and holidays. or compulsory labour and the measures taken (GRI ref.: G4-HR6). The other key indicators are more usual; a brief definition •H  uman rights – number of grievances about on human only is therefore given below: rights impacts filed, addressed and resolved through fora) Economic indicators mal grievance mechanisms (GRI ref.: G4-HR12). •D  irect economic value created and distributed (GRI ref.: •F  ight against corruption – communication and training G4-EC1): this includes the revenue, the gross margin, on anti-corruption policies and procedures (GRI ref.: labour costs, financial charges paid to banks, taxes paid, G4-SO4). dividends paid out to shareholders, profits carried over, The GRI correspondence grid below shows where to find donations. each of these key performance indicators as well as the •R  esearch & Development expenditure (not an element general standard disclosures in the annual report. specifically defined by GRI): this is the ratio between the R&D expenditure (both capitalized and booked in the in the income statement) and revenue. 134 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GRI AND UN G ­ LOBAL COMPACT COR­RE­ SPOND­ENCE GRIDS 1. GRI CORRESPONDENCE GRID For our Corporate Social Responsibility report based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines, we have decided to report ‘in accordance’ using the ‘core criteria’. Here is the correspondence grid related to this level, which can be used to find the various sections in this annual report covered by the GRI outline. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Ref. Description External verification Page Strategy & Analysis Statement from the CEO about the relevance of sustainability to the G4-1 No 4-7; 43 organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization. No 77 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services. No 16-40 G4-5 Location of the organization headquarters. No 77 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries G4-6 where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically No 10-11; 87-88 relevant for sustainability. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. No 77 Markets served (incl. geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of G4-8 No 10; 13; 91 customers and beneficiaries). Scale of the organization, incl. number of employees, operations, net sales, G4-9 No 2-3; 10-11; 45 capitalization. G4-10 Total number of employees and details. No 44-45 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. No 45 G4-12 Description of organization supply chain. No 9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, G4-13 No 12-15 structure, ownership or supply chain. Commitment to external initiatives Report whether and how is the precautionary approach or principle is addressed G4-14 No 51 by the organization. List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles G4-15 No 43 or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes. List memberships of associations and advocacy organizations in which the G4-16 organization holds a position, participates, provides substantive funding or No 43 views membership as strategic. 135 — ANNEXES ANNEXES Ref. Description External verification Page Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries List all entities included in the consolidated financial statements; report whether G4-17 No 132-133 any consolidated entity is not covered by the report. Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries; G4-18 No 130-132 implementation of the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. No 130-131 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization. No 130-131 G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization. No 130-131 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and G4-22 No N.R. reasons. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect G4-23 No 132-133 Boundaries Stakeholder involvement G4-24 List stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. No 130 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to G4-25 No 130 engage. Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication G4-26 No 130 of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and G4-27 No 130-131 concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report profile G4-28 Reporting period for information provided. No 77; 132 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. No 132 G4-30 Reporting cycle. No 132 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content. No 140 Report a) the ‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen; 42 G4-32 No b) the GRI Content Index for the chosen option; 135-136 c) the reference to the External Assurance Report, if any. N.R. Verification Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external G4-33 No 43 assurance for the report. Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest G4-34 governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on No 56-60 economic, environmental and social impacts. Ethics and integrity Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as G4-56 No 8; 48-50; 62-63 codes of conduct and codes of ethics. 136 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Relevant aspects DMA (1) and KPI Non-disclosure External Page of information assurance Economic performance G4-EC1 No No 71-128; 50 G4-DMA No No Energy 51 G4-EN3 No No G4-DMA No No Water 51-52 G4-EN8 No No G4-DMA No No Products and services 52-53 G4-EN27 No No G4-DMA No No Health and safety at work 46-48 G4-LA6 No No G4-DMA No No Training and education 46 G4-LA9 No No G4-DMA No No Child labour 49 G4-HR5 No No G4-DMA No No Forced or compulsory labour 49-50 G4-HR6 No No G4-DMA No No Human right grievance mechanisms 50 G4-HR12 No No G4-DMA No No Fight against corruption 50 G4-SO4 No No (1) DMA = Disclosure on Management Approach Please note that our report also includes much additional information not listed in the GRI correspondence grid. 2. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT CORRESPONDENCE GRID For our Communication On Progress (COP) based on the guidelines of the United Nations Global Compact, we have decided to report on the ‘GC Active’ level. Here is the correspondence grid that can be used to find the information related to each of the 10 principles of the UNGC in the various parts of our report. Principle Page Human rights N°1 businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 48-50 N°2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 48-50 Labour businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective N°3 45 bargaining. N°4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 49-50 N°5 the effective abolition of child labour. 49 N°6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 44 Environment N°7 businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 51 N°8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 51-53 N°9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 52-53 Anti-corruption N°10 businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 50 Please note that our report also includes much additional information not listed in the UNGC correspondence grid. 137 — ANNEXES GLOSSARY • AIR COOLER (OR AFC) • • EBIT • Heat exchanger in which an often corrosive liquid or gas, Earnings before interest and tax. under high pressure and high temperature, passes through • EBITDA • special alloy finned tubes and is cooled by air from a venEarnings before interest, taxes, depreciation & amortizatilator. Used mainly in petrochemicals, and the Oil & Gas tion and non-recurring items. industry, but also in the cooling of auxiliaries, for example water in the steel industry. • EMEA • • APC • Europe, Middle East and Africa. Air Pollution Control. • EPC (ENGINEERING, PROCUREMENT AND CONSTRUCTION) • Engineering firm. • AQS • Air Quality Systems (similar to APC) • ESP • Electrostatic Precipitator, an electrostatic filter that elimi• BANK GUARANTEES • nates particles from the exhaust gases. Guarantees given by a bank for a certain amount and over • FRP • a fixed period, when contracts are made (sold) and executed. Principal categories: advance payment bond, perforFibre-Reinforced Plastic, used for example for exhaust gas mance bond, and warranty bond. ducts in chimneys. • GRI • •  OOLING SYSTEM WHEN REFERRED TO C IN THE CONTEXT OF POWER GENERATION • Global Reporting Initiative: international body whose misIn a traditional power plant generating electricity, water sion (at a worldwide level) is to provide to organizations of is heated and transformed into high pressure steam. This any size, any location and any area a reliable, credible and turns a steam turbine connected to an alternator, which standardized framework for their reporting in sustainable converts mechanical energy to electrical energy. At the development. exit of the turbine, the steam is cooled on a surface con• GROUP OR HAMON GROUP • denser through indirect contact between the steam and The name for Hamon and its subsidiaries in the sense of cold water running through the cooling circuit. This water the Company Code, Article 6, 2°. is then sent to a cooling system, before it is re-injected into the cooling circuit. • HAMON • The name of the limited company (under Belgian law) • COOLER • Hamon & Cie (International) SA, with its head office at Wet, dry or hybrid cooling system. Axisparc, rue Emile Francqui 2, 1435 Mont-St-Guibert, • DENOX • ­Belgium. The Hamon trade mark and logo (as it appears on the front cover of this report) are protected in most Elimination of nitrogen oxides, NOx in short form, from countries in which Hamon is established. waste gases. • HRSG • • DESOX • Heat Recovery Steam Generator, used in combined cycle Elimination of sulphur oxides, SOx in short form, from power plants to generate steam from the hot gas turbine waste gases. 138 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 exhaust. • DRY COOLING SYSTEM OR AIR-COOLED STEAM CONDENSER • • HYBRID COOLING SYSTEM • Used in the production of electricity, this system directly Combination of a wet cooling system and finned tube buncondenses steam at the exit of the steam turbine, in dles that slightly heat the saturated humid air, in order to finned tube bundles cooled by the surrounding air. reduce the steam plume. • IDDC (INDIRECT DRY COOLING) • Indirect dry cooling system, in which the cooling water is cooled down without any contact with air, thus with no water consumption. • NAFTA • North American Free Trade Agreement: territory which includes the United States of America, Canada and Mexico. • NORTH AMERICA • The territory regrouping the United States of America, Canada and Mexico. • SNCR • Selective Non Catalytic Reduction: NOx removal process in which reagents are injected and in which no catalyst is used (versus Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) processes in which catalysts are used to eliminate NOx). • WET COOLING SYSTEM • A system that cools water from 30-40° C to 20-30° C. The cooling occurs via direct contact between the water and surface streaming air, with evaporation of a part of the water. 139 — ANNEXES GENERAL INFORMATION • AMON & CIE (INTERNATIONAL) S.A. • H Axisparc, Rue Emile Francqui 2, B-1435 Mont-Saint-Guibert Belgium Telephone: + 32 10 39 04 00 Fax: + 32 10 39 04 01 E-mail: corporate@hamon.com Website: www.hamon.com VAT: BE 402.960.467 Business number 0402.960.467 • ELATIONS WITH INVESTORS AND FINANCIAL COMMUNICATION • R Christian Leclercq, Group Financial Director Telephone: + 32 10 39 04 22 Fax: + 32 10 39 04 16 E-mail: christian.leclercq@hamon.com • NY COMMENT ON THIS ANNUAL REPORT? • A Please send comments to Michèle Vrebos E-mail: michele.vrebos@hamon.com • ESPONSIBLE PUBLISHERS • R Francis Lambilliotte Christian Leclercq Ce rapport annuel est également disponible en français. 140 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015 1 — HAMON ANNUAL REPORT 2015
