UN Global Compact, October 2016 Communication on Progress Message from the CEO WindowMaster is proud to be a member of the UN Global Compact, and we strongly support the ten principles with respect to human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. WindowMaster’s ownership structure changed in early 2015. This led to a comprehensive strategy process in which we have integrated the values of the UN Global Table of Contents Compact in our corporate strategy and subsequently joined the compact as of Q4 2015. Since then, we have examined how well we comply with the ten principles. Message from the CEO 3 It is important to note, however, that while we have only been a member for one year, corporate social About WindowMaster 5 responsibility is in our DNA. Thus, in our gap analysis, we have found that we can drive the greatest change by Addressing the ten principles 6 focusing only a few initiatives with high potential impact. The reason being that we have already incorporated a The launch of two main strategic initiatives 9 wide range of standards and procedures that are aligned with most of the ten principles. Initiative 1: Improving transparency in our supply chain 10 In this report, we present our key focus areas for the Initiative 2: Reducing our carbon footprint 14 coming year. The two main initiatives respectively address the transparency of our global supply chain and our total Charity Donation 18 carbon footprint as a company. Both initiatives contain specific and tangible projects launched to specifically address relevant challenges. Furthermore, we introduce targets and key performance indicators for the coming years to enable our stakeholders and ourselves to fairly assess the results as we proceed on this journey. WE SUPPORT I wish to emphasize our continued support for the UN Global Compact. Sincerely, Erik Boyter CEO / President 2 3 About WindowMaster Reducing energy consumption in buildings makes a difference Buildings account for 40% of the world’s energy consumption. Natural ventilation is one way we can help to change this scenario. When we consume less energy, we conserve our planet’s vulnerable resources and help to improve the environment. We create the perfect indoor climate with help from Mother Nature All over the world, enormous resources in the form of money, energy and effort, on our indoor climate are spent in an effort to keep everyone safe and satisfied indoors, working in office buildings, companies, shops, and factories, studying at schools and university or working out in the gym. But everyone is different. What is cold for you, might be too hot for your colleague or classmate. And a good solution for one building, can be entirely useless next door. At WindowMaster, we address these types of challenges every day. Our solutions for indoor climate management, smoke ventilation, and facade and roof automation meet people’s need for fresh air and boost quality of life indoors, in addition to a number of other added benefits. We make technical, intelligent, and discrete solutions with one single purpose: to ensure fresh air for everyone to breathe. We create the perfect indoor climate with help from Mother Nature. WindowMaster in brief WindowMaster employs around 150 highly experienced cleantech specialists in Denmark, Norway, Germany, United Kingdom, Ireland, Switzerland, and the United States of America. In addition, we work with a vast network of certified partners. With our extensive expertise built up since 1990, WindowMaster is ready to help the construction industry meet its green obligations and achieve their architectural and technical ambitions. 4 5 Human Rights Principle 1: B usinesses should support and respect Comment: We operate only in Europe and North the protection of internationally proclaimed America, and consider this a natural part of human rights; and our operations. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Comment: We operate only in Europe and North human rights abuses. America, and consider this a natural part of our operations. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Comment: We permit workers’ councils, and association and the effective recognition of acknowledge and respect the freedom of the right to collective bargaining; association. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Comment: We will examine and monitor our suppliers compulsory labor; closely going forward. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Comment: We will examine and monitor our suppliers Addressing the ten closely going forward. principles Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Comment: We do not discriminate in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Although WindowMaster has only been a member of Due to the nature of WindowMaster’s activities and the UN Global Compact for one year, we have already the countries where we operate, some parameters Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Comment: We will launch an initiative to reduce our total incorporated a wide range of standards and procedures are more relevant, and urgent, to address than others. approach to environmental challenges; carbon footprint. that are aligned with most of the ten principles. Corporate Consequently, we have chosen to focus on a few social responsibility is part of our DNA and we view it initiatives with high impact. as our license to operate. WindowMaster was founded Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Comment: We will launch an initiative to reduce our total in 1990 with a mission which explicitly states that we The initiatives primarily address principles in the environmental responsibility; and carbon footprint. exist for the benefit of people, productivity, and the categories of labor and the environment. On the next environment. page, we will elaborate on the selected initiatives. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Comment: We invest up to 10% of our revenue in R&D to On the next page, we have highlighted how we address environmentally friendly technologies. develop environmentally friendly technologies. the ten principles. We have also highlighted which principles we will be paying particular attention to in the coming years. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption Comment: We do not tolerate corruption. We are in all its forms, including extortion and therefore launching a Whistleblower bribery. programme to all current and former employees, other stakeholders and board members. 6 7 The launch of two main strategic initiatives We have decided to establish two internal working groups to effectively take responsibility for setting the direction for the change projects supporting the UN Global Compact. To ensure management support and buy-in, the working group report directly to a steering committee chaired by the CEO. The two strategic initiatives have a dual purpose as described below. Intiative 1 Improving transparency of supply chain The purpose of the first initiative is to ensure not only that WindowMaster complies with the principles of the UN Global Compact, but that our suppliers also manufacture their parts and components sustainably. Promoting transparency throughout entire supply chain assures customers and other stakeholders that WindowMaster’s products are truly sustainable. A secondary purpose of the initiative is to promote overall environmental responsibility in our value chain by focusing on both production and recycling of the product. Intiative 2 Reducing our total carbon footprint Part of WindowMaster’s mission is to have a positive impact on the environment. Our cleantech solutions offer customers a green alternative to mechanical ventilation. However, that is not enough. We also take responsibility for significantly minimizing our own carbon footprint. Consequently, the purpose of our second strategic initiative is to optimize our resource consumption within our organization. This further supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. In the following, we will describe these initiatives in more detail and state how the outcome of our efforts will be measured. Lastly, we will define some clear goals. 8 9 Initiative 1 Improving transparency in our supply chain This initiative will start us on the journey to ensure that our Packaging is not usually used for anything other than supply chain complies with the ten principles described wrapping products for shipping from A to B, after which it above. We are fully aware that this will not be a one-off is thrown out as it generally serves no other use for the initiative, but rather a never-ending journey to strive for buyer. Plastic, as we know it, is petroleum based from continuous improvement. In brainstorming sessions, we heated carbon, and studies1 show that approximately have identified a variety of areas for improvement, so our 45,000 tons of plastic waste end up in the world’s oceans idea pipeline is full for several years to come. However, every year. we have decided to progress step by step and to focus on a manageable number of tasks in order to ensure that we not only create sustainable solutions, but also achieve quick wins. The first project examines the packaging of the products we ship to our customers. In the search for alternatives to plastic packaging, the greener plastic alternatives are not without problems, quest for sustainable solutions from a host of bio-based because the chemical blend used to produce ‘fake’ plastic Reducing plastic packaging innovators has slowly but steadily increased in awareness makes it nearly impossible to recycle. For a large number of our products, we currently use and priority among companies in all industries. At plastic packaging. There were valid reasons to choose Consumption of plastic packaging at WindowMaster WindowMaster, this focus is no different than for the rest The fossil-free plastic alternatives that are available this type of packaging in the past, but now it is time of world. The working group initially set out to search for today include polymers based on feedstocks, where to take action initially to reduce our consumption of 100 alternatives to plastic or no plastic at all. The alternatives the fermentation process in the compostable stage is plastic packaging and ultimately to eliminate it entirely proved somewhat more complicated than originally tailored to the chemical composition of the feedstock, in the future. To track the progress of this project, we 80 80 hoped. allowing decomposition of the material and making it a 72 have compiled historical data on our consumption and biodegradable alternative solution. The biodegradable developed a reporting system. The graph to the right 60 57 Outside pressure from the general population, with their plastics market is estimated at USD 4.65 billion2 and shows our monthly consumption. Kg growing purchase power, and demands for compliance commands 45% of the European market, strongly 40 with official commitment programs have forced companies indicating that the concept is here to stay. Of course, our consumption varies from month to month to take an active stand in an effort to save the planet. depending on demand fluctuations. However, according 20 And one of the more obvious products to start with is the WindowMaster will take steps to eliminate plastic to our initiate estimates, we use more than 850 kilograms elimination of plastic in packaging. packaging, concentrating all efforts on cardboard instead, 0 of plastic packaging per year. Producing this amount of July 2016 August 2016 September 2016 as we believe that the recycled components of cardboard plastic at the initial production stage of the sub-supplier Although the search has been underway for more than are more sustainable in the recycling process and often requires double the amount of crude oil than is necessary. Consumption of plastic packaging at WindowMaster two decades, results have yet to be seen. WindowMaster come from recycled material to begin with. is committed to the cause, but not because there is an underlying implied pressure from outside, but rather Some of the alternative materials are of varying quality because we truly want to make a difference and do our and comply poorly with, for instance, water-related part to make the world a better place. Even the so-called requirements. However, some work quite nicely and 1. http://www.metabolix.com/Innovation/Sustainability 2. http://blog.nacd.net/packaging-trends-to-look-for-in-2016 3. http://info.rodongroup.com/top-trends-for-plastics-manufacturing-in-2016-and-beyond 10 11 the future is looking bright. Bio-based plastics are not vague, as electronic equipment purchases are rarely if dependent on fossil fuels, and for this reason, among ever left outside in the rain; so why should the case be others, WindowMaster is joining the search for alternative any different for our window actuators? solutions3 and will be keeping an eye on the progress toward achieving a 100% biodegradable material. We are In the future, steps will be taken to ensure that products currently searching for the perfect match among suppliers shipped from WindowMaster will no longer be wrapped in of alternative plastic manufacturers, as well as plastic first, but only packed in cardboard boxes. investigating our options for not using any plastic-like materials. It is our hope that progress will be made in this The necessary actions required in production are area sooner rather than later. currently being evaluated, and packaging suppliers are being notified and tested for quality and certifications. WindowMaster’s future packaging Furthermore, the eco-status of our suppliers is also being In simple terms, our future packaging plan is to remove evaluated, and preference will fall upon a combination of plastic covers from the original stage of pre-packing and best all-around and green profile. to use only cardboard packaging. As explained above, the choice to use cardboard instead of plastic is based Alternatives to plastic will remain on the radar, as on the fact that cardboard is, in most instances, already there are advantages to using plastic in packaging for made from recycled material. However, this will be a step certain products. However, given that the quality of the by step approach depending on the product, as some of materials currently available is as yet too unreliable and our current product designs are quite sizeable and will that more research is required, the aim at this stage therefore require some packaging adjustments. will be to reduce our annual consumption of current plastic packaging by 30% by Q4 2018. We believe this Today, a larger bulk of our portfolio is shipped in plastic to be feasible and obtainable within the measurement wrapping as seen below. parameters, as future reports will undoubtedly reflect. In the past, this was the best option as plastic protected Certifying suppliers to our suppliers, assessing the current situation comply with the UN Global Compact. However, our electronic components from rain and dirt in case of The purpose of the second project under this initiative and implementing a process to ensure continuous evaluation of the current situation shows that we have so storage outdoors with other building materials on the is to establish a framework for communicating the improvement towards increased compliance. far only communicated our requirements to a small portion construction site. However, this argument seems rather requirements of the ten UN Global Compact principles of our suppliers and obtained their written commitment. We already have a process in place to assess our suppliers. This refers to our procedures for ensuring After investigating the current situation, we have decided compliance of our suppliers with Directive 2011/65/ to rework and consolidate our activities regarding EU (RoHS) and EC Regulation (EC) no. 1907/2006 supplier evaluation. We will continue the process of (REACH) of the European Parliament and of the Council. collecting and reviewing the statements of our suppliers The RoHS directive restricts the use of hazardous regarding REACH and RoHS. We will also make that substances in electrical and electronic equipment, while part of our supplier audit form, which we are currently the REACH regulation aims to improve the protection of developing. Furthermore, we will harmonize our existing human health and the environment through improved and Code of Conduct with the ten principles of the UN Global earlier identification of the intrinsic properties of chemical Compact. We will then evaluate the status of our suppliers substances. With this process, we can identify issues in by means of specific questions in our audit form. We our supply chain and develop and implement measures to will also ask if the suppliers have joined the UN Global eliminate the risk. Compact as well. If not, we will encourage them to sign Goal 2018 up. Our target is to have an on-site conversation about Reduce our annual In a document formalizing these requirements, we want our suppliers to adhere to a Code of Conduct and hereby our requirements and an audit of our top 15 suppliers by the end of 2018. consumption of current plastic packaging by 30% 12 13 The decision on what to focus on is decentral, which Reducing fossil fuel consumption at our premises Initiative 2 means that each member of the working group must develop an action plan taking into account the local conditions. However, many of the same ideas will be It is important to reduce the total energy consumption at our premises. However, this cannot stand alone, because no matter how many good solutions we implement, we implemented across the locations. The following are some will always consume energy at our premises. We have tangible examples: therefore decided to also focus on reducing fossils fuel consumption at our premises. Hence, in addition to cutting Reducing our carbon footprint In our factory in Germany, operations naturally require our total energy consumption, we will make the energy we a great deal of light. To address this issue, it has been consume cleaner, too. decided to change all lighting to LED lighting going forward, and from now on, every time a new light bulb Today, 69% of the energy consumed at our premises needs to be replaced, an LED bulb will be used. Our comes from fossil fuels, and 31% from renewable energy At WindowMaster, we develop, manufacture, and sell out to the property owners and utility companies. The sales offices will mirror this approach in 2017. We will also sources. The graph below seeks to visualize our ambition cleantech solutions for the building and construction graph below shows WindowMaster’s accumulated kW install light automation and sensors to help reduce energy to reduce the fossil fuel consumption at our factory and industry. Hence, we help our clients with green solutions consumption. In addition, we have inserted our target and consumption. sales offices to no more than 25% by 2018. that reduce the total energy consumption in their a downward trend line showing our ambition to reduce our buildings. Our second initiative addresses how we can total energy consumption at our premises by 20% in 2018 Another interesting example is the Norwegian sales office, Like the energy reduction project, the decision-making effectively take our own medicine and reduce our own compared to 2015. where we have taken the initiative to reduce heating by process for this project will be decentralized in order to carbon footprint. 1°C in the office. This can be controlled using our own cater to local needs and conditions. For instance, wind is To meet our ambitious target, we have formed a working cleantech systems and can easily be implemented at all cheaper in Denmark, whereas hydropower is the smartest Reducing energy consumption at our premises group comprising representatives from all of our premises. WindowMaster premises. option in Norway. WindowMaster has sales offices in Denmark, the UK, the This group has been tasked with developing an idea US, Norway, Germany, and Switzerland. We also have catalogue of ways to reduce our energy consumption. At our headquarters in Denmark, sun shading was We have analyzed whether it would be beneficial to a factory located in Germany. Due to the structure of our Furthermore, we have invited energy consultants installed in Q3 2016. The building gets very hot in the install our own renewable energy sources, such a small business model, the energy consumed at our premises to assess the current state of our buildings and to spring and summer months, but with the sun shading wind turbine or solar panels on the roof of our factory. represents the lion’s share of our total carbon footprint. recommend what we should focus on going forward. panels reflecting the sun, we can reduce the need to cool However, our analysis shows that simply adjusting the down the building. agreement with the utility company to increase the volume Consequently, we have analyzed the combined kWh of kWh coming from renewable energy is more beneficial, (kilowatt hours) used at our premises in 2015 by reaching A number of other smaller-scale projects have also as excess renewable energy is already available for been implemented, such as installing energy-efficient purchasing in the grid. appliances. As the above examples illustrate, we are very focused on reaching our targets. Total kWh at WindowMaster premises 500.000 458.000 400.000 2015 Goal2015 20182018 2018 366.000 Reduce the fossil 300.000 Goal 2018 fuel consumption to kWh 200.000 Reduce our total energy 31% no more25% than 25% 31% 25% consumption by 20% 100.000 69% 69% 75% 75% 0 2015 2018 Please note that we are currently only tracking electricity, not heating Renewable energy sources Fossil fuels Renewable energy Renewable energy sources sources Fossil fuels Fossil fuels Renewable energy sources Fossil fuels or water. We aim to measure heating and water from 2017 onward and to subsequently launch projects to reduce our consumption 14 15 Reducing vehicle CO2 emissions Finally, in order to reduce the need for physical meetings, In our business, we have sales reps visiting customers and thereby reduce road and air mileage, we have and service technicians visiting building sites. installed AV facilities at all our premises. Consequently, our examination of WindowMaster’s total carbon footprint shows that a significant portion is Other focus areas produced by vehicle emissions. In addition to the tangible targets previous presented, we have initiated a variety of other common-sense projects to The graph below shows our total CO2 emissions from help with our overall environmental agenda. vehicles. Our target is to achieve a 20% reduction by 2018. Like most companies in the building and construction industry, we have primarily produced print sales materials This might not seem very ambitious compared to our in past. However, it is our clear objective to primarily other targets. However, it should be noted that the produce digital marketing materials going forward. In the calculations are in absolute numbers, and that we have budget planning for 2017, less than 10% is expected to be the added intention of growing the business by 2018. allocated to print materials, which is a significant change Consequently, our aim is to reduce the absolute numbers, compared to previous years. while having more sales reps and service technicians out on the road. With our present plan, the carbon emissions Other undertakings include improving recycling and per person are reduced significantly. waste separation, planting trees in front of the offices, and serving less red meat at lunch. We intend to achieve this objective by implementing policies on car leasing. Our entire fleet is leased today, and we have decided every year during the budget period to increase the number of hybrid or electrical vehicles we use to achieve our targets. Vehicle CO2 emissions 477 500 400 380 Goal 2018 Reduce our total CO2, ton 300 CO2 emissions from 200 vehicles by 20% 100 0 2015 2018 16 17 About Terre des Hommes International Federation The Terre des Hommes International Federation is a network of ten national organisations working for the rights of children and to promote equitable development without racial, religious, political, cultural or gender-based discrimination. Children's situation in India India, the most populated democracy in the world, is also a country of many contrasts. Despite rapid economic growth, nearly half of the children in the country are malnourished and remain vulnerable due to poor access to safe drinking water and sanitation. Drop-out rates from schools are high for girls, many of whom get married before adulthood. India is a major source, destination and transit country for child trafficking (linked to debt bondage, Donation to a School forced labour, forced marriage, sexual exploitation, etc). In addition, India is very vulnerable to natural disasters. project in India · 61 children out of 1,000 die before the age of 5 (CH: 4‰) · 28% of babies weigh less than 2.5 kg at birth · 12% of children aged between 5 and 14 work · 47% of girls are married before the age of 18 · In 2013, nearly 17 million people affected by natural disasters (Sources: UNDP, UNICEF) In addition to complying with the ten principles of the UN Program by investing in their first IT equipment and Global Compact, we decided in December 2015 to make running the program with two full-time teachers for the a donation to a school project in India. More specifically, next two years. The objective of this program is to give the an IT education program donated to the Terre des children IT knowledge and skills of a high enough level so Hommes Khetwadi School project in Mumbai. as to enable them to find a job after a mandatory exam. The donation will have a direct impact on the project and not at least the children who attend the school every day. It will fund the WindowMaster Khetwadi IT Education 18 19 WindowMaster aspires to protect people and the environment by creating a healthy and safe indoor climate, automatically ventilating spaces with fresh air through facade and roof windows in buildings. We offer the construction industry foresighted, flexible and intelligent window actuators and control systems for natural ventilation, mixed-mode ventilation, and smoke ventilation – of the highest quality. WindowMaster employs around 150 highly experienced cleantech specialists in Denmark, Norway, Germany, United Kingdom, Ireland, Switzerland, and the United States of America. In addition, we work with a vast network of certified partners. With our extensive expertise built up since 1990, WindowMaster is ready to help the construction industry meet its green obligations and achieve their architectural and technical ambitions. ©WindowMaster 2016 ®WindowMaster is a registered trademark used under license by WindowMaster Industries windowmaster.com
